Russian Federation:                                                                                38181
                               Kazan MunicipalDevelopment Loan
                                       LoanNumber 4766-RU
                  Release of the SecondTranche and Waiver of One Condition

                                     Tranche ReleaseDocument

Background

    1. Relations betweenthe federal government, the regions, andlocal governments have
       presented one o f the greatest challenges for the economic and political transformation o f
       Russia. Beginningwith the extreme centralization o f the Soviet period, Russianregions
       andrepublics' became increasingly independent andassertive inthe 1980s, thereby
       filling the vacuum left by decliningcentralpower. Economicallyrich or ethnically non-
       Russian regions oftenbecame particularly independent and, insome cases, openly
       defiant o f the central government.

    2. Two legislative acts passed in2003 havehad a significant impact on the country's
       administrative andpolitical structure as a Federation. The first i s a Law that introduced
       revisions to the existingFederalLaw on the General Principles o f Organization o f
       Legislative and Executive Organs o f Power o f the Subjects o f the Federation, entered into
       effect on January 1,2005. The second is a Law on the Organization of Local Self-
       governance that entered into effect on January 1,2006 (transitional arrangements have
       been effective since the Law was promulgated inOctober 2003). This Law has
       introduced a fundamentally new blueprint for the country's administrative structure on the
       local level, with corresponding implications for higher levels o f government.

    3. Overall, the approach to the organization o f local government that is set out inthe Law
       clarifies intergovernmentalrelations butreduces flexibility for local arrangements. The
       new Law clarifies the structures withinthe region, and makes it somewhat easier for the
       federal center to propose legislation related to local government as a whole. Intheory, this
       should help to rationalize expenditure assignments andrevenue allocations. Inpractice,
       however, it remains to be seenwhether the application o f a similar structure across vastly
       different regions interms o f size, wealth, and ability to deliver services will be
       implemented effectively. Certainly, the impositiono f a local government structure from
       the center reduces the federal nature o f the system inwhich regions could determine the
       system that would work best for them.

    4. The laws embodied inthe recent reforms also specify the responsibilities o feach levelo f
       government, includingthe new tiers inlocal government. A few items are particularly
       noteworthy. Under the newlaws, determination o fpublic wages is the responsibility o f
       each level o f government, as opposed to being determinedby the central government.
       This allows localities some discretion incontrollingtheir wage bill. Subsidies to
       agriculture are now provided at the regional level, whereas subsidies to other non-state-
       owned enterprises are determined andprovidedby the central government. A very
       important change, one that is key to reducing unfUnded mandates, is that regions are now
       responsible for determining andfundingmany social policies, including child allowances,
       and support to the disabled, low-income families, orphans, andthe like.

    5. The Republic o f Tatarstan, one o f Russia's 89 subjects o f the Federation and one o f the
       most autonomous regions, has entered the final stage o f a longprocess o f normalization
       o f its relationship with the federal center. In1994, the Republic of Tatarstan andthe
       federal government signed a Power-Sharing Treaty that formalized special tax and
       budgetaryconditions inTatarstan relative to other regions. This treaty was renewed for a
       five-year period in 1999, although the special status o f Tatarstan was diminished. The

'The Russian Federation consists of 89 subjects o f the Federation. These are variously termed regions,
autonomous regions and republics.
                                                    - 3 -

         treaty i s now beingphased out altogether inkeepingwith President Putin's policy o f
         standardizationo f federal-regional relations. In2000, the Russian government
         established the Federal Targeted Program, "Socio-economic Development of the
         Republic o f Tatarstan to 2006":      The program's aim was to assist the Republic inits
         transition to "normality," andto partlycompensate for losses inrevenues associated with
         the changeinfederal-regionalrelations.

    6. As part ofthese changes inthe Republic o fTatarstan, the city o f Kazanacquiredthe legal
         status of a municipality inSeptember 2004 andfaced several challenge^.^ Like all other
         Russianmunicipalities, Kazanfaced a systemic risko f limited control over revenue
         sources andoverdependence on intergovernmental transfers. Secondly, the city was
         extremely dependent on the decisions o f federal andTatarstan authorities with respect to
         capital expenditures. In2005, Tatarstan andKazan graduated fromthe programandsuch
         transfers ceasedto exist. Pressing capital needs, such as repair o f educational institutions,
         social protectionfacilities, health care institutions, andsocial housing could not be met
         without additional financing.

    7. Withthese changes inthe decentralization framework and inline with its new status
         withinthe Republic ofTatarstan, the city has undertakenreforms inseveral keyareas: (i)
         improvements inmunicipal financial management through better financial planning,
         treasury control, gradualphasing out o f overdue payables, better public procurement
         practices, andbetter management o fmunicipal assets; (ii)          improvedtargeting o f social
         protection through the monetization o f in-kindbenefits and concentration o f subsidieson
         vulnerable groups; and (iii)   improvements inhousingandutilities management through
         the eliminationo fbudget subsidies to enterprises indistrict heatingandthe privatization
         o f housing maintenance services.

    8. To aid this reform effort, the RussianFederationrequested a USD125 millionKazan
         Municipal Development Loan (KMDL)to enable it to provide support to the
         municipality's reform effort. These funds were to enable an efficient financial and
         economic transition to the city's status as a full-fledgedmunicipality of the Republic o f
         Tatarstan. The loanwas made to the RussianFederationandthenpassed on as a grant to
         Kazan.


    I. RecentEconomicDevelopments


    9. Russia finds itselfinan excellent macroeconomic positioninthe second half of 2006.
         Highworldprices for hydrocarbonexports andstrongexpansionininternal demand
         continue to drive economic growth inRussia. Although a slowdowninmost
         manufacturing andtradable sectors became visible in2005, the second quarter o f 2006
         was markedby a strong acceleration o f GDP growth that reached 6.5 percent inthe first
         halfo f the year. 2006 also witnessed a substantial increase indomestic andforeign direct
         investment, which reflectedRussia's positive economic outlook and some improvements
         inthe business climate. FDIinflows grew by55 percent duringthe first three quarters of
         the year, reaching anestimated USD 10.3 billion. With the federal government runninga
         substantial budget surplus (about 8.7 percent o fGDP), official Russian external debt was
         reduced from USD 106 billion in2004 to below USD 50 billion bythe end o fthird
         quarter o f 2006. Gross foreign reserves continued to set records reaching USD 272.5
         billionby the end o f October 2006. The Stabilization Fundhas accumulatedover 2
         trillion rubles (USD 77 billion) by the end o f October this year andcould accumulate
         another USD 10-15 billionby the end o f the year.


* FederalTargeted Programs in Russia are a planning tool used to identify priorities for the federal budget
over a multi-year period that by design stipulate the identification o f other sources o f financing, e.g.
regional and local budgets and private investors.
  Previously, Kazan was an administrative division o f the Republic of Tatarstan.
                                                     - 4 -

10. However, the medium andlong-termprospects for sustainingtoday's growthrates remain
    heavilydependentonvolatile naturalresources prices. Russia's growthperformance in
    particular benefited from highprices for hydrocarbon exports. The average exportprice
    o f Russia's oil inthe first sevenmonths o f 2006 was 56 USD/bbl compared to 45.2
    USDhbl in2005 and34.1 USD/bbl in2004. Overall, the economy's assets remain
    concentrated inthe extractive industries, with exports almost entirely dependent on
    naturalresources. Sector distributiono f investment flows also raises some concerns.
    While absolute investment levels remain low inRussiarelative to emerging markets (18
    percent o f GDP in2005 inRussia and25 percent andhigher incountries that have
    sustained rapidgrowth), investment remains concentrated inoil and gas, most
    manufacturing sectors o f the economy receive rather low shares o f investment and FDI.
    To ensure sustainable improvements, the government focusedonthe implementation of
    four Nationalprojects - inhealth, education, housing and agriculture - directly targeting
    the standardo f living o f the populationby combining higher spendinginthese areas with
    certain structural reforms.

11. Industrialgrowth: Though industrialgrowthinRussiacontractedto 4 percent in2005,
    down from 8.3 percent in2004, it has slightly increased to 4.3 percent duringthe first ten
    months of2006, beingaccompaniedby a substantial increase indomestic investment.
    Aggregate fixed capital investment continued its strong double digit growth- at 12.6
    percent inJanuary-October 2006 (compared to 10.5 percent in2005). Butthe structural
    composition o f growthhas undergone some significant changes. Ifthe growth in2003-
    2004 was ledby oil and some other industrial sectors, subsequent growthhas shifted to
    the productiono f (largely) non-tradable services andgoods for the domestic market.
    Almost 50 percent of the GDP expansion in2005 came from trade andconstruction. In
    spite o f relatively low growth inmanufacturing (4.7 percent inten months o f 2006) there
    havebeen some positive trends observed since 2005. Several industries which produce
    tradable goods reported observable increases intheir productionduring2006. The
    biggestincrease inreal output was reportedby lightindustries,where textile andsewing
    grew 7.8 percent andproduction o f shoes andleather products increased by 13.2 percent.
    Both industries hadbeenreportingnegative growthrates for the last several years. The
    negative trend, however, continued inmachinebuildingandproductiono f electro-
    technical equipment. The productiono f electro-technical equipment has fallen by 1.5
    percent inJanuary-October 2006, while the productiono f machines andequipment
    increased by only 0.5 percent.

12. Inflation and ExchangeRate: Concerns over inflationhave brought an important change
    inmonetarypolicy. While the CentralBankdefended arelativelystable exchange rate of
    the ruble versus the dollar duringmost o f 2005, it has allowed a 6.4 percent nominal
    appreciationinthe first halfo f 2006. Moreover, inearly 2006 the government launched
    preparation o f apackage on anti-inflationary measures inthe context o fproposals that
    include price controls, restrictingwage growthinthe state-owned companies, restricting
    borrowing by state-owned companies, andreducing state expenditures. The CPI inflation
    in2006 appearedtobeat amoderatelevel at 7.5 percentfor January-October, compared
                                                 -
    to 9.2 percent for the same period o f 2005.

13. Termsof Trade: International trade in2006 was characterized by a considerable
    continued growth o f exports and imports. Export o f goods reached USD224.1billion in
    January-September 2006 (compared to USD 174.6 billion inthe corresponding period o f
    2005), andimports reachedUSD 112.7 billion (compared to USD 87.5 billion in2005).
    The record increases and current account surpluses owe almost entirely to price increases
    on Russianexports, most particularly for oil and gas. Russia's trade surplus reachedUSD
    111.5 billioninJanuary-September 2006, as comparedto USD 87.4 billioninthe same
   periodo f 2005. While export growth was drivenby exceptionally highprices for
    Russia's main export commodities, import growth resulted fiom the continuing
    appreciation o fthe ruble, combinedwith a rapid increase inreal incomes andpurchasing
   power.

                                            - 5 -

14. FederalBudget: According to the Ministryo f Finance estimates for the first nine months
    o f 2006, the Federal Budget was executed with a surplus o f 1685.5 billionrubles, or 8.7
    percent o f GDP on a cashbasis. Federalbudgetary revenues amountedto 4557 billion
    rubles or 23.5 percent o f GDP, which is by 0.6 percent lower thar'linthe first nine months
    o f 2005. This decline, however, is mostly explained by additional tax revenues that the
    federal budgetreceived from Yukos at the beginning o f 2005. Ifthe repayment o ftax debt
    byYukos is excluded, total revenues in2006 exceed the corresponding revenue levelin
    2005 by about 1percent o f GDP. The main factor for increased revenues has beenhigher
    energy prices which helped to increase non-tax revenues, while tax revenues registereda
    sizable decline due to mostly reduction inVAT collection. The Federal government
    expenditures were reported at only 14.8 percent o f GDP for the first nine months o f 2006
    (2871.5 billion rubles), considerably lower than 16.5 percent inthe same periodo f 2005.
    The amendment to the FederalBudget for 2006, approvedby the government at the
    beginningo fNovember, envisages anincrease inspendingby 161billionrubles (0.6
    percent o f GDP), while revenues are plannedto increase by 1.1trillion rubles (4.2 percent
    o f GDP).

15. Income, Poverty andLabor Market Indicators: News on the standardo f living inRussia
    i s still encouraging. Average real wages and incomes continuedto exhibit strong growth
    in2006, registeringat 13.2 and 11.5 percentrespectively duringthe first tenmonthsof
    the year. Given the strong appreciation o f the ruble, dollar wages grew muchmore
    rapidly thanreal wages in2006 andaveraged USD 381 a month, a 30.5 percent increase
    over 2005.     Unemploymentrates also continued to fall, averaging 7.5 percent for the
    first ten months o f 2006, as comparedto 7.6 and 8.2 percent in2005 and 2004,
    respectively. Demographic statistics for 2004 indicate that the disturbingrise inmortality
    rates may have finally bottomed out. Life expectancy increasedfrom 64.3 to 65.8 years.
    Although official data on poverty are not yet available for 2005 and2006, indirect
    indicators suggest that growth inRussia remains strongly pro-poor. Thus, it appears that
    the share o fpeople with incomesbelow the subsistence level will decline to below 15
    percent by the end o f 2006.

16. Creditworthiness:Russia's macroeconomic performance resulted inrating agencies
    upgrading their sovereign credit risk.Moody's raised Russia's sovereign risk fi-om Ba2 to
    Baa3 (with "stable" outlook), and Standard andPoor's - EromBB to BBB - for local
    currency borrowings andBB+for foreign currency borrowings (with"stable" outlook).
    Thus, Russiawas, for the first time inits history, given aninvestment grade ratingby
    Moody's. Aside from good fiscal performance andlarge trade surpluses, ratingagencies
    emphasized political stability, progress inmacroeconomic management, the continued
    implementation o f tax reform andthe level o f foreign reserves. On the negative side, the
    sustainability o f Russia's growth was perceivedto be highly dependent on international
    oil and gas prices.

17. As for the Republic o fTatarstan, its social andeconomic development has been'generally
    corresponding to federal trends. Tatarstan has been growing steadily with the rate slightly
    above the Russianaverage. During2001-2005 the cumulative GRF' growth amountedto
    about 34% andits share inthe country's GDP in2005 was about 2.5%. Average real
    incomes o f the populationwere lower than the Russianaverage (6,997 rubles and7,848
   rubles respectively in2004), however, the subsistence level i s considerably lower inthe
    Republic due to lower housing services andtransport prices. Poverty indicators in
    Tatarstanare close to the national level - about 20% o f the population is livingbelow the
    subsistence level, however, a big share o fruralpopulation (24.6%) makes a considerable
   contributionto the overallpoverty indicators.

18. Insum, the present macroeconomic framework is satisfactory for disbursement from the
   KMDLat this time.



                                           - 6 -

11.       ProgressAgainst TrancheRelease Conditions



19. The release o fthe second tranche is contingent, pursuant to Section 2.02 (d) ofthe Loan
    Agreement, uponprogress satisfactory to the Bankwith respect to: (i)      progress achieved
    by the Borrower andthe City inthe carryingout o fthe Programo f actions to strengthen
    andreformthe economy o fthe City; (ii)     maintainingthe satisfactory macroeconomic
    policy framework o f the Borrower andthe City; and (iii)    specific core conditions
    described inSchedule 3 to the Loan Agreement o f June 3,2005. Progress interms o f the
    macroeconomic framework i s described inparas. 9-16 above.

20. Progress incarrying out the Programhasbeen satisfactory, and there has beenno reversal
    o f the actions taken incompliance with the first tranche of the Loan. Inadditionto
    meetingthe specific tranche conditions, describedbelow, the City demonstrated
    substantial progress inreformingall core areas as outlinedinthe Letter ofDevelopment
    Policy, including strengthening the budget andfmancial management, improvements in
    public procurement andmunicipalproperty management, improved delivery o f social
    services through institutional development, monetization o f social payments and
    increased targeting o f assistanceto the poor, andreforms inthe housing andcommunal
    services aimed at fiscal sustainability andincreased competitioninthe sector.

21. There are nine specific core conditions for the secondtyanche, as specified in Schedule 3
    o f the LoanAgreement. Seven o fthem have been hlly met, one conditionhas been
    substantially met, and one condition hasbecome redundant, as describedbelow:

Condition 1. The 2006 fiscalyear budgetwith the concept and parameterssatisfactory
to the Bankhasbeenapprovedby the City.

22. Conditionmet. Inall material aspects this conditionhas been met, though the
    expenditure levels andpatterns o f 2005 made implementation of this conditionvery
    difficult and insome cases mitigating and follow-up measureswere necessary as detailed
    below.

         The city made significant efforts to help its budgetary institutions to stay in
         restructuring agreements with the federal social funds. Currently, o f245 budget
         entities only 40 entities have dropped fiom the restructuring agreements. To resolve
         thisproblem, anamount of 123 millionrubleshasbeenallocatedinthe 2006 city
         budget as a separate line itemandwas finally paid inOctober 2006 to cover overdue
         payables o fthesebudgetary institutions (fmes are expected to be restructuredby
         federal authorities).
         In2005,583.7 millionrubleswere paidto cover the overduepayables o fbudgetary
         entities. The revised annual city budget for 2006 incorporated 402.4 million rubles
         that were paid inOctober 2006 to eliminate overdue payables of budgetary entities
         (other than those coveredby the restructuring agreements with RF social funds),
         except fines which are expected to be restructuredby federal authorities.
         The city unexpectedly received about 4.8 billionrubles as a federal subvention for the
         city metro construction. These funds were earlier supposed to be allocated directly
         from the federal budget. As a result the amount o f total expenditures increased
         dramatically makingit impossible for the city to maintainthe agreed share o f 12
         percent o f social capital expenditures. As o f January 1,2006, this share was equal to
         7.3 percent. Without this federal subvention, this would have been almost 11percent.
         To compensate for this situation, the city decidedto allocate more funds for capital
         expenditures ineducation, health, and social protection inthe context o f 2006 budget
         incomparisonto 2005 budget. Inthe 2006 city budgetthis shareis budgetedat 15.3
         percent.
         The rate o f wage growth is capped by the rate o f growth for federal employees.


                                             - 7 -

Condition2. The Cityhasdemonstratedthat there are nonew overduepayablesof the
city budgetandbudgetaryinstitutionsfromend-2004 to end2005.

23. Conditionmet. Again, inall material aspects this conditionhas beenmet, thoughthe
    expenditure levels andpatterns o f 2005 made implementation o f this condition very
    difficult and mitigating measureswere necessary. During2005 the arrears of budgetary
    institutions for previous years were reducedby 723.1 millionrubles. Unfortunately, the
    city and itsbudgetary institutions accumulated new arrearsby January 1,2006 inthe
    amount o f about 316.2 million rubles. The city paidpart o f such arrears inthe amount o f
    124.8 millionby July 1,2006 and fully repaid the remaining arrears inmid-October 2006.

Condition3. TheCity hasdemonstratedthat a viable systemofTreasury-executionof
the municipalbudgethasbeenestablishedbasedon asingle account conceptfor
budgetaryfunds,andfunds are channeledsolelythroughthe Borrower's CentralBank.

24. Conditionmet. The city i s incompliance with conditions for functioning o f an efficient
    treasury system as described inthe Minuteso fNegotiations. FromJanuary 1,2006 the
    single account o f the city budgethas beenopened for the Departmento fFederalTreasury
    inTatarstan inthe territorialoffice ofthe Central Banko fRussia. The following
    activities are performed bythe treasury: registration o f consolidatedbudget
    appropriations; registration o f limits o fbudget commitments; registration o f maximum
    authorized cash spending amounts; allocation, control andpassing information on limits
    o fbudget commitments andon maximumauthorized cash spending amounts to budget
    users; control andregistration o f cash spending requests; registration o fbudget
    commitments, includingcontract regstration; payments management; accounting for and
    reporting onbudget execution; General Ledger keeping; informationstorage.
    Agreements between Republican and city authorities andsupportingregulations
    submitted to the Bankdemonstrate that the city enjoys sufficient control over this
    account.

Condition4. The City hasdemonstratedimprovements,satisfactoryto the Bank,inthe
implementationcapacityfor socialprotectionprograms.

25. Conditionmet. Inaccordance with the prior conditions, 665 millionrubles have been
    allocated andused within the social protection part of the city budget in2005. 887.4
    million rubles are allocated for this purpose inthe 2006 budget. The city social protection
    departmentis fully operational, itspolicy settingrole for social support programs is
    established bythe resolutiono f the city, it operates most o f the social support programs.
    Programmonitoring tools have been designed, tested andimplemented to include
    coordinated database, andmonitoringreports framework. A staff trainingprogramhas
    been developed and i s currently under implementation.

Condition5. The city hasdemonstratedthat paymentof monetizedsocialandhousing
andcommunalservicebenefitsusingindividualaccountshasbeenintroducedandis
under implementation.

26. Conditionmet.All social andHCSbenefits are monetizedper principles o fnational
    legslation. All benefit payments are channeled to individual commercialbank accounts
    or mail accounts.

Condition6. The city hasdemonstratedthat sufficient resourcesinthe formof
subventionfromthe RepublicofTatarstan havebeenallocatedin2006 City budgetfor
paymentof monetizedbenefits.

27. Conditionmet. The 2006 budget has allocated 870 mlnrubles as a subvention from the
   Republic for payment o f monetizedbenefits. This allocation i s sufficient to pay all
   monetizedbenefits to the city.


                                              - 8 -

Condition7.The targetedpoverty benefit hasbeensuccessfullyimplemented,and2006
City budgetallocatesnot less than 70 millionRublesfor the City ownsocial protection
expendituresfor itsfinancing, andsocialcontract practiceis utilized.

28. Conditionmet. The city has implemented the targetedpoverty benefitin2005 to about
    20 thousandfamilies or approximately 5 percento fhouseholdsinKazan. Inthe context o f
    the 2006 budget, the city has allocated over 70 mlnrubles for the targetedpoverty benefit,
    andrevisedthe criteriaandproceduresfor the administration ofthe benefit. The Bank
    has received confiiation that the programis fully budgeted for FY 2007.

Condition8. The City hasdemonstratedsatisfactoryimprovementsinthe housingand
communalsector (HCS).

29. Condition substantiallymet, i.e. inthe City Budget for 2006 there are (a) no budget
    subsidies to producers of heat; (b) fbnds for HCS consumption bybudgetorganizations
    and optimizationand levelingofheating tariffs took place, inter alia, through creationof a
    single sales anddistributioncompany. The City Budget has no subsidies for heat
    producers and468 millionrubles has beenallocated for HCS consumption bybudget
    organizations. Heatingtariffs for population throughout the city were leveled already in
    2005 despite the fact that heat inKazanhas beensuppliedby three different producers
    whose productioncosts differ at times. The same approachto tariff setting has been
    extendedinto 2006. OnJuly 11,2005 an Agreement to create a KazanHeating(sales)
    Joint Stock Company (KHJSC) was entered into between JSC Tatenergo, the City
    Administration's Committee for CommunalProperty Management (KUKI) andthe
    MinistryofLandandPropertyRelations oftheRepublicofTatarstanasmember
    founders. At the time of institution, the shares of the company were split at aratio of:
    72.5% (Tatenergo), 25% (City) and2.5% (Ministry). The material assets of the newly
    createdcompany include the pipeline contributedby Tatenergo andthe intra-city heat
    supplying network contributedby Kazenergo. The Company commencedits operations
    on October 1,2005.

30. Eliminationof cross subsidization for the supply of water andwastewater (equal tariffs
    set for various categories of consumers) has not been fully achieved due to unexpected
    changes inthe federal regulations, however certainprogresshas beenmade andfirm
    commitments havebeenmadeby the city authorities to achieve this goal by 2008. On
    December 19,2005 the State Duma of Russiapassedimportantamendmentsto the
    Federal Law "On the principles of tariffregulation inHCS" that have taken away the
    right of municipalities to set tariffs for water andwastewater services andcappedthe
    annual tariff growth for population, apparentlybasedon social considerations on the eve
    of the parliamentary andpresidential elections scheduledfor 2007 and2008 respectively.
    After consultationwith the Bank, the city haspreparedandadoptedthe programof
    levelingwater tariffs for population andenterprisesby2008.

Condition9. The City's water andwastewaterfacilities (Vodocanal)are managedbya
competitivelyselectedprivateoperator.

31. The implementationofthis conditionhasbecome redundant, as the EBRD initiated
    a projectinsupport ofthe Vodokanalrehabilitationandmanagement
    improvements.The EBRDproject aims to finance the vodocanal's priority capital
    investments and corporate developmentto improve the municipalwater andwastewater
    infrastructure and services inthe city andwould involve a Russianruble700 million loan
    to the Kazanwater andwastewater managementutility"Vodocanal" for 10years to be
   partially guaranteedby the Republic of Tatarstan with a municipal support agreement
    signed by the city. A pre-financing agreement with preliminaryterms andconditions of
    the loanwas signed by EBRP,the vodocanal andthe city on July 19,2006. The EBRD
   receivedonNovember 1,2006 the letter signed by Mr. RustamMinnikhanov, the prime
   minister of Tatarstan, confirmingthat the Republic of Tatarstan is ready to issue apartial
    guaranteeto vodocanal in2007. At the moment, the EBRD andthe Republic are

                                              - 9 -

   negotiating preliminaryterms andconditions o f such a guarantee. Once approvedby the
    legislative council o f the Republic, the Republic's guarantee will be used as a security
    insteado f the city's partial guarantee.

32. The Government o f Finlandhas allocated a grant to fundthe technical feasibility study,
    which currently is beingpreparedby the Finnishfirm Poyry Soil andWater with a view
    o f completion by end-November 2006. Consultants also conduct an environmental audit
    andprepare an environmental actionplanfor the city.

33. The European Unionhas allocated a grant to conduct a financial audit o fthe company
    finances andprovide an independent review o f the city's finances. The assignment has
    been completedby a consortium o fthe ratingagency Standard andPoor's andthe
    auditing company M C D JSC.

34. Uponthe completion o fthe feasibility study inend-November, the EBRDwill anticipates
    a review o fthe project by its Operational Committee on December 15,2006 andto
    submit it for approval to the BoardofDirectors inDecember 2006/January 2007. The
    loanandthe guarantee agreements are envisaged to be signed inJanuaryDebruary 2007
    inthis case.

35. Duringthe implementation o f the EBRD Project, institutional support will be provided,
    i.e. twinningo f the vodocanal with an experienced corporate development support
    partner, most likely, a western water andwastewater utility(e.g. such program was
    successfully implementedbetween St. Petersburg vodocanal and Stockholm Water). The
    programwill include the preparation and adoption o f a corporate development plan,
    service agreement, tariffpolicy between the city andthe utility, review o fpotential
    options for corporatization andcomparison o f these options from financial, legal,
    operational andtax perspectives, outsourcing potential, public awareness campaign, etc.

36. Inthe context o f the project preparation, a detailedprogram of improvements inthe
    vodocanal has beenprepared by the city, coordinated with the Bank andEBRD and
    adopted by the city authorities.

37. Overall, the EBRDproject would seem to be an excellent vehicle to better prepare the
    vodocanal for subsequent corporatisation andprivatization.

38. Audits. The audit o fthe Deposit Account for the first tranche and the audit o f the use o f
    the first tranche funds havebeen conductedby a qualified audit company under the terms
    o f reference agreed with the Bank.N o major issues have been identifiedby the auditor.
    The audit reports have beenreviewedby the Bank andsome clarifications have been
    requestedthat are being currently preparedbythe Borrower.


39. ConclusionandRecommendation

40. The Borrower's implementation o f the Programhas beenvery good. The macroeconomic
    and fiscal framework has been satisfactory during the Programperiod. The Borrower and
    the City have fully met seven out o f the nine core conditions o f the second tranche
    release, andhave substantially met one more conditionrelatingto the improvements in
    the housingandcommunal sector (except full eliminationo f cross-subsidizationbetween
    water users that was preventedby an unexpectedtariffincrease caps introduced inthe
    national legislation). Implementation o f one core condition, i.e. transfer of the city's water
    and wastewater facilities to a competitivelyselected private operator, has become largely
    redundant as the EBRDstandalone project came onboardandits expected development
    impact is believed to meet the spirit o fthis loan. Iti s proposedthat this condition is
    waived. Progress inrespect to non-core conditions o f the programo f the Letter o f
    Development Policy has been satisfactory inall material aspects. Inview o f the overall
    performance andprogress with the implementation o fthe Programsupportedby the Loan,
                                            - 10-

it is recommendedthat the ExecutiveDirectorsapprove the proposedwaiver. Subjectto
no-objectionby the ExecutiveDirectors, IBRDwill notify the Borrower that the second
tranche ofUSD 75 millionhasbeenmade availablefor disbursementto the Borrower.




                                   - 11-

