                                          Documentof
                                        TheWorld Bank


                                    FOROFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                        ReportNo.31414-RU




        INTERNATIONALBANKFORRECONSTRUCTIONAND DEVELOPMENT


                                    PROGRAMDOCUMENT

               FORA PROPOSEDW A NMUNICIPALDEVELOPMENT LOAN


                             INTHE AMOUNT OFUS125MILLION

                                               TO

                                  THE RUSSIANFEDERATION




                                        January 27,2005




Infrastructure and EnergyDepartment
Europeand CentralAsia Region




This document has a restricteddistribution andmaybe usedbyrecipientsonly inthe performanceof
their official duties. Its contents maynot otherwisebe disclosedwithout World Bank authorization.

        RUSSIANFEDERATION- GOVERNMENT             FISCALYEAR
                      January 1-December 31

                     CURRENCYEQUIVALENTS
          (Exchange Rate Effective as o fNovember 29,2004)

                Currency Unit           Russian Ruble
                   US$1   .oo               28.27

                        Weights and Measures
                            Metric System


               ABBREVIATIONAND ACRONYMS

CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
CFAA           Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CFP            Center for Fiscal Policy
CIFA           Core Integrated Fiduciary Assessment
CPAR           Country Procurement Assessment Report
CUE            Communal Unitary Enterprise
EIA            Environmental Impact Assessment
GDP            Gross Domestic Product
GOR            Government o fRussia       '

GRP            Gross Regional Product
HCS            Housing and Communal Services
HOA            Home Owners Association
LMF            InternationalMonetary Fund
KEP            Committee on Economic Policy
KMDL           Kazan Municipal Development Loan
LDP            Letter o f Development Policy
MOEDT          MinistryofEconomic DevelopmentandTrade
MOF            Ministryo f Finance
MUE            MunicipalUnitary Enterprise
NOBUS          National Survey o f Households' Welfare and Social Programs Participation
PER            Public Expenditure Review
PPL            Public Procurement Law
RT             Republic o f Tatarstan
RUR            Russian Rubles
RzhU           District Housing Directorate
SER            State Environmental Review
SPAL           Social Protection Adjustment Loan
USD            U S Dollars
WTO            World Trade Organization



                   Vice President:   Shigeo Katsu
                Country Director:    Kristalina Georgieva
                  Sector Manager:    S. Lee Travers
               Task Team Leader:     Andrei Darusenkov

                                                                 FOROFFICIAL USEONLY

                                        RUSSIANFEDERATION
                                  KAZANMUNICIPAL    DEVELOPMENTLOAN

                                         TABLE OFCONTENTS
                   I.BackgroundandRationale                                                     4

                   11. Kazan: Challenges andReforms:                                            7
                       Budget and financial management                                          9
                       The Social Protection System                                            20
                       The Housingand Communal Services Sector                                 24

                  111. Bank Strategy                                                           29
                       Linkto the CountryAssistance Strategy                                   29
                       Analytical Underpinnings o f the Proposed Loan                          31
                       Lessons learned from the LendingOperations                              32

                  IV. The ProposedLoan                                                         34
                       Objectives                                                              34
                       Loan Amount and Tranches                                                34
                       Conditions                                                              29
                       Social Impact                                                           36
                       Environmental Aspects                                                    39
                       Outcomes                                                                 39
                       Monitoringand Evaluation                                                 39
                       ImplementationArrangements                                               40
                       Fiduciary Aspects                                                        40
                       Disbursements and Audits                                                 44

                   V. Risks                                                                     45
                       Federal Level                                                            45
                       Kazan                                                                    47

                                                ANNEXES
           Annex 1:Tatarstan's letter o f Development Policy
           Annex 2: Kazan Letter o f DevelopmentPolicy
           Annex 3: Policy Matrix
           Annex 4: Country at a Glance
           Annex 5: IMFRelations
           M A P # IBRD33822


 The Kazan Municipal Development Loan was preparedby an IBRD team consisting o f Andrei Darusenkov,
 Richard Clifford, Stepan Titov, John Litwack, Andrei Markov, Sandro Zanus Michiei, Alexander
 Roukavishnikov, Ashot Harutounian, Michael Haney, Karl Skansing, Maria Shkaratan, Elena Lukyanchikova,
 and IrinaKazakova.


-
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank autliorization.


                       LOANAND PROGRAMSUMMARY

                              RUSSIAN FEDERATION
                    KAZANMUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENTLOAN

Sorrower             Russian Federation

[mplementing Agency  City o f Kazan

4mount               USD 125 million

Terms                Variable-Spread Loan (VSL), 5 years grace period, 17 years to
                     maturity, commitment fee o f 0.75 percent, front-end fee o f 1-00
                     percent to be paidby the Borrower subject to any waiver o f a
                     portion o f such fees as may be determined by the Bank from time to
                     time.
rranching            USD 50 million upon completion o f first tranche conditions.
                     USD 75 million upon completion o f second tranche conditions.
                     This adjustment operation aims to address a numbero f areas that are
~~
Description
                     priority for ensuring sustainable development o f the city o f Kazan.
                     In2003 the city approveda comprehensive "Kazan Development
                     Strategy Up to the Year 2015" that outlined development prospects
                     for the city. Buildingupon the Strategy and the recent conferral o f
                     the municipal status onKazan, the proposedloanwill support the
                     program o freforms to improve the city's (i) budget and financial
                     management; (ii)   social protection system;
                     (iii)housing and communal services sectors.
Benefits             The loan aims at: (i) improving the overall fiscal situation inthe
                     City; (ii)improving municipal budget and asset management; (iii)
                     providing more efficient delivery o f housing, utilityand social
                     services to the population, through better targeting, enhanced
                     transparency and accountability.
Risks                Significant economic growth should continue inRussia over the
                     mediumterm, althoughvery much affectedby oil and gas prices. If
                     oil prices were to fall, it would (i) the economic growth rates
                                                         affect
                     and eliminate the budgetary surpluses; (ii) put downwardpressure
                     on the exchange rate, thereby causing potentialproblems for many
                     enterprises with large borrowings in foreign currency and generally
                     weak Russian banking sector. Therefore, healthy macroeconomic
                     policy will need to be maintained in order to preserve the
                     considerable cushion that has been built inrecent years against a
                     potential external shock.

                     The new decentralization framework also carries some risks,
                     including those relatedto an imbalance inthe Government's
                     approach to fiscal federalism. Although expenditure responsibilities
                     continue to increase at local government levels, they have less and
                     less control over their sources o frevenue. Continuous monitoring
                     and oversight will be requiredto assess how revenue assignments
                     match up with expenditure assignments.



                                             2

IThere i s a riskwith respect to the Kazan administration's capacity to
 carry out the reformagenda and the potential for a lagging
 commitment over the longer term. These i s also a risk o fbacklash to
 the reformprogramby the city's inhabitants. The significant prior
 actions that have been taken by Kazan are expected to have a
 mitigating affect on this risk.To further manage this risk, the loan i s
 structured with two-tranches, with a greater weight assigned to the
 second tranche. To date, the Kazan administrationhas shown
 significant skill inbuildingconsensus and maintaining broad based
 public support. Inaddition, the federal authorities are committed to
 provide funds to buildmonitoring and evaluation capacity for the




                        3

INTERNATIONAL BANKFORRECONSTRUCTIONAND DEVELOPMENT
                      PROGRAMDOCUMENTFORA
               KAZANMUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENTLOAN
                      TO THE RUSSIANFEDERATION




                    I.BACKGROUNDANDRATIONALE

     1.      Russia's    macroeconomic      fundamentals     have     improved
    considerably since the 1998 crisis. GDP growth during the period
    from 1999 through 2003 exceeded 38 percent, the fiscal and current
    accounts were recording healthy surpluses, and poverty rates declined
    by over 30 percent. In2003, intemational agencies upgradedRussia's
    sovereign rating to an investment grade rating both on local currency
    (Moody's and S&P) and on foreign currency borrowings (Moody's).
    Primary economic indicators have continued to exhibit strong
    favorable trends in 2004 as well: real GDP grew by 7.4 percent inthe
     first half o f 2004, and the reported growth rate o f fixed capital
     investment amounted to 12.6 percent, as compared to 11.8 percent
     during the same period of 2003.        The federal government i s now
    runningthe overall budget surplus for the fourth year in a row. The
    Ministryo f Finance (MOF) reporteda surplus o f 4.4 percent o f GDP
     for the first half o f 2004, and a surplus o f over 3 percent i s projected
     for the whole fiscal year.    The current account surplus strengthened
     to USD 22.6 billion in H1 2004, helping to push up the Central
    Bank's reserves to USD 88.2 billion by the end of June. CPI inflation
     (DeciDec) gradually declined to 12 percent in 2003, and may be even
     lower in2004.

     2.   GDP growth since the crisis in 1999 has been pro-poor, due
     primarily to rapid growth in real wages in almost all branches o f the
     economy. Real incomes grew by an estimated 14.5 percent in 2003,
     and rapid growth continued in the first half o f 2004 (9.8 percent
     growth relative to H1/2003). Duringthis period, real wages increased
     by an estimated 10.4 and 14.1 percent, respectively. The average
    nominal wage amounted to 6980 rubles (USD 247) in June 2004,
     compared to 5550 rubles (USD 196) a year ago. According to recent
     revised estimates, the number o f people below the poverty level fell
     from 25 percent in 2002 to 20.4 percent in 2003. Preliminary
     estimates also suggest that the poverty level continued to decline
     duringthe first halfo f2004. Unemploymenthas beenmorepersistent,
     however.     According      to  the   latest   estimates,  the     average
     unemployment rate (ILO definition) was 8.1 percent during the fist
     half o f 2004, compared to 8.6 percent reported for the same period o f
     2003.

     3. President Putin has now placed before his Cabinet the challenge o f
     doubling GDP by 2012 and reducing poverty by halfby 2007 (inboth

                                         4

               cases using 2002 as the base year).         In keeping with these goals,
               following hisre-election inMarch 2004, the President launched a plan
               for the comprehensive reform o f public sector management. Other
               important reforminitiatives are under preparation and implementation
               inthe areas ofbanking, housing, tax and interbudgetary relations, and
               social protection.

               4.     A uniting theme o f the various initiatives comprising the
               Government's reform program i s the clarification o f the respective
               spheres o f responsibility and associated financing on the different
               levels o f government. Relations between the federal government, the
               regions, and local governments have presented one o f the greatest
               challenges for the economic and political transformation o f Russia.
               Beginning with the extreme centralization o f the Soviet period,
               Russian regions and republics' became increasingly independent and
               assertive in the 1980s, thereby filling the vacuum left by declining
               central power. Economically rich or ethnically non-Russian regions
               often became particularly independent and, in some cases, openly
               defiant o f the central government.

               5. Two legislative acts passed in 2003 will have a significant impact
               on the country's administrative and political structure as a Federation.
               The first is a law that introduces revisions to the existing Federal law
               on the general principles o f organization o f legislative and executive
               organs o f power o f the subjects o f the Federation, to enter into effect
               on January 1, 2005. The second i s a law on the organization o f local
                self-governance that will fully enter into effect by January 2006
               (transitional arrangements have been effective since the law was
               promulgated in October 2003).               This law has introduced a
                fundamentally new blueprint for the country's administrative structure
                on the local level, with corresponding implications for higher levels o f
                government. It will impact every community in Russia, leading to a
               redefinition o f local government responsibilities (e.g., as concerns
                local infrastructure and social services), to changes o f borders in
                many cases, and the creation o f new municipal entities.

                6. Overall, the approach to the organization o f local government that
                i s set out in the law clarifies intergovernmental relations but reduces
                flexibility for local arrangements. The new law clarifies the
                structures within the region, and makes it somewhat easier for the
                federal center to propose legislation related to local government as a
               whole. In theory, this should help to rationalize expenditure
                assignments and revenue allocations. Inpractice, however, it remains
                to be seen whether the application o f a similar structure across vastly
                different regions in terms o f size, wealth, and ability to deliver
                services will be implemented effectively. Certainly, the imposition o f
                a local government structure from the center reduces the federal
               nature o f the system in which regions could determine the system that
                would work best for them.

'TheRussianFederationconsists of    89 subjects ofthe Federation. These are variously termed regions,
autonomous regions and republics.

                                                      5

                7.     The laws embodied in the recent reforms also specify the
                responsibilitieso f each level o f government, including the new tiers in
                local government. A few items are particularly noteworthy. Under the
                new laws, determination o f public wages will be the responsibility o f
                each level o f government, as opposed to being determined by the
                central government. This allows localities some discretion in
                controlling their wage bill. Subsidies to agriculture are now to be
                provided at the regional level, whereas subsidies to other non-state-
                owned enterprises will be determined and provided by the central
                government, A very important change, one that i s key to reducing
                unfunded mandates, i s that regions will now. be responsible for
                determining and funding many social policies, including child
                allowances, and support to the disabled, low-income families,
                orphans, and the like. Regions will also be responsible for specialized
                health care.

                 8. The Republic o f Tatarstan, one o f Russia's 89 subjects o f the
                Federation, which i s one o f the most autonomous regions, i s now
                entering the final stage o f a long process o f normalization o f its
                relationship with the federal center. In 1994, the Republic o f Tatarstan
                 and the federal government signed a Power-Sharing Treaty that
                 formalized special tax and budgetary conditions in Tatarstan relative
                to other regions. This treaty was renewed for a five-year period in
                 1999, although the special status o f Tatarstan was diminished. The
                 treaty i s now being phased out altogether in keeping with President
                 Putin's policy o f standardization o f federal-regional relations.                In
                 2000, the Russian government established the Federal Targeted
                 Program, "Socio-economic Development o f the Republic o f Tatarstan
                 to 2006".2       The program's aim i s to assist the Republic in its
                 transition to "normality,"       and to partly compensate for losses in
                 revenues associated with the change infederal-regional relations. The
                 Ministry o f Finance o f the Republic of Tatarstan (RT) estimates the
                 potential losses to the consolidated budget from these changes in
                 relations with the federal center, as well as in the Tax and Budget
                 Codes, to be 76.6 billion rubles (USD 2.71 billion) for the period o f
                 2001-2005. Roughly 59 billion rubles has been transferred to the
                 Republic by the federal center as a subsidy through the Federal
                 Targeted Program, thus leaving an estimated revenue shortfall o f
                 about 17.6 billion rubles (or about USD 622 million) under the new
                 arrangements.

                 9. As part o f these changes in the Republic o f Tatarstan, the city o f
                 Kazan acquired the legal status o f a municipality in September 2004
                 and    now     faces     several     challenge~~likeall           other    Russian
                 municipalities, Kazan faces a systemic risk o f limited control over
                 revenue sources and overdependence on intergovernmental transfers.


 Federal Targeted Programs inRussia are a planning tool used to identify priorities for the federal budget over a
multi-year period that by design stipulate the identification o f other sources o f financing, e.g. regional and local
budgets and private investors.
 Previously, Kazanwas an administrative division o fthe Republic ot Tatarstan.

                                                           6

Secondly, the city has been extremely dependent on the decisions o f
federal and Tatarstan authorities with respect to capital expenditures.
In 2005, Tatarstan and Kazan will graduate from the program and
such transfers will cease to exist. Pressing capital needs, such as
repair o f educational institutions, social protection facilities, health
care institutions, and social housing will not be met if additional
financing cannot be found.

10. With these changes in the decentralization framework and in line
with its new status within the Republic o f Tatarstan, the city is
undertaking reforms in a several key areas: (i)improvements in
municipal financial management through better financial planning,
treasury control, gradual phasing out o f overdue payables, better
public procurement practices, and better management o f municipal
assets; (ii)improved targeting o f social protection through the
monetization o f in-kind benefits and concentration o f subsidies on
vulnerable groups; and (iii)improvements in housing and utilities
management through the elimination o f budget subsidies to
enterprises   in district   heating, the privatization o f housing
maintenance services, and entering into a management contract with a
competitively selected private company to run the water supply
facility. To aid this reform effort, the Russian Federation has
requested a USD125 million Kazan Municipal Development Loan
(KMDL) to enable it to provide support to the municipality's reform
effort. These funds will enable an efficient financial and economic
transition to the city's status as a full-fledged municipality o f the
Republic o f Tatarstan. The loan would be made to the Russian
Federation and then passed on as a grant to Kazan.


           11. KAZAN: CHALLENGES AND REFORMS

11. Kazan i s the largest city in the Republic o f Tatarstan.        The
Republic i s located in the Volga region o f Russia, and has a
population o f about 3.8 million (2002 census), or 2.6 percent o f the
total population o f the Russian Federation. The region is home to a
large number o f nationalities, including most significantly Tatars
(52.9 percent according to the 2002 census), Russians (39.5 percent)
and over 100 other nationalities. The Republic enjoys a reputationfor
the inter-faith and inter-ethnic amity between various ethnic groups
and, importantly, among the two religions most prominently
represented in the region, Islam and Christianity. Tatarstan ranks as
the largest and most influential Muslimarea inRussia and it i s viewed
as highly significant for national stability. Tatarstan i s an oil-rich
territory, and its economy i s linked strongly to oil production and
processing. The recent changes inthe Republic's status will result in
the reduction of revenues from oil-related activities. Tatarstan is also
one o f Russia's most industrially developed regions, accounting for
3.2 percent o f Russia's gross regional product (GRP), equivalent to
RUR 202 billion (approximately USD 7.14 billion). Nevertheless,
Tatarstan's poverty indicators are broadly similar to the overall
national levels: the number o f people living below the poverty level in

                                    7

                2002 was 23 percent in comparison with the 25 percent average for
                Russia.

12. Contemporary Kazan has a population o f 1.1million people (2003), making it by far the largest
city inTatarstan, and the seventh largest city inRussia. The annual per capita GRP i s 95,000 rubles
(2003) or slightlymore than U S D 3360. The structure o f the city's economy reflects the Soviet
legacy, with a highshare o f large enterprises inheavy industry,including inthe military-industrial
complex. The city o f Kazan accounts for about 40 percent o f the Republic's Gross Regional Product.
Major sectors o f the city's economy are: industry (33.8 percent o f the city GRP), trade and public
catering (27.4 percent), transportation (8.2 percent), and construction (6.1 percent). Kazan continues
to be the industrial heart o f the Republic o f Tatarstan, primarily inthe areas o fmachine-building,
chemical industry, and food processing. These industriesplus a growing services sector are expected
to be the engines o f growth for the city inthe foreseeable future.

                13. Kazan faces a wide spectrum o f developmental challenges, many
                o f which are typical for municipalities in Russia in general, and some
                o f which are unique to Kazan. Like many Russian cities, Kazan must
                address the Soviet legacy o f inefficient spatial distribution o f human
                and physical resources, weak links to the rest o f Russia and external
                trading partners, a severely dilapidated housing sector, and inefficient
                delivery o f municipal services. Specific to Kazan are the challenges
                deriving from the prevailing administrative structure in the Republic
                o f Tatarstan, under which Kazan has not been an independent
                municipal entity as defined under Russian legislation, but rather, as
                noted above, has been, in effect, a division o fthe administration o f the
                Republic o f Tatarstan. The administrations o f the Republic o f
                Tartarstan and the city o f Kazan recognize that this state o f affairs has
                hindered the development o f democratic processes in the city and the
                emergence o f civil society, and are committed to supporting Kazan's
                effort to enter into the mainstream o f social, economic and political
                reforms as they are being implementedinRussia.

                 14.    Consistent with the Russian Federation's framework for
                decentralization and the recent changes in the federal legislation, the
                Kazan administration has been preparing for the city's transition to
                municipal status. With the passage o f the Republic o f Tatarstan law
                "On the territorial borders and municipal status o f the city o f Kazan"
                in September 2004, Kazan obtained the status o f a municipal
                formation as defined by Russian federal law. Most importantly, it now
                has the full legal status o f a municipality, in conformity with Russian
               `legislation, and has the legal authority to carry out policy and
                institutional reforms. The RT also delegated the authority for social
                protection to the City o f Kazan through the RT law No 64 -3 PT o f
                December 5,2004.

                 15. In April 2003, the City Council o f Kazan approved a
                comprehensive document, "Kazan Development Strategy Up to the
                Year 2015". The Strategy identifies Kazan's geopolitical position, its
                key role in Russian history, and its religious and cultural heritage as
                fundamental competitive strengths that will serve as the foundation
                for the development o f local governmental institutions and will spur
                economic growth. This Strategy was a product o f a multi-stakeholder                8
                                                       8

dialogue and advanced the level o f public participation in city affairs.
It aims to ensure a gradual increase in the quality o f people's life
through actions inthe following three areas:

          e       Strong societv: through development o f the modern
          education system, including higher education; access to
          Kazan's cultural heritage and provision o f social and
          cultural services; strengthening public health; a balanced
          social structure o f the city; and strengthening o f civil society
          and local self-government.

                  Dynamic economy: by ensuring sustainable economic
          growth through attraction o f investments; growth in real
          income; increased competitiveness o f local businesses;
          increased export by local companies; development o f a
          favorable business climate; and conversion o f the budget
          into a reliable tool o f funding service delivery to population.

          e       Sustainable urban environment: through upgrading
          and construction o f the physical infrastructure in the city;
          development o f institutions that govern urban environment,
          including development o f the real estate market.

16. The policy initiatives that underpin Kazan's City Development
Strategy are described in the Kazan Letter o f Development Policy
(Annex 2). While the Bank will support the broad strategy, e.g. with
technical advice, implementation o f certain key actions i s linked to
loan disbursements, as outlined below.

Budget and Financia1Management

17. To achieve longer term fiscal sustainability the city must improve
the planning and management o f its financial flows. Thisneedderives
largely from the city's previous relationship with Tatarstan and the
federal government, in which it did not exercise control over its
finances.

18. Over the period 2000-2003, Kazan faced strong systemic risks on
the fiscal side, stemming largely from the on-going incorporation o f
the Republic o f Tatarstan into the Russian federal tax and budget
legislative environment and from unpredictable changes in revenue
assignments. Kazan's tax-sharing arrangements with Tatarstan have
also been unstable and subject to change each year due to frequent
modifications in the federal and Republic o f Tatarstan legislation. As
a result, on the one hand the city managed to get additional resources
in the form of federal and RT subsidies (mostly capital investment
grants), but on the other hand the city was deprived o f such revenue
sources as VAT, excises, sales tax and enterprise profit tax. In 2000-
2003 Kazan's overall budget balance exhibited quite different trends:
the year 2001 was the best year it terms o f fiscal performance as the
city managed to reduce drastically (from 12 percent o f revenue on a
cash basis and 22.1 percent o f revenue on a commitment basis) its

                                      9

   budget deficit to less than 1 percent on a cash and achieve a budget
   surplus (4.3 percent o f revenue) on a commitment basis. But, from
   2002 the fiscal position began to deteriorate, and in 2003 the budget
   deficit (both cash and commitments) varied around 10 percent o f
   revenue.

   Table 1. Kazan: Selected Budget Performance Indicators, 2000-2004




Commitments)/Revenue




    Source: Kazan Finance Committee, Kazan Committeefor Economy & Industv, Centerfor Fiscal Policy database


    19. In 2003 total revenue was about USD 300 million, o f which
    transferdgrants from the Russian Federation and the Republic o f
    Tatarstan made up 43 percent             (in 2002 this share was about 24
    percent and it was 4 percent in 2000). The most important revenue
    sources in 2003 included personal income tax (up to 34 percent of
    total revenue),     and transfers/grants from the federal budget, while
    revenues from property taxes and from leasehent o f municipal assets
    were much less important. One o f the problems with the revenue
    flows from intergovernmental transfers was that a large portion o f
    themwere negotiated inthe course o f the fiscal year, when execution
    o f the approved budget had already begun. In addition, the city i s
    owed about USD 15 million inaccounts receivable (tax arrears).

    20. The major expenditure categories, according to the functional
    classification, are construction (38 percent), education (22 percent),
    housing and communal services, health. According to the economic

                                            10

classification, in 2003 Kazan was spending 43 percent o f total
expenditures on capital expenditures (36 percent on capital
construction), and 20 percent on salaries. Industry and construction
represent mainly capital investment into housing construction and
rehabilitation under the Federal Targeted Program for Tatarstan. This
structure o f spending, with a high level o f construction, i s not typical
for Russian municipalities that are regional capitals. Moreover,
Kazan's spending was largely dependent on expenditure norms
approved by the Republic o f Tatarstan. The city had a multi-year
capital-spending plan that was subject to approval by the RT. Capital
investment is almost entirely funded by RT and RF. The city had
discretion only over capital repair spending and a small level o f
capital investment funded from "extra" (i.e. higher than planned)
revenue.    In 2001-2004 the city received a significant amount of
federal and RT capital transfers, but most o f them (about 80 percent
according to the Kazan Committee o f Economy and Industryestimate)
were o f a targeted nature and went to construction o f new residential
housing, a subway system, and cultural monuments. In addition, the
city was extremely dependent on decisions o f the Tatarstan authorities
over capital expenditure mix and was unable to significantly increase
the share o f capital repair.      Thus capital repair o f educational
institutions, social protection facilities, health care institutions, and o f
social housing was not sufficient, raising concerns about service
delivery inthese sectors.

21. The city budget i s executed through the Kazan department o f the
Republic o f Tatarstan treasury. On the positive side this arrangement
gives better control over budget execution: (i)compliance with
approved budget within approved spending limits i s ensured;            (ii)
commitment control (through contract registration and verification
system) strengthened; and (iii)    comprehensive cash accounting and
reporting i s ensured, which contribute to improved financial
management.
An additional positive feature is the creation of a special division
within the Tatarstan treasury that executes additional control over
construction contracts. On the downside, all treasury related benefits
o f better cash management (of cash balances) accrue to the Republic,
rather than the city budget, and the ability o f the city to make fast
financial decisions on a daily basis i s somewhat constrained. Though
the establishment o f the Tatarstan treasury with a computer-based
information network and locally developed software, was a
qualitatively new development, the single account concept has not
been fully implemented, and inreality multiple accounts are still used.
Currently the RT treasury i s undergoing a process o f transformation
to a new software that would implement the single account concept.

22.     As a result o f the weak revenue position, insufficient
management and changing federal-regional relations, the city budget
ran payment arrears (overdue accounts payable) in 2000-2003. The
total stock o f overdue payables (of the city budget and budget
organizations) as o f January 1, 2004 was 2.4 billion rubles or about
USD 80 million. The treasury control over contract registration was

                                     11

                  weak (as some contracts were signed without stamp o f the treasury).
                  Inadditionsomebudgetaryinstitutionsdidnotget enoughfundsfrom
                  the city budget to comply with restructuring agreements with the
                  Federal Pension Fund on overdue pay able^.^ All this posed a
                  significant threat to the sustainability o f the city's fiscal position. In
                  this respect, according to the Kazan reform program, contracts'
                  registration (validation) by treasury will be strengthened and enforced
                  (without a treasury stamp a contract should be declared void, and if
                  such contract i s signed between a budget administrator and a
                  contractor, then the budget administrator i s sanctioned). Most o f the
                  arrears are payroll tax insurance obligations to the Federal Pension
                  Fundand obligations for capital construction since, unlike many other
                  Russian municipalities, Kazan has no wage arrears. Under the Kazan
                  reform program, an inventory o f capital construction overdue
                  payables will be conducted and such arrears will be phased out. In
                  addition, the municipal budgetary organizations5 are expected to
                  remain current on their payroll tax insurance obligations (to the
                  Pension Fund) and to repay old payroll tax debt (on an agreed
                  schedule). As a result, it i s expected that their overdue accounts
                  payable obligation will decline by about a quarter in the next few
                  years.

                  23. Quasi-public expenditures o f the city include primarily issuance
                  o f guarantees and contingent liabilities o f the communal unitary
                  enterprises (CUE).6 According to the World Bank estimates, total
                  municipal guarantees amount to approximately USD 2.6 million.
                  There are 38 CUEs, o f which the largest include heating, water and
                  transportation. Their liabilities represent contingent liabilities o f the
                  city administration. On aggregate, total CUEs payables exceed CUEs
                  receivables by about USD 10 million. Some CUESengage in short-
                  term (cash-flow) borrowing. The CUES borrowings in combination
                  with overdue accounts payable (estimated at USD40 million) present
                  a potential financial risk for the city and/or the Republic that will be
                  addressed through the reformprogram.

                  24. The city now plans to address this systemic imbalance, and seeks
                  to improve financial sustainability through a series o f reforms to the
                  budget, the municipal treasury, procurement procedures, and the
                  management o fmunicipal assets.

                  25. Citv Budget. From 2004 the city has been preparing Financial
                  Plans as part o f medium-term budget planning. The plan i s used as a


 Federal Pension Fundarrears by Kazanbudget organizations represent overdue payables o f such organizations
to the Pension Fundaccumulated over several years inthe past. Such arrears consist o f two parts: overdue
payments on a payment (percentage o f a payroll) and an accumulatedpenalty. The restructuring arrangement
requires the budget organizations to make all current payments to the Pension Fundplusrepay the "principal"
amount o f arrears over several years according to an agreed schedule plus repay 15 percent o f the penalty.
'These  are city runservices such as schools, hospitals, etc. They are covered by budgetary law.
 These are essentially revenue earning entities owned by the city. They include public utility companies and
other smaller entities such as cafeterias. Inthis document this term i s used interchangeably with the term
municipal unitary enterprises (MUEs),which i s the more common term for these entities used inthe rest o f
Russia. Both CUEs and MUEs are covered by corporate law.

                                                         12

tool to evaluate different fiscal choices within overall resource
constraints in view of the ambitious reform program and systemic
risks (principally, the overdependence o f the city revenue on
intergovemmental fiscal transfers). The first plan covers three years
(2005-2007), and will be updatedperiodically on a rollingbasis by the
city's Finance Committee. The main goals o f the Financial Plan are to
develop better forecasts o f aggregate revenues and expenditures by
key categories in support o f improved budget planning, in order to
incorporate into the budget major city reforms in the areas o f social
protection (accompanied by better service delivery in education and
health), housing and utilities, asset management. The first plan i s
based on certain key macro-economic assumptions: (i)moderate
inflation growth (about 7 percent per annum), based on the RF
Ministry o f Economic Development and Trade (MOEDT) forecasts;
(ii) GDPgrowthinthecity(morethan9percentin2005-2006
     robust
and 7.4 percent in2007); (iii)  payroll growth rate i s limited to growth
rates for federal employees payroll (i.e. not more than 21 percent
annually); (iv) housing and utilities tariffs increase by 50 percent in
2005, 30 percent in 2006, and 30 percent in 2007; (v) RT delegates
responsibilities for social protection to the city and such services are
managed by a special city department; (vi) all municipal employees
are to be funded exclusively from the municipal budget from the year
2006; (viii) the city i s granted at least a minimum share o f personal
income tax from 2006 (envisaged by the reform o f local self-
governance inRussia).

26. The Financial Plan for 2005-2007 will be approved by the end of
January 2005 and its key financial indicators are shown in Table 2
below.


Table 2. Kazan FinancialPlan, Selected Indicators, 2005-2007




 s from
 higher-level  11.0       76.9       9.0       74.4       7.5       66.4

 budgets


                                    13

               II                    2005                   2006        I       2007
                             :URbillio   percent   RUR billion  percent   RURbillion percent
                  Subsidies
                  &
                  Subventioi    9.5                                                   53.1
                  s from RF
                  & RT'
                  Indicative
                  RT
                  Equalizatii                                                         13.3

                  n Transfer
                  Indicative
                  Federal
                  Grant
                  financed      1.5
                  with WB
                  loan
                  proceeds
               2. Total
               expenditures    14.9       100        12.8         100       11.9      100

               2.1. Current
               Expenditure      7.5       50.3        8.9         69.5       8.8      73.9

                Wages &                           1            I         I
               Salaries         2.2       14.8        2.6         20.3       3.1      26.1

                 Interest       0.3        2.0    I    0.3     1  2.3    I   0.2       1.7

                                                  1                      1
               Expenditure      7.4                                                   26.1
               S
                 Capital
               Construction     6.0                                                   16.8

                 Capital                          1            I         I
               Repair           1.3        8.7         1.9        14.8       1.0       8.4

               2.3. Net
               lending
               minus            0.0        0.0         0.0     1 0 . 0       0.0       0.0
               repayment
               3. Overall
               Budget          -0.6                   -0.7                  -0.6
               Deficit
               3.1. Overall
               Budget
               DeficiUReve     -0.04
               nue
               4. Primary
               Budget           -0.3
               Deficit




               5. Overall
               Budget
               Deficit         -2.1                 -4.2                   -2.1
               Minus

'Thesewilldecline irrespectiveoftheworld Bank support.

                                                      14

     Indicative
     RT &
     federal
     Grants
     6.1. Overall
     Budget
     Deficit
     Minus
     Indicative    -0.14              -0.33                -0.18
     RT&
     federal
     grants/Expen
     ditures




27. The city's overall financial plan for 2005-2007 i s based on fairly
conservative assumptions and fully financed. Prospects for the slowly
emerging federal and RT framework are that the city may receive
additional resources beyond the medium-term for functions transferred to
the city. These would support long-term sustainability o f current
expenditure levels once the proposed reform program has been
implemented. Kazan's fiscal framework (inter alia Kazan medium term
financial plan) i s determined by the RF municipal reform (starting from
the year 2006). According to municipal reform legislation Kazan is
entitled to raise only several taxes as its revenue      -land tax, imputed
income tax, and 30 percent o f the personal income tax (PIT). All other
taxes accrue either to the federal center or Republic o f Tatarstan. From
2006 the city will start to receive general purpose equalization transfers
from the RT budget (according to local self governance reform inRussia),
but the amount o f this transfer is unclear (20 percent o f PIT is to be
allocated among RT municipalities). The city starts to get special
subsidies for social protection from the RT budget and thus social policy
spending will likely drastically increase in the city budget. In addition,
Kazan may receive targeted transfers from the Republic o f Tatarstan's
Municipal DevelopmentFund and Social Co-financing Fund, which are to
be created according to RF legislation in the year 2006. These two funds
are subject to bargaining between RT municipalities and the RT
govemment, their amount i s unknown at this stage, and thus transfers
from such funds were not included into revenue/expenditure projections
o f the city budget for the years 2006-2007. In general, the adjustment in
the federal-regional relations has created additional prospects for revenue
transfers enhancing the possibility that the city will sustain the current
expenditure level once the program i s implemented.

28. Key elements o f the FinancialPlan over 2005-2007 are:

              the overall budget is expectedto have a small remaining
               deficit to be financed with loans and privatizationreceipts,
              under assumption that bothRT equalization grant and the
               federal grant financed with the loanproceeds are available to
              the city;
               fiscalgap:




                                         15

        i.in2005-deficitofaboutUSD70million(about70percent
          to be covered by the federal grant financed with the Bank

       ii.in2006 -
          loan; the rest - by borrowing and privatization proceeds;
                       deficit o f about USD 130 million covered by
          equalization transfers from RT (25 percent), federal grant to
          Kazan financed with the Bank loan proceeds (about 60
          percent), borrowing and privatizationproceeds;
      iii.in 2007- deficit of about USD 65 million, covered by
          equalization transfers from RT (70 percent), municipal
          borrowing, and privatization proceeds;
    0   revenues are expected to decline from 11.5 percent o f GRP in
        2005 to 7.8 percent in2007 because o f the new tax sharing
        arrangements according to the federal legislation and due to
        graduation from the Federal Targeted Program.
    0   reflecting the revenue trends, expenditures are projected to
        decrease as a share o f GRP from 12 percent o f GRP in 2005
        to 8.2 percent o f GRP in 2007. Year 2005 i s the last year o f
        high capital construction in the city. The federal targeted
        investment program i s completed in 2005 and thus federal
        transfers sharply decline from 2006. The city plans to increase
        significantly capital repair spending (from 5.2 percent in2003
        to 8.7 percent in 2005 and 14.8 percent in 2006). From the
        year 2006 share of capital spending will gradually go back to
        ttnormalt'level (pre-millennium) and will stabilize in 2007 at
        the level o f about 26 percent o f total expenditures. Spending
        on wages and salaries will increase significantly in 2006 and
        2007 to 26 percent o f total expenditures (as all municipal
        employees will be funded exclusively from the municipal
        budget);
    0   the city plans to spend at least USD 15 million over 2005-
        2006 to reduce overdue accounts payable o f the budget and
        budget organizations by about USD 25 million;
        public debt i s expected to fall from 1.4 percent o f GRP to 0.7
        percent of GRP and debt service expenditures are small;
    0   privatization proceeds are moderate at about RUR 200-300
        million a year.

29. As part o f its reform program, the city will maintain the financial
planning up-to-date, develop a three-year rolling financial plan, and
ensure that the following items are appropriately reflected:


    0   the share of capital expenditures for social protection, health,
        and education maintained at agreed levels;
    0   arrears (i.e. accounts payable) by budget organizations and by
        the budget are reducedby agreed amounts;
    0   an inventory o f capital construction overdue payables carried
        out;
    0   restructuringagreements betweenbudget organizations and
        Federal Pension Fundupdated and observed, and the
        necessary fundingto stay incompliance with restructuring
        agreements provided.


                                    16

30. As a result o f the reforms pursued in2005-2006 the city will
enhance budget management practices and strengthenits fiscal
position by phasing out budget arrears from 27 percent to 11percent
ofrevenue and bymaintaining smallbudget deficit on a cashbasis o f
about 5 percent o frevenue and reducing its stock o f public debt to
about 10 percent o frevenue. These changes are supplementedby
hardeningbudget constraints for the city due to the following factors:

        Fromthe year 2006 Republic of Tatarstan and the city o f
        Kazan graduate from the Federal Targeted Programfor the
        Development o f the Republic o f Tatarstan and thus "soft"
        federal funds will not be available anymore;
    0   Under 2006 municipalreformeach RFmunicipality i s
        assigned with a clear minimumamount o f revenues and
        expenditure responsibilities;
        Kazan emerges as an independent municipality with its own
        departments and a treasury;
        RFBudget Code puts a cap on subnationalborrowing and
        debt service, and from the year 2007 the notion o f insolvent
        regiodmunicipality becomes effective inthe Russian
        legislation, allowing the federal government to forgo bailing
        out failing regions or cities and creating incentives for markets
        to evaluate their financial risks.

31. Municipal treasury.      As part o f this improved budgeting and
financial management the city will also improve its treasury
operations in three ways designed to improve planning and control.
First, a single treasury account concept will be implemented within
the treasury system. Second, it will strengthen the system o f contract
registration and validation in such a way that without a treasury
stamp, a contract will be declared void. And third, it will ensure that
off-budget revenues o f budget organizations are covered by the
municipal treasury.

32. MuniciDal asset management. InKazan, until the recent conferral
o f municipal status upon the city, assets commonly referred to as
"municipal" were, in fact, property o f the Republic o f Tatarstan, with
their management entrusted to the city government within certain
limits. This presenteda fundamental constraint on the city's ability to
develop and implement a strategic approach to asset management.

33. Despite the constraints on its autonomy and ultimate authority
over assets that are inherently municipal, over recent years the city
has achieved certain progress in various areas o f municipal asset
management. More specifically, inthe consumer services sector, the
city managed to have, by year 2000, almost 120 retail and catering
enterprises corporatized. By the end o f 2002, the shares of those
enterprises heldby the city were sold to private investors.

34. At the moment, there are almost 1000 privately owned buildings
and premises in Kazan. Since 2002, the practice o f direct allocation

                                    17

o f land has been completely stopped, and competitive auctioning i s
now the only method for land plots disposal. Intwo years time the
new practice succeeded in drivingland prices from USD 5-10 to USD
100-200 per square meter, creating shortage o f sellable land in the
central part o f the city. From January through September 2004, 33
publicly held auctions resulted in sale o f 116 pieces o f municipal
property for a total o f 51.3 thousand square meters o f buildings and
premises and o f 58.8 hectares o f landplots.

35.   To date, there are 2,199 effective contracts for the lease o f
property o f a total floor area o f 482,000 square meters. At the end o f
2003, the city adopted a new procedure for assigning lease rates that
established the minimum lease rate for municipal assets o f no less that
75 o f rates charged in the commercial sector.        This arrangement
represents a considerable improvement over previous period, when
only 35 percent o f the city land rented was paid for, o f which almost
70 percent - at preferential rates.

36. Recently the city has adopted a regulation to annually audit
municipal unitary enterprises (MUEs). It sets out, as an audit
objective, a requirement to identify and then divest and register with
the city's Asset Register any surplus or unutilized assets originally
under MUE management. Stripping MUEs o f surplus assets should
help raising their performance efficiency.        The municipal Asset
Register has been operational since 1993 and remains the most
comprehensive data compendium o f the municipally owned property
(except landplots), enterprises and stock.

37. Despite the achievements o f the past, the need for developing a
long-term strategic approach to municipal asset management that
would help maximize the benefits has become clear in the early days
o f Kazan's newly acquired status o f an autonomous municipality. To
that end, a Program to Increase the Efficiency o f Municipal Asset
Management in Kazan was prepared by the City Administration and
approved by the Kazan City Council on September 30, 2004. The
Programproposes a range o f actions to "increase the (positive) impact
o f the municipal assets on the social and economic life o f the city"
through    effective asset management including rational asset
restructuring, maximizing profits and minimizing costs. More specific
objectives o f the Program are to strengthen market principles in asset
management, support market infrastructure by creating comprehensive
legal framework and specifying the rules o f interaction between
market participants. The Program also calls for continued inventory
and monitoring o f municipal assets and transformation o f the existing
Asset Register into an advanced database with embedded analytical
capacity.

38. Together with the Program, the City Council adopted a
Privatization plan, that lists municipal assets to be privatized during
2005. According to the document, 21 MUEs, including all those in
the housingmaintenance, are due for privatizationnext year. Over the
same time period, shares o f 15 Joint Stock Companies (JSCs) created

                                     18

earlier on the basis of municipal enterprises and still held by the city
will be sold.

39. Both the Program and the Privatization plan are based on reform
principles that have been extensively discussed between the city and
the Bank. The reformplan includes the following steps:

        Publicize, as a matter of routine the following: notices o f
        auctions for sale or rent of municipal property, information on
        property to be auctioned, including land, information on
        auctions' procedures and results;

        Approve and commence the implementation o f a preemptive
        plan for land surveying (land plotting plan);

        Complete the review o f all land allocations, compile a list o f
        plots currently under design and construction, approve a
        regulation introducing limitation on the number and duration
        o f extension periods for design and construction (one
        extension o fnot more than 6 months);

        Adopt a legal regulation to establish competitive bidding
        procedures for all categories o f municipal assets, including
        real estate property, as the only possible procedure for transfer
        or acquisitiono frightsto municipal property;

        Establish rent rates for municipally owned property at levels
        not lower than 90 percent of commercial rates, revision o f
        previous land allocations and termination o fthose expired.

40. Municipal procurement.        Municipal procurement in the City o f
Kazan i s coordinated by the municipal Committee for Economy and
Industry(KEP,by its Russian acronym). Procurementresponsibility i s
delegated to 33 city departments, committees or state/municipal
enterprises that are publicly listed and referred to as "municipal
customers". These customers have access to both city budget funds as
well as the Federal Targeted Program funds. Municipal-level utilities
(water and sewage, heating and electricity) are also listed as
"municipal customers" while they are at the same time very important
suppliers of services to the city itself.

41. The procurement practices, while generally acceptable, have
certain weaknesses. First, not all products are being procured
competitively. The Tatarstan Cabinet of Ministers usually directs that
procurement o f certain commodities and services (fuel and lubricating
materials, water, heat, electricity, communication and communal
services) should be limited to certain suppliers. This list i s echoed in
the Mayor's order N 718 dated 29 April, 2004 that lists companies
that can be sole sourced.       As a result, according to the KEP's
information, in 2003 direct contracts amounted to about 4 billion
rubles or 55 percent o f the annual procurement.          Second, if a


                                     19

municipal customer has qualified staff that meets the requirements set
by the Republic o f Tatarstan's Ministryo f Economy, it may establish
a tender commission o f its own. Inother cases, a municipal customer
may assign the conduct o f tenders to an organization (public or
private) having this accreditation. Both methods are legitimate, but,
unfortunately, in either case the tender commission may not include
suitably qualified technical specialists or beneficiary's representative.
Lastly, only contracts exceeding 200,000 rubles (USD 7,075) are
registered in the KEP's registry and are thus reviewed ex-post for
compliance with procedural requirements. Contracts below this
threshold are registered only by the procuring unit.

42. A number o f reforms are now underway. The city has established
an Expert Commission headed by the First Deputy Mayor that (i)       has
to clear all cases o f direct contracting, closed bidding and price
quotations, and (ii)reviews complaints from bidders.Furthermore, the
city has prepared and approved a plan o f actions that addresses the
above issues through a series o f steps that are expected to increase
efficiency o f the municipal procurement both from the point o f view
o f budget savings and increased quality o f service delivery. It will
continue these reforms with a number o f additional measures: (i)
preparing an independent assessment o f current city procurement
practices to establish a baseline quantifiable data against which
agreed    improvements    will be      evaluated;    (ii)implementing
improvements in the model bidding documents and procurement
procedures; (iii)increasing the proportion o f contracts awarded and
city budget used under open bidding, inter alia through necessary
legislative changes that would make direct contracting an exception
subject to clearly defined criteria and limiting the list o f companies
eligible for direct contracting primarily to utilities (electricity, gas,
heating, water and wastewater); (iv) carrying out independent audit o f
city procurement conducted in 2004 and 2005; (v) creating a unified
contract registry for the city that includes all contracts financed
through the city budget.


TheSocial Protection System

43. Kazan Administration faces numerous challenges inmanaging its
social protection system. Raising the living standards o f socially
disadvantaged groups o f the population i s a social policy priority for
the city. In2002 the share o f city residents having incomes below the
subsistence level equaled 23 percent, and another 19 percent had
monthly incomes at or closely above the subsistence level (1,199.6
rubles a month as o f September 1, 2002). Some 52.9 percent o f the
residents had monthly incomes below the minimumconsumer budget,
between 1,215.6 and 3,569.3 rubles a month and only 5.1 percent o f
the city residents had incomes at or above the rational budget, 11,800
rubles a month.

44. The social safety net system in Russia continues to be highly
expensive and ineffective despite a number o f reform attempts o f the

                                   20

recent decade. Major portion o f non-contributory social support
expenditures i s consumed by categorical in-kmdbenefits. This system
i s regressive (beneficiaries are often not poor, and besides that many
non-eligible benefit from subsidized services), nontransparent and
hinders the budget process. Delivery o f in-hndbenefits requires large
scale allocation o f subsidies to service providers that results in strong
negative impact on utility sector efficiency. However, leakages to non-
poor groups o f population are also typical for targeted monetary social
assistance programs in Russia. The recent Poverty Assessment Report
for Russia has documented that only 30 percent o f funding for
decentralized social protection programs go to the beneficiaries from
the poorest quintile, while most international comparator programs
succeed in transferring between 40 percent and 60 percent o f funds to
thispopulationgroup.

45. The current Kazan social support system i s facing challenges that
are typical throughout Russia. The system includes a complex set o f
in-kind benefits to various categories (groups) of population.
Provision o f these (city transportation services, pharmaceuticals, spa
treatment, housing and communal services, communication services)
requires highly distortionary producer subsidies to be allocated from
the regional and municipal budget to various municipal companies. In
the city o f Kazan there are some 300,000 residents eligible for
subsidies (I'goti), representing almost one-third o f the population.
"Double-dipping'' i s also quite significant, i.e. recipients o f benefits
under federal and regional mandates overlap. Also the benefits
applicable to one household member are often extended to other non-
eligible members (e.g. a WWII veteran's 50 percent discount on the
electricity tariff i s actually applied to the entire household electric
bill). Provision o f in-kind benefits is often imposed on municipal
companies without funding, thus eroding the principle o f hard budget
constraints and underminingthe possibilities o f systemic reform inthe
communal services sector.

46. The social protection reform program developed by the Kazan
authorities includes decisive steps in transforming the social
protection system in order to (i)    improve efficiency o f public social
support expenditures; (ii)    increase effectiveness o f social assistance
programs in reaching the poor households, and (iii)strengthen
capacity o f the social protection system. The following institutional
and policy reforms in three inter-related areas are critical to the
success o f the program:


     0   clarification o f the institutional responsibility and integration
         o f the social support implementation inthe city of Kazan;
     0   replacement o f in-kind social benefits with monetary
         payments to most vulnerable groups and improvement o f
         targeting for SA programs;
     0   improved efficiency and quality o f social service delivery,
         reduction o f administrative costs in provision o f social
         services to the vulnerable groups.


                                     21

47. The Kazan authorities have started tightening eligibility criteria
for various benefits and improvements intargeting o f social assistance
programs. In October 2003 a decision was taken on elimination o f
duplicating in-kindbenefits for various groups o fthe population. As a
result o f this measure the number o f recipients o f in-kind benefits
from regionally established programs was reduced three times fkom
12.7 to 4.6 thousand people. In January 2004 broad subsidization o f
producers o f catering services for schools inall schools inthe city was
replaced with targeted food subsidies for children from poor families.
The innovative targeting mechanism included participation o f parent
councils and teachers (equivalent to PTAs) in decisions on eligibility.
InMarch 2004 the Kazan mayor submitted to the Government of
Tatarstan a request to authorize replacement o f all in-kindbenefits
initiated by Federal authorities with monetary payments. Finally, in
October 2004 the Republic o f Tatarstan approved a law that delegated
to the city o f Kazanresponsibilities inthe area o f social protection.

48.   Institutional framework, legal base and capacity for effective
social support policy. Social protection policies for the city o f Kazan
are defined either by federal or regional legislation while actual
program design i s formulated at the regional level. Program
implementation i s split between five different departments o f the city
and regional administrations. Policy and program fragmentation was
identified as one o f the core weaknesses in the system of social
protection in the city. According to the proposed program, the city o f
Kazan role in social support policies will be strengthened. Second,
implementation o f social support programs will be integrated in one
department o f the city administration, namely the Department o f
Social Protection. This would ensure consistency o f policies,
coordination o f programs and cost savings. Third, more effective
methodologies for social support programs will be introduced based
on improved implementationpractices (to include verification o f well-
being o f applicants, conditional "social contracting", development o f
integrated data base for SA, monitoring and program evaluation).
Fourth, an intensive program o f capacity building will be undertaken
for the Department o f Social Protection o f the city administration in
order to upgrade program implementation.

49. Replacement o f in-kindbenefits with monetary payments. The
program o f social support reform in Kazan includes a comprehensive
set o f measures aimed at replacement o f in-kind benefits with
monetary payments. The initial legal foundation for these moves i s
based on Federal Law #122 passed inAugust 22, 2004 that authorized
monetization o f the transportation in-kind benefit, provision o f
pharmaceutical and spa treatment. The Kazan city program will
monitor initial phases o f this transition (registration o f eligible
recipients, estimate o f required budget allocation) and support
adequate budgeting for this reform in 2005-2007. The program will
also introduce replacement o f regionally initiated in-kindbenefits that
are offered to 4700 recipients through nonmonetary vouchers with
monetary payments. Most importantly, under the program the whole
set o f housing and communal services benefits will be replaced with

                                   22

monetary payment allocated only to eligible groups. This reform
would require organizational measures, adequate financing and careful
monitoring. It i s likely to be neutral in terms o f budget implications,
but would require reallocationo f budget resources from housing and
communal services line item o f the budget to population social
support budget line item. There i s a probability that some additional
budgetaryresources would be needed duringthe first year(s) o f reform
implementation. Although strong incentives for savings will be
generated on the customer and service provider sides, and eventually
the budgetary costs o f service provision will be reduced, this change
will not happen duringthe initial years o f reformimplementation. On
the contrary, during the initial period there will be a need to provide
full cash financing from the municipal budget for portion o f the
services that i s currently provided by municipal companies without
full compensation for their provision.

50. Targeted assistance to the poor.        Current programs of social
support are structured around categories o f the population, rather than
based on any poverty criteria, irrespective o f any forms o f
measurement. The only exceptions are the national child (family)
allowance and housing allowance, but it i s well known that these, in
particular child benefits, permit significant leakages to non-poor
groups o f the population. Therefore, the Kazan city reform program
will introduce special cashpoverty benefit that will be used as income
support instrument for the most needy households in Kazan.
Implementation o f this benefit will use several important innovations
inorder to eliminate the riskofleakage ofprogramfunds to non-poor.
These innovations will include, inter alia, (i)regular verification o f the
welfare status o f eligible household, (ii) involvement o f employment
office if an applicant's household includes non-working able-bodied
adult, and (iii)introduction o f conditional "social contract". The
program will support introduction o f targeted supplemental payments
to poor families with children in order to cover the costs of
kindergartens and summer rest for children. Important improvements
will be introducedinto the program o f targeted housing allowance that
i s currently one o f the two means tested targeted programs in Kazan.
The innovations will include verification o f income level. Payment
mechanisms for the housing allowance will be modified in order to
take into account the best national practice o f utilization of "individual
social accounts" for these purposes.

51. Improved efficiency and quality o f social service provision. The
social services in Kazan (assistance to the aged, rehabilitation o f
disabled, assistance to families in crisis, etc.) are currently provided
by municipal enterprises that are financed through input-based
budgets and operate primarily in house. There i s little incentive for
reduction o f costs and improved quality of services to the
beneficiaries. The existing 83 social service enterprises accounted for
47 percent o f the entire budget for social policy in 2003. Kazan has
not had previous experience in outsourcing the provision of social
services, however, the program will introduce innovations into
institutional and budgetary framework or social services delivery in

                                   23

                 order to improve accountability o f municipal service providers and to
                 permit the non-governmental providers to compete for budgetary
                 funds to finance service provision. Inparticular, funding for provision
                 o f services will be allocated as block grants to service providers
                 within the mechanism o f "municipal contract (order)" and competitive
                 selection mechanism will be introduced for contract awards for
                 provision o f specific services.


                 TheHousing and Communal ServicesSector

                 52. One o f the most significant challenges facing Kazan, together
                 with the vast majority o f other Russian cities o f comparable size and
                 status, i s the delayed reform o f the largely inefficient housing and
                 communal services (HCS) sector.' Used as a buffer to mitigate the
                 impact o f the overall transition in Russia in the decade following the
                 collapse o f the Soviet Union, the sector has suffered from a
                 combination o f adverse factors that work against efforts to restore it
                 to viability.   The importance o f the sector reform i s self-evident:
                 improvements in the HCS will positively affect the lives o f the
                 majority o f the city population living in multi-apartment residential
                 buildings and dependent on utility infrastructure and related housing
                 services. Of the many sector challenges the following were identified
                 as top priority inKazan:

                 53. Inefficient uerformance o f the sector enterprises. Technical and
                 economical inefficiencies manifest themselves in growing production
                 costs and high levels o f losses in networks, higher consumption o f
                 power and other resources. In2003, the total volume o f water billed
                 made up only about 65 percent o f the overall water production in
                 Kazan while its estimated cost per cubic meter was some 15 percent
                 higher than that in neighboring oblast capitals o f the Volga Region.
                 Although costs o f the heat supply in Kazan are remarkably low (as it
                 comes as a side product o f electricity production), the estimated
                 volume o f the heat lost i s also beyond economically justifiable level.

                 54. A key factor behind these inefficiencies i s obsolete and wom-out
                 sector infrastructure (facilitieshetworks) and equipment. The average
                 depreciation o f the Kazan Vodokanal (municipal water company)
                 fixed assets i s 61 percent, including 72 percent for water pipelines, 66
                 percent for sewer pipelines, and 65 percent for water supply
                 structures. As a result, 454.4 km o f the water supply network and
                 232.1 kmo f the sewer network need to bereplaced.

                 55. Institutional and managerial weaknesses are yet another factor
                 preventing the efficiency upgrade o f the sector. The bulk o f water
                 and wastewater services, as well as over 30 percent o f the heat supply,


 InRussia, the housingand communal services sector includes anarray ofmunicipal services: provisionof state
owned housing, buildingmanagement of state and privately owned apartment dwellings, water and waste-water
provision, and district heating.


                                                      24

50 percent o f housing maintenance and almost all housing stock
management in Kazan are currently provided by the municipal unitary
enterprises (MUEs), a special form o f publicly owned entities now
broadly     recognized   to  be    an    instrument o f     limited   use.
Complementary to MUEs, which pose identical problems for
municipalities throughout the country,           there  are institutional
challenges specific to Kazan. These stem from the lack, until very
recently, o f a municipal status and the related and lasting uncertainty
inthe division ofresponsibilitybetweenthe Republic andthe city.

56. Poor financial position o f the sector enterprises. As elsewhere in
Russia, improving the financial position o f individual utilities and the
sector at large i s prerequisite for the success o f the HCS reform in
Kazan.      Various aspects o f this challenge are well known; the
cumbersome tariff-setting procedure i s among the most important
ones.

57. A key element o f the HCS tariff-setting procedure inRussia i s the
federally mandated, and regionally adjusted, maximum aggregate cost
o f providing housing and communal services, also known as
"economically justified HCS tariff', in fact, an administratively
imposed tariff ceiling. In Kazan, the maximum aggregate cost grew
from RUR15.72 per square meter per month in 2004 to RUR 20.5 for
2005. Another federal standard establishes the maximum HCS tariff
for population inthe form o f percentage o f the economicallyjustified
tariff to be assigned to and paid for by households. For 2005, the
Government o f Russia has set it at 100 percent, thus creating a
situation conducive for the elimination o f the long-standing cross-
subsidization practices when service consumers o f one category
(manufacturers) compensate for the portion o f expenditures not
covered by consumers o f another category (population).         This year,
the population o f Kazan paid in full for almost' all services except
heating and capital repair o f buildings. And finally, the third standard
that contributes to the process o f tariff-setting and to distinguishingo f
those in need o f housing subsidies, i s the maximum percentage o f the
overall family income to be spent on HCS payments. At the country
level it i s now uniformly set at 22 percent o f the family income, but
regions have the right o f lowering the threshold at their own expense.

58. There i s a body o f evidence to suggest that the tariff setting
procedure inKazan i s both non-transparent and politicized, a situation
typical for Russia today. What i s special for Kazan i s that some
services continue to be regulated by the Republic o f Tatarstan and no
explicit mechanism exists for tariff adjustments. Methodologically,
the adopted procedure represents a modification of "cost-based
pricing", which normally provides little or no incentives for cost
efficient behavior on the part o f service suppliers as profits in this
systemare indirect proportionto costs.

59. Underdeveloped market environment in the housing management
and maintenance. The housingprivatizationpolicy that was instituted
in the early 1990s led to a fairly high level of privatization of

                                     25

individual apartments (over 65 percent in Kazan, i.e. close to the
Russia average), but failed to create the necessary conditions for
adequate representation o f the demand-side o f the market, for which
the relevant economic agent (inthe case o f most services) i s the entire
building,not the individualhousehold consumer.

60. As a result o f this lingering institutional failure, most multi-unit
residential buildings in Russia exist in a legal limbo in which the
unambiguous attribution o f ownership privileges and responsibilities
for buildings' common spaces, shells, landplots, etc. i s impossible.

61.    The conflict o f property rights and interests o f individual
apartment holders with the fact that it i s the municipality that, through
its management companies, continues to perform as the owner o f the
common property inside and outside multi-unit buildings could be
resolved with the creation o f homeowners associations (HOAs).
Currently, the incidence o f registered homeowners associations i s low
(206 inKazan) and generally limitedto wealthier people. For the vast
majority o f the population, municipalities throughout Russia continue
to assume responsibility for housing maintenance and management.
This state o f affairs has led to two negative outcomes.             First,
expenditures on the housing complex represent a significant burden
on local budgets, which are typically not in a position to finance the
huge costs o f capital refurbishment, with the result that a large part o f
the urban housing stock i s slowly falling into disrepair. InKazan, the
accumulated backlog o f repairs i s estimated at RUR 6.5 billion rubles
(USD 230 million), which, in physical terms, is equivalent to 2650
buildings o f total area approaching 6 million square meters (50
percent o f the total multi-apartment stock o f the city).         Second,
administrative methods continue to dominate housing maintenance
and management, leading to suboptimal outcomes, including the
determination o f prices by regional and local planners, imposition o f
preferences on consumers, opportunities for patronage, etc.

62. Inthe past year Kazan completed the delineation o f functions o f
the residential property management and o f the housing maintenance.
A municipal system of the housing stock management, comprising
nine management companies, o f which eight belong to the city, was
created. At present, they bear full responsibility for ensuring that
residential property i s in good repair that actual comfort levels meet
the established standards. For a city o f the size o f Kazan, this
business, however, appears to remain overly monopolized, its further
improvement would depend on the ability to assume more players
from the private sector.

63. Similarly, there i s scope for a growing presence o f the private
sector in the housing stock maintenance. In 2004, due to the relatively
recent practice o f competitively tendered maintenance contracts, more
than 50 private service suppliers were contracted. However, over 52
percent o f the city's municipal stock continues to be serviced by 15
municipal enterprises (MUEs), whose cost to quality ratio i s less
favorable than that o f their private competitors.

                                    26

64. On September 30, 2004, the City Council o f Kazan approved a
Program o f Reform o f the Housing and Communal Complex o f
Kazan.     The Reform Program developed by the city reflects a
comprehensive approach to the range o f interrelated problems in the
sector, with a focus on three major areas: (i)    reform o f utilities and
other public enterprises workmg in the sector, (ii)    restoration o f the
sector's financial viability, including reform o f the tariff-setting
process, (iii)  support to the development o f market environment for
housing maintenance and management,            including provision o f
economic incentives to the voluntary creation o f home-owners
associations.    The Program builds on the progress made in recent
years in cost-recovery, social protection, and initial efforts to develop
a market for housing maintenance. It sets clear short and medium
term targets,     suggests implementation indicators and assigns
operational responsibilities to ensure successful outcome.

65. The following are the proposed reform actions in the respective
areas:

66. Improvinp; the performance o f the sector enterprises. Inmaking
the HCS more efficient the city will seek to corporatize or privatize
the city utilities. Municipal unitary enterprises will give way to joint
stock companies. The underlying concept presumes that while utility
infrastructure remains in the public property the operations o f these
enterprises are corporatized with 100 percent o f shares to be initially
held by the city. For example, a new joint stock company for heat
supply will be brought into being in early 2005. All district housing
maintenance companies will be privatized i'n 2005.

67. Special programs devised for the involved sub-sectors guide the
pace o f the reform. The majority o f these have already been approved
by the City Council and therefore have the status o f an official policy.
Along with institutional changes the programs lay out specific actions
for technical and engineering improvement o f the services.

68. Installation o f water and heat supply meters and regulators i s also
seen as part o f an effort to increase sector performance efficiency. In
2000, a plan was adopted to install inKazan 4603 house water meters
over a 5-year period. As o f now, 3622 meters or 79 percent o f the
originally planned number i s already in place. Installation o f another
600 meters was due before the end o f 2004. The process i s linkedto
the capital repairs and i s paid by the city. It i s planned to attract
financing from residents, in particular when meters are installed in
apartments.

69.    Stabilize and improve the financial position o f the sector
enterprises. From year 2004 onwards the majority o f HCS tariffs are
being set by the city (except those for electricity, gas and heat supply
remaining the prerogative o f the Republic o f Tatarstan). Although
administrative restrictions to tariff setting are still in place, the city
managed to make the process more realistic: the average increase o f

                                    27

tariff rates for population from 2003 to 2004, and from 2004 to 2005
(projected) and was about 1.5 times.

70. The city considers the actions outlined below necessary to ensure
strengthened operational and financial position o f the Kazan's
housing and communal services sector:


     0    eliminate budget subsidies to producers o f heat (except
     housing subsidies offered to needy families through the system o f
     social protection);
     0    eliminate debts o f budget organizations to HCS suppliers, and
     o f district housing maintenance companies (RZhU) to housing
     maintenance companies; delegate to the city the right to set the
     heat tariffs or continue establishing them at the regional level
     provided tariffs are set at the level o f 100-percent cost recovery
     for all heating companies operating inthe city o f Kazan;
     0    starting 2005, introduce two-tier tariff rate (fixed and
     variable) for the water and wastewater supply;
     0    starting 2006, introduce two-tier tariff rates (fixed and
     variable) for heat supply;
     0    eliminate cross-subsidization between categories o f water and
     wastewater consumers;
     0    eliminate cross-subsidization between categories o f heat
     consumers;
      0   adopt rules to regulate tariff-setting procedure for heat, water
     and wastewater supply;
      0   change the existing practice o f subsidizing utilities to
      financing   individual    consumers     (via   personalized   social
      accounts);
      0   in the city budget, provide sufficient funding to compensate
      service suppliers for the lower tariffs o fbudget organizations;
      0   revenue generated from the lease o f municipal housing to be
      allocated for the capitalrepair o f the same.

 71. Facilitate the development o f market environment in the housing
management and maintenance.          This section of the Program deals
with measures to promote market relations in housing stock
management and servicing, extending public support to the emerging
business o f property management, privatization and subsequent
competitive selection of companies to provide upkeep services, etc.
The novelty o f the approach i s the emphasis on the development o f
the demand side o f the housing market, which implies the transition
 from administratively determined housing management with imposed
tastes and control o f prices, to a system o f housingmanagement based
 on market principles and allowing for a range o f preferences.

 72. The proposed actions include the following:


      0   maintain 100 percent o f municipal housing stock by
      competitively selected contractors;



                                     28

                   0   introduce competitive tenders for private management o f
                   municipally owned housing stock;
                   0   ensure a framework for a steady dialogue between the City
                   Administration and local communities represented by HOA
                   leaders (a special Coordinating Council under the auspices o f
                   city administration has already been created; at the moment it i s
                   comprised only o f city officials);
                   0   develop a package o f economic and other incentives to
                   encourage the formation of HOAs (the prospects for leasing
                   common spaces, e.g. attics and basements, might be particularly
                   attractive);
                       launch an awareness campaign to promote the H O A model
                   among city residents;
                       facilitate the formation o f HOAs innewly completed housing
                   and in buildings that have undergone comprehensive capital
                  repairs;
                       prepare grounds for the introduction o f an individual building
                  maintenance budgeting system including the development o f
                   appropriate software.


                                      111. BANKSTRATEGY

             Link to the CountryAssistance Strategy

             73. The World Bank Group's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for
             the Russian Federation for the period 2003-05 calls for the Bank "to
             support     the    effective  implementation o f the       Govemment's
             comprehensive reform program, to help mitigate the underlyingrisks
             to the sustainability o f growth and to extend the opportunities arising
             from the reform process more widely across the rich diversity o f
             Russia's pop~lation".~The CAS identified three strategic pillars o f
             support to the Govemment's reform program: (i)improving the
             business environment and enhancing competition; (ii)        strengthening
             public sector management; and (iii)mitigating the social and
             environmental risks o f reform.         Each pillar consists o f several
             components, as detailed inthe CAS. While this CAS didnot envision
             a need for federal budget support under the conditions that prevailed
             at the time o f its preparation in early 2002, it recognized that this
             lending instrument could be an option under future circumstances,
             and'in particular noted the importance o f developing instruments to
             work effectively at the regional and municipal levels. Moreover, the
             CAS base case lendingprogram included the St. Petersburg Economic
             Development Project that had a adjustment lending component. The
             KMDL was added to the program after the current CAS had been
             finalized.     The Russia CAS Progress Update, scheduled to be
             distributed to the Board o f Directors around February 25, 2005,
             explicitly mentions the Kazan Municipal Development Loan as an


Russian Federation CAS, Report No. 24127-RU, M a y 14,2002.


                                                  29

 important element o f extending the Bank's involvement in municipal
 reform inRussian cities.

 74. The Bank's current program o f assistance to GOR is structured
 around these strategic areas that remain appropriate. While the budget
 surpluses o f recent years have led to a decline in the need for World
 Bank lending to Russia relative to expectations at the time that the
 CAS was developed in conjunction with GOR, the Bank Group
 continues to play an active role in providing advisory services in
 support o f the three strategic pillars, with targeted lending to reflect
 the evolving priorities and needs o f the Government. As demonstrated
 by the city's reform programs that constitute the basis for Bank
 support and by the policy matrix (Annex 3), the proposed Kazan
 Municipal Development Loan directly supports, on the municipal
 level, the three strategic pillars o f the CAS with particular reference
 to the components identifiedbelow:


 Table 3. Linkst the Russia Country Assistance Strategy
CAS     Strategic    CAS strategic components embodied by the KMDL
Pillar
Improving      the   0  upgrading infrastructure and restructuring natural
business             monopolies;
environment          0  increasing opportunities for entry and growth o f
and enhancing new firms.
competition

Strengthening        0   improving fiscal management at the municipal
public     sector    level;
management           0  improving efficiency and quality o f public service
                     delivery inareas critical for improving the investment
                     climate and supporting long-term growth, particularly
                     in provision of basic infrastructure and communal
                     services.
Mitigating           0   improving the design, targeting, administrative
social        and capacity and financing of social protectionprograms.
environmental
risks

  75. The proposed KMDL i s within the base case lending scenario
  that envisages lending and guarantees o f up to USD 600 million per
  fiscal year. The base case i s contingent upon two sets o f triggers
  which both need to be met for lending activities to remain at the
  foreseen level. The first refers to the share o f satisfactory projects in
  the portfolio and the average time to effectiveness. Currently, the
  share o f satisfactory projects in the portfolio i s 83 percent, above the
  benchmark figure o f not less than 70 percent. The processing time o f
  new operations from Board approval to effectiveness has been
  reduced from 12 to 9 months, not reaching the CAS trigger o f 8
  month. This i s due to the delay in signingthe St. PetersburgEconomic
  Development Loan, which itself stemmed from changes in the local
  government that were entirely out o f the control o f the federal

                                      30

government (see para. 83). The second set o f triggers related to the
continued implementation o f the Government's structural reform
agenda together with prudent macroeconomic policies; these continue
to be met.

Analytical Underpinnings of the Proposed Loan

76.   Specific analysis that was carried out in the course o f loan
preparation has been complemented by major analytical undertakings
carried out on the national level (notably the poverty assessment that
was completed earlier in 2004) and by the country-level core
diagnostic assessments made by the Bank in Russia. The specific
analysis included an assessment o f the social impact o f the proposed
reforms; a review of budget management practices,             financial
accountability systems and inter-budgetary relations in Kazan; and a
review o f municipal procurement practices.

77. More generally over the past few years, the Bank has undertaken
a variety o f cross-sectoral operational and analytical work, as well as
lending, in Russia for all the themes addressed in the policy
conditionality o f KMDL.

(I,intergovernmental and sub-nationalfinance

78. Economic and sector work which has been extensive producing a
series o f reports and technical papers: Wallich, Russia and the
Challenge of Fiscal Federalism, (1994); Le Houerou (1995) Fiscal
Management in the Russian Federation (1995); L e Houerou and
Rutkowski: Federal Transfers in Russia: "Their Impact on Regional
Revenues and Incomes '' Comparative Economic Studies (1998);
Freinkman et al. Subnational Budgeting in Russia: Preempting a
Potential Crisis (1999);      and Freinkman and Yossifov (1999)
Decentralization in Regional fiscal systems in Russia: Trends and
Links to Economic Performance (1999); Martinez-Vazquez, Jorge, et
a1 Russia's Continuing Transition Towards a New Federalism:
Subnational Finance in the Russian Federation (forthcoming) .

(ii) social protection

79. The Bank has longbeen supporting replacement o f the ineffective
and inefficient system o f categorical in-kindbenefits with primarily
monetary targeted social assistance. Specific actions taken included
piloting o f modern targeting techniques in three RF regions,
introduction    o f  targeting   for  child   allowances,    design . o f
methodologies for provision o f regional social assistance and
financing for national survey o f incomes and social assistance
(NOBUS). Effectiveness o f safety nets in reaching the poor was
assessed in several pieces o f work (see Child Welfare Outcomes
during the 1990: The case of Russia; Non-income Dimensions of
Poverty), but most recently this was undertaken by the Russia Poverty
Assessment (2004, Chapter 8) that concluded that Russian safety net


                                    31

 system continued to allocate large shares o f social assistance spending
 to non-poor population.

 (iii) housing and communal sewices

 80. InFebruary 2002, the World Bank launchedwork on housing and
 communal services reform in response to a request from the Russian
 Government. The aim was to analyze the Government's HCS reform
 program and to investigate the main issues faced within the regions in
 moving forward with implementing reforms in the HCS sector. The
 Bank's work on HCS reforms was presented at two regional
 conferences that were held in Samara and Novosibirsk in February
 2003, with the city o f Kazan participating in the Samara conference.
 The main objective o f the conferences was to discuss the
 implementation o f HCS reforms in detail with local policy makers,
 and all participating local authorities felt that they could benefit from
  federal government guidance inimplementing HCS reforms.

  81.   The Bank i s currently in the process o f assisting the federal
  government in implementing HCS reform at the local government
  level (regional and municipal). The federal government and Bank's
  HCS reform program prioritizes and sequences reforms into: (i)     those
  that seek to improve the sector's financial condition and need to be
 pursued immediately; and (ii)reforms that will take longer to
  implement, and seek to alter the institutional and regulatory
  environment, especially with regard to municipal enterprises.          In
  addition, the reform program needs to focus on the management and
  maintenance o f the existing housing stock in order to halt the
  depreciation o f housing assets, in addition to its current focus on the
  importance o f utilityreform.

 Lessons learnedfrom lending operations


             Project                 Date       Amount           Status
                                    Approved    USDmln

RegionalFiscalTA                      1999          30.0         Active
Fiscal Federalism & Regional Fiscal   2002         120.0         Active
Reform
St. PetersburgEconomic                2003         161.1         Active
DevelopmentLoan



Social Protection Implementation   I  1998          28.6         Closed




                                     32

82. The Bank has gained valuable experience in subnational lending.
The Regional Fiscal Technical Assistance Loan (Ln. 45280-RU)
provided assistance to the Russian Federation in strengthening federal
and regional fiscal legislation and monitoring capacity, and provided
assistance to six regions to carry out diagnostic studies and prepare
reform programs. The Fiscal Federalism and Regional Fiscal Reform
Loan (Ln. 46470-RU) supports the regions in the development and
implementation o f fiscal reform programs that will promote financial
transparency, budgetary accountability, and strengthened fiscal
management policies and practices. These loans demonstrated that a
project focused on Russian regions can be highly effective in
leveraging structural reforms when based on federal grants to regions,
allocated competitively, to create an incentive for reform. This
approach includes the following: (i)   competitive selection o f regions,
with the selection criteria linked to demonstratedprogress on reforms;
(ii) lendingtothe federal govemment inthe formofbudget
     Bank
support and allocation o f loan proceeds among regions as grants
through a budget transfer window as an award for good performance,
(iii)provision of technical assistance to support the federal
government and regions in preparation and implementation o f the
program;    and (iv) full benefits o f accelerated regional reforms,
triggered by regional competition, significantly exceed the costs o f
additional debt burden that the Russian Federation has accumulated
under the project.

83. In May 2003, the Bank's Executive Directors approved the St.
Petersburg Economic Development Loan (Ln. 46940-RU USD 161.1
million),  a hybrid loan that         supports the city's     economic
transformation through reforms in the business environment and the
city's financial management and investments in selected cultural sites
that are critical to the city's future development as an intemational
cultural destination. In St. Petersburg, the key has been a committed
city govemment workmg in tandem with a federal counterpart. St.
Petersburg also highlighted the risks inherent in the political cycle:
signing was delayed almost a year due to the sudden resignation o f the
Governor and the subsequent lengthy process o f electing a new one.
Despite these problems, however, the reform program continued to
move forward in this period due to the commitment o f both the local
and federal authorities.

84. The Bank has also undertaken projects in social protection,
namely the Employment Services and Social Protection (Ln. 35320-
RU), Social Protection Adjustment Loan (Ln.42030-RU) and Social
Protection Implementation Loan ( Ln. 42340-RU). These loans
assisted the establishment o f national institutions that were non-
existent before the market reforms o f the 1990s (employment service)
and the design o f national policies in the area o f income support,
employment and pensions. Implementation o f these projects and o f
the SPAL in particular, was affected by the financial crisis o f the
 1998 and overall government instability. These factors prevented a
breakthrough in social sector reforms except pensions, where three
pillar pension systemhas been introduced.

                                    33

However, through these projects the Government gained a significant
experience in the design and piloting o f social protection programs,
including targeted income support, employment and pension policies
and equipped the Government with effective tools o f policy analysis
(National Survey o f Households' Welfare and Social Programs
Participation - NOBUS).

85. In the housing and communal services, the Bank had extensive
experience    in the      development   o f   housing   markets    and
implementation o f HCS reform policies in receptive cities. For the
most part, these efforts (which mainly took place in the mid-to-late
90s) had a mixed record because they were: (i)unrealistic in their
objectives and assessmentso f political and economic realities, and (ii)
designed as a traditional, brick and mortar, investment project. Kazan
took part in the Housing Project (Ln. 3850-RU) and had a relatively
successful outcome. A considerable portion o f land in downtown
Kazan was auctioned off to private developers by the city
administration, thus creating a model for the establishment o f market
relationships in the city's real estate. More recent projects are
incorporating a broader institutional and policy agenda, while
assessing the political climate for reform. Kazan i s currently
participating in the Municipal Heating Project (Ln.4601-RU), which
follows a track broadly similar to the engaging o f the private sector
for service delivery planned for the Vodokanal under the proposed
KMDL.

                    IV. THE PROPOSEDLOAN
Objectives

86. The proposed KMDL will be the instrument through which the
World Bank will support the Russian Federation's effort to deliver
technical and financial support to the Kazan Government's reform
program. The proceeds o f the loan will enable Kazan to strengthen its
financi+A position and put in place the reforms needed to improve
budget and financial management, the delivery o f social services and
the condition o f the HCS sector.

87. The Russian Federation's objectives in requesting this loan go
beyond Kazan. The federal government i s eager to promote a sound
policy framework and fiscal sustainability in the regions, and the
proposed KMDL (as well as the St.Petersburg EDL, currently under
implementation; see para. 104) are good vehicles for doing this. A
partnership with the World Bank further ensures accountability and
transparency. The loan thus carries a nation-wide externality, i.e. to
demonstrate good practice and foster it inthe rest o f Russia.

Loan Amount and Tranches

88. It i s proposed that the Kazan Municipal Development Loan o f
USD 125 million equivalent be disbursed in two tranches. The first
tranche o f the loan in the proposed amount of USD 50 million would
be disbursed upon effectiveness in early 2005. The second tranche in

                                   34

the amount o f USD 75 million would be disbursed following IBRD's
review and determination that policy actions pertaining to the second
tranche release have been undertaken and are satisfactory. This i s
notionally planned for early 2006. The somewhat back-loaded
disbursementschedule reflects the different financing requirements o f
the city's program, which are expected to be larger in2006.

89. The options o f a single-tranche operation and multi-tranche (i.e.
more than two) operation were considered but rejected. The reason
for the choice o f the two-tranche option was that it combines
sufficient flexibility in designing the timing o f the policy reforms with
a realistic approach to dealing with constraints o f the political
consultative process. In the case o f the proposed loan, where a sub-
national entity i s the main beneficiary, a single-tranche operation was
considered risky as it would not have provided the Federal
Government any instrument or ability to effectively leverage the
actual implementation o f the reforms. A multi-tranche operation was
considered equally risky as it could provide incentives to delay
decision-making and implementation.

Conditions

90. The support o f Tatarstan to the transformation o f the city o f
Kazan into a full fledge municipality, as well as it's commitment to
take the legal and organizational steps envisaged by the Program i s
laid out Tatarstan's Letter o f Development Policy (Annex 1). The
City's Letter of Development Policy (Annex 2) lays out a reform
program that i s both consistent with the federal program o f
decentralization and addresses the actions needed to sustain its
economic and financial transition. From that program a core subset o f
policy actions, listed in bold face in Annex 3, have been selected as
the legally agreed actions that would trigger the disbursement o f the
first tranche (conditions to be completed before the Board
presentation) and the second tranche. The conditions are considered
by the Bank and the Russian federal government as well as the city o f
Kazan as key steps to achieve the loan objectives, namely to improve
Kazan's fiscal condition and its' capacity to deliver efficient and
effective services to the population.

ITable 5.Budget
          Legally agreed actions
  A.                 and     Financial     Management
  Strengthening
     I 1.Budget Planning         (a) The 2006 fiscal year budget with
          and Execution          the      concept      and     parameters
                                 satisfactory to the Bank has been
                                 approved by the City.
                                 (b) The City has demonstrated that
                                 there are no new overdue payables of
                                 the    city  budget      and    budgetary
                                 institutions from end-2004 to end
                                 2005.


                                     35

      2.Municipal Treasury     The City has demonstrated       that a
                               viable system o f Treasury-execution
                               o f the    municipal budget has been
                               established based on a single account
                               concept for budgetary funds, and
                               funds are channeled solely through
                               the Borrower's Central Bank.

      cia1ProtectionSystem
      1.Implementation         The        City   has     demonstrated
         Capacity for          improvements,      satisfactory to the
         Social Protection     Bank, in the implementation capacitj
         Programs              for social protectionprograms.

      2. Transparency          The City has demonstratedthat:
                               (a) payment o f monetized social and
                               housing      and   communal     service
                               benefits usingindividual accounts has
                               been      introduced  and    i s under
                               implementation; and
                               (b) sufficient resources inthe form of
                               subvention from the Republic of
                               Tatarstan have been allocated in 2006
                               City budget for payment o f monetized
                               benefit.

      3. Social Assistance     The targeted poverty benefit has been
         Targeting             successfully implemented, and 2006
                               City budget allocates not less than 75
                               million Rubles for the City own
                               social protection expenditures for its
                               financing, and social contract practice
                               i s utilized.


     I  1.Financial            The        City    has    demonstrated
          Conditions o f the   satisfactory    improvements    in the
 F        Sector               housing and communal sector.

      2. Governance            The City's water and wastewater
                               facilities     are  managed     by    a
                               competitively       selected    private
                               operator.




Social impact

91. The existing system o f social assistance in the city o f Kazan has
the benefitofbeingmanagedby a department with good capacity and
a strong client-orientation, and the disadvantage o f being constrained


                                   36

by a plethora o f Federal, regional and local laws and other acts that
mandate excessively broad provision o f social assistance. The policy
reform concern in this area i s to ensure the focus o f the existing
resources on the truly needy, i.e. to maximize coverage o f the poor
while minimizing leakage to the non-poor. Means-tested programs o f
social protection have been established in Kazan that are dynamically
responsive to changes in a household's income so that, for example,
an increase in utility tariffs that results in a burden on the household
that i s deemed to be excessive (as defined locally) immediately
qualifies the household for receipt of housingsubsidies.

92. In order to gain a more robust empirical understanding o f the
degree o f targeting and coverage o f social protection funds overall, as
well as to model the potential social impact o f the various reforms
proposed by the city o f Kazan and supported by the World Bank
under the KMDL, a social impact analysis was carried out in the
course o f loan preparation. Inthis context, it should be stressed that
the need for adequate mitigation o f the possible social consequences
o f the reforms supported under the KMDLi s built into the loan design
itself (e.g. targeted poverty benefit),with a social protection dedicated
to improving the effectiveness o f social assistance provided inKazan.

93. The social impact assessment aimed to:


           0       In the area of housing and communal services: (i)
           evaluate the quality o f housing and communal services and
           to assess the level o f household customer satisfaction with
           the quality o f these services; (ii)provide a brief assessment
           o f how increased tariffs for centralized heating and water
           will affect the population, and especially people in lower
           income groups; (iii)  evaluate the experience o f home-owners
           associations (HOAs) and to assess the response (interest) o f
           the populationto a municipal policy o f stimulating voluntary
           reorganization o f residential buildings into the form o f
           home-owners associations.


           0       In the area of social protection: (i)   prepare a brief
            assessment o f efficiency and targeting o f the existing social
            assistance system, (ii) assess the quality o f social assistance
            services.

94. The study included a survey o f the population and focus group
discussions. A representative sample o f households residing in
apartment buildingsinKazan was used for the housing and communal
services part o f the survey. A representative sample o f Kazan's
population was used for the social protection part o f the survey. A
quota o f social protection service recipients was added to this sample
to evaluate quality o f services by recipients.

95. One o f the objectives o f the study was to understand how
residential customers evaluate utility service quality. Overall, the
quality o f gas, electricity and telephone service was perceived as very

                                     37

good, and the quality o f cold water, sewerage and central heating
services as fairly good. Hot water supply and housing services were
not rated as good. Metering and billing for utility services was not
considered perfect: respondents mentioned that the bills contained
errors (electricity  - 52  percent o f respondents; gas     - 16percent;
heating  - 28 percent),that they do not always reflect meter indications
(electricity - 36 percent) and that meter readings are not fully reliable
(electricity- 33 percent).

96. The district heating and water sector reforms discussed by the city
government will have impact on almost all households in Kazan, as
98 percent o f households according to the survey have access to
district heating and 96 percent have access to cold water. A few
survey's questions were asked to understand potential response o f the
population to key reform actions: metering o f cold water and tariff
increases for cold water and district heating. The analysis has
revealed that affordability i s unlikely to be a problem if water and
district heating tariffs are increased as proposed. Metering o f cold
water, according to the survey, would not cause resistance from the
population, as almost half o f the interviewed expressed preference for
metered cold water service.

97. One o f the key elements o f the HCS reform in the city would be
strengthening incentives for voluntary reorganization o f residential
buildings into homeowners associations             (HOAs). The survey
questionnaire included several questions to access potential response
o f the population to this policy. Inaddition to the survey, seven focus
group discussions were conducted: three with HOA heads and four
with residents o f buildings organized as HOAs, including two with
residents o f old buildings and two with residents o f new buildings.
Overall, the analysis has demonstrated that the population believes
that the system o f housing management in Kazan i s in crisis and that
changes are needed. Many support the idea o f HOA creation in
principle. At the same time, the population does not believe inthe city
government readiness to start the HOA reform. The fear i s that the
transition to HOAs will be forced and that the population will not
benefit from it. Also, Kazan' residents are concerned with potential
problems ifbuildingsrequiringsubstantial renovation are transformed
into HOAs. HOAs are expected to be more successful               in more
affluent areas o f the city, but less so in areas dominated by lower
income groups. Heads o f existing HOAs, even inluxurybuildings and
inaffluent parts o f the city, think that institutional environment is not
yet ready to support HOAs functioning.

98. One o f the main objectives o f the social protection r e f o m in
Kazan i s increased efficiency and targeting o f social assistance. The
survey included several questions to evaluate targeting and efficiency
o f the existing system o f social protection and collect information on
consumer satisfaction with social protection services. Overall,
according to responses collected, targeting o f social protection i s
perceived as satisfactory. The main problems are in the coverage (not
all poor are covered by the system) and access to services (many

                                    38

people find it difficult to understand the system and to apply for
asshtance). Based on these outcomes, an awareness campaign to
explain eligibility criteria aimed at lower income households would
be most useful. Such campaign would benefit lower quintiles and
reduce possible inclusion and exclusion errors in the distribution o f
benefits.


Environmental Aspects

99. N o direct negative environmental impact i s expected from the
KMDL implementation. The Russian Federation has a well
established   framework      for  environmental    assessments.    The
environmental assessment legislation i s based on the Federal Law on
Ecological Expertise, and includes a two stage procedure which
includes Environmental Impact Assessment (EM) and obligatory
State Environmental Review (SER) process. The Ministry o f Ecology
and Natural Resources o f Tatarstan has traditionally been one o f the
strongest institutions among the Russian environmental protection
bodies and has managed to sustain its core expertise and institutional
integrity over the last decade. In2003, the Department o f SER o f the
Ministry reviewed over 1100 projects and rejected (or requested to
improve) about 40 percent o f them.

 Outcomes

100. KMDL will result in: (i) strengthened budgeting and financial
                                a
management in the city; (ii)    better access to social assistance and
social protection services for the poor, and (iii)
                                                 strengthened financial
condition for the housing and communal services sector. Relevant
policy actions and indicatorsare described inAnnex 3.




Monitoring and Evaluation

 101.   Country macroeconomic Performance will continue to be
measured, in consultation with the Intemational Monetary Fund,
throughout the loan period based on the fiscal and monetary stance,
inflation, balance o f payments, and the extent to which the
macroeconomic environment could affect the objectives o f the
Program. Monitoring o f the achievement o f performance targets will
be ensured as part o f the regular loan implementation supervision by
the Bank. In addition, a reputable consulting firm with a track record
in monitoring Bank funded projects will be hired to provide the
federal government with periodic monitoring reports and conduct
additional surveys in case data underlyingmonitoring indicators i s not
readily available through the Republic o f Tatarstan or Kazan
authorities.

 102. At the federal level, the Ministryo f Finance will allocate budget
funds to finance activities related to monitoring, evaluation and

                                   39

dissemination o f achievements o f the Program.         In addition, the
MOF's Fiscal Monitoring Division (created under the Fiscal
Federalism and Regional Fiscal Reform Project) will continue
monitoring fiscal developments in Tatarstan as part o f its normal
mandate. At the local level the overall monitoring o f the loan will be
provided by the Tatarstan's Interministerial Working Group (headed
by an advisor on economic affairs to the Tatarstan President) and the
city o f Kazan Inter-departmental Working Group (headed by the first
deputy mayor incharge o f economics).

Implementation Arrangements

103.     The overall responsibility for the implementation o f the
proposed operation, including progress reports and coordination with
parties concerned, will rest with         the city's mayor and the
administration o f the city o f Kazan, with support, as needed, from the
Republic o f Tatarstan. Operational responsibility for implementation
will be with the city's first deputymayor incharge o feconomics.

104. Over the period o f loanimplementation, the Bank team will carry
out supervision missions to help ensure progress towards completion
o f the tranche release conditions. Supervision o f the Program will be
focused on the outcomes of the Programwith due account taken o f the
latest country developments, stakeholder support, and feasible options
for realizing the intended development goals. The review will be
largely based on the monitoring indicators (benchmarks) and the goals
o f the Program.




Fiduciary Aspects

105. Inrapidly changing environment for inter-governmental relations
inRussia, there is some uncertainty regardingthe medium-term inter-
governmental fiscal relations, including Public Financial Management
(PFM) arrangements for municipalities such as Kazan. As a result, the
exact fiduciary environment o f this loan i s somewhat unpredictable.

The Kazan Municipal Development Loan embodies a few unique
fiduciary features. Fiduciary aspects o f most adjustment loans to the
Russian Federation so far have been concerned with the PFM
performance o f the Federation (the Borrower). By contrast, the
fiduciary environment for the KMDL will encompass all three levels
o f government, the Russian Federation at the federal level,          the
Republic o f TartastanIRT) at the regional level and the city o f Kazan
at the local level.

At present, Kazan has the responsibility for its budget preparation,
while Kazan's budget execution i s largely managed by a department
o f the RT Treasury (KDRTT). Controls and internal audits are also
managed by the RT institutions. Up to 2004, external audit had been

                                    48

      performed by the RT's parliamentary commission". Once Kazan's
      new legal municipal framework i s fully enacted" prior to the release
      o f the second tranche o f the loan, budget execution functions, and
      particularly treasury,     i s to be transferred from the KDRTT to a
      department in the regional branch o f the Federal Treasury in
      Tartastan. Precisely how this transfer will be managed and what will
      be the exact responsibilities and functions o f the new treasury
      arrangement, remains to be determined. The future internal and
      external audit arrangements for the Kazan budget are yet to be
      specified also.

      106. At the federal level, substantial diagnostic work has beencarried
      out. Since January 2001 the Bank carried out a CFAA, a CIFA, a
      CPAR and several sectoral PERs (federal capital expenditure and sub-
      national PERs for the following sectors: health, education, housing
      and utilities,    public transportation, industry, construction and
      agriculture, law enforcement, culture and state governance).

      In2001, the CFAA concluded that the public financial accountability
      framework in Russia required considerable strengthening. The
      country's control framework was fairly comprehensive but inefficient.
      Since the CFAA's completion, substantial reforms have taken place in
      the public financial management. These have been noted inthe recent
      IMF Fiscal Transparency Module o f the Report on the Observance o f
      Standards and Codes (ROSC)I2. The report notes that the legal
      framework o f the budget and tax system as well as for
      intergovernmental relations has been reformed. Macroeconomic
      policy forecasts are soundly based and open for scrutiny. Budget
      preparation has become sophisticated with considerable transparency
      in the process and in the availability o f information. The treasury
      system has strengthened budget execution, control, and monitoring.
      Reliable data i s increasingly available on a timely basis for most
      levels o f the government. Many quasi-fiscal activities (QFAs) have
      been removed. Tax policy has been modernized, and the scope for
      administrative discretion has significantly reduced. A stabilization
      fund was created as part o f the federal budget in January 2004. The
      authorities have a clear sense o f direction for needed reform, are
      engaged in a transparent process o f developing medium-term plans o f
      action and, inmany cases, are already engaged in implementing these
      plans.

      However, remaining challenges need to be addressed, including the
      following:


           0   narrowing the opaqueness in the boundaries between the
               general government, the public enterprise sector, and the
               private sector;


loIn  2004 the commission has beenreplaced by the RT Accounts Chamber. The Accounts Chamber
will, on an exceptional basis, audit Kazan's 2004 accounts.
  Expected inJanuary 2006.
l2IMF,Country Report No. 04/288,3 September 2004,

                                            41

         0    addressing    remaining weaknesses in intergovernmental
              relations, particularly establishing stable rules for expenditure
              and revenue assignments;
         0    assuring the stability o f fiscal policies, liberalizing the energy
              market and further reducing QFAs;
              further strengthening the budget formulation and execution
              process; and
         0    enhancing debt management.

     107. At the regional level, no fiduciary assessment o f the Republic o f
     Tatarstan (RT) has been performed. At the level o f the municipality,
     an assessment o f the financial management arrangements o f the City
     o f Kazan has been carried out by the Bank with the assistance o f local
     Russian PFM consultants. The main findings o f the assessment were
     as follows13:


         0    Although Kazan has acquired the municipal status, the legal
              framework i s still to be completed.
              A detailed annual budget is prepared by the city's Finance
              Department (FD) through a well-regulated bottom-up process,
              and i s approved by the City Council.
              The FD i s in charge o f the accounting and reporting. There i s
              only one Chart o f Accounts and accounting i s done on a cash
              basis. Accounting rules are based on the federal Budget Code
              and on accounting provisions issuedby the federal MOF.
              As mentioned above, the process o f budget execution i s
              shared between Kazan and the RT. While Kazan FD i s largely
              responsible for legal and financial commitments o f the budget
              resources, the treasury system i s managed by the Kazan
              Department within the RT Treasury (KDRTT) that reports to
              both the RT Treasury and the FD.            .
              The KDRTT uses the same payment system as the RT
              Treasury. While treasury regulations are in line with the
              federal Budget Code whereby a single budget account o f RT
              i s opened in the National Bank o f RTI4,funds are usually
              transferred from the National Bank o f RT to a commercial
              bank (Ak Bars Bank)Is. This bank i s used for all payments by
              the RT Treasury. RT directly owns around 6% o f Ak Bars
              BankI6.
              The internal audit i s performed by RT KRU", a part o f the
              RT Treasury. Quality and effectiveness o f internal audits
              (compliance audits) has not been assessed. After January 1,
              2005, the RF KRU is to become a federal agency (Federal



l3Fiduciary Review Report for the KMDL.
l4Which is the local branch o f the federal Central Bank. .
15Republican and municipal funds remain inthe Central Bank account, usually, no more than one
day. Only the Federal fhds that are transferred to the republic or the municipality remain inthe
Central Bank.
l6llwww.akbars.ru
  Russian abbreviation for Control and RevisionDepartment

                                            42

             Controls Agency), but the exact functions o f the Agency are
             still to be defined.
        0    Untilthe establishment of the RT Accounts Chamber inJune
             2004, the external audit o f the execution o f the Kazan budget
             was carried out by the RT Parliamentary Control Committee.
             With the new legislation'*, the RT Accounts Chamber i s now
             in charge o f external audit. Owing to the recent changes,
             quality and effectiveness o f external audits could not be
             assessed.

     108. Fast changing conditions for inter-government relations usually
    generate fiduciary risks, at least during a transitionperiod. Inaddition,
    as shown above, the assessment o f financial accountability for the
    purpose o f this loan i s incomplete and partly outdated. Based on the
    above, the fiduciary risks o f the KMDL are considered high. To
    mitigate these risks, the following actions will be completed under
    this loan:

         0   To clarify roles, responsibilities and accountability inKazan's
             budget management, municipal regulations defining the P F M
             system (budget      management,      treasury,  accounting and
             reporting, internal and external audit) for Kazan will be
             approved prior to the second tranche release. Such regulations
             will needto meet standards acceptable to the Bank;


         0   To secure an effective municipal treasury after existing
             treasury arrangements have been transferred to the Federal
             Treasury, the city will demonstrate (as a core condition of the
             second tranche) that a viable system o f treasury-execution o f
             the municipal budget has been established based on a single
             account concept for budgetary funds, and funds are channeled
             solely through the Central Bank o f the Russian Federation".
             The specifics o f the arrangements for treasury management
             between Kazan and the RF will be embodied in an agreement
             between the RF and Kazan, acceptable to the Bank.


         0   To secure continuity o f the external audit function duringthe
             transitional arrangements, it has been agreed that before the
             second tranche the RT Accounts Chamber will audit the 2004
             financial statements (budget execution report) o f Kazan. The
             audited financial statements will be discussed and approved
             by the City Council andpublished.

     Other riskmitigation measures are described inthe section below.



 RT Law Nr,37-ZRT of June 3,2004, approvedby the RT State Council. Inthe law, neither the
RFnor the RTAccounts Chambers have the authority to audit the execution ofthe budget of
municipal bodies. An amendment to the RT Law allowing the RT AC to carry out audits o f
municipalbudgets has been submitted to the RT State Council and i s expected to be adopted inearly
2005.
  Inaccordance withRTBudget Code (art.75)

                                         43

Disbursements and audits

109. The proposed loan will be disbursed against satisfactory
implementation o f the adjustment program and will not be tied to any
specific purchases, therefore no procurement requirements will be
needed.    Because the treasury arrangements for the city will be
transferred, as a second tranche condition, to a city department under
the Federal Treasury, the transfer o f funds for the two tranches will
have a slightly different flow. The funds o f the second tranche will be
disbursed directly from the Federal Treasury to a sub-account within
the Federal Treasury without going through the Republic o f Tatarstan
Treasury.

110. At the request o f the Borrower, the proceeds in foreign currency
will be deposited by the World Bank in a Deposit Account at the
Central Bank o f Russia or another Bank acceptable to the Bank. The
Deposit Account managed by the Ministry o f Finance o f the Russian
Federation will have no other funds. The proceeds o f the second
tranche will be deposited in the same Deposit Account after all the
conditions o f the second tranche release are met. If, after depositing in
the Deposit Account, the proceeds o f the loan are used for ineligible
purposes as defined in the Loan Agreement, the World Bank will
require the Borrower to either: (a) return the amount to the account
for use for eligible purposes, or (b) refund the amount directly to the
World Bank. To further mitigate the risks discussed above, the
following fiduciary arrangements for the loan have been agreed:


    0    an audit o f the use made by the City o f the ruble equivalent o f
         the first tranche of the loan will be carried out by an auditor
         and on terms o f reference acceptable to the Bank, and for that
         purpose a respective provision will be included in the Grant
         Agreement;


    0    the flow o f funds o f this operation (from the Deposit Account
         to the city o f Kazan account) will be channeled solely through
         the RF CentralBank system;


    0    since there i s no safeguard assessment o f the Central Bank o f
         the Russian Federation, the Bank will request an audit o f the
         Deposit Account and o f the whole flow of funds until it
         reaches the Kazan's account. The audit will be carried out by
         an auditor acceptable to the Bank within four months after the
         disbursement o f each tranche and the report will need to be
         provided to the World Bank immediately upon completion;


    0    for the first tranche, the RT Treasury (which currently
         manages the Kazan treasury) will report to the World Bank
         the receipt o f the grant funds within five business days. For
         the second tranche, the Federal Treasury will report to the
         World Bank the receipt o f the grant funds within five business
         days. The RF Treasury will report, within five business days,


                                     44

        to the World Bank the transfer o f the loan funds from the
        Deposit Account to the Kazan Treasury Account;

        as a condition o f effectiveness, a Grant Agreement between
        RF, RT and Kazan, regulating the flow o f funds, the
        timeliness o f their transfer and their use, will be put in place;
        and

        the 2005 and 2006 budgets o f the Russian Federation, the
        Republic o f Tatarstan, and Kazan will include the loadgrant
        funds as demonstratedbybudget documentation.




                        V.       RISKS

Federal Level

111. Unquestionably, the Russian Federation presents a relatively
low risk at this point in time for the World Bank's portfolio and the
proposed loan.     Significant economic growth should continue in
Russia over the medium term, although the pace o f this growth will
depend on oil and gas prices. Ifoil prices should fall to 20-25 dollars
a barrel, annual GDP growth would most likely slow to 3-5 percent.
Although exceptionally high oil prices may generate a record current
account in 2004 (already over US4 22 billion for the first half o f the
year), rapid import growth should narrow the current account surplus
in the medium term.       An improvement in the investment climate
would simultaneously strengthen the capital account, leaving the
overall balance o f payments in surplus.

112.    The risks to economic growth and stability in Russia are
nevertheless non-trivial. Ifoil prices were to fall well below U S D 20
dollars a barrel, and remain at such levels for a number o f years,
Russia could begin to experience serious financial problems. Even a
smaller shock to oil and gas prices could cause some ripples in the
enterprise and financial sectors.      Lower profits and tax revenues
would cut into economic growth rates and eliminate the budgetary
surpluses (close to 30 percent o f federal revenues come from oil and
gas).     Lower oil prices would put downward pressure on the
exchange rate, thereby causing potential problems for a number o f
enterprises that have borrowed considerable amounts in foreign
currency in recent years. Russian non-financial enterprises held an
estimated USD 42 billion in foreign credit in the beginning o f 2004,
and gross foreign borrowing by the non-financial sector amounted to
another USD 14 billion during the first half o f the year. The Russian
banking sector also remains weak and potentially vulnerable to
shocks.     Due to these concerns, the IMF has urged caution in
macroeconomic policy in order to maintain the considerable cushion
that has been built inrecent years against a potential external shock.



                                    45

113. The new decentralization framework also carries some risks.
The new legislationcertainly clarifies the roles and responsibilities o f
the various levels o f govemment,          and makes an enormous
contribution by focusing the responsibilities o f local governments on
functions as opposed to maintenance o f institutions. However, there
are a number o f important issues that arise:

         implementation o f new expenditure assignments may be
         difficult as coordination mechanisms are unclear in areas for
         which more than one level o f government has responsibility;
         the responsibilities assigned to the settlement level may
         overload them;
         the new expenditure assignments may also require a
         significant reallocation o f state property among levels o f
         government that could be contentious;
         assignment o f key social welfare provisions to the regional
         level may exacerbate inequalities among rich and poor
         regions.

114. There is also an imbalance in the Government's approach to
fiscal federalism, assigning responsibility and accountability on the
expenditure side but providing little or no autonomy or control on the
revenue side. Although expenditure responsibilities continue to
increase at local govemment levels, they have less and less control
over their sources o f revenue. This breaks the relationship between
service delivery at lower levels o f government and the taxes provided
to pay for those services. Continuous monitoring and oversight will be
required to assess how revenue assignments match up with
expenditure assignments.

115. Potential risks with respect to the relations between federal and
subnational governments also include recent move by President Putin
to appoint govemors o f the Russian regions (effectively, although
formally President nominates a candidate to be approved by a regional
parliament), possibility o f appointment o f mayors o f Russian
municipalities (either by RF President or by a regional govemor),
changes in the composition o f the upper chamber o f the RF
Parliament (President Putin's proposal i s to include govemors and
heads o f regional parliaments instead o f regions' representatives into
this body). Although this is clearly a setback with respect to
decentralization process inthe Russian Federation it i s highlyunlikely
that such possible changes may lead to turnarounds in the Kazan
reform program, as this program i s mimicking to a large degree
federal reforms program, it i s supported by the federal center and it i s
also endorsed at the level o f the Republic o f Tatarstan.

 116. Risks associated with the predictability o f the resource transfer
from the federal govemment and potential risks arising from resource
volatility are quite limited. It seems, significant amount o f federal
transfers to the Republic o f Tatarstan and Kazan i s quite predictable.
First, Republic o f Tatarstan is not entitled to the federal equalization
grants as a relatively rich region. Second, Republic o f Tatarstan will

                                    46

not get federal funds under the Federal Targeted Program from the
year 2006. These two sources o f funds could have been the major
sources o f revenue volatility and o f potentialrisk for the consolidated
budget o f the republic. Federal Compensation Fund i s based on per
capita estimates and as a result i s rather predictable. All other
transfers are o f a minor nature (e.g. federal investment grants to
regions). The World Bank loan i s to be incorporated into annual
budget laws o f the Russian Federation, Republic o f Tatarstan, and
Kazan and thus its amount i s also relatively fixed (minor risks are
related to exchange rate fluctuations).

Kazan

117. As a newly constituted municipal entity undertaking a difficult
reform agenda, there i s substantial risk with respect to the Kazan
administration's capacity carry out this reform agenda and the
potential for a lagging commitment over the longer term. The
significant prior actions that have been taken, however, suggest that
the Bank-Federal Government-Kazan partnership i s working and that
continued collaboration will have a mitigating effect on this risk. To
further manage this risk, the loan i s structured with two-tranches, with
a greater weight assigned to the second tranche. Finally, there i s also a
risk of backlash to the reform program by the city's inhabitants. To
date, however, the Kazan administration has shown significant skill in
explaining its      aims and objectives, building consensus and
maintaining broad based support. In addition, the federal authorities
are committed to provide funds to build monitoring and evaluation
capacity for the Program.

118. In accordance with the framework for municipal reform in
Russia, Kazan i s supposed to receive equalization transfers from the
Republic o f Tatarstan that will affect the city's overall fiscal balance.
Though the concept o f such transfers i s inscribed in the Russian
legislation, the precise amount o f each annual transfer i s not known
(and can only be predicted with relative accuracy) in advance. Thus,
the sustainability o f Kazan's fiscal position i s in some measure
dependent on actions o f the government o f the Republic o f Tatarstan
that cannot be known inadvance. Nevertheless, the reforms supported
under the KMDL that assist in fiscal strengthening, improved
planning and monitoring, and the increased flexibility will enhance
the city's ability to manage and adjust to these equalization transfers.

119. Overall, the context for the KMDL implementation i s complex:
it involves actions by the federal government to implement a
decentralization framework across eighty nine sub-federal entities, a
transfer o f power by a once strongly independent region (the Republic
o f Tatarstan) and the implementation o f a city strategy and reform
program by a newly created municipality.           Each o f the tiers o f
government involved in this process has already demonstrated its
commitment to the overall goals and objectives, and the city o f Kazan
has already undertaken significant reforms. As the KMDL i s
implemented, however, it will be essential to maintain a close

                                   47

worlung relationship with the federal Ministry o f Finance, the
Republic o f Tatarstan and the city administration, to provide
extensive advice andjust-in-timesupport. This will be done as part o f
loan implementation support and will be greatly facilitated by the
Bank's Moscow office.




                                48

49

ANNEX 2: KAZANLETTER OFDEVELOPMENTPOLICY




                              50

51

52

53

54

55

56

57

58

                                                                        December 13,2004
                                                                                    N g 4097
Mr.JamesWolfensohn
President
The InternationalBank for ReconstructionandDevelopment

Dear Mr.Wolfensohn,

        Kazan - the capital city o f the Republic o f Tatarstan  - has a population of 1.1
million people which makes it the seventh largest city in Russia and the largest city in
Tatarstan. In 2003, the City o f Kazan accounted for about 40% o f the Republic's Gross
Regional Product (GRP) which was equal to USD 7 billion (about 1.6% o f the Russian
Federation GDP). The city i s an important industrial center well known for its developed
manufacturing base including machine building, aircraft construction, chemical and
petrochemical industries. Kazan i s an important transport center with developed transport
infrastructure and communication facilities. The city has a significant intellectual and
cultural potential being an important center o fresearch, education and healthcare.


        Along with Tatarstan, Kazan i s home to a large number o f nationalities, including
most significantly Tatars and Russians. The city that would mark its millennium next
year, enjoys a well deserved reputation for the multi-ethnical and multi-confessional
amity, based on equal rightso f all ethnical groups represented inthe city and rich cultural
exchange between them.

         Since 1991 as a result o f reforms Kazan has undergone significant structural
economic changes. The share o f machine-building reduced, while chemical and
petrochemical industries, power industry and production o f construction materials gained
importance. The highest growth was registered in the service sector. Employment in the
industryand construction has shrank from 45% in 1995 to 33% in2003, while the share of
those employed in the service sector (healthcare, education, culture, trade and catering)
out o f the total employment has increased from 34% in 1995 to 40% in 2003. It i s
expected that the economic growth in the future will be secured through both the
increased export potential o f existing highly technological industries, and most o f all the



                                                   59

rapid development o f the service sector, mainly transport, financial services, trade, culture
and tourism.
         Inview ofmajor structural changesthat havetakenplace inKazansince 1991and
recognizing the need to define the program for city future development, the
Administration o f Kazan prepared and approved in April o f 2003 a Strategy for the
Development o f the City o f Kazan to 2015. Prior to its adoption the Strategy was broadly
discussed with representatives o f government and civil society.


         The strategy has identified several groups o f Challenges that the city i s facing in
the medium to long term. These are: Economic development challenges, Urban
Development Challenges and Social Challenges. The Strategy proposed a logical "List o f
Objectives, Tasks and Activities intended for Implementing the Kazan Development
Strategy" that will drive the reform process intended to improve economic sustainability
o f the city and its social situation. The array o f reforms envisaged by the Strategic Plan
coincide with the main national reform priorities fostered by the Govemment o f Russia.
Their implementation i s intended to help the city to join the mainstream o f social,
economic and political reforms as they are currently carried out inRussia.


         The city Administration, supported by the Republic o f Tatarstan government, has
been working with staff o f the World Bank for over a year in order to define the concise
set o f priority reforms and actions that would be essential for successful implementation
o f the Kazan Strategy and indeed for the future economic prospects o f the city. These
first priority set o f actions and reforms were identified to include: strengthening budget
and financial management o f Kazan municipality (including municipal procurement and
municipal assets management), social support reform in the city and financial and
institutional strengthening o f housing and communal services. These are currently
includedinto the proposed Kazan MunicipalDevelopmentLoan.


         With this letter the Kazan city administration is requesting the World Bank to
provide support for implementation o f the set o f ambitious and challengingreforms in the
city within the framework o f Kazan Municipal Development Loan (KMDL).These will
lay foundation for future improved economic and fiscal sustainability o f the city,
improved efficiency of social support policy and more effective and efficient housing and
communal services sector. The reforms will include the following main actions in the
respective priority areas.


                       STRENGTHENINGBUDGETAND FINANCIAL             MANAGEMENT


         The city receivedits legal status o f municipality in September 2004 and this leads
to a need to upgrade and strengthen budget management, public procurement and asset
management practices. The budget management, treasury and auditing functions have to
be streamlined and integrated, because now different functions stay with different entities
both in the city or in the Republic o f Tatarstan administrations. In order to strengthen
municipal budget and financial management under KMDL we plan the following:




                                                     60

        Development o f a municipal public finance regulations. This will allows to create
a well governed, transparent and accountable structures and procedures for the city budget
execution. A comprehensive legal framework for modem municipal public finance
management would ensure transformation o f the city o f Kazan from de jure to de facto
effectively and efficiently managedmunicipality.


        Introduction o f municipal medium term (three year) financial plan on a rolling
basis, This will enhance medium term budget planning and will increase the ability to
evaluate choices o f different developmental scenarios to be made within overall resource
constraints. Inparticular, better forecasts o f aggregate revenue and expenditure (according
to both economic and functional classification) categories will help the city to incorporate
into the budget major reforms envisaged in social protection, housing and communal
services, asset management. In addition it i s planned to consolidate formerly independent
rayon budgets into the city budget.         Development o f a borrowing strategy and o f a
medium term capital investment program will also become key elements o f improved
budget planning.


        Strengthening creditworthiness o f municipality. It i s planned to gradually phase
out and eventually eliminate arrears of the city budget and o f budgetary organizations.
Towards this end inventory o f the city overdue payables for capital construction i s under
way and will be completed by the end o f 2004, adequate budget funds are allocated to
budget organizations to help them to stay in compliance with restructuring agreements
with the federal social funds (e.g. federal Pension Fund) and to facilitate inclusion into
this legal framework o f those budgetary organizations which were expelled from such
agreements.
        Upgrade o f Public Procurement. A number of reforms are now underway in this
area, including establishment o f an Expert Commission headed by the First Deputy
Mayor that (i)i s clearing all cases of direct contracting, closed bidding and price
quotations,   and (ii)reviews complaints from bidders. The city will continues
strengthening public procurement with the following measures: (i)independent
assessment of current city procurement practices to establish a baseline quantifiable data
against which agreed improvements will be evaluated; (ii)        introduction o f transparent
contractors complaints processing mechanism, conflict resolution and sanctions against
municipal purchasers violating the rules; (iii)increasing the proportion o f contracts
awarded and city budget used under open bidding (iv) carrying out independent audit o f
city procurement conducted in 2004 and 2005; (v) creating o f a unified contract registry
for the city that includes all contracts financed through the city budget.


         Improved Municipal assets management. In order to improve efficiency o f the
municipal asset       management the Asset Management Strategy i s approved to be
implemented over the next year.        It includes strengthened market principles in asset
management, support market infrastructure by creating comprehensive legal framework
and determining the rules o f interactionbetween market participants. Continued inventory
and monitoring of municipal assets will be introduced, and existing Asset Register will be
transformed into an advanced database with embedded analytical capacity.


         Specifically, the following policies will be introduced and actions will be
undertaken inthe area o f municipal asset management:



                                                     61

        Publication as a matter o f routine practice o f notices o f auctions for sale or rent
        o f municipal property, information on property to be auctioned, including land,
        information on auctions' procedures and results;

        Preemptive plan for land subdivision (land plotting plan) will be developed, and
        published;

        The review o f all land allocations will be completed, a list o f plots currently
        under design and construction will be compiled; extension periods for design and
        construction will be restricted (one extension not more than 6 months long);

        A legal regulation will be passed accepting competitive bidding as the only
        possible procedure for transfer or acquisition o f rights to municipal property all
        categories o f municipal assets, including real estate property;

        Property rent rates for municipal assets will be established minimally at 90% o f
        commercial rates; previous land allocations will be revised and those expired
        will be terminated.


Reforms of Social Protection

        The objectives o f the Republic o f Tatarstan in the area o f social support include
improved outreach to the poorest groups o f population, and higher efficiency and
transparency in the use o f budget resources allocated for social support o f the population.
The Tatarstan Republican Government and the Kazan City administration have adopted a
program o f improvement o f the social support o f the population, introduced targeted
school lunches in the school system of Kazan, eliminated duplication o f in-kindbenefits
for regionally established social programs. KMDL program includes the following main
actions:


         Clarification of institutional responsibilities for social support programs in the
         city o fKazan and integrationof program implementationwithin one department.
         State responsibilities for social support programs for Kazan population will be
         delegated to the city Administration, programs will be financed by targeted
         subvension from Republican budget and municipal budget. Capacity o f the
         department o f social protection will be strengthened.

         Monetary payments will be introduced to replace the current complex system o f
         in-kindbenefits for different groups o f population authorized by various levels
         o f government. The monetary benefits will be transferred to individual bank
         accounts o f the beneficiaries. Monetization will also include housing and
         communal services benefits. Thus transparency in social support system will be
         improved, and the foundation for most important moves for reform in the
         housing and communal services sector, as well as in social support will be
         developed.

         Specific targeted poverty benefit will be introduced in the city o f Kazan, and
         explicit targeting mechanism will be used for social support to pensioners,
         budget sector employees and households in need financed from RT budget.


                                                    62

         Targeting in Kazan will use well-being verification methodologies, social
         contracts with beneficiaries, incentives for reintegration inthe labor market.

         Provision o f social services for the vulnerable groups in the city o f Kazan will
         use "municipal contracting" for all public service providers and competitive
         selection for selected social services.

Reforms of Housing and Communal Services

        On September 30, 2004, the City Council o f Kazan approved a Program o f
Reform o f the Housing and Communal Sector o f Kazan. The Program i s focusing on
three main areas: (i)reform o f public utilities and unitary enterprises working in the
sector, (ii)
           restoration o f the sector's financial viability, including reform o f the tariff-
setting process, (iii) development o f market environment for housing maintenance and
management, including provision o f economic incentives to the voluntary creation o f
home-owners associations. The Program i s setting quantifiable short and medium term
targets, suggests implementation indicators and assigns operational responsibilities to
ensure successful outcome.

    Within the KMDL the city will take the following steps in the area o f housing and
communal services reform:

        Direct budget producer subsidies to heat producers will be eliminated and budget
        support will be provided to eligible families and families in need through the
        system o f social protection;
        Debts o f budget organizations to HCS suppliers will be eliminated, as well as
        debts district housing maintenance companies (RZhU) to housing maintenance
        companies; The city will become responsible for setting the tariffs that will be
        set at the level o floo-%   cost recovery for all heatingcompanies operating inthe
        city o f Kazan;
        Cross-subsidization between categories o f water and wastewater consumers and
        heat consumers will be eliminated;
        Optimization and leveling o f heating tariffs will be ensured, inter alia, through
        creation o f a single sales and distribution company;
        100% o f municipal housing stock will be maintained by competitively selected
        contractors;
        Competitive tenders will be introduced for private management o f municipally
        ownedhousing stock;
        A package o f economic and other incentives to encourage the formation o f
        HOAs( leasingrights for common spaces) will be introduced;
        Formation o f HOAs in newly complete housing and in buildings that have
        undergone comprehensive capital repairs will be facilitated;

        These reforms constitute a major undertalung for the city, and Ihope that we can
count on continued World Bank technical support in the design and implementation.
Though very significant steps have already been taken with respect to each o f these
reforms we look forward to continued interaction with the World Bank as we move
forward.




                                                     63

        Ihopethatuponreviewofthesubmittedprogram,theWorldBankwillfindit
possible to extend a loan for Kazan, which would enable the City to attain its institutional
and economic development objectives and thus ensure steady and sustainable growth o f
its economy necessary to improve the standards o f living o f its population.




                                                                             K.Iskhakov
                                                                           Mayor o f Kazan




                                                  64

a
8

W
W











cc
0


     ANNEX 4: COUNTRYAT A GLANCE


                 RUSSIANFEDERATION:KAZANMUNICIPALDEVELOPMENTPROJECT

                                                                   Europe B        Lower-
POVERTYand SOCIAL                                          Russian    Central     middie-
                                                       Federation      Asia       income      Developmentdiamond'
2003
Population, mid-year(millions)                               143.4       473        2,408                    Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlasmethod, US$)                            2,610     2,160        1,400
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)  1                          374.8     1,023        3,372                           -

Average annual growth, 1997-03                                                                                      I
Population(%)                                                  -0.4       0.0         0.9
Laborforce (%)                                                  0.9       0.5         1.2     GNI                                   Gross
                                                                                              Per                                  primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1997-03)                                         capita                             nrollment
Poverty (% ofpopulationbelownationalpoverty line)               21
Urbanpopulation(% of totalpopulation)                           73        64          49
Life expectancyat birth (years)                                 65        69           69
Infantmortality(per 7,000live births)                           12        31           32
Child malnutrition(% of childrenunder 5)                          6                     9    1      Access to improvedwater source
Accessto an improvedwater source (% of population)              99        91           81
Illiteracy (% of populationage 15+)                               0          3         13
Grossprimary enrollment (% of school-agepopulation)            114       103          112         -Russian        Federation
                                                                                             ~




    Male                                                       114       104          113    ,  _  _     Lower-middle-incomegroup
    Female                                                     113       102          111

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
                                                  1983        1993     2002         2003
                                                                                               Economic ratios'
GDP (US$billions)                                            435.1     345.6        432.9
Grossdomestic investmenffGDP                                   27.0     20.2         20.6
Exportsof goods and servicedGDP                                38.2     35.0         35.0                         Trade
GrossdomesticsavingdGDP                                        34.7     30.7         32.0
GrossnationalsavingslGDP                                       33.7     28.6         28.9                           T

Current account balancelGDP                                     0.6       8.4         8.3
InterestpaymentslGDP                                            0.3       2.7         2.4      Domestic                   __
                                                                                                                            1   Investment
Total debffGDP                                                 26.0     43.2         38.8      savings
Total debt servicelexports                                      4.3     24.2         18.2                            I
Presentvalue of debffGDP                                       18.0     43.0         41.7                           1

Presentvalue of debffexports                                  119.1    117.2        110.5
                                                                                                               Indebtedness
                                      1983-93 1993-03         2002     2003       2003-07
(averageannualgrowth)
GDP                                                  1.4        4.7       7.3         5.5          -Russian        Federation
GDP per capita                                       1.8        5.2       7.8         6.1                  Lower-middle-income aroiin
Exports of goods and services                        6.6        9.6      13.7         2.5


STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
                                                   1983       1993     2002          2003      Growthof investmentand GDP (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                                                                                I
Agriculture                                                     8.3       5.7         5.2      100

Industry                                               ..      44.6      34.0        34.3
   Manufacturing                                                                                 0
Services                                               ..      47.1      60.3        60.5      -50
Privateconsumption                                             45.2      51.6        51.1     -100-
General government consumption                         ....    20.0      17.7        16.9                                                 I
Imports of goods and services                          ..      30.5      24.4        23.6                  -GDI            +GDP


                                                                                                                                          I
                                                1983-93 1993-03        2002          2003
(averageannualgrowth)                                                                                  of exports and imports (%)

Agriculture                                                     0.8       2.9         2.7
Industry                                                        1.4       3.8         8.5     30 -
   Manufacturing                                                                              20 -

Services                                                        1.7       5.5         7.1

Privateconsumption                                              2.1       8.7         7.8
General government consumption                                  0.8       2.6         2.2
Grossdomesticinvestment                                        -4.6      -2.2        13.5
Importsof goods and services                                    4.3      14.6        19.5

Note: 2003 data are preliminary estimates. Groupdata are for 2002.
"The diamonds show four key indicatorsin the country (in bold) comparedwith its income-groupaverage. If data are missing,the diamondwill
     ha inrnmnlmtn

                                                                                                Russian Federation

PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                                                                                                                I
                                        1983      1993    2002    2003
Domestic prices                                                            1 Inflation
(% change)                                                                  100

Consumerprices                             ..    874.6     15.8   13.7
ImplicitGDP deflator                       ..    887.8     15.7   14.2
Governmentfinance
(% of GDP,includes currentgrants)
Current revenue                            .,     38.6     37.9   37.2                 98     99     00        01    02
Current budget balance                             -4.1     2.5     4.6
Overall surplusldeficit                    ....    -8.7     0.0     2.1               -GDP         deflator ' O I C P I


TRADE                                                                                                                           I
                                        1983      1993    2002    2003
(US$ millions)                                                             1  Export and Import levels (US$ mill.)
Total exports (fob)                       ..    58,422  107,301 135,929
 Crude oil                                 ..   10,621   28,772 38,843     ~140.000
 Naturalgas                                ..   10,347   15,897  19,981      120 000 -
 Manufactures                              ..    3,100   10,900  12,800      100 000
Total imports (ci9                                       63,828 78,539       80 000
 Food                                                    10,300  12,100      60 000

 Fueland energy                                           1,000  1,300     1 40 000
                                                                             20000
 Capitalgoods                                            16,700 21,400             0

Export price index (1995=100)                               118    138                97   98     99     00    01

Importprice index (1995=100)                                126    117     I                   Exports           Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                                    94     118     I


BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                                                                                                                I
                                        1983      1993    2002    2003                                                   ~~~~



(US$ millions)                                                               Current account balanceto GDP (%)
Exportsof goods and services               ..   65,244  120,912 151,959     I20 -
Importsof goods and services               ..   58,110   84,463 102,558
Resourcebalance                            ..    7,134   36,449 49,401
Net income                                 ..    -4,459  -6,583 -13,171
Net currenttransfers                                       -750   -364
Currentaccount balance                     ..    2,675   29,116  35,868
Financingitems (net)                       ..      202  -16,450  -4,823
Changesin net reserves                     ..    -2,877 -12,666 -31,043     1-2    97   98     99     00     01     02        03I
Memo:
Reservesincludinggold (US$ millions)       ..     8,914  47,790  76,936
Conversionrate (DEC, /oca//US$)            ..       0.4    31.4    30.7

EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCEFLOWS
                                        1983      1993    2002    2003
(US$ millions)                                                               Composltlon of 2003 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstandingand disbursed                     149,362 167,746
  IBRD                                     .... 112,940
                                                    367   6,599   6,269
  IDA                                                 0       0       0                 G 21,000 A 6.28C 5,082

Total debt service                         ..    2,800   30,734  29,791
  IBRD                                               11     764    894
  IDA                                                0        0       0
Compositionof net resourceflows                                                                                      E 54900

  Official grants                          ..    2,497
  Officialcreditors                        ..     1,038  -4,075  -3,807
  Private creditors                                       1,291  20,500
  Foreigndirect investment                 ..     1,069     398  -2,408
  Portfolioequity                                    0    2,947  -5,045
World Bank program
  Commitments                              ..      700      608     320      A - IBRD                            E - Bilateral
  Disbursements                            ..      371      229    233        B IDA
                                                                                 ~       D - Other multilateral  F - Private
  Principalrepayments                                0      526    719        C IMF
                                                                                 -                               G -Short-term
  Net flows                                ..       371    -296   -486
  Interestpayments                                  11      238     175
  Net transfers                           ..       360    -535    -661

DeveloDmentEconomics




                                                          80

                                                                                        Annex 5
                                                                                        Page 1o f 5


Public InformationNotice (PIN) No. 04/112                                      International Monetary Fund

September 30,2004                                                               700 19th Street, NW
                                                                               Washington, D.C. 2043 1U S A


IMFConcludes2004 ArticleIVConsultationwith the RussianFederation
                                           I




 Public Information Notices (PINS)are issued, (i) the request o f a member country, following the
                                                        at
  conclusion o fthe Article 1V consultation for countries seeking to make known the views o f the IMFto
  the public. This action is intended to strengthen IMFsurveillance over the economic policies o f
  member countries by increasing the transparency o fthe IMF's assessment o f these policies; and (ii)
  following policy discussions inthe Executive Board at the decision o fthe Board. The staff report (use
  the free Adobe Acrobat Reader to view this p d f file) for the 2004 Article IV consultation with the
  Russian Federation is also available.
 .. . . .    . . . , , . , , I . , ". . .  ,.,,I ,I,  ,  . . .,, , , ,,,,
                                                                    .      ,  ,,"., , "  . . .
                                                                                            ,      , , , .. .

On September 1,2004, the Executive Board o f the International MonetaryFund(IMF)
concluded the Article IV consultation with the Russian Federati0n.l
Background
The macroeconomic environment continues to be favorable, with strong GDP
growth, moderate inflation and large current account and fiscal surpluses. The oil-driven
boom is, however, leading to growing macroeconomic tensions. While the near-term
outlook i s strong, based on current projections for oil prices, and external vulnerabilities
are generally low, recent nervousness inthe banking sector and uncertainty related to the
Yukos affair highlight the fragility o f confidence.
GDP growth roseto 7-7% percentin 2003 and the first half of 2004, and became
better balanced. The accelerationwas mainly due to higher investment, but also to
increased oil export volumes. Growth continued to depend heavily on the favorable
external environment, inparticular highoil prices, but recent increases ininvestment
were also relatedto political stability, generally sound macroeconomic policies, and
some structural reforms, suggesting that GDP is increasingly deriving strength from
domestic factors as well.
Macroeconomic tensions have increased, however, as growth has risen andthe
balance of payments strengthened. While headline inflation declined to 12percent at
end-2003 and further duringthe first half o f 2004, this was mainly due to administered
price restraint; core inflation has become entrenched at 10-11percent over the past two
years. Tightening labor markets have added to inflationary pressures. With inflation still
highrelative to competitors and the rublebroadly stable innominaleffective terms, the
pace o f real ruble appreciation has increased to nearly 10percent over the past year.
The balance of payments has strengthened further. Despite higher imports relatedto
rapid demand growth and real appreciation, the external current account surplus has
remainedat 8-9 percent o f GDP duringthe past two years, supportedby highworld
commodity prices. Meanwhile, net private capital outflows declined substantially in
2003, reflectinghigher corporate and banking sector borrowing as well as some reversal
of foreign currency substitution. Inthe first half o f 2004, net outflows increased, with
volatility reflectingperiodic uncertainty linkedto the Yukos affair, prospects for global
interest rates, and perceived changes inthe central bank's intervention and exchange rate
strategy. Nonetheless, reserves accumulation continued, even as the banking system was
hitbyturmoil inJuly.Gross internationalreserves stoodat about $88.5 billion(over
seven months o f imports) at end-July. Public external debt, net o f reserves, has fallen
close to zero, comparedwith $140 billion in 1998.
The Central Bank of Russia(CBR) has intervenedheavily to slow ruble
appreciation over the past 18 months. The interventions were largely unsterilized,

                                                                          Annex 5
                                                                          Page 2 o f 5

causing a surge inmoney growth during2003. Rapidbroadmoney growth, partly
reflecting conversiono f cash foreign currency holdings into ruble deposits, fuelled
growth incredit to the economy o f around 44 percent inthe year to June 2004.
The trend toward fiscal relaxation is continuing, notwithstanding some tightening
inthe 2004 budget. Despitehigheroilprices and strong economic growth, the general
government surplus increased by only % percent of GDP, to 1percent o f GDP, in2003.
This represents an underlying loosening o f the fiscal stance at constant oil prices o f
about 1percent o f GDP. The 2004 budget envisions a moderate tightening, to be
achieved through postponement o f non-interest expenditure increases, butplans for the
2005 budget suggest that this will be reversed, inresponse to growing pressures to spend
more o f the oil revenue windfall on tax cuts and expenditure reforms.
Progress on structuralreform has been limited. The two major reforms in 2003 relate
to the financial system. The law on foreign exchange regulationintroduced a far-
reaching liberalization of capital flows. It allows the imposition o f unremunerated
deposit requirements on capital flows, and the CBR decided to introduce such
requirements from August 2004. Additionally, legislation was passedto introduce
mandatory insurance o f household deposits.
Increased regulatory vigilance in recent months has triggered nervousnessinthe
privatebanking sector. The CBR has begun to assess applications bybanks for entry
into the deposit insurance system and has strengthened enforcement o f prudential
standards and Anti-Money LaunderingKombatingFinancing o f Terrorism (AMLKFT)
legislation. Confidence was shaken when the CBR withdrew the license o f a bank in
May 2004 for AMLKFT violations, leading to a liquidity squeeze and deposit runs at
some banks. Although the situation has since calmed down, reflecting prompt actions by
the CBR, confidence remains fragile.
Executive BoardAssessment
Directors commended the authorities' good management o f the economy, and the
strengthening o f GDP growth and the balance o fpayments, driven by highoil prices,
increasing oil export volumes, and strong domestic demand. They were pleased that
growth was becomingbroader based and better balanced, and that key social indicators
were improving. However, Directors advised that, with a buoyant economy, fiscal
policies should not be eased andmonetary policy should focus more on controlling
inflation than onresistingnominalappreciation. To maintain competitiveness and
diversify the economy, they also saw a needto invigorate the pace o f structural reforms.
Giventhe strong oil price outlook, and Russia's large international reserves and low
public debt, Directors expected that growth would remainrobust over the near term and
that external vulnerabilities would likely remainlow. They cautioned, however, that
further turmoil inthe banking system could damage confidence.
Directors commended the achievement o f a fiscal surplus inrecent years and the
establishment o f an oil stabilization fund. They cautioned, however, that fiscal policy
should not provide additional stimulusat this point inthe economic cycle, and viewed
the authorities' plans to relax fiscal policy in2005 as exacerbating pressures for real
ruble appreciation, arising from the exceptionally strong balance o f payments, and
increasing inflationary pressures. They recommendedincreasing the cap on the
collection o f windfall oil revenues inthe oil stabilization fundand considering the use o f
some revenues inthe fund to reduce debt. Directors recognized, however that, once
cyclical pressures eased, there could be a case for spendingmore on carefully elaborated
long-term fiscal structural reforms, includingonhealth care andpension reform, and on
public infrastructure. They welcomed the authorities' plans to restructure and monetize
the system o f in-kindbenefits, and tojudiciously reduce the social tax rate, accompanied
by any necessary measures to ensure achievement o f the broader fiscal objectives. They

                                                                          Annex 5
                                                                         Page 3 o f 5

concurred on the importance o f further development o f regional and local fiscal capacity.
Directors agreed that the central bank needed to clarify the two competing objectives o f
controlling inflation and managing the exchange rate. They highlightedtheir concern
over the emphasis on stemming real ruble appreciation, because, intheir view, monetary
policy could not target the real exchange rate, except inthe short run, and the efforts to
resist appreciation hadresultedininflationbecoming entrenched at a relatively high
level. Most Directors felt that the cost to the economy o f highinflationwas not
sufficiently recognized, while the cost o f ruble appreciation was exaggerated. They
urged the central bank to allow more nominal exchange rate flexibility, to facilitate a
reduction of interest spreads and discourage speculative capital inflows, and to take
advantage o f the disinflationary impact o f nominal appreciation. They also highlighted
the needto strengthen the independence o f the central bank.
Directors welcomed steps to liberalize the capital account. Most Directors saw
unremunerated deposit requirementsas, at best, a temporary measure to stem capital
inflows and advised the authorities to consider the experience o f other countries where
such requirementshave raisedthe cost o f capital, especially for small- and medium-sized
enterprises. It was felt that deposit requirementscould help limit large inflows o f volatile
short-term capital to weak banks. However, Directors took the view that deposit
requirements shouldbe temporary, reserved to deal with exceptionally large and volatile
inflows, and should not be used to stem sustained pressure for ruble appreciation.
Directors stressedthat recent turmoil inthe bankingsector demonstrated the urgency o f
strengtheningprudential supervision and crisis management tools, while pressing ahead
with closing unsoundbanks. They commended the central bank for taking prompt
actions to calm the situation, includinghalving reserve requirements and extending
interim household deposit insurance to all banks. However, they noted that extension o f
deposit insurance could increase moral hazard, and encouraged the central bank to be
unwavering inenforcing sound prudential standards. Directors urged the authorities to
give the central bank strongpolitical support and facilitate the development o fmore
effective instruments for further strengtheningbanking supervision and weeding out
problem banks. Inthis regard, Directors welcomed the prompt action by the Duma to
strengthen the bank bankruptcy law. They also encouraged further development o f a
private banking sector and stronger action to counter money laundering.
Directors notedthat the authorities' structural reform plans were well focused and
progress had beenmade in some areas, includingpension reform. However they thought
that these plans would benefit from more emphasis on specifics, as overall
implementation had slowed. They encouraged the authorities not to view highoil prices
and strong growth as grounds for complacency but, rather, as a uniqueopportunity to
carry out the structural reforms needed to sustain growth over the mediumterm. They
emphasized the importance o f diversifying the economy and reducing reliance on natural
resources, and inthis regard, welcomed the priority given to encouraging domestic and
foreign direct investment and improvingthe investment climate for small- and medium-
sized enterprises. They also supportedthe focus on public administration reform,
bankingreform, and housing reform, and underscoredthe benefits o f liberalizingtrade
and early WTO accession. They underscoredthe need to improve governance and the
rule o f law, and to resolve successfully the Yukos affair. They also emphasized the
importance of reformingthe energy sector, breaking up inefficient monopolies, and
improvinglabor market flexibility.
Directors welcomed the findings o frecently conducted Reports on the Observance o f
Standards and Codes modules on data and fiscal transparency, and the authorities'
decision to publishthese reports. They noted that Russia's statistical database i s mostly
adequate for surveillance and that dissemination practices meet most o f the Special Data

                                                                     Annex 5
                                                                    Page 4 of 5

Dissemination Standard requirements, and welcomed the authorities' intention to
subscribe to the SDDS. They also commended the progress made instrengthening fiscal
transparency and financial management.
              The RussianFederation: Selected Economic Indicators


                                         2001         2002        2003         2004

                                                                    Est.       Proj.




Production and prices                         (Annual percent change)

Real GDP                                   5.1          4.7          7.3        7.3

 Consumer prices

   Annual average                         21.5         15.8         13.7       10.3

    Endofperiod                           18.6         15.1         12.0       10.0

 GDP deflator                             16.5         15.7         14.2        12.9

 Public sector                                   (Inpercent ofGDP)

 General govemment overall
 balance"                                   2.7         0.6          1.1        3.1


    Revenue                               37.3         37.6         36.6       37.0

    Expenditure                           34.6         37.0         35.5       33.9

      Interest                              2.7         2.1           1.7        1.3

      Non-interest                        31.9         34.9         33.8        32.6

    Primary balance                         5.4         2.7          2.7        4.4

 Federal govemment overall
 balance"                                   2.7         1.3           1.5        3.0


 External sector-                             (Inbillions ofU.S. dollars)

 Total exports                             102          107          136        174

 Total imports                              54           61           75         96

 External current account (deficit -)       33           31           36         47

 Stock of public extemal debt              112          103           94         88

                                                                                      Annex 5
                                                                                      Page 5 o f 5

Gross reserves coverage (inmonths
o f imports o f GNFS)                                   5.0            5.6            7.1         7.6



Memorandumitems:

Nominal GDP (inbillions o f rubles)                  8,944        10,834          13,285       16,090

Exchange rate (rubles per U.S.
dollar, period average)                               29.2           31.3           30.7           ...

Russian oil price (U.S.dollars per
barrel, c.i.f.)                                       22.9           23.6           27.3         30.1



Sources: Russian authorities; and IMF staff estimates and projections.

1/ Commitment basis.


LUnder Article IV o f the IMF's Articles o f Agreement, the IMFholds bilateral discussions with
members, usually every year. A staff team visits the country, collects economic and financial
information, and discusses with officials the country's economic developments and policies. On
retum to headquarters, the staff prepares a report, which forms the basis for discussion by the
Executive Board. At the conclusion o f the discussion, the Managing Director, as Chairman o f the
Board, summarizes the views of Executive Directors, and this summary is transmittedto the country's
authorities. This PIN summarizes the views o f the Executive Board as expressed duringthe Executive
Board discussion based on the staff report.




                    Public Affairs: 202-623-7300 - Fax: 202-623-6278
                    IMFEXTERNALRELATIONSDEPARTMENT

                   Media Relations: 202-623-7100 - Fax: 202-623-6772

MAP SECTION


