Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4766 RU 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Kazan Municipal Development Loan) 
 
between  
 
RUSSIAN FEDERATION 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated June 3, 2005 
 
Page  2
P:\MODEL\LOAN\LA-SAL.DOC 
Page  3
LOAN NUMBER 4766 RU 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated June 3, 2005, between RUSSIAN FEDERATION (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received from the Borrower a letter dated February 
4, 2005, from Republic of Tatarstan a letter dated December 9, 2004, and  from the 
Mayor of the city of Kazan (the City) a letter dated December 13, 2004, describing a 
program of actions, objectives and policies to strengthen and reform the economy of the 
City (hereinafter called t
he Program), declaring the Borrower’s, Republic of Tatarstan’s 
and the  City’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance 
from the Bank in support of the Program during the execution thereof;   
 
(B) 
the Program shall be executed by the City with the Borrower’s and 
Republic of Tatarstan’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower shall 
make available the proceeds of the Loan to the City as provided in this Agreement; and 
 
(C) 
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has decided in support 
of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Loan as 
hereinafter provided; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through May 1, 2004), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
 
(a) 
Section 2.01, paragraph 18, is modified to read: 
 
“‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the Loan 
Agreement, in support of which the Loan is made.”; 
 
(b) 
Section 4.01 is modified to read: 
 
“Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be made in the currency of the 
deposit account specified in Section 2.02 of the Loan Agreement.”; 
Page  4
-
2
-
(c) 
Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
 
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Loan 
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of the Loan 
Agreement and of these General Conditions”; 
 
(d) 
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted; 
 
(e) 
Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read: 
 
“(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution 
of the program referred to in the Preamble to the Loan Agreement, the 
performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respective 
obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Loan.”;  and 
 
(f) 
Section 9.05 is deleted and Sections 9.06, 9.07 (as modified above), 9.08 
and 9.09 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08.  
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a) 
“Central Bank” means the Central Bank of the Borrower; 
 
(b) 
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
 
(c) 
“Grant Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section 3.01 of 
this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time;  
 
(d) 
“MOF”   means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance; and 
 
(e) 
“Rubles” means the national currency of the Borrower. 
 
Page  5
-
3
-
ARTICLE
 
II 
 
The Loan 
 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to one 
hundred twenty five million Dollars ($125,000,000). 
 
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the amount of $125,000,000 from the 
Loan Account in support of the Program. 
 
(b)  
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Bank the first request 
for withdrawal from the Loan Account, and thereafter maintain in its central bank or 
another bank acceptable to the Bank, a deposit account in Dollars on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank. All withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be 
deposited by the Bank into the Deposit Account. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the Loan 
shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (i) deposit into the Deposit Account an 
amount equal to the amount of said payment; or (ii) if the Bank shall so request, refund 
such amount to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be 
credited to the Loan Account for cancellation. 
 
(d) 
No withdrawals shall be made from the Loan Account: (i)
 
unless the 
Bank has received the payment of the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement; 
and (ii) after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account 
shall have reached the amount of $50,000,000, unless the Bank shall be satisfied, after an 
exchange of views as described in Section 3.03 of this Agreement based on evidence 
satisfactory to the Bank: 
 
(A) 
with the progress achieved by the Borrower and the City in the 
carrying out of the Program; 
 
(B) 
that the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower and 
the City is satisfactory, as measured on the basis of indicators 
agreed between the Borrower and the Bank; and 
 
(C) 
that the actions described in Schedules 3
 
to this Agreement have 
been taken. 
 
Page  6
-
4
-
If, after said exchange of views, the Bank is not so satisfied, the Bank may give notice to 
the Borrower to that effect and, if within 90 days after such notice, the Borrower or the 
City shall not have taken steps satisfactory to the Bank, in respect of (A), (B) , and (C) 
above, as the case may be, then the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the 
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan or any part thereof. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2006 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 
percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan, subject to any waiver of a portion of such fee as 
may be determined by the Bank from time to time.   
 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
 
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread. 
 
(b) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
 
(i) 
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date. 
 
(ii) 
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 
2.07 of this Agreement. 
 
(iii) 
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial 
Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date occurring on 
or next preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum. 
 
(iv) 
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the 
weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
Page  7
-
5
-
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank 
to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that 
include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum. 
 
(c) 
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR 
Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
 
(d) 
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section, the Bank determines that it 
is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said 
Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to 
the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower of the new basis. The 
basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower 
notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said 
modification shall not apply to the Loan. 
 
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Particular Covenants 
 
Section 3.01. (a) For the purposes of the Program implementation the Borrower 
shall make the equivalent of the proceeds of the Loan in local currency available to the 
City on a grant basis under the Grant Agreement to be entered into among the Borrower, 
represented by the MOF, the Republic of Tatarstan and the City, under terms and 
conditions acceptable to the Bank. 
 
(b)  
The Borrower shall, and shall cause the Republic of Tatarstan and the 
City, to exercise their rights under the Grant Agreement in such a manner as to protect 
the interests of the Borrower, the Bank, the Republic of Tatarstan and the City, and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Program, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
not to assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Grant Agreement or any provision thereof. 
 
Section 3.02. The Borrower, the Republic of Tatarstan and the City shall carry 
out the Program  in accordance with the provisions of the Grant Agreement with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative and financial 
practices, and provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Program. 
Page  8
-
6
-
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower, the City and the Bank shall from time to time, at 
the request of any of the three parties, exchange views on the progress achieved in 
carrying out the Program and the actions specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower and the City shall 
furnish to the Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in 
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower and the City shall exchange views with the Bank on any proposed action to 
be taken after the disbursement of the Loan which would have the effect of materially 
reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program including 
any action specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
have the Deposit Account and the entire flow of the Loan funds, until it 
reaches the City’s account in its Central Bank audited by independent auditors acceptable 
to the Bank  not later than four months after the disbursement of each Loan tranche; 
 
(b) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
one month after completion of such audit, a certified copy of the report of such audit, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and 
 
(c) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account, the Loan flow of funds and the audit thereof as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Additional Events of Suspension 
 
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
 
(a) 
The Borrower, the Republic of Tatarstan or the City shall have failed to 
perform any of its obligations under the Grant Agreement.  
 
(b) 
 A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, 
or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
 
Section 4.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any event specified in 
 
Page  9
-
7
-
Section 4.01 (a) of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty 
(60) days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Effective Date; Termination
 
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely, that the Grant Agreement has been executed among the 
Borrower, the Republic of Tatarstan and the City.  
 
Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that  the Grant Agreement has been duly 
authorized by the Borrower, the Republic of Tatarstan and the City and is legally binding 
upon the Borrower, the Republic of Tatarstan and the City in accordance with its terms. 
 
Section 5.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
of
the Russian Federation 
Ilyinka Street 9 
 
103097
Moscow 
 
Russian Federation 
 
Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
112008 
  (7-095) 
925-0889 
 
Page  10
-
8
-
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 248423 
(MCI) 
or  (202) 
477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the city of Moscow, Russian Federation, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
RUSSIAN  FEDERATION 
 
By /s/ Sergei Anatolievich Storchak 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Kristalina Georgieva 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  11
-
9
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Excluded Expenditures 
 
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Loan 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
 
1.  
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Borrower; 
 
2. 
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association 
shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the Association shall have 
financed or agreed to finance under another loan or a credit; 
 
3. 
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any 
successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the 
Bank by notice to the Borrower: 
 
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112                           
- 
 
Alcoholic beverages 
 
121                           
- 
 
Tobacco, unmanu- 
 
factured, tobacco 
 
refuse 
 
122                           
- 
 
Tobacco, manufactured  
 
(whether or not 
 
containing tobacco 
 
substitutes) 
 
525                           
- 
 
Radioactive and  
 
associated materials 
 
667 
- 
        
Pearls, precious and 
 
semiprecious 
 
stones, unworked 
 
or
worked 
Page  12
-
10
-
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
718                          
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and  
 
parts thereof; fuel  
 
elements (cartridges), 
 
non-irradiated, for 
 
nuclear reactors  
 
728 728.43 
 
Tobacco 
processing 
 
machinery  
 
897                          
897.3 
 
Jewelry of gold,  
 
silver or platinum 
 
group metals (except 
 
watches and watch 
 
cases) and 
 
goldsmiths’ or  
 
silversmiths’ 
 
wares (including  
 
set gems) 
 
971                          
- 
 
Gold, non-monetary 
 
(excluding gold 
 
ores and concentrates) 
 
4. 
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption; 
 
5. 
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this 
paragraph the term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, 
use or import of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party; 
 
6. 
expenditures on account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of 
goods, if such payment or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and 
 
7. 
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Bank determines that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a 
beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or execution of such contract, without the 
Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to remedy 
the situation. 
 
Page  13
-
11
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
Payment of Principal
 
Payment  Due
(Expressed in Dollars
)
On each May 15 and November 15 
 
beginning November 15,  2010   
 
 through 
November 
15, 
 
2021 
   5,210,000 
 
On 
May 
15, 
2022 
     5,170,000 
 
Page  14
-
12
-
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 (d) of this Agreement 
 
A. 
Budget and Financial Management Strengthening
1. 
Budget Planning and Execution
(a) 
The 2006 fiscal year budget with the concept and parameters satisfactory 
to the Bank has been approved by the City.  
 
(b) 
 The City has demonstrated that there are no new overdue payables of the 
City budget and budgetary institutions from end-2004 to end 2005.  
 
2. Municipal 
Treasury
The City has demonstrated that a viable system of Treasury-execution of the  
municipal budget has been established based on a single account concept for budgetary 
funds, and funds are channeled solely through the Borrower’s Central Bank. 
 
B. 
Social Protection System
1. 
Implementation Capacity for Social Protection Programs
The City has demonstrated improvements, satisfactory to the Bank, in the 
implementation capacity for social protection programs. 
 
2. Transparency
The City has demonstrated that: 
 
(a)   
payment of monetized social and housing and communal service benefits 
using individual accounts has been introduced and is under implementation; and 
 
(b)  
sufficient resources in the form of subvention from the Republic of 
Tatarstan have been allocated in the 2006 City budget for payment of monetized benefit. 
 
3. Social 
Assistance 
Targeting
The targeted poverty benefit has been successfully implemented, and the 2006 
City budget allocates not less than 75 million Rubles for the City’s own social protection 
expenditures for its financing, and social contract practice is utilized. 
 
Page  15
-
13
-
C. 
Housing and Communal Services Strengthening
1. 
 Financial Conditions of the Sector
The City has demonstrated satisfactory improvements in the housing and 
communal sector. 
 
2. Governance
The City’s water and wastewater facilities are managed by a competitively 
selected private operator. 
 
