Page  1
 
 
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB400 
Project Name 
KAZAN MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT 
Region 
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA 
Sector 
Sub-national government administration (100%) 
Project ID 
P082018 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF RUSSIA 
Implementing Agency 
Direction for Extrabudgetary Programs of Municipal Development 
Bolshaia Krasnaia Str. 28/8 
Kazan 
Russian Federation 
420111 
Tel: (8432) 38-53-23 
Fax: (8432) 38-53-07 
invest@u-net.ru 
Environment Category 
[ ] A   [ ] B   [X] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Safeguard Classification 
[ ] S
1
   [ ] S
2
  [X ] S
3
   [ ] S
F
   [ ] TBD (to be determined)
 
Date PID Prepared 
October 15, 2003 
Estimated Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
March 24, 2004 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
October 26, 2004 
 
 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
The City of Kazan (Republic of Tatarstan, RoT) faces a wide spectrum of developmental challenges, many of which 
are typical for municipalities in Russia in general, and some of which are unique to Kazan.  Of note among the more 
typical challenges are: (i) relatively low incomes compared to the costs of provision of basic services; (ii) the 
corresponding need for high levels of subsidization, which in turn encourages over-consumption of services, 
particularly in the housing and communal services sector (HCS); (iii) inefficient budget management practices; (iv) 
poorly developed land and housing markets; and (v) the structural dominance of large industrial enterprises in the 
economy and limited development of the SME sector. 
 
The unique aspects of Kazan’s developmental challenge derive from the peculiarities of the legal system that 
prevails in RoT and that has some points of inconsistency with Russian Federal law.  The administrations of RoT 
and the city of Kazan recognize that the prevailing state of affairs has hindered the development of democratic 
processes in the city and the emergence of civil society, and are committed to remedying this through a number of 
steps aimed at bringing Kazan into the mainstream of social, economic and political reforms as they are being 
implemented in Russia.  In April 2003, the Kazan City Council approved a Strategic Plan that outlines a 
development vision for the period to 2015.  A city charter is under preparation, and the first elections for the mayor 
of Kazan are planned for 2005.  A significant recent development in this area that will require close monitoring is 
the passage by the Duma (but not yet by the Federation Council) of the law on “General Principles of Organization 
of Local Self-Government in the RF” that is presently scheduled enter into effect in 2006. 
 
The City of Kazan has articulated a series of reforms to be carried out in the period 2003-2006 as the first step 
towards achieving the long-term developmental goals of its Strategic Plan.  The fundamental goals of these reforms 
is to re-define the identity and function of the local government and in this process, to open up new opportunities for 
the development of the city’s economy (in particular, the private small and medium enterprise sector) while ensuring 
a strong focus on social protection of the needy.  The city has identified the following areas as priorities for this 
initial period: normalization of the city’s legal status and introduction of democratically elected city government; 
institutional reforms of the housing and communal services sphere with renovation of the physical stock as required 
to facilitate the institutional reforms; strengthening of the existing social protection system; reform of the system of 
municipal asset management, including municipal unitary enterprises (notably utilities) and land markets. 
 
Page  2
 
 
Following are key aspects of the rationale for Bank involvement in supporting the proposed project: 
\01\02
the Government of Russia has requested Bank support as a matter of priority; 
\01\02
Kazan is noteworthy among Russian municipalities for its participation in two other World Bank projects: 
Housing (closed), and Municipal Heating (active).  In addition, Kazan is one of a small number of Russian cities 
participating in an experiment to test a new modality of relations between consumers and providers of housing and 
communal services and to improve the targeting of social protection.  These factors make Kazan attractive as a 
demonstration site; 
\01\02
the proposed project has strong linkages to national reform programs in areas identified as priorities by GoR 
and supported by the Bank, notably the reform of the HCS sector, housing markets and subnational fiscal reform.  
The Bank also brings valuable experience from the St. Petersburg Economic Development project.  Policy 
consistency of the proposed project in support of reforms in Kazan will be assured through close cooperation with 
the Bank teams responsible for the policy dialogue in these areas. 
 
2. Proposed 
objective(s) 
 
The project beneficiaries broadly defined are the population of the city of Kazan, as the entire city will be impacted 
through structural changes in budget expenditures.  More directly, target beneficiary groups will include: (i) the 
majority of the population that lives in multi-unit, municipal-owned dwellings; (ii) individuals and small firms that 
are or will become engaged in the market for HCS services; and (iii) recipients of social protection and social 
housing.   
 
The project development objectives are to: 
\01\02
support reforms that will result in significant structural changes to budget expenditures and improved 
municipal asset management, allowing the local government to re-orient resources to social and economic 
development; 
\01\02
specifically, reduce the high burden on the municipal budget of maintaining the housing stock and communal 
infrastructure and across-the-board subsidization of the consumption of utility services; 
\01\02
strengthen the local systems for delivery of social protection to needy members of the population; 
\01\02
support the development of a private market for housing maintenance services. 
 
 
 
3. Preliminary 
description 
 
Under the broad framework of support to municipal development and improved city management, it is envisioned 
that the operation will support multi-year reform programs in the following areas, which overlap in significant ways: 
 
(i) housing and communal services sector 
 
(ii) public expenditure management 
 
(iii) asset management 
 
(iv) social protection 
 
The lending instrument proposed for this operation is a subnational programmatic adjustment loan.   
 
4. 
Safeguard policies that might apply 
 
From a preliminary review, the assessment is that no safeguard policies apply.  A social impact 
analysis will be carried out in the context of project preparation. 
 
5. Tentative 
financing 
Source: 
($m.) 
Page  3
 
 
BORROWER 
60 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
60 
 
Total 120 
 
6. Contact 
point 
Contact: Michael Haney 
Title: Senior Energy Specialist 
Tel: (202) 473-3680 
Fax: (202) 614-1582 
Email: mhaney@worldbank.org
 
