                                       Documentof
                                    The WorldBank




                                                      ReportNo.: 42709




                  PROJECTPERFORMANCEASSESSMENTREPORT




                              THERUSSIANFEDERATION



                     KAZAN MUNICIPALDEVELOPMENTLOAN

                                     (LOAN4766-RU)



                                       March3,2008




Sector, Thematic and Global Evaluations
Independent Evaluation Group (Korld Bank)

                        CurrencyEquivalents(annualaverages)

Currency Unit =RussianRuble RUB      -
2003                      US$1.oo
                          US$l.OO                 RUB30.69
2004                                              RUB28.81
2005                      US$l.OO                 RUB28.28
2006                      US$1.oo                 RUB27.19
2007                      US$l.OO                 RUB25.73*
* Midyear value

AbbreviationsandAcronyms

CA           Cities Alliance
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
CPS          Country Partnership Strategy
CUE          Communal Unitary Enterprise
EBRD         European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
HOA          Homeowners Association
HCS          Housing and Communal Services
ICR          ImplementationCompletion Report
IEG          Independent Evaluation Group
IEGWB        IndependentEvaluation Group (World Bank)
KDS-2015     KazanDevelopment Strategy upto the year 2015
KMDL         KazanMunicipalDevelopmentLoan(Ln4766)
LA           LoanAgreement
MOE          MinistryofEconomy(of RF)
MOF          MinistryofFinance(ifRF)
MORD         MinistryofRegionalDevelopment (of RF)
O&M          Operations and Maintenance
PD           ProgramDocument
PIU          Project ImplementationUnit
PPAR         ProjectPerformance Assessment Report
PSAL         Programmatic Structural Adjustment Loan
RFTAP        (Russia) RegionalFiscal TechnicalAssistance Project (Ln.4528)
RF           Russian Federation
RT           Republic of Tatarstan
SIL          Specific Investment Loan
UCLG         UnitedCities and LocalGovernments



FiscalYear

Government:                January 1-December31




Director-General, Independent Evaluation                   : Mr.VinodThomas
Director, IndependentEvaluation Group (World Bank)         : Ms.CherylGray
Manager, Sector, Thematic and Global Evaluations           : Ms.SoniyaCarvalho (Acting)
Task Manager                                               : Mr.RoyGilbert

                                                              i

                                                                                                                      I
                                       ~~~    ~~




I   W     B Mission: Enhancingdevelopmenteffectivenessthroughexcellenceand independencein evaluation.


 About this Report
        The IndependentEvaluationGroup assessesthe programsand activities of the World Bank for two purposes:
 first, to ensure the integrityof the Bank'sself-evaluation processand to verify that the Bank's work is producingthe
 expected results, and second, to helpdevelop improveddirections, policies,and proceduresthrough the
 disseminationof lessonsdrawnfrom experience. As part of this work, IEGWBannually assesses about 25 percent of
 the Bank's lendingoperationsthroughfieldwork. Inselectingoperationsfor assessment, preferenceis given to those
 that are innovative, large, or complex; those that are relevantto upcomingstudies or country evaluations;those for
 which ExecutiveDirectorsor Bank managementhaverequestedassessments;and thosethat are likelyto generate
 importantlessons.
        To preparea ProjectPerformanceAssessment Report (PPAR), IEGWB staff examine projectfiles and other
 documents, interviewoperationalstaff, visit the borrowing countryto discussthe operationwith the government,
 and other in-countrystakeholders,and interviewBankstaff and other donor agency staff both at headquartersand
 in localoffices as appropriate.
        Each PPAR is subjectto internalIEGWB peer review, Panel review, and management approval. Once cleared
 internally, the PPAR is commented on by the responsibleBank department. IEGWB incorporatesthe comments as
 relevant. The completed PPAR is then sent to the borrower for review;the borrowers'comments are attached to
 the document that is sent to the Bank's Board of ExecutiveDirectors.After an assessmentreport has been sent to
 the Board, it is disclosedto the public.

 About the IEGWB Rating System
        IEGWB's use of multipleevaluationmethods offers both rigor and a necessary levelof flexibility to adapt to
 lending instrument,projectdesign, or sectoralapproach. IEGWBevaluatorsall apply the same basic methodto
 arriveat their project ratings. Followingis the definitionand ratingscale usedfor each evaluationcriterion
 (additionalinformationis availableon the IEGWBwebsite: http://worldbank.org/ieg).
        Outcome: The extent to which the operation's major relevantobjectiveswere achieved, or are expected to
 be achieved, efficiently.The ratinghas three dimensions: relevance,efficacy,and efficiency.Relevanceincludes
 relevance of objectivesand relevanceof design. Relevanceof objectivesis the extentto which the project's
 objectivesare consistentwith the country's current development prioritiesand with currentBank countryand
 sectoralassistancestrategies and corporategoals (expressedin Poverty ReductionStrategy Papers,Country
 AssistanceStrategies,Sector Strategy Papers,OperationalPolicies). Relevanceof designis the extentto which
 the project's designis consistentwith the statedobjectives.Efficacyis the extent to which the project's objectives
 were achieved, or are expectedto be achieved, taking intoaccounttheir relativeimportance.Efficiencyis the
 extent to which the projectachieved,or is expected to achieve,a return higherthan the opportunitycost of capital
 and benefitsat leastcost comparedto alternatives.The efficiencydimension generally is not appliedto adjustment
 operations. Possibleratingsfor Outcome: Highly satisfactory,Satisfactory,ModeratelySatisfactory,Moderately
 Unsatisfactory,Unsatisfactory,HighlyUnsatisfactory.
       Risk to Development Outcome: The risk, at the time of evaluation, that development outcomes (or
 expected outcomes)will not be maintained(or realized).Possibleratings for Risk to DevelopmentOutcome: High
 Significant, Moderate, Negligibleto Low, Not Evaluable.
       BankPerformance: The extentto which services providedby the Bank ensuredqualityat entry of the
 operationand supported effective implementationthrough appropriatesupervision (includingensuringadequate
 transitionarrangements for regularoperationof supported activities after loanlcreditclosing, towardthe
 achievement of development outcomes.The rating has two dimensions: quality at entry and quality of supervision.
 Possibleratingsfor Bank Performance: Highly Satisfactory,Satisfactory,ModeratelySatisfactory,Moderately
 Unsatisfactory,Unsatisfactory,Highly Unsatisfactory.
       BorrowerPerformance: The extent to which the borrower (includingthe governmentand implementing
 agency or agencies)ensuredquality of preparationand implementation, and compliedwith covenantsand
 agreements, toward the achievementof development outcomes. The rating has two dimensions:government
 performance and implementingagency(ies)performance. Possibleratingsfor BorrowerPerformance: Highly
 Satisfactory,Satisfactory,ModeratelySatisfactory,ModeratelyUnsatisfactory,Unsatisfactory,Highly
 Unsatisfactory.


                                                                         ...
                                                                         111



Contents

PRINCIPALRATINGS               .....................................................................................................................            V


KEYSTAFF RESPONSIBLE                      ..........................................................................................................            V


PREFACE     ......................................................................................................................................             vi1


SUMMARY     ......................................................................................................................................             IX


1 .     BACKGROUNDAND CONTEXT                                 .......................................................................................           1


2 .     OBJECTIVESAND DESIGN                           ..............................................................................................           1

3.      IMPLEMENTATIONAND COSTS                                 .....................................................................................           3


4 .     MONITORINGAND EVALUATION                                  ...................................................................................           5


5.      PROJECTOUTCOMES BY OBJECTIVE                                         ..........................................................................         6

            StrongerMunicipalBudget and Financial Management                                                                                                    6
            Targeted Social Protection               ........................................................................................................
                                                                                                   ............................................................
            BetterHousing and Communal Services...................................................................................                              7

            UnanticipatedResultsof KMDL.................................................................................................                        8
                                                                                                                                                                9


6.      BROADERFINDINGS OF THIS EVALUATION                                              ................................................................        9


7.      RATINGS        ..........................................................................................................................              10


8.      LESSONS         .........................................................................................................................              10


ANNEX A    .BASIC      DATA SHEET               ..................................................................................................             13


ANNEX B    .TRANCHE           RELEASECONDITIONS                           ..........................................................................           15




This reportwas preparedby Roy Gilbert. who assessedthe projectinSeptember2007 RomaynePereira                                    .
                               ~~~




providedadministrative support.


                                                    V



PrincipalRatings
                                          ICR*               ICR Review*                      PPAR

Outcome                          Satisfactory            Satisfactory            HighlySatisfactory
Risk to                           Moderate                Moderate                       Low
Development
Outcome
Bank                             Satisfactory            Satisfactory                Satisfactory
Performance
Borrower                         Satisfactory            Satisfactory            HighlySatisfactory
Performance
*ICR ImplementationCompletionReport(ICR) is a self-evaluationby the responsibleBank department.The
  TheReviewis   an intermediateIEGWB productthat seeks to independentlyverify the findings of the ICR.
**ASof July 1, 2006, InstitutionalDevelopmentImpactis assessedas partof the Outcome rating.
***As of July 1,2006, Sustainabilityhas been replacedby Risk to DevelopmentOutcome. As the scales are
different, the ratings are not directly comparable.

Key StaffResponsible
Project               TaskManager/Leader             Division Chief/            CountryDirector
                                                     Sector Director
Appraisal              Andrei Darunsenkov           Sumter Lee Travers         KristalinaGeorgieva
Completion               Gevorg Sargsyan            Sumter LeeTravers              Klaus Rohland


                                              vii


Preface

Thisi s a ProjectPerformanceAssessment Report (PPAR) for the RussianFederation:
KazanMunicipalDevelopmentLoan(Ln.4766), for which the World Bank approved a
loaninan amount o f US$125 million on February 24,2005. The loanwas closed on
December 31,2006 as planned, when it was hlly disbursed.

Beyond informing about the performance o fthe operation itself, withpotentially
important lessons, IEG's assessmentwill provide inputs into IEG's ongoing special study
of the Bank's support for municipaldevelopment.

The report is basedon a review o fproject documents, includingthe Implementation
CompletionReport, the ProgramDocument, andthe Memorandumto the President, legal
documents andproject files, as well as discussions heldwith Bank staff involvedinthe
project. An IEGmissionvisitedKazan, Russia inSeptember 2007 to review project
results andmet with officials o fthe Municipality o f Kazan,the Tatarstan Republic and
project beneficiaries (during field visits). IEGgratefblly acknowledges the courtesies and
attention freely given by these interlocutors inKazan.

Following standard IEGprocedures, copies o f the draft PPARwas sent to government
officials and agencies for their review and comments but nonewere received.


                                                i x


 Summary
Kazan's 1005-2005 millenniumwas the occasion o f the Bank financed KazanMunicipal
Development Loan (KMDL),designed to help buildup a newly created municipal
administrationo f an ancient city, now animportant industrialand educational center with
 1.1millioninhabitants located some 800kms east ofMoscow. Developing the
municipality o fKazaninvolved fiscal and administrativedecentralization to the city and
the normalizationo f the hitherto special relations between the RussianFederation (RF)
andthe Autonomous Republic o fTatarstan (RT, o fwhich Kazanis capital). The start o f
the life o f the municipality-inheriting   RT debts andwithRFfundingdryingup-was
not auspicious.
KDML'sobjectives supported the aims ofallparties to theproject andwere highly
relevant to priorities at all levels, including the RF/Bank2006 Country Partnership
Strategy (CPS) focus upon knowledge sharing and assistance at the subnational level
particularly. Project objectives were to: (i) improve Kazan's financial management; (ii)
deliver social services better; and (iii) improve the condition o f housingand communal
services (HCS). The design o fthis programmatic sector loan (PSL) was very simple, but
based upon a deep understanding o fKazan's complex institutionalcontext. KMDL
disbursed US$125 million intwo tranches to RFwho passedthe funds on to the city
through RT as grant. Tranches were released promptly as Kazanmet financial planning
andcontrol conditions, andstarted cashpayments to eligible andtargeted beneficiaries o f
city social protectionprograms.
Implementationwas quick and efficient. A special Project ImplementationUnit (PIU)
under the authority o fthe municipality o fKazan, and not foreseen at appraisal, oversaw
progress. It complemented the embryonic municipal departments that enjoyed highlevel
support locally andbenefited fiom fiequent and effective Bank supervisioninputs.
Monitoring and Evaluation(M&E) was well designed and effectively implemented at
three levels: oversight o f the funding o fKazan's spending programs, meetingthe agreed
tranche conditions, andmeasuring the achievement o fKMDL's objectives through the 23
outcome andoutput indicators mappedout at appraisal.
All three KMDLobjectives were achieved, two highlyso andone substantially, andthere
were positive unanticipated results inprocurement and asset management.
Efficacy instrengthening and improvingKazan's financial management was high. The
municipality turned a current deficit into a small surplus. Outstanding payables, a major
problem at the outset, were substantially reduced. Skilled local teams made municipal
finances more transparent, especially through unifyingcity accounts. Intensive
supervision by the Bank provideddefacto technical assistance to help local authorities
with these tasks.
Efficacy indeliveringbetter andtargeted social services was also high. KMDLhelped
Kazan shift to cashpayments to eligible low-income individuals and families. These were
more efficient andbetter targeted thanthe in-kindsubsidies commonly usedbefore. The
new system also brought fiscal savings to the municipality. Two thirds o f KMDLfunding
was used for urgent repairs to abandoned andderelict schools andhealthcenters, bringing
themback into full use.

                                               A




Efficacy inimprovingHCS was substantial. With KMDLsupport, the municipality
encouraged the formation o f an additional200 Homeowners' Associations (HOA) on top
o fthe 80 that existed already, to address common housing issues especially inestates o f
privately owned apartments. Kazan also ensured that 100percent o f all housing-up
from 50percent previously-was         served byprivate service providers, through issuing
competitive tenders for this work in60 areas covering the entire city. IEGmet with
representatives o f eight firms, all reportingtheir businessesto beprofitable. The
arrangement also gave the municipality an annual saving o f US$15 millionequivalent in
direct maintenance expenses. The optimistic expectation o fprivatizing the municipal
water utility, Vodakanal was deferred over concerns about the possiblepoor quality o f
bids for its undervalued assets. Instead, andwiththe agreement o fthe Bank, EBRD
financed aproject to strengthen the management andoperation o fthe existing agency. As
a result, K M D L ' s privatization tranche conditionrequirement was waived.
KMDLalso producedsome other positiveresults not foreseen at appraisal. The city
voluntarily applied Bank procurement principles widely as it cut back its sole source
procurement to only 25 percent o fthe total (down from 55 percent before the project).
Withhelp providedduringBank supervision, Kazanconsiderably improvedits asset
management, divesting some unnecessary inventory. Also, the federal government i s
proposing further study and dissemination o fthis experience which it increasingly
recognizes to be best practice.
Among the broader findings arisingout o f this evaluation:
        Higher-level recognition of outstanding local experience: Decentralizationis two-
        way. Local governments benefit from the transfer o fpower andresponsibilities.
        Higher level governments andthe Bank gain through learning from good local
         experiences. For bottom-up learningto succeed, the Bankand Borrowers need
         always to be on the lookout for nuggets o f localknowledge and experience.
        Dissemination of best citypractice: Itis important that program design at the
        broader sectoral level incorporate instruments for sharing results and for
         replicatingthem elsewhere, as well as to scale up.
Given full achievement of all objectives with few shortcomings, and even over-
achievement o f some, as well as some additionalpositive unanticipatedresults, the
overall outcome o fthe project i s rated as highly satisfactory. Efficacy andefficiency
were high, as was the relevance o f the objectives to the fiscal and subnational
development priorities amongthe three levels o f government inRussiaandwithin the
Bankitself. The Riskto DevelopmentOutcome isratedlow, since the now decentralized
and autonomous municipality o f Kazanhas every incentive to continue reforms andto do
so on its own, since fiscal support from higher levels i s no longer forthcoming. Bank
Performance was satisfactory, through good design work andclose attentionto Program
implementation through intense-if        underreported-supervision  that became defacto
technical assistance. Borrower performance i s ratedhighly satisfactory particularly
through the strong leadership o fthe local authorities andthe outstanding work done by
municipal officials, particularly o f the PIU, andKazan's Financeand Social Protection
departments.

                                             xi


The experience ofthis project reinforces the following IEGlessons:
      Once-off grant hdingat the subnational level canbe used to compensate
      municipalities for the larger lossesthey may incur through reduced fiscal
      transfers. As long as the cost o f the grant funding to the higher level government
      i s below that o f the transfers it made before, the net fiscal effect o fthe subsidy for
      the country or regionwill be positive.
      To strengthen city management intransition economies, bringingyounger and
      innovative staffonboard as well as deploying experienced and traditional staff,
      can help form the dynamic localteams and leadership needed.
      Intense andfrequent project supervision mostly from a localBank office canbe
      low cost and efficient. Fullyreportingthese Bank supervision activities, however,
      apart from being a procedural requirement, is essential ifothers are to learnhow
      results were achieved andhow to replicatethem.
      Best practice at the municipal level shouldbe seen as anopportunityto assist
      higher level governments implement reforms andfor cities themselves to
      exchange experiences among each other. A best practice city's readiness and
      willingness to openly share these experiences i s a necessary condition for
      effective dissemination and learning.
      A city's single celebratory event, with the municipalprideit engenders, can be
      usedby the Bank and Borrower as an opportunity to start reform. The special
      occasion can also serve as a pretext for exceptional grant financing, without
      underminingmedium term financial reform. InKazanthe occasion was the city
      millennium. Inother cities, it couldbe hosting a major trade, sporting or cultural
      event.




                                                                   Vinod Thomas
                                                                  Director-General
                                                                     Evaluation


                                                1


 1. Backgroundand Context

 1.1     An ancient city celebrating its 1005-2005 millennium, yet anew municipality
 created only inSeptember 2004 to bringit inline with other Russiancities, Kazanwas
 poisedfor to assumeresponsibilitiesfor service provisionthat hadrestedwith higher
 level authorities. Locatedinan oil richregionsome 800 k m s east o fMoscow, this 1.1
 millionpopulationcity is Russia's eighth largest, andanimportant industrial and
 educational center. With 23 percent of its inhabitants livingbelow the poverty line,
 Kazan's socio-economic indicators are similar to Russia's as a whole. The city's physical
 layout is well planned. At its center lies a historic kremlin (fortress) recognizedby
UNESCOas aworld heritage site. As capital o ftheAutonomous Republic o fTatarstan
 (RT) Kazanreceived considerable RFsupport markingits important anniversary,
including financing for a new metro mass transit system andlarge housingprojects. The
Bank-financedKazanMunicipal Development Loan (KMDL)reviewed here, that RF
passedon to Kazanthrough RT as a grant, was part o fthis package. President Putin
himselfindicatedthat KMDLwas a top priority, a position sharedbythe Bank, as
indicatedby the visit o fthe Bank's Managing Director's to Kazanshortly after the
appraisal o fthis operation.

 1.2     The municipal emancipation o f Kazanwas not auspicious. With it came cuts in
RFfbndingofthe order o fUS$125 millionequivalent per annum, coincidentally or not
the same value o fKMDLitself. The new municipality also inherited large short term
debts andpayables, typically unpaid RTpromissorynotes to banks to help pay overdue
local salaries when budget funds were short. Still, with RT help, Kazan's first job as
municipality was to prepare a strategic planentitledthe Kazan Development Strategy up
to the Year 2015 (KDS-2015). It aimedto improve access to municipal services, mitigate
the effects ofpovertythroughtargeted social assistance, increase investment and
economic development, create a favorable business environment, and strengthen
institutions o f local government, includingthe budget-all     aims that KMDLcould and
didsupport.

2.       Objectives andDesign

2.1     Apart from supportingKazancity's own strategy, KMDL's objectives (Box 1)
were andremain highi'y relevant to the priorities o fthe RF and RT governments too. For
Kazan itself, KDMLwas crucial inhelping implement KDS-2015, the main strategic
instrument for launchingthe ancient city as a newly created autonomous municipality.
The Programhelpedbyproviding support to three priority areas-finance,           social
protection and HCS-that      hadtraditionallybe managedby higher level authorities under
significant fiscal stress. Prior to KDML,Kazanwas an administrativedivision o fRT.The
city's baseline o f activities inthese areaswas therefore stark-namely      one o fzero
experience. KDMLwas thus poised as midwife, attending the birtho fKazan's first
municipal services. For bothRFand RT, KDMLpromisedto lessen fbture fiscal
dependenceby one o fthe country's most important cities that hadnever been self
governing untilthe project. Built from scratch, Kazan's financial management still needs

                                                                 2


 further strengthening today, an aim that remains relevant especially with current policy
 emphasis upon development at the subnational level inRussia. The inevitable social fall-
 out, still felt, from the transition to a market economyplaced a premium uponthe
 improved social services andmade KMDL's promiseinthat areaparticularly relevant for
 a city where 300,000 people felt entitledto some kindo f support. Kazan's dilapidated
 housingandworn out infrastructure would also benefit from the urgent repair and
 maintenance proposed, ina reformed fashion, by the Loan. For the Bank itself, KMDL's
 objectives were highlyrelevant to its efforts, expressed inboththe 2002 Country
 Assistance Strategy (CAS) andthe 2006 Country Partnership Strategy (CPS), to help
 reform local administration, develop effective social services and Housing and
 Communal Services (HCS) that typically laggedbehind Russia's economic growth. With
 its emphasis upon institutionalreform and strengthening at the local level, KMDLi s
 particularly relevant today to the 2006 CPS's priority for knowledgesharing as an area o f
 Bank:RFcooperation, especially insupport ofdevelopment at the subnational level.


I Box 1:      Kazan Municipal DevelopmentLoan design summary               -
I                        Objectives                            I                     Components                        II
 a) To improvebudgetaryand financial                            (i) Budgetand FinancialManagementStrengthening
 management                                                     (incl. Budgetplanningand executionsatisfactoryto the
                                                                Bankwith no new payablesfrom 2004 on; municipal
                                                                treasury with single accountconceptof budget)

 b)To improvethe deliveryof socialservices by                   (ii) Social ProtectionSystem (incl. more efficient
 strengtheningsocial protection                                 implementationcapacityfor social protectionprograms,
                                                                greatertransparencyand targetingthrough introduction
                                                                of individualaccounts; Socialassistancetargeting,with
                                                                provision of adequate resources (>74 millionrubles)

 c) To improvethe conditionof housingand                        (iii) Housingand Community ServicesStrengthening
 Communalservices (HCS)-defined inthe Program                   (incl. (better) Financialconditionsof the sector; and
  Document as: "an arrayofmunicipal services: provisionof state governance: involvingcompetitivemanagement,such
 owned housing, buildingmanagementof state and privately
1owned apartmentdwellings,water and waste-water provision,      as privatizationof Vodakanal).
 and district heating." (PD p. 24)
1                                                              I                                                       I
  Sources: ProgramDocumentandLoanAgreement                                                                             I

 2.2         The simple design o f KMDLwas highly relevant for achievingthese objectives. It
 hadthe right instruments for thejob inhand.The arrangement withRF as Borrower that
 passed on the loanproceeds as grant to the City o f Kazanvia RTworked smoothly. AAer
 all, there were just two loandisbursements-of US$50millionandUS$75 million-
 made against the city's fulfillment o f agreedconditions (details inAnnex C). First
 tranche conditions requiredKazanto tighten the municipaltreasury and debt
 management, while second tranche conditions added financial planningrequirements.
 KDML'schoice offocusinguponfinance, socialprotectionandHCSwas appropriate to
 the challenges that the city faced. With an annual budget o f the order o f US$400 million
 equivalent, the city simply could not get bywithout sound financial management, even if
 it managedto resolvethe short-term debt problemsthat it inherited. With 300,000 people

                                               3


inacity o f 1.1millionfeeling entitledto some social support, the newmunicipal
administrationwould become a lightningrod for social protectionclaims and requireda
robust and fair system for providing social protection to the city's poor. Finally, KDML
was able to capitalize upon the reform-friendly environment for HCS inKazan, bringing
the existing momentum at the RT level for privatizing O&M to the level o fthe new
municipality. The simplicity o f design was the more remarkable given the complexity o f
thejudicial, fiscal andpolitical status o fthe new municipality o fKazan. Bank staff from
the Moscow office especially came to understand this well duringpreparationthanks to
an intensivedialogue with reform-mindedexperts inRT. The grant fbnding mode was
obviously attractive to Kazan. It was offered to the city to help offset (greater) losses o f
RF fiscal transfers foregone, servingalso as a "birthday present" for Kazan, as the city
celebrated its millennium. Being a programmatic structural adjustment loan (PSAL)
meant that disbursements were not tied to specific expenditures as they would have been
for a specific investment loan (SIL), considerably simplifying reporting requirements. In
the words o fthe program document (PD p.46), the design o fKMDLsuccesshlly
mimicked, at the municipal level, ongoing RFreformprograms at the national level
supported by the Bank and others.

3.      Implementationand Costs

3.1     On-time loan effectiveness inJuly 2005, just four months after the Loanwas
approved by the Board o f Directors, ensured the timely release o fthe first tranche o f
US$50 million inAugust 2005. For this, Kazanprepared a 2005-07 financial plan, made
budgetprovisions to cover payables andsocial assistance expenditures, andobtainedcity
council approval o f a reform-minded HCS plan. The second tranche o fUS$75 millionin
December 2006 came some nine months late. Although Kazanhadmet most release
conditions-no    new overdue payables, tight control o fthe municipal treasury and cash
payments to eligible recipients o f social assistance-privatizing  the operation o f the
municipalwater and sanitation utility Vodakanal made little progress. With the European
Bankfor Reconstruction andDevelopment's (EBRD) mid-2006 approvalo fanew
project to strengthen Vodakanal'smanagement andinvestments, the Bank agreed to
waive the privatizationcondition-a    wise move given that bargainbasement acquisition
o f an agency whose assets had still to berevaluedmightnot have led to a bonajide
acquisition. Inhindsight, the privatization aim at appraisal hadbeenundulyambitious,
something that the Bank recognized aptly and intime through this, the only waiver o f the
project.

3.2     Still, KMDLwas fully disbursed withinthe original time frame, closing on
12/31/2006 as planned. Although this PSAL's conditions didnot require it, Kazan city
authorities meticulouslyreportedthe uses o fthe US$125 millionLoan (details: Table 1).

                                             4




 TABLE:KAZANMUNICIPAL
          1                     DEVELOPMENT -USESOFUS$125MILLIONFUNDS
                                                LOAN
 DISBURSED
I                                                       I        (in millionsof rubles)      I
 By category of expenditure :                                 planned              actual
 1. Paying-offdebts                                               773.2               773.6
 2. Repairs                                                     1,163.0             1,095.6
I3. Equipment                                           I         353.8     I         352.8    1
 4. Construction                                                  457.2               413.9
 5, Housingand communal services (HCS)                            633.2               603.6
I6. Social benefits                                     I          70.0     I          70.0    I
 6. Other                                                         108.3                90.6
  Total:                                                        3,558.7             3,400.1


 By sector of expenditure:                                    planned              actual
 1. Education                                                    1,379.7            1,358.2
I2. Health                                              I        1,041.0    I         949.4    I
 3. Housingand communal services (HCS)                            633.2               603.6
 4. Social protection                                             222.0               213.9
I5. Other                                               I         282.8     I         275.0    1
 Total:                                                         3,558.7     I       3,400.1


 Actual use o f fhds was very close to planneduse across categories and sectors. Repairs
 to school buildings andhealthcenters accounted for nearly one third o fall expenditures,
 while almost one quarter was usedto pay offKazan's debts. Priority education, health
 andHCS took some 85 percent o fall theproceeds o fKMDL.When askedby IEGwhy
 they reported these expenditures insuch detail (not a legal requirement), they said that
 they didnot do it for the Bank,butto enhancetheir own financial management controls.

 3.3     A Project ImplementationUnit(PIU), calledthe Kazan Directorate of non-Budget
 City Development Programs was specially set up for KMDL, even thoughcreating a PIU
 hadnot specified inthe PD The decision to set up a PIUwas Kazan's, andthe PIU
                             .
 remained within the realm o fmunicipal authority, unlike project PIUs inoperations in
 some other countries. The municipality created one inorder to have a clear project focus
 within the "new" city's evolvingadministration. The PIUcontinues to monitor the
 Programresults. Beyond its original KMDLmandate, the PIUtoday has an important
 external relations function o fmobilizing adhoc resources for the city fkom both the
 public andprivate sectors-thus   far mostlywithin the RF. Two successive mayors o f
 Kazan showed strong leadership, both giving the Program their fullest support. Enthus-
 iastic local teams were already at work when the Loanwas approvedand, with some
 turnover, continuedto implement the Program energetically. The Municipal Finance
 Department promptly started to tackle Kazan's short-term debts, bringinglocal accounts
 under control andmakingthem transparent. KDMLledto the first ever single municipal

                                               5


 account inKazan andthe introduction o ftight municipal treasury controls through
 general ledgers and ceilings for expenditures incash. Kazan's newly created Municipal
Department o f SocialProtectionquickly gathered local socialprograms under its
umbrella, identified eligible recipients andbeganthe shift toward cash payment o f
benefits to them. Kazan's Municipal Economics Department identifiedpriority
investments and expenditures ineducation, health andHCS. KMDLenjoyed support by
the highest authorities inKazan, inparticular the city mayor, who was very familiar with
the Program's details. H e told IEGthat he always cited KDMLto (frequent) business
visitors to Kazan, believing that its achievements will help give these investors
confidence inKazan as a place for doing serious business.

3.4     Banksupervision was intense. Since itwas conductedprimarilythroughthe
Bank's Moscow Office-that       Kazanofficialsthemselves visited almost everymonth-
reportedBank supervision costs were kept very low (Annex A.)       ...Local officials valued,
too, visits by the Bank Country Director (five times from Moscow) and Sector Manager
(three times from Washington). ButforrnaZ supervision missions are thinly reportedin
Bankfiles that holdcopies ofonly three missionaide mkmoires, for instance. This
incomplete reporting led IEGinthe field to inquire more closely o f local officials what
was done and achieved duringBank supervision. These officials told IEGthat they did
indeed receivemanyvisits byBankstaff, mostly from the Moscow. Several officials said
that they learned fi-om them a lot about municipal development experiences fi-om other
transition economies. Inaddition, Bank staff inputs duringvisits to Kazanhelped local
teams dealwith specific technical design issues affecting all project components, fi-om
municipal finance and asset management to individual case study approaches to social
protection. Finally, the frequency o fBankvisits to Kazanhelped ensure that tranche
conditions were closely monitored andtranches promptly released when those conditions
were met. While defacto supervision by a tightly knit Bankworking group, was intense
andfrequent, incompletereportingo fit meant that the excellent performance o fthis
operation i s not evident from the official record. It can only be gleaned from a field visit
to Kazan, as IEGitself found out.


4.      Monitoring and Evaluation

4.1     KMDLmonitoringandevaluation(M&E)was well conceivedandeffectively
implemented. Appropriately, where many cash payments were involved, M&E also
requiredtight controls, auditing andreporting to ensureproper use o f funds. Onthe
performance side, KMDLtranche release conditions themselves were carefully
monitored and reported(Annex C). Beyond these, the appraisal mappedout 23 more
performance indicators-half    outcome andhalf output-eachwith realistic and explicit
targets. Among good, easy to measure, connotative outcome indicators, the M&E
included: a (declining) municipal budget deficit as a share o f all revenues; (declining)
short-term payables; (expanding) cash social assistancepayments to eligible recipients;
and (expanding) private sector coverage o f HCS maintenance (some are shown inTable
2). All o fthesewere thoroughly monitoredon a monthly basis by localteams, as were
indicatorsmeasuring outputs, such as completing an audit or publishing a report.

                                                    6


 4.2      InKazanitself, mostmonitoringwas carried outbythePIU, whichkeptRT
 authorities apprised o fprogress. Local teams themselves made good use o fM&E,
 accelerating social assistance payments when monitoring showed progress to be slipping
 inthe earliest months. At the federal level, MOFconductedits usual follow upofthis
 kindo fexternally funded program. A more substantive effort byRFto systematically
 monitor the progress and evaluate the results o fKMDLinitially stalled for budgetary
 reasons. It seems that this has now been overcome. Through the Bank financed Russia:
 Regional Fiscal Technical Assistance Project (RFTAP          - Ln4528),  RFis currently inviting
 expressions o f interest by consultants to undertake the necessary impact evaluation, with
 a view to betterunderstanding anddisseminating the excellent results postedby Kazan
 thus far.


 5.       Project Outcomes by Objective

 STRONGER MUNICIPAL              BUDGETAND FINANCIALMANAGEMENT
 5.1      Underthis objective, efficacywas high. Thanksto the Program, there are
 indications that the new municipality o fKazangained a sound financial footing (Table
 2). A deficit turned into a surplus, as current revenues grew and expenditures were
 contained, a trend that will, according to EBRDprojections, continueto 2021 (not shown
 here). For some indicators, ICRreports better results, for others, morerecent data
 external to the project record greater achievements. The shrinkage o fthe total deficit
 below the KMDLtarget points to less fiscal dependenceupon RF andRT capital funding.
 Outstanding payables, a major problem inthe past, were substantially reduced. The
 municipalbudget's priority for social spending has beenmaintained, although targeted
 expenditures have proveddifficult to sustain at levels o fthe earlier (untargeted)
 assistance.

 TABLE KAZAN -SELECTED FINANCIALINDICATORS
          2:            CITY                                         2004-2007
~                                                                                                  I
LGeneralindicators:***                               2004 baseline    2007 target      2007 actual
 1. Currentrevenues (RUB. m.)                           6,328                            8,275
 2. Current expenditures(RUB. m.)                       6,641                            8,191
 3. Currentdeficitlsurplus(1-2: % of revenues)          -4.9%                            +I .O%
 Projectindicators:
 4. Total deficit as share of total revenues (%)        -9.1%       less than -5.8%     -3.6%*
 5. Outstandingpayablesand short-termdebt (RUB.         1,283       lessthan 1,000       827*

 6. Education, healthand social protection                        I morethan 12.0% I     8.3%*
 investment`s share of total expenditures(%)                                            15.3%**
 7. Budgetedexpendituresfor social protection                     I morethan650       1  870*
 (RUB. m.)                                                                               501**
 8. Budgeted subsidiesto heat producers(RUB. rn.)  I     200               0               0




 5.2      Kazan's drive to improve its finances was not only to meet agreed KMDL
 conditions. An imperativewas to makeup for RFtransfers that were cut. RFblock
 grants to finance city investments dried up completely in2006, for instance. But KMDL
 helpedenable the municipality overcome these fiscal shocks-even            if,theso-called

                                               7


"shocks" hadbeenpredicted. KDMLhelped through the provisionof defacto technical
assistancethrough intense Banksupervision (rather thanmore conventionally through
consultingcontracts). Byhelping local officials organize andunifymunicipal accounts,
debts and other obligationsbecame transparent and strategies to address them more
realistic. City officials told the IEGmissionthat all short-term payables hadbeenpaid
off. When informally askedby IEGat several meetings, municipal employees confirmed
that their salary payments were all up to d a t e a rare occurrence beforethe project when
they hadworked for other government agencies.

5.3     The professionalismo fthe finance teams inthe municipality, combining dynamic
young westem-educated leadership and long-time experienced staffers, has given Kazan
the strong budgetaryand financial management that KMDLintended. The IEGmission
notedthe clarity they hadbrought to the municipal accounts andthe efficiency o ftheir
responsesto IEGrequests for evaluation data. MOFitselfchose Kazanin2006 as the
thirdbest city inall o fRussia for transparency o f local accounts.

TARGETEDSOCIAL PROTECTION
5.4     Efficacyinachievingbetter delivery o f social support was also high. Kazanwas
one o fthe first cities inRussia to target assistance to beneficiaries, case-by-case. Indeed,
KMDLacceleratedreformbyhelpingthe shifttoward cashdeposits to eligiblelow-
incomerecipients away from old-style untargeted subsidies to service providers or given
inkind(e.g. free transport) to all workers ina chosen enterprise, for instance. Instead,
KMDL-inspired social protectiontop-up payments went directly to low-income
recipients to help them pay otherwise unaffordablerents, heating, and child support
expenses. Local oficials told IEGthat the Municipal Social ProtectionDepartment
currentlyhandles 75 percent o f all such payments inthe city-up       from a baseline o fzero
before Kazanbecame a municipality in2004. This effort i s madepossible by the city's
computerized database o f 23,900 assistedfamilies, that ensures accurate targeting, and
avoids duplicate payments that hadplagued the earlier systems. Better targetingbrought
considerable savings to the municipality, even making it difficult to sustain the agreed
minimumlevelofoverall spendingonsocial protection.

5.5     The IEGmission visited two o fthe city's twelve "one-stop shops" that attend
applicants for social assistance. These facilities were well set up, properly staffed and
maintained. They served the public quickly andrespectfully. Computer information
systems were inworking order. Some o fthese offices are attached to healthcenters that
were repairedandupgraded usingKMDLfunding. Prior conditions inthem hadbeen so
bad that they had fallen into disuse untilrecovered under this project. IEGwas assured
that future maintenance hadbeenbudgetedbythe municipality.

5.6     Thisprogress wouldnot have beenpossible without the KazanDepartmento f
Social Protection, a unifieddepartment specially created under KMDL, whose head
enjoys the rank o f DeputyMayor o fKazan. The success o fthese reforms also owes a lot
to the dedicated andexperienced staff o fthe Department. They told IEGthat they valued
the exposure to experiences inother transition economies that members o f Bank
supervisionmissions madepossible. The enthusiasm o fthose (mostly female) staffwho
met the IEGmissionwas impressive, as they rose to the challenge o fmeeting the needs
o fnearly 30 percent of the population o fKazanstill entitledto some kindo f social

                                                8


assistance--even thoughthis was down from 98 percent before KMDL.Duringfield
visits throughout the city itself, IEGdidhear some complaints from better-off residents
who no longer received support. But what remains after KMDLis less costly and it is
distributedmore efficiently to the targeted families andindividuals intended.

BETTER    HOUSING COMMUNALSERVICES
                     AND
5.7      EfficacyinimprovingHCS was substantial overall. For housing, KMDL
successfully encouraged the formation o fprivate Homeowners' Associations (HOA)
especially inlow income areas, and stimulatedcompetitionthrough opentenders with
private firms for HCS maintenance inthe city. KMDLalso helpedimprove the district
heating. However, privatizingthe operation o fthe water utility didnot take place as
planned, but KMDLhighlighteda number o fweaknesses o f Vodakanal that were
addressedby a new EBRDfunded project.

5.8      Altogether 200 new HOAs, most with several hundredpaid-up member/owners,
were established inKazanduringthe implementation o fKMDL.Since the 80 HOAs
existingprior to the project had served wealthier parts o fthe city, this project initiative
brought HOAs to lower income communities not previously covered. AAer housinghad
beenprivatized and state-owned enterprise responsibilitiesfor maintenance ceased, the
resultingvacuum i s now beingfilled byHOAs providing operations andmaintenance
(O&M)services for commonresidentialareas and facilities, such as children's'
playgrounds andbuildingelevators that are beyondthe writ o f individual property
owners. Although voluntarily formed by interested property owners themselves, Kazan
encouraged HOA formation through media campaigns andby simplifyinglocal
regulations. The IEGmissionvisited one HOA mid-afternoon ina lower middle income
estate o fhigh-rise apartment buildings. It was not busy at that time but appeared to be
fully functional. The HOAreportedthat 80 percent ofthe localresidentswere paid-up
members. Duringthe site visit outside the HOA office, residents told the IEGmission
that they considered the HOA to be an effective instrument to represent their interests and
improve the common areas o f their estate.

5.9      To improve the maintenance o fhousingareas and infrastructure, KMDL
encouraged the city to launchmore tenders for private firms to provide these services for
specific areas o f the city. Today, some 60 such private companies cover 100percent o f
Kazan's housing stock; up fkomjust 12 coveringhalfthe stock beforeKMDL.The IEG
missionmet with representatives o f eight o fthese firms, invitedbythe municipality to
the meeting. Importantly, they all reportedto IEGthat theirs was aprofitable business,
especially when it involved large scale repairs to infrastructure. Their finances were
sound. Latepayments (by municipalor private clients) were rare, never exceeding 10
percent o f the total. For its part, the municipality reportedannual savings o fmore than
US$15 million equivalent, thanks to the lower costs o f these arrangements.

5.10     KMDLsupport for districtheatingreformcameintwo ways. Firstly,ithelped
terminate the (untargeted) municipal subsidy o fits district heatingutility, by introducing
targeted subsidies to poor familiesjust mentioned, enablingthem to pay the
(unsubsidized) tariffs. Secondly, KMDLfunds were usedto installmodem, gas-fired,
small-scale district heatingplants inapartment complexes when the old system was about
to fail. IEGvisits showed that they were poisedfor operationwith the onset o fwinter.

                                                9


UNANTICIPATED RESULTSOF KMDL
5.11 Competitiveprocurement: Municipal authorities showed IEGexamples o f their
own procurement management for street paving, for instance, that voluntarily
incorporated Bankprinciples o f local competitive bidding. They explainedthat they did
this inorder to get lower pricedcontracts, which they succeededindoing. They had
reduced sole source purchasing from 55 percent to less than25 percent o f the total, below
performance indicator target ceiling o f 35 percent. As a typical PSAL, KMDLdidnot
requireparticularprocurement practices to be appliedinthe use o f its own funds or o f
those o fthe municipality.

5.12    Municipal asset management: Under KMDL,Kazanbuilt up an inventory o f its
assets (land, real estate property and shareholdings instate owned enterprises), valued
themagainst market prices, anddeveloped aplanto divest assets surplus to the needso f
the city administration. Some have already been divested after competitive biddingin
public auctions. Real estate assets remaining on the municipalbooks are now leased out
at 90 percent o ftheir market values, the intendedtarget, versus 50 percent prior to the
KMDL.


6.      Broader Findings of this Evaluation

6.1     Higher-level recognition of outstanding local experience: Decentralization is two-
way. Local governments benefit from the transfer o fpower andresponsibilities. Higher
level governments (andthe Bank) gain through learningfrom good local experiences. For
bottom-up learningto succeed, Borrowers and the Bank too need always to be on the
lookout for nuggetso f localknowledge and experience from particular cities that canbe
applied elsewhere. Inthis way, the Kazan experience canjoin other well-documented
cases o f good urbanpractice inother countries, such as Curitiba inBrazil, Surabaya in
Indonesia, Chennai inIndiaandNingbo inChina. RT is currently tryingto replicate the
Kazanexperience to other municipalitieswithin the Autonomous Republic. RFhas begun
this through MOF's launch o f studies of the Kazanexperience to be financed under the
ongoingU S 2 6 millionRFTAP (Ln4528) for replication elsewhere inRussia. Also,
F W s Ministryo fRegionalDevelopment (MRD) is incorporating elements o f KMDLinto
a proposed new Russia-wide HCS operation.

6.2     Dissemination of good results (best citypractice in this case): It is important that
programdesign at the broader sectoral level incorporate instruments for sharing
outstanding results with other cities andcountries, andto replicatethem elsewhere on a
larger scale. This can be done intwo ways. First, through the exchange o f experience
across cities, something that could be encouraged through global programs such as the
Cities Alliance (CA), for instance. The City o fKazanitselfhas a head start in
internationaldissemination as it hosts the Eurasian Branchoffice o f the UnitedCities
and Local Governments (UCLG), a worldwide association o f local governments
headquartered inBarcelona, Spainthat aims to promotetheir political, economic and
social interests to the internationalcommunity andthe UnitedNations. For such efforts to
bear fruit, it i s important for cities hostingbestpractice operations to be ready to share

                                              10


their experiences, andnot take too proprietary or reticent a stance toward potential
competitors.


7.      Ratings

7.1     For their support o fdecentralization andmunicipal development priorities at all
three levels o f government-Federal,    RT andMunicipal-the       relevance o fthe objectives
o fKMDLis ratedhigh; so too i s a design that hadthe right instruments for thejob in
hand.Efficacy is also ratedhigh; allthree objectives were achieved andseveral key
targets were surpassed. There were also some additional unanticipatedbenefits. Since all
highlyrelevant objectives were achievedwithout any shortcomings, the overall outcome
o fKMDLis ratedhighly satisfactory. This upgrade from the ICR's satisfactory rating
takes full account o f IEGfield observations o f results that were not always evident from
sometimes incomplete program documentation and files.

7.2      The Riskto DevelopmentOutcome i s low; as a decentralized municipality now
fiscally on its own, Kazanwill needto continue to implement KMDLreforms for its own
survival and future prosperity. Resilience o fthese gains has already beentested, with
positive results; anunexpected change o f city mayor inOctober 2005, with some
turnover instaffing key technical teams, didnot derail the Program. Furthermore, as
Kazanbecomes known as a success story, it will keep pressure upon RT andmunicipal
authorities to sustain excellent performance into the future to sustain its reputation.

7.3     Bankperformancewas satisfactory. KMDLdesign was very good; supervision,
while not fully reported, was intense andbecame defacto technical assistance. While it
didnot undermine the performance o fthe operationitself, incomplete reportingmeant
that the results were difficult to gleanwithout a field visit to the city. This suggests that
there was a significant loss o f information for Bankmanagement.

7.4     Borrower performance, coveringRF, RT andthe municipality o fKazan itself,
was highly satisfactory. Particularly outstanding was the diligence with which the city
authorities and staffpursued the reforms agreed, even going beyond them at times.


8.      Lessons

8.1     Once-off grant fundingat the subnational level canbe used to compensate
municipalities for the larger losses they may incur through reduced fiscal transfers. As
long as the cost o fthe grant fhnding to the higher level government is below that o fthe
transfers it made before, the net fiscal effect o fthe subsidy for the country or regionwill
be positive.

8.2     To strengthen city management intransition economies, bringingyounger and
innovative staff on board as well as deploying experienced andtraditional staff, can help
form the dynamic local teams andleadership needed.

                                            11


8.3     Intense and frequent project supervision mostly from a local Bankoffice canbe
low cost and efficient. Fullyreporting these Bank supervision activities, however, apart
from beinga procedural requirement, is essential ifothers are to learnhow results were
achieved andhow to replicatethem.

8.4    Best practice at the municipal level shouldbe seen as an opportunity to assist
higher level governments implement reforms and for cities themselves to exchange
experiences among each other. A best practice city's readiness andwillingness to openly
share these experiences i s a necessary condition for effective dissemination andlearning.

8.5    A city's single celebratory event, withthemunicipalpride it engenders, canbe
usedbythe BankandBorrower as anopportunityto start reform. The special occasion
can also serve as apretext for exceptional grant financing, without undermining medium
term financial reform. InKazanthe occasion was the city millennium. Inother cities, it
couldbe hosting a major trade, sporting or cultural event.


                                          13                                Annex A


Annex A. BasicData Sheet

KAZANMUNICIPAL          DEVELOPMENT (LN4766-RU)
                                        LOAN

Key ProjectData(amounts in US$ million)
                                     Appraisal       Actual or       Actual as % of
                                      estimate    current estimate appraisal estimate
Total projectcosts                       125            125               100
Loanamount                               125            125               100
Cofinancing
Cancellation

CumulativeEstimatedandActualDisbursements
                                                 FY06                          FY07
Appraisal estimate (US$M)                         50                           125
Actual (US$M)                                     50                           125
Actual as % of appraisal                         100%                          100%

Date of final disbursement:                      12/29/2006


ProjectDates
                                            Original                  Actual
Concept Review                             10/29/2003               10/29/2003
Appraisal                                  11/09/2004               11/09/2004
Boardapproval                              02/24/2005               02/24/2005
Signing                                    06/03/2005               06/03/2005
Effectiveness                              07/01/2005               07/01/2005
Closingdate                                12/31/2006               12/31/2006



StaffInputs(staff weeks)
 Stage of Project Cycle           Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
                             No. of staff weeks          USD Thousands(including
                                                        travel and consultant costs)
Lending                              89                            529.1
Supervision/lCR                     46                             165.2
Total                               135                            694.3

                                         14


Mission Data
                  Date      No. of Staff Specializations Performance Rating Types of
               (month/year) persons days  represented       rating   trend problems
                                     in
                                    field
Identification/
Preparation

Appraisal                                  [not reported]
Supervision
Completion

                                                  15                                       Annex B


Annex B. Tranche Release Conditions

KAZANMUNICIPAL            DEVELOPMENT            LOAN(LN4766-RU)



                          First Tranche: US$SO million
               *planned releaseJuly 1,2005;      actual release August 11,2005)

    Condition:                                                                             Compliance:

1.  The city has developedand approved a medium-termFinancial Planfor the period              Yes
    2005-07, agreed with the Bank.

2.  The city has demonstratedthat in the context of its 2005 budget: (i) it hasfunds,         Yes
    budgeted for 2005, to cover overdue payablesof budgetaryinstitutions,including those
    coveredby the restructuringagreementwith RF social funds on overdue payables due
    to such funds: (ii) the shareof education,health, and social protectionexpenditures
    devotedto capital expenditures is at least 12%of total budgetexpenditures:(iii) it has
    conductedan inventoryof capital expenditurearrears: (iv)the wage billof municipal
    employees is capped by the rate of growth for federal employees.

    Within the Treasurysystem: (i) commitmentcontrol mechanism has beenintroduced,            Yes
    interalia through enforcement of mandatory registrationof all contractswith the
    Treasury; (ii) off-budgetrevenues of budgetorganizationsare covered by the Treasury.

    The city has taken actionsto improvethe effectivenessof social protectionprograms         Yes
    implementationvia: (i) Resolutionand plan of the city Administrationpassedto
    delegateall responsibilitiesfor social support programsunder the City to the Social
    ProtectionDirectorate(SPD); (ii) the social protectionpartof the city budgetfor 2005
    has sufficient resources to cover (a)the monetizedbenefitsand targeted programs,
    and (b) capacitydevelopment of the SPD.

    The Resolutionof the city Administrationpasseddefining proceduresfor provision of         Yes
    social benefitsto the populationto includeindividualaccountsand socialcontracts.

6.  Sufficientallocation is includedin 2005 city budgetinthe form of a subventionfrom         Yes
    Tatarstanfor payment of monetizedbenefits.

7.  The Resolutionof the city Administrationintroducingtargeted povertybenefitis passed,      Yes
    and at least RUR 70 millionis designatedby the city for itsfinancing.

a.  The "Program of Reform of the Housingand CommunalComplexof Kazan"was                      Yes
    approvedby the City Council on September 30,2004.

9.  In 2004, 52% of housingstock is maintainedby privatecompanies; (ii) at least 76           Yes
    additional HOAswere created in 2004 and a Public CoordinationCommittee to
    facilitate establishmentof HOAs has beenset up. A public informationcampaignon
    HOAs has been launchedin mass media.

                                       16




                    Second Tranche: US$75 million
        (planned release early March 2006; actual release December 29,2007)

    Condition:                                                                        ICompliance:

1.  The 2006fiscal year budgetwith the concept and parameterssatisfactoryto the Bank       Yes
    has been approved by the City.

2.  The City has demonstratedthat there are no new overdue payablesof the city             Yes
-   budgetand budgetary institutionsfrom end-2004to end 2005

3.  The City has demonstratedthat a viablesystem of Treasury-executionof the               Yes
    municipalbudget has beenestablishedbasedon a singleaccountconceptfor
    budgetaryfunds, andfunds are channeledsolely throughthe Borrower's Central
    Bank.

4.  The City has demonstratedimprovements, satisfactoryto the Bank, in the
    implementationcapacityfor social protectionprograms.                              I    Yes

5.  The city has demonstratedthat paymentof monetizedsocialand housingand                  Yes
    communal service benefitsusing individualaccountshas been introducedand is
-   underimplementation.

6.  The city has demonstratedthat sufficient resourcesinthe form of subventionfrom the     Yes
    Republicof Tatarstan have been allocatedin 2006 City budgetfor payment of
-   monetizedbenefits.

7.  The targeted povertybenefit has beensuccessfullyimplemented, and2006 City              Yes
    budgetallocates not lessthan 70 millionRubles for the City own social protection
    expendituresfor itsfinancing, and socialcontract practiceis utilized.

8.  The City has demonstratedsatisfactory improvements in the housingand communal          Yes
-   sector (HCS).

9.  The City's water and wastewaterfacilities (Vodakanal)are managedby a                  waiver
    competitivelyselected privateoperator.

