Document of
The World Bank
Report No: ICR2569
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
(IBRD-74530)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF EURO 100.00 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
FOR A
INLAND WATERS PROJECT
June 27, 2013
Sustainable Development Department
Central Europe and the Baltics Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region


﻿CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December 31, 2012)
Currency Unit = Croatian Kuna (HRK)
EURO 1.00 = HRK 7.49
US$ 1.00 = HRK 5.74
EURO 1.00 = US$ 1.32
FISCAL YEAR (January 1- December 31)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
CEB            Council of Europe Bank
CCPCP          Coastal Cities Pollution Control Project
EBRD           European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EF             Environmental Framework
EIB            European Investment Bank
EMP            Environmental Management Plan
ERR            Economic Rate of Return
EU             European Union
FM             Financial Management
FRR            Financial Rate of Return
HV             Croatian Waters (Hrvatske vode)
ICR            Implementation Completion and Results Report
ISR            Implementation Status and Results Report
IWP            Inland Waters Project
ISPA           Instrument for Structural policies for Pre-Accession
JASPERS        Joint Assistance to Support Projects in European Regions
M&E            Monitoring and Evaluation
MWSC           Municipal Water and Sewerage Company
MOA            Ministry of Agriculture, and initially
MOAFWM         Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry, and Water Management
MRDFWM         Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry, and Water Management
NPV            Net Present Value
O&M            Operations and Maintenance
PAD            Project Appraisal Document
PIU            Project Implementation Unit
PDO            Project Development Objective
PHRD           Policy and Human Resources Development
RF             Results Framework
SFA            Subsidiary Financing Agreements
TA             Technical Assistance
WWT(P)         Wastewater Treatment (Plant)
Vice President:             Philippe H. Le Houerou
Country Director:           Mamta Murthi
Sector Manager:             Sumila Gulyani
Project Team Leader:        Elisabetta Capannelli
ICR Team Leader:            Elisabetta Capannelli
ICR Author:                 Anna Cestari


﻿CROATIA
Inland Waters Project
CONTENTS
Data Sheet
A. Basic Information
B. Key Dates
C. Ratings Summary
D. Sector and Theme Codes
E. Bank Staff
F. Results Framework Analysis
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
H. Restructuring
I. Disbursement Graph
Executive Summary             .................................................. 1
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design.  ................  ..... 2
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes    ................  ..... 7
3. Assessment of Outcomes          ........................................... 13
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome.     ....................    ..... 20
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance     ................     ........ 20
6. Lessons Learned            .....................................    ......... 22
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ..... 23
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing                       ................................. 24
Annex 2. Outputs by Component           ...............................  ..... 25
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis   ............................. 33
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ...... 44
Annex 5. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results.        ..........    ............. 46
Annex 6. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ....     ..... 47
Annex 7. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders    .   .......... 58
Annex 8. List of Supporting Documents        ..........................  ..... 59
MAP


﻿A. Basic Information
Country:            Croatia              Project Name:        Inland Waters Project
Project ID:          P098948             L/C/TF Number(s):   IBRD-74530
ICR Date:            06/27/2013          ICR Type:            Core ICR
REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:  SIL                 Borrower:            ROATIA
CROATIA
OmitnaTt:l         USD 133.41M         Disbursed Amount:    USD 122.65M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:      USD 133.41M
Environmental Category: F
Implementing Agencies:
Hrvatske vode (HV)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
B. Key Dates
Revised / Actual
Process           Date           Process       Original DateDate(s)
Concept Review:    03/16/2006   Effectiveness:      01/29/2008      01/29/2008
Appraisal:         03/15/2007   Restructuring(s):                    12/14/2011
Approval:          05/30/2007   Mid-term Review:    12/15/2009       02/05/2010
Closing:            12/31/2012      12/31/2012
C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:             Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                        Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                    Satisfactory
C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
Bank               Ratings             Borrower             Ratings
Quality at Entry:   Moderately Satisfactory Government:       Satisfactory
uality of Supervision: Satisfactory      Implementing         Satisfactory
Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                             Overall Borrower
PerorBan:        Moderately Satisfactory                   Satisfactory
Performane                               Performance:


﻿C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
Implementation         Indicators      QAG Assessments           Rating
Performance                               (if any)
Potential Problem Project                Quality at Entry
No                                    Nn
at any time (Yes/No):                    (QEA):
Problem Project at any  Yes              Quality of         None
time (Yes/No):                            Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before      Stsatr
Closing/Inactive status:  Stsatr
D. Sector and Theme Codes
Original         Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                        4                4
Flood protection                                         9                12
Wastewater Collection and Transportation                26               22
Wastewater Treatment and Disposal                       27               30
Water supply                                            34               32
Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
City-wide Infrastructure and Service Delivery            49              49
Environmental policies and institutions                  13               13
Regional integration                                     13               13
Water resource management                                25              25
E. Bank Staff
Positions                  At ICR                      At Approval
Vice President:       Philippe H. Le Houerou        Shigeo Katsu
Country Director:     Mamta Murthi                  Anand K. Seth
Sector Manager:       Sumila Gulyani                Sumter Lee Travers
Project Team Leader:  Elisabetta Capannelli         Sudipto Sarkar
ICR Team Leader:      Elisabetta Capannelli
ICR Primary Author:   Anna Cestari
F. Results Framework Analysis
Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objective of the project is to improve water supply services, wastewater services, and
flood protection measures in municipalities selected from the inland part of Croatia.


﻿Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
(a) PDO Indicator(s)
Original Target  Formally      Actual Value
Values (from     Revised      Achieved at
approval       Target      Completion or
documents)      Values       Target Years
Indicator 1 :  Projects submitted to the Government that will be proposed for financing by the
EU or other financial institutions (number)
Value
quantitative or 0                   3               7            8
Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/01/2008            12/31/2012      12/31/2012   12/31/2012
Comments      Target has been exceeded. Projects prepared are valued at EUR 123 million,
(incl. %      already have been reviwed by the EU (JASPERS) and are likely to receive
achievement)  financing.
Indicator 2 :  Water supply coverage (percentage)
40%                   85%
(Baseline indicators were (coverage is             85%
established at
defined as % of              (3 sub-projects --
Value         estructuring in       households in the            Northern Baranja:
quantitative or December 2011. 3 sub-  service area of the       90%; Davor-Nova
Qualitative)   rojects -- Northern  utility company              Gradiska: 70%;
Baranja: 48%; Davor-  able to connect to           Slatina Donji
ova Gradiska: 27%;   water supply                 Miholjac: 95%)
Slatina Donji Miholjac: network)
4 7 % )                _1 2 / 3 1 / 2 0 1 2  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _
[Date achieved 05/01/2007           12/31/2012                   12/31/2012
Comments      Target has been met. The team retroactively calculated the population weighted
(incl. %      average water supply coverage, which increased from 45% in 2008 to 87% in
achievement)  2012.
Indicator 3 :  Sewerage coverage (percentage)
35%76%
(Baseline indicators were (Coverage defined (Target was  73%
established at
Vleestabcting in              as % of          established at (4 sub-projects --
Valuehouseholds in                                  2011         Ogulin
quantitative or December 2011. 4 sub-               restructuring  50%, Virovitica
Qualitative)  projects -- Ogulin 0%,                in light of the 80 %, Nasice 78%,
Virvitca 7%,Nasce utility company  scope of sub- Southern Baranja
Virovitica 57%, Nasice
62%, Southern Baranja  able to connect to poects being 80%)
(Coerage efmed) ro
0%).                                  implemented) 
[Date achieved 101/01/2008          12/31/2012      12/31/2012    12/31/2012
Comments      Target has been met. The team retroactively calculated the population weighted
(incl. %
achievement)  average sewerage coverage, which increased from 39% in 2008 to 74% in 2012.


﻿Original Target   Formally     Actual Value
Values (from     Revised       Achieved at
approval        Target      Completion or
documents)       Values      Target Years
Indicator 4 :  Retention volume for flood protection (mln m3)
600
Value         (Baseline indicators were
quantitative or established at       720                           800
Qualitative)  restructuring in
December 2011)
Date achieved 01/01/2008             12/31/2012                    12/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %      The target has been exceeded.
achievement)
Indicator 5 :  ICustomers satisfied with the services (percentage)
Value         65
quantitative or (based on surveys    90              80            80.9
Qualitative)   erformed in 2010)
Date achieved 04/01/2010           12/31/2012       12/31/2012   12/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %      The target established when baseline was taken has been met.
achievement)
Indicator 6: Working ratio (number)
0.7
(To assure
consistency,
calculation based
All utilities had working                           on weighted
ratios greater than 1.                              average working
Value         Working ratio is                                    ando      for ate
quantitative or calculated by dividing  1                         and wastewater
Qualitative)  operating expenses                                  sv      basedon
(excluding depreciation)                            dataicected in
by operating revenues.                              2012 anled 01
(To2 asure1
directly from
utilities for all years
of project
ad_implementation)
Date achieved  01/01/2008            05/31/2012                  c12/31/2012
Comments       Worb ong ratio during project was reported based on all activities performed by a
(incl. %      rultu-service utility. The team retroactively calculated the weighted average
achievement) working ratio for WWS only, improved from 0.9 in 2008 to 0.7 in 2012.


﻿(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)
Original Target                Actual Value
FormallyromAchieved at
Indicator       Baseline Value      Values (from     Revised     cmplet
approval                   Completion or
documents)                   Target Years
Indicator 1 :Number of projects completed by the consultants
65
Value                                               (the last
procurement 6
(quantitative  0                    20               planuset     67
or Qualitative)                                      revise e.
revised end
target)
Date achieved 01/01/2008             12/31/2012      12/31/2012   12/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %      This indicator reflects the number of consulting contracts completed.
achievement)
Indicator 2: % contract value disbursed for works related to water supply, sewerage,
wastewater treatment, and flood protection
Value
(quantitative  0                    100                           92.2
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/01/2008            12/31/2012                  112/31/2012
Comments      According to the latest data from HV, as of June 26, 2013, total disbursements
(inc. %
ac.      t   amounted to 92.2%.
achievement)
Indicator 3 :  Number of water utilities that the project is supporting
Value
(quantitative  0                                     12           12
or Qualitative)
Date achieved  12/19/2011                            12/31/2012   12/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %      Core sector indicator, target has been met.
achievement)
Indicator 4 :  Number of procurement contracts for works/goods completed
Value
(quantitative  0                    42               52           52
or Qualitative)  ____________        ________________
[Date achieved 01/01/2008           12/31/2012      12/31/2012   12/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %      Target has been met.
achievement)


﻿Original Target                 Actual Value
FormallyromAchieved at
Indicator       Baseline Value       Values (from     Revised      cmplet
approval     TargetCompletion or
documents)                    Target Years
Indicator 5:  Completion of customer surveys (yes/no)
Value
(quantitative  No                    Yes                           Yes
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/01/2008            12/31/2012                     12/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %      Results of survey posted on the municipality websites
achievement)
Indicator 6: % consulting contract for technical assistance to utilities disbursed
Value
(quantitative  0                     100                           100
or Qualitative)
[Date achieved 101/01/2008            12/31/2012                   12/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %      Target met.
achievement)
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
Actual
Date ISR                                                        Ata
No.     Ate                 DO                      IP             Disbursements
(USD millions)
1    06/26/2007        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  0.00
2    04/06/2008         Satisfactory           Satisfactory                 0.00
3    12/04/2008         Satisfactory     Moderately Satisfactory            1.57
4                                 ~Moderately                   35
4    02/24/2009   Moderately Satisfactory    Unsatcy3.58
Unsatisfactory
5    08/10/2009   Moderately Satisfactory  Moderately Satisfactory          9.24
6    02/20/2010         Satisfactory     Moderately Satisfactory           20.57
7    10/16/2010         Satisfactory     Moderately Satisfactory           29.23
8    01/03/2011         Satisfactory     Moderately Satisfactory           34.42
9    10/15/2011         Satisfactory     Moderately Satisfactory           59.86
10   01/25/2012         Satisfactory      Moderately Satisfactory          73.38
11   08/18/2012         Satisfactory           Satisfactory                98.34
12    12/26/2012        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                108.25


﻿H. Restructuring (if any)
ISR Ratings at   Amount
Restructuring     Board     Restructuring  Disbursed at   Reason for Restructuring &
Date(s)      Approved                  Restructuring      Key Changes Made
PDO Change     DO      IP      in USD
millions
(i) reallocate some loan
proceeds from Component B 1
(Utility Investments) to
Component B2 (Flood
Protection Investments) in order
to better align the investments
with the project objectives;
(ii) extend Component B2
(Flood Protection Investments)
beyond the Central Posavina
area, in the Sava River, to cover
investments also in the Drava
and Danube river basins;
(iii) more adequately define the
scope of the technical assistance
(TA) under Component Al
(EU Accession Support) aiming
at facilitating the water sector
reforms;
(iv) reallocate loan proceeds
12/14/2011                   S     MIS        68.08   between Component BI (Utility
Investments) to Component A
(Technical Assistance) to better
reflect the costs for consulting
and TA services for the
preparation of sub-projects
under Component B, the
preparation of sub-projects and
studies for future EU financing,
and the cost of TA for
strengthening of project
utilities;
(v) drop one of the project
indicators, (Volume of
wastewater treated as per
applicable legislation); and
(vi) inform about the revision of
the Project Disbursement Letter
to allow the Borrower to
increase the ceiling of the
special account from EUR 1.0
million to EUR 2.0 million.


﻿1. Disbursement Profile
Original ---- Formally Revised -- Actual
150-
125-
100-
50-
m              cn
ro    o     o    o     o e         o    o                       rno  r
C,  C,  C, C


﻿Executive Summary
The Inland Waters Project (IWP) aimed to improve water supply and wastewater services
as well as flood protection systems in the inland areas of Croatia. This operation followed
the successful World Bank Eastern Slavonia Reconstruction Project, which targeted the
same region and helped address post-war rehabilitation needs.
The project is rated satisfactory having achieved its development objectives.  All
outcome indicator targets were met, and at times exceeded. Disbursements as of end-June,
2013 are at 92.2%1 of the loan. As the first Bank water project prepared during Croatia's
accession to the European Union (Croatia will enter the EU on July 1, 2013), it helped
address key EU membership requirements. Each component had groundbreaking features.
The pioneering aspects of the project will not only help it meet EU targets, it set the stage
for the absorption of EU grants in the water sector. In fact, more than EUR 3.5 billion
out of the approximately EUR 12 billion accessible to Croatia over the next EU financing
period of 2014-2020, is expected to be allocated to the water and sanitation sector.
The project's Technical Assistance (TA) was particularly successful. It helped strengthen
participating utilities' operational and financial performance, including their operating
ratio, as well as billing and collection. Croatian Waters (HV) was the project's
implementing agency, and its capacity to implement externally funded projects and to
assess feasibility studies and detailed designs increased through IWP implementation.
The project financed the preparation of water supply and wastewater projects for EU
financing worth about EUR 123 million. Major institutional reforms were undertaken
with the preparation of a study on utility optimization and agglomeration -- a
precondition for increased sector efficiency and effective use of EU funds. TA and
investments contributed to the ecological restoration of several Eastern Slavonia sites.
The Investment component also achieved substantial results. It financed investments in
water supply, wastewater and flood protection. A total of twelve utilities, serving over
200,000 people, benefitted from the project. Four utilities improved their water supply
systems with access increasing from 40% to 85%. Eight undertook wastewater schemes
and increased access from 35% to 73% in targeted areas. Some utilities pioneered new
technologies in Croatia, including tertiary wastewater treatment in Ogulin and biological
treatment ponds in Ilok. While the coverage of water and wastewater significantly
increased due to new investments, utility financial management systems now meet
international best practice.
Investments in flood protection substantially increased flood retention capacity in the
target areas, from 600 to 800 million in3, and is expected to increase to 1000 m3 through
investments by HV. Given the trans-boundary nature of flood protection and wastewater
1 Taking into account EUR 1.6 million that was processed on June 26, 2013. This is the most up-to-date
figure, which may differ from the disbursement table in the system.
1


﻿treatment in the region, the project helped link countries in a post-war region, facilitating
joint work in the sector.
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
Croatia will enter the European Union (EU) on July 1, 2013. The IWP was a key project
in the Bank's 2004 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), which had as its main objective
assisting Croatia in joining the EU. The project was fully in line with the CAS's focus on
sustainable natural resources management and measures to address improvements in
Croatia's wastewater and water supply management and services, to comply with the EU
acquis. Countries joining the EU had to comply with EU directives since unmet targets
within the agreed timeframe could result in penalties. As such, countries had to quickly
develop adequate sector strategies and policies to maximize absorption of huge volumes
of funds from the EU.
1.1 Context at Appraisal
Water Sector Strategy. When negotiations to enter the EU began, the Government
committed to meet the EU directives related to the water sector. Accordingly, it prepared
a strategy, which included the following objectives (to be met by 2023 but with
intermediary targets in 2018 and 2020):
*  Water Supply: (i) improve access to reliable water supply services from 76% to 90%
of the overall population. Special focus was given to the inland river basins of the
Sava and Drava where coverage rates were as low as 31% in some counties; and
(ii) improve service efficiency, as water losses were high (46% on average,
nationally) and water supply and sewerage services very fragmented. At the time,
there were 160 municipally-owned water companies in a country of 4.5 million
people.
*  Wastewater: (i) increase sewerage collection coverage from 44% to 60% of the
population, with 100% coverage for municipalities that have more than 15,000
people; and (ii) construct new and upgrade existing wastewater treatment plants with
the goal of providing wastewater treatment for: (a) all systems that serve more than
15,000 people, and (b) 70% of the systems that serve 2,000 to 15,000 people.
*  Flood protection: (i) increase the flood protection coverage by completing the priority
investments as identified in the flood protection scheme designed in the late 1960s
and updated by EU requirements; (ii) promote co-ordination among agencies that are
responsible for managing flood protection; and (iii) establish a comprehensive
insurance scheme that would cover damages related to floods. Special focus was
given to the Sava and Drava river basins where the flood protection scheme had not
been completed.
2


﻿IWP design contributed to the implementation of the water sector strategy. In 2006, the
IWP was designed to support the Government of Croatia make progress towards the
above objectives and preconditions for joining the EU. The project followed a World
Bank-funded operation in the same geographical area, the Eastern Slavonia
Reconstruction Project, and it was implemented in parallel with two additional World
Bank investments in the sector - Coastal Cities Pollution Control (CCPC) Projects 1
and 2 which focused on the collection, treatment, and disposal of wastewater in coastal
areas, with the objective of improving the quality of coastal waters.
1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
approved)
The objective of the project was to improve water supply services, wastewater services,
and flood protection measures in municipalities selected from the inland part of Croatia.
PDO and geographical areas of focus. The project focused on the Sava and
Drava/Danube basins, areas which are economically weaker than the rest of the country.
The project components were all designed to support the EU accession process by:
(i) financing physical infrastructure to meet EU directives on water supply and
wastewater; (ii) identifying and implementing institutional reforms necessary for EU
compliance; and (iii) financing the preparation of feasibility studies for water supply,
wastewater collection and treatment, and flood protection, to be financed through EU
grants.
Key Indicators. The following were the key indicators:
* coverage ofpublic water supply in targeted municipalities;2
*   coverage ofsewerage in targeted municipalities;
*   volume of wastewater treated     as per applicable legislation  in the targeted
municipalities (dropped following level-2 restructuring in December 2011 - see
restructuring section for details);
*   retention volumeforflood protection in the Lonjsko Polje flood plain;
*   working ratio, defined as cash operating expenses divided by collected revenues and
should decline due to improvements in operational efficiency;
*  percentage of customers satisfied with the service measured through an increase in
percentage of satisfied customers and verified through surveys collected before and
after the implementation of each sub-project; and
*  projects submitted to the Government and then proposed for financing by EU grants
or other financial institutions.
2 In the PAD, coverage was defined as number of people connected divided by the number of people in the
designated utility service area. During the implementation progress monitoring and for this ICR, people
connected were counted as those who are connected or have the possibility to connect in the near future. By
Croatian law, connections to WSS services are compulsory within a year from the date when the service
becomes available, and are required for compliance with the EU acquis. Connections are normally financed
by end users, which is also the case for other IFI or EU supported projects in the sector.
3


﻿1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification
The PDO was not revised. One outcome indicator - the "volume of wastewater treated:
this will be achieved through wastewater treated - as per applicable legislation - in the
targeted municipalities" - was dropped with the level-2 restructuring in December 2011.
The Government and the Bank team considered the indicator inaccurate because it
depended on the volume of wastewater entering the wastewater system (not all
connections were to be completed by the end of the project). The achievement of
objectives was considered better monitored by another indicator, the "percentage of
sewerage coverage .
1.4 Main Beneficiaries
The project had multiple beneficiaries: (i) the users of water supply, wastewater and flood
protection services (about 200,000 people); (ii) the municipal water and sewerage
companies (MWSCs) which received support from the project to improve water supply
services, wastewater collection and treatment, as well as technical assistance to improve
utility performance; (iii) the river basin authorities that received support from the project
to improve flood protection capacity; and (iv) the Ministry of Agriculture3 and Hrvatske
Vode (HV), which is the agency that oversees the water supply and sewerage sector and
prepares investments in the country.
1.5 Original Components (as approved)
The project had two components: Technical Assistance and Investments.
Component A: Technical Assistance. The Technical Assistance Component included
the following three sub-components.
Sub-component Al - EU Accession Support: HV as a national entity for water
management is principally responsible for the implementation of activities related to
meeting EU directives and absorption of EU funds. To this end, it implements the Water
Management Strategy that involved strengthening of institutions and preparing projects
that would receive funds from the EU or other sources. This component included:
*  institutional strengthening of HV and Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) to implement
the Water Management Strategy, including training and technical assistance linked to
absorption of EU funds; and
*  preparation of projects for financing by the EU and other sources. The Bank loan was
to finance feasibility studies and other documentation needed for location and
construction permits, including preliminary design, final design, environmental
assessments, and bidding documents.
At the time of appraisal, the line ministry in charge of water was the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and
Water Management (MOAFWM) but was later named Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and
Water Management (MRDFWM) during the time of the 2011 restructuring. Due to changes in government
in December 2012, the name of the ministry was changed to the current Ministry of Agriculture (MOA).
4


﻿Sub-component A2 - Project Implementation Support: This sub-component was
implemented by HV and included financing of:
*  preparation of  the Bank-financed investment program, including preparation of
feasibility studies, securing necessary construction and environment permits, and
preparation of bidding documents;
*  meeting the project's fiduciary (financial management and procurement) and
safeguards requirements (environment and land acquisition);
*  preparation of project reports; and
*  preparation of annual audit reports.
Sub-component A3 - Institutional Strengthening of Utilities: This sub-component focused
on providing TA to the participating utilities and included:
*  preparation of feasibility studies and other documentation needed for location and
construction permits, including preliminary design, final design and environmental
assessments;
*  preparation of bidding documents;
*  construction supervision;
*  measures to increase operating efficiency and improve customer service, including
specific TA to help utilities reduce commercial water losses and improve their
financial position;
*  reporting to HV on the sub-project progress; and
*  customer surveys, at the beginning and end of sub-project implementation.
Component B: Investments. The Investments Component included the following three
sub-components.
Sub-component B] - Utility Investments. This sub-component included three sets of
utility investments:
*  Set 1 Investments: (i) Virovitica - increase sewerage coverage; (ii) Northern Baranja
- improve water supply coverage; and (iii) Ogulin - increase sewerage coverage and
construct a wastewater treatment plant. Feasibility studies for these investments were
prepared with support from the Japanese Policy and Human Resources Development
(PHRD) Fund.
*  Set 2 Investments: (i) Davor-Nova Gradiska - improve water supply coverage;
(ii) Slavonska Podravina region - improve water supply coverage; (iii) Nasice -
increase sewerage coverage and construct a wastewater treatment plant; and
(iv) Southern Baranja region - increase sewerage coverage. The PHRD grant also
supported the preparation of feasibility studies for set 2.
*  Set 3 Investments: At the time of appraisal only a partial list of projects was identified
and ready, this included: (i) Vukovar - increase the sewerage coverage; (ii) Ilok -
increase the sewerage coverage; (iii) Ivankovo - increase the sewerage coverage and
construct a wastewater treatment plant; (iv) Otok and Komletinci - increase the
sewerage coverage and construct a wastewater treatment plant; and (v) Cema -
increase the sewerage coverage and construct a wastewater treatment plant.
5


﻿* During implementation, an investment in the sewerage system of Dugo Selo-Rugvica
was also identified by HV as a priority and included in the investment program of the
project.
Sub-component B2 - Flood Protection. This sub-component financed rehabilitation and
expansion of flood protection infrastructure, including dykes, canals, and channels. At the
time of appraisal it envisaged only works in the Central Posavina area in the Sava river
basin, but following the 2011 restructuring, activities were extended to also cover the
Drava and Danube river basins. Six investments were initially proposed - two in Lonjsko
Polje (designated Ramsar wetlands), and four outside the wetland area. Through the
investments, the volume of flood water retained was expected to increase from 600
million m3 to 720 million M3, reducing the risk of downstream flood damage (for a 25-
year flood event). The PHRD grant also financed a feasibility review of these investments.
1.6 Revised Components
Level-2 restructuring (Country Director Approval). In 2011 the project was restructured
with the objective of maximizing the project's outcomes towards flood protection and EU
accession support. The value of several construction contracts was lower than estimated.
The savings allowed for more investments under component BI (in Dugo Selo-Rugvica)
and for reallocation to other components. Loan proceeds from Component B 1 (Utility
Investments) were allocated to Component B2 (Flood Protection investments) and to
Component A (Technical Assistance) to meet higher than expected expenses for
consulting services and enable expanded activities under these components. Accordingly:
*  Component B2 (Flood Protection Investments) was extended to cover investments in
the Drava and Danube river basins, beyond the Central Posavina area, in the Sava
River basin.
*  Component A    (EU  Accession Support, Project Implementation Support and
Institutional Strengthening of Utilities) was adjusted to reflect project support for
implementing water sector reforms. This included TA services for institutional reform
studies, the preparation of sub-projects and studies for future EU financing, and the
cost of TA for strengthening project utilities. Preparation of the water management
strategy was dropped and subsequently carried out by HV.
Project Costs (EUR million)
.                         Original        After Restructuring
IBRD     Borrower   IBRD      Borrower
Component A: Technical Assistance     4.84      0.25       9.69      0.61
Component B: Investments             95.16      5.05      90.31      4.70
(Bl) Utility Investments             88.15      4.68      78.81      4.10
(B2) Flood Protection Investments     7.01      0.37      11.49      0.60
Total                                100.00     5.30      100.00   5_.30_ 4
4 Totals do not sum up due to rounding.
6


﻿1.7 Other significant changes
Changes to the Results Framework. One of the project indicators was dropped for the
reasons explained in section 1.3.
Revised baselines and targets were also included in the Results Framework at the time of
restructuring. Since the number and full scope of project activities were not defined at the
beginning of the project, the baseline values were only established at a latter stage, when
the final list of sub-projects and activities became known. For the same reasons, the
targets in the Results Framework were not set at the beginning of the project due to lack
of baseline data. Baselines were determined in 2007 (and revised at restructuring) and the
first customer satisfaction survey was conducted in 2010.
Involuntary Resettlement OP/BP 4.12. With the restructuring in 2011, the wording in the
loan agreement regarding compliance with the Bank's Operational Policy on Involuntary
Resettlement was strengthened. During the initial part of project implementation, HV had
used simplified tables (matrices) regarding expropriated land to request the Bank's no
objection in lieu of standard Land Acquisition Plans (LAPs). While the documentation
was found acceptable to the World Bank in an ex-post review, they had not been
submitted to the Bank for prior review and no-objection, as prescribed in the project's
Policy Framework for Land Acquisition and Resettlement (LARAP). Accordingly, the
Client and the World Bank agreed to undertake a full retroactive review of OP 4.12
compliance, aiming to ensure that due diligence had been applied in land acquisition
matters as agreed to in the LARAP. See section 2.4 for further detail.
Special Account Ceiling. The project Disbursement Letter was modified to allow the
Borrower to increase the ceiling of the Special Account from EUR 1.0 million to EUR
2.0 million. The grace period to process project expenses after the closing date was
subsequently5 extended from 4 to 6 months. This was to allow sufficient time for the
payment of invoices before the project closing date. This extension was necessary given
the large size of the payments and the relatively limited ceiling of the Special Account.
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
Project preparation. The project was prepared in about one year, with the project concept
note approved in mid-March 2006 and Board approval May 30, 2007. Feasibility studies
for seven sub-projects, part of the first and second set of investments, were prepared with
the support of a PHRD grant. Feasibility studies for another set of investments, and
detailed designs were to be done within the project. To some extent, the disbursement
projections included in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) reflected the likely initial
disbursement lag associated with the tight preparation schedule and the unavailability of
all detailed design and bidding documents at the early stages of implementation.
5 Not part of restructuring
7


﻿Project design. The project was designed in line with the 2004 CAS objectives, which
were to support the government's growth and reform strategy for successful EU
accession, while ensuring broad participation in growth and sustainable natural resource
management. Importantly, the project was prepared to help Croatia comply with the two
EU directives on water supply and wastewater - the Drinking Water Directive that
focuses on the quality of the drinking water and the Urban Wastewater Directive that
aims to protect the environment from the adverse effects of wastewater discharges from
households and industries. Reflecting on the lessons learned from implementation of the
previous CAS, the World Bank's strategy focused on private sector-driven growth
through rationalization of the public sector, establishment of a supportive investment
climate, and macroeconomic sustainability. Thus the project was also designed to support
Croatia in identifying and implementing reforms for a more efficient water supply and
wastewater sector.
Previous operations and lessons learned considered at design. The World Bank had
already financed two projects in the sector, from which lessons were learned and adopted
for the design of this project. The previous operations included the Istria Water Supply
and Sewerage Project, and the Reconstruction Project for Eastern Slavonia, Baranja and
Western Srijem. The latter focused on about the same geographical area of IWP and it
was successful. The Bank was aware of the limited capacity of the Municipal Water and
Sewerage Company (MWSCs) in the area hence the project was designed to provide
extensive support to the participating MWSCs during implementation, and envisaged a
substantial TA component to improve the utilities institutional capacity.
Risks analysis. The risks were well analyzed and realistic. From previous experience, the
project stakeholders were aware that without a ready sub-project pipeline,
implementation would likely be delayed. They flagged it as a risk. However, given the
pressing conditions and the tight EU accession timeline the project could not be held back
to identify all needed investments before approval. In retrospect, the lack of a defined
pipeline and important early delays in establishing a fully staffed Project Implementation
Unit (PIU), compressed the construction phase of the IWP to about 2.5 years. The
Government of Croatia and the WB team faced tremendous challenges to make the
project take off, as shown by the fact that as of July 2010 (30 months into project
implementation) disbursements were only at 25%.
The PAD also identified the inability of utilities to make repayments to HV on their
portion of the Bank loan as a moderate risk. This was accurately assessed, as some of the
utilities are now requesting HV to revise their repayment conditions, as agreed to in the
Subsidiary Agreement, because their financial situation is not strong enough. The design
included a working ratio target precisely to help mitigate this risk.
The project supported a study on utility agglomeration, which proposed a substantial
reduction in the number of utilities (from more than 160 to between 6 and 33), according
to the model chosen for the service area. The Ministry and HV management intend to
move forward on the study's recommendation on agglomeration, recognizing that it is
key to implementing EU requirements for sector efficiency and financial sustainability.
8


﻿2.2 Implementation
Implementation timing and disbursements. The project was implemented satisfactorily
and the loan disbursed 92.2%. Over the implementation period, about 110 contracts were
implemented, comprising construction of utility facilities in 12 sub-project areas, 6
investments for improving flood protection, and many technical assistance contracts to
support the participating utilities, strengthening the water utility sector in Croatia, and
preparing proposals for EU financing.
Approved on May 30, 2007, the IWP became effective on January 29, 2008 and closed as
originally scheduled on December 31, 2012. This is the first World Bank infrastructure
project in Croatia to close without an extension. Physical construction began 20 months
after board approval. The slow start was mainly due to: (i) delays in signing the first two
sub-loan agreements with participating utilities, a condition of effectiveness; (ii) delays in
properly staffing the Project Implementation Unit (PIU); (iii) long processing for
subsequent sub-loan agreements with the other 10 utilities; and (iv) time needed to
complete design and bidding documents. The project made considerable progress in the
last two years of implementation, when over 60% of the loan was disbursed.
Restructuring. The project was restructured in December 2011. The restructuring
requested in May 2011 by the Ministry of Finance (MoF) was in line with the changes
proposed by the Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Management
(MRDFWM)6 to the World Bank. The project restructuring did not entail changes to the
project's development objectives, total project costs, disbursement percentage, or project
duration. As noted earlier, the Flood Protection Component was scaled up to cover
investments in the Drava and Danube river basins. The Technical Assistance (Component
A) was expanded to allow the preparation of a larger number of sub-projects to be
financed under future EU cohesion funds. About EUR 4.5 million was allocated from the
utility Investments Component BI to B2, and about EUR 4.85 million was reallocated
from Component B 1 to the Technical Assistance Component A.
2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
Results Framework design and changes. The Results Framework (RF) was well
designed, with specific and measurable PDO indicators to keep track of the results
achieved. Some of the intermediate outcomes were included purely for monitoring
physical project implementation. The percentage of contract value disbursed could have
been substituted with more meaningful indicators measuring physical progress like km of
sewer collector or drinking water pipelines built. Baseline data were not collected until
project implementation was underway. A customer satisfaction survey was carried out
only in 2010 due to delays with contracting the consulting company for this work and the
novelty of the concept by the PIU/HV. To keep the RF manageable with sub-projects
ongoing in 12 utilities, HV and the Bank agreed to measure the indicators as averages.
6 Renamed Ministry of Agriculture.
9


﻿One indicator was dropped at restructuring in 2011 because it was found to be misleading
and not representative of project achievements.
Core Indicators. One core indicator was added, namely the number of utilities supported
by the project. Given universal access to piped drinking water in Croatia, other core
indicators in the sector were not significant. The indicator "amount of BOD pollution
loads removed by the treatment plant supported under the project - (tons/year)" can be
measured once the plant is operational for a few months.
M&E challenges. Despite the limited number of indicators, HV and participating utilities
struggled to keep up with data collection, analysis and reporting. Since not all sub-
projects were initially identified, HV carried out an accurate baseline survey only in 2010,
when all subsidiary agreements were in effect, but prior to the commencement of
construction. The baselines, however, were only updated in the results framework during
the December 2011 restructuring. Given the fast pace of implementation, HV and the
utilities focused more on procurement and implementation then on data monitoring.
Initially, the utilities expected HV to do the M&E, but it did not have sufficient capacity.
At Bank insistence, additional consulting services were subsequently contracted to collect
the necessary data and allow for results to be more accurately measured.
2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
Safeguards Compliance
Safeguards compliance of the project was satisfactory. Five World Bank safeguards
policies applied to the project: Environmental Assessment, Involuntary Resettlement,
Projects on International Waterways, Natural Habitat, and Forests.
Environmental Assessment OP/BP4.01: The project's Environmental category was
Financial Intermediary (FI), with category A and B sub-projects. As per Bank policy, an
Environmental Framework (EF) was prepared, disclosed and followed. Environmental
Impact Assessments (EIAs) were prepared for the sub-projects as part of the Feasibility
Studies. Environmental Management Plans (EMP) were prepared and closely monitored
by HV. The HV environmental specialist visited the sites regularly and collected EMP
reports from the site supervisors. Irregularities were corrected in a timely manner and
reported to the World Bank. The Bank monitored the quality of the EIAs as well as the
implementation of EMPs carefully and regularly.
Involuntary Resettlement OP/BP 4.12: The project followed Croatian Law on
Expropriation, and in November 2012 a detailed ex-post review confirmed that there
were no claims and that the project was in compliance with Bank policies. This review
was undertaken because the project may not have fulfilled all requirements as laid out in
the Land Acquisition and Resettlement Policy Framework, which was prepared and
disclosed before appraisal. Specifically, Land Acquisition Plans and grievances redress
mechanisms were not prepared and submitted to the Bank for prior approval. The
retrospective review found that in five cases the law on expropriation had to be applied,
accounting for about 0.4% of the land affected by the project. No further legal issues
10


﻿arose from the expropriation. In another six cases, land was regularly purchased. Finally,
for about 11% of the land plots affected, agreement on the right-of-way was reached
without the need to invoke the law on expropriation. The assessment concluded that the
designs were done considerately as to minimize the impact on private land. Execution of
works was also optimized to minimize disruption to private activities and property.
Projects on International Waterways OP/BP 7.50: On April 3, 2007, the Croatian
Government notified the International Commission for the Protection of the Danube
River (ICPDR) and the riparian countries about the project. No issues were raised by the
other riparian countries. Overall, by financing improved wastewater treatment and the
project is expected to have a positive impact on effluents.
Natural Habitat OP/BP 4.04: The policy was triggered due to project activities in
Ramsar7 (such as Lonjsko Polje). The investment not only did not damage or negatively
affect critical habitats within the park area, it had a positive impact. The Environmental
Impact Assessments (EIA) and EMPs envisaged mitigation measures for borrow pits8
that would enhance biodiversity and extend water/wetland habitats. This was done in
consultation with the public, HV, and local non-governmental organizations (NGOs). The
borrow pits were designed outside the wetlands in a manner that excavations replicate
naturally shaped ponds and wetland areas. These newly created areas were later
reconnected with the original Lonjsko Polje wetland. Specific measures were included in
the EMPs, and the design and execution of civil works were closely monitored by the HV
environmental specialist.
Forests OP/BP 4.36: The policy was triggered due to project activities and dykes built in
Lonjsko Polje that increases water levels during flood events affecting the trees in the
wetlands and flood plain. Given that the water would be retained in the area for limited
period of times, the impact on the local plants is not substantial. No other negatively
impacting activities were identified during the project execution.
Fiduciary Compliance
Financial Management: Financial management (FM) has been satisfactory throughout
the project. Unaudited Interim Financial Statement Reports (IFRs) were received by the
Bank regularly and found acceptable. The project and entity audits were generally
conducted on time (only the 2008 annual audit was reported delayed but was received by
September 2009). Over the project life, the auditors expressed unqualified opinions. The
staff of the PIU working on the project reported that FM entailed a lot of work as the FM
software of HV was not re-programmed to produce reports according to Bank
requirements, hence IFRs had to be prepared "manually" using spreadsheets.
7 The Ramsar List was established in response to Article 2.1 of the Convention on Wetlands (Ramsar, Iran,
1971)
Areas where material (soil, sand, gravel, etc.) has been dug for use in a construction project.
11


﻿Procurement: Procurement was a major challenge because of the large number of
contracts and the speed at which the project had to be implemented. While the outcomes
have been positive, procurement is rated moderately satisfactory. About 110 contracts
were awarded during the project. Of these, all but 6 were completed by the project
closing date of December 31, 2012. The pending works under the remaining open
contracts will be financed by HV. Only one procurement package, of about EUR 1
million for equipment, had to be cancelled due to substantial delays in awarding it. Given
the large number of contracts to be processed in a short period of time and the initially
limited staff capacity allocated by HV to the PIU, the World Bank provided extensive
support. The HV staff who worked on the procurement of the project reported that they
have greatly benefitted from the learning experience and found Bank's guidelines clear
and adequate.
2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
Uncompleted contracts. Due to harsh weather conditions in December 2012, as well as
previously accumulated delays, six contracts were not fully completed by the end of the
project (Table 2 Annex 2). HV committed to complete and finance all works remaining
from its own budget. Given the adequate financing capacity of HV, it is expected that all
works will be completed and the assets put in operation. The Bank team will file
additional reports in WB Docs to supplement this ICR as works are completed.
Operation and Maintenance. Operation and maintenance of the new assets will be the
responsibility of the local utilities. The local capacity of the sector is generally adequate
and the local engineers and technicians can perform the tasks for optimal operations and
maintenance of the systems installed. Also, as part of the design and build contracts for
the most complex infrastructure, the local engineers have received training from the
contractors, while additional support is provided by HV.
Cost recovery, tariffs and users connections. To ensure long-term sustainability and
coverage of operations and maintenance costs, the utilities should aim to achieve full cost
recovery. Many participating utilities improved their financial situation over the course
of the project, as reflected in substantial improvement in their working ratio (Annex 3).
Tariff structures have also improved and include a development surcharge that would
help cover their share of repayments of the World Bank loan. To maintain this positive
trend, the first priority for the utilities and the municipalities is to accelerate the
connection rate of users to the new assets. This is especially critical for utilities that have
implemented wastewater collection and treatment facilities. However, one of the
obstacles delaying connection is the regularization of the construction permits since many
households do not have the needed documentation. The municipalities are working to
address this problem, while the newly passed Water Act (May 2013) has relaxed water
supply and sanitation service connection requirements to include properties with
unresolved permitting issues.
Institutional strengthening. The project financed substantial technical assistance
activities, (see outcome section and Annex 2 for details). A particularly important output
was the 'Study on Institutional Options in the Water Supply and Wastewater Sector.' The
12


﻿study was well received by Croatian authorities, but reforms have stalled in recent
months due to changes in the government. It is important for Croatia to capitalize on the
reforms undertaken in the water sector and keep the momentum going throughout the EU
membership process. The Bank envisages further support through new or ongoing
projects in the next phase of the Country Partnership Strategy.
EU investments. As Croatia becomes an EU member state on July 1, 2013, it will be
eligible for large grants to comply9 with EU water and wastewater directives. It is also
receiving substantial funding from EIB and the CEB. This support, however, will require
substantial co-financing. While these investments are expected to significantly improve
the sector's infrastructure, major reforms are needed to enhance its sustainability.
3. Assessment of Outcomes
3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
Relevance of objectives and EU accession context. The project's objectives and design
responded adequately to the needs of the sector. The project was appraised in March
2007 as Croatia was carrying out negotiations for EU accession. In this context, a critical
priority for the country was to begin compliance with EU directives, including the
Drinking Water and the Urban Wastewater Directives.
The project was designed to focus investments in the poorer areas of Croatia, and to
target communities where access to water supply and wastewater services was
comparatively low. The TA Component focused on strengthening the financial capacity
of local utilities, analytical studies, and the preparation of EU-funded projects. These
were highly relevant to the MOA, HV and the participating MWSCs. The 'Study on
Institutional Options in the Water Supply and Wastewater Sector' provided a foundation
for the agglomeration of water and sewerage utilities, a necessary condition for
compliance with the EU directives on service efficiency.
Implementation. Project implementation was carried out within the period agreed to at
negotiations. As of June 26, 2013, 92.2% of the loan was disbursed, a remarkable
achievement given initial delays. Project savings of about EUR 500,000 were achieved
due to the exchange rate. More savings came from the utility component as explained in
section 1.6. The project became effective about 8 months after World Bank Board
approval on May 30, 2007. Furthermore the first works contracts (for sewerage network
in the district of Virovitica and water supply system in Batina, district of Southern
Baranja) were signed in April 2009, about two years after World Bank Board approval
and 15 months after effectiveness.
Project implementation accelerated after summer 2008, when a new PIU Director was
recruited. Shortly thereafter negotiations with all utilities/municipalities were completed
' The cost to comply with EU water and wastewater directives by 2023 was being estimated at EUR 4.5
billion.
13


﻿and subsidiary financing agreements signed. Strong leadership by the PIU, with Bank
support, played an important role in accelerating implementation in 2010 and 2011. By
end-2012 only six works contracts were not yet complete (see Table 2 in Annex 2).
Works were also ongoing in two of the 12 projects areas at the writing of this ICR. Dugo
Selo was recently added as a new project site, and the Slatina component of the Davor-
Nova Gradiska sub-project was delayed. Testing is ongoing for the Wastewater
Treatment Plant in Ogulin. HV is financing all works not completed by the project. A
closing date extension was considered, even though all PDO indicators were achieved,
but the Borrower preferred to cancel the remaining portion of the loan and avoid
extension. HV had the funds to complete the works.
3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
The objective of the project - to improve water supply services, wastewater services, and
flood protection measures in municipalities selected from the inland part of Croatia- was
achieved. It contributed to strengthening infrastructure, especially trunk infrastructure
and treatment facilities of the utilities and participating municipalities, which are now in
the process of connecting the users to the new system. It increased retention capacity of
flood areas beyond initial expectations. It supported the sector in preparing for EU
accession. It financed preparation of more investment proposals for EU financing than
originally envisaged. It strengthened the institutional capacity of HV to manage and plan
water supply, wastewater and flood protection services in line with EU requirements.
Lastly, it financed a critical study on optimizing the water sector, and all participating
utilities received assistance to improve their services and financial sustainability.
Results achieved - summary of PDO indicator measures. The targets set out for the
PDO indicators in 2011 have been achieved.
*  On average, infrastructure investments increased: (i) water supply coverage in target
areas from 40% (2007 baseline) to 85%; and (ii) sewerage coverage from 35%
(December 2011 baseline) to 73% (reduced during the 2011 restructuring from 76%).
These targets, established at sub-project feasibility, were achieved. Coverage is
defined as the availability of the water supply and wastewater service, to which users
connect. In Croatia, when a water supply pipe or a wastewater collector is available in
the street, connection is compulsory and enforced by local authorities. Coverage will
be fully attained once all connections are in place.
*  The retention volume was increased by 30%, meeting the targeted 800 million m3
The target was increased during restructuring in 2011 from 720 to 800 million m3
*  Eight (8) project designs were submitted to the Government for future EU financing
or other financial institutions, exceeding the target of 7, set at restructuring. The total
estimated value of investment prepared is about EUR 123 million, or over 30 times
the value of funds invested in this component.
*  Working ratio is calculated by dividing operating expenses (excluding depreciation)
by operating revenues, and was measured with fresh data collected from the utilities
14


﻿for 2012. The data demonstrate a remarkable turnaround in their financial position,
with an average (for all 12 utilities) of 0.7, substantially exceeding the target of 1.10
* Customer satisfaction with water and wastewater services was measured through a
survey with varying results. Some municipalities exceeded 93% satisfaction (Nasice
was the best) while others were as low as 68% among those connected (Northern
Baranja was the worst). On average, the satisfaction was about 81% among those who
have been connected, compared to a target of 80%.
Infrastructure Output. The IWP financed 52 contracts for works and goods to address
the water supply and wastewater needs of 12 service areas. All schemes were designed
and implemented according to EU standards.    Some infrastructure, however, used
pioneering technology for Croatia. Examples include: (i) the biological treatment ponds
in Ilok, a wine producing area in the vicinity of the Danube; (ii) the tertiary level
wastewater treatment, with ultra and nano-filtration in Ogulin, a karst area where the only
option was to discharge the outflow of the plant into a small river that goes underground;
and (iii) a plant management system that is fully computerized and remotely accessible in
Nasice. The beneficiary utilities were particularly proud of their state-of-the-art systems
and highly committed to their maintenance.
Technical Assistance. In addition to the impressive infrastructure implemented, the main
achievements of the project include results of the TA. About 60 consulting contracts for
design and feasibility studies to be financed by the EU or other IFIs worth about EUR
123 million. Thus the EUR 3.9 million leveraged more than 30 times its value. The TA
components also supported the development of a model-based decision making process
for the selection Wastewater Treatment (WWT) technology and the improvement of
technological operation of WWT plants. A study on Institutional Options for the Water
Supply and Wastewater sector was widely praised for recommending a set of proposals
for utility optimization and agglomeration. The Ministry and HV recognized this as key
to implementing the EU requirement for the sector efficiency and financial sustainability.
This component also financed project preparation for ecological and hydrological
revitalization, predominately the revitalization of flood plains, the rehabilitation of
meanders, and the creation of new aquatic systems. Finally TA was directed at reducing
water losses, improving efficiency, and strengthening the financial position of the utilities.
3.3 Efficiency
A detailed economic and financial analysis of the utility investments (see Annex 3)
covering 83% of the project costs was conducted. No data was available to do a thorough
assessment of the flood protection investments, but these are considered critically
important given that the country is prone to flooding, which has dramatically affected
people and assets in the last years. In 2010 alone, flooding caused about EUR 150 million
of damage in central Croatia. Specifically, the project has contributed to the protection of:
(i) at least 51,300 people living in the Sava river basin area; (ii) at least 12,000 ha of
10 A working ratio below 1 indicates that the company is able to recover operating costs from its annual
revenues.
15


﻿agricultural land; (iii) the international transport "Corridor X" and several regional roads;
and (iv) the flora and fauna in the Lonjsko Polje Nature Park. The project also benefitted
neighboring countries by lowering the water levels of the Sava.
Per capita cost. For the utility component of the project, about EUR 400 was invested for
each person beneficiary (assessed to be about 205,000 people). The investments were
designed to satisfy EU compliance requirements and yet not overburden utilities with
excessive loan repayments or operations and maintenance costs, which would put them
under considerable financial stress. Such per capita costs are fairly small when compared
with typical investment projects to meet EU requirements in other EU member states.
Ex-ante Economic and Financial Analysis. An economic and financial analysis was not
conducted during appraisal, as investments were not identified at the time. The PAD
therefore did not present the methodology used for the cost-benefit analysis nor provided
the baseline values. It stipulated though, that the economic and financial analysis will be
part of the feasibility studies for each sub-project, and included in the subsidiary
financing agreements (SFAs) signed with the 12 participating MWSCs during the course
of the project implementation. The Bank reviewed and approved the SFAs, and checked
that all such analyses were prepared. See Annex 3 for details.
Ex-post Economic and Financial Analysis The economic rate of return (ERR) for the
overall project at completion is 16% and the NPV is HRK 2.04 billion. The economic
analysis is based on the assumption that the economic benefits of compliance with EU
Water related Directives is quantifiable with the willingness to pay for improved water
supply and wastewater services. Collection was used as a proxy for estimating the
economic value of the willingness to pay. The other proxy is the costs savings for
consumers. Economic costs of the project include investment and operational cost. Two
scenarios were developed to estimate the project's financial rate of return (FRR) and
NPV. The first and more conservative scenario assumes a gradual increase in tariffs until
full cost recovery over the 30 years period, and produces an FRR of 8% and a financial
NPV of HRK 16.9 million. The second scenario assumes tariffs increase to meet full cost
recovery in 3-4 years after project completion and generates an FRR of 13% and a
financial NPV of HRK 622 million. Individual results are similar and the FRR of
different MWSCs' spans from 4-12% and 11-16% in Scenario 1 and Scenario 2,
respectively. Likewise, Scenario 1 results with a negative NPV for four sub-projects out
of twelve, predominantly war damaged municipalities with a majority of the population
being the elderly; while NPVs for all sub-projects were positive and relatively high in
Scenario 2.
Working Ratio and Improved Operating Efficiency. The FRR results signal that
MWSCs have in principle strengthened their financial position over the course of the
project as highlighted in the significant turnaround in the working ratio (PDO outcome
indicator). The project's working ratio at completion stood at 0.7, reduced from the 2008
16


﻿value of 0.9, which is the baseline calculated with fresh data1 collected during the ICR
analysis. The result is well below 1.0, which determines a situation in which MWSCs can
meet their cash commitments through operating revenues.
Improvement in operating efficiency was measured by the bill collection rate. Billing
revenue nearly doubled between 2008 and 2012 as a result of increased water and
sewerage tariffs. The collection rate over the same period was high and relatively stable,
at around 90%. Although these results vary by MWSCs, any decline in collection rate is
probably linked to the global economic crisis, which has had a severe impact on
household incomes in Croatia, especially among the poorest located in the project areas
(e.g., Darda). Financial efficiency was also enhanced mainly due to better financial
management practices, such as the introduction of separate cost-accounting systems for
multi-purpose utilities. Operating revenues rose at a higher pace than the operating costs.
Staff costs, however, still make up nearly half of the operating cost, signaling that staff
size should urgently be adjusted to business needs.
The loan repayment is utility specific and MWSCs contributed up to 30% of the total
debt service. All MWSCs were requested to introduce development fees specifically to
cover increased capital expenditures. Revenues from the development fees are used for
loan repayment, which began in 2012 for a period of 15 years. According to the SFAs,
municipalities also guarantee full coverage of the service cost, in case collected revenues
from the development fees are not sufficient to cover annuity costs.
3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory
The project achieved its development objective to improve water supply services,
wastewater services, and flood protection measures in municipalities selected from the
inland part of Croatia. Its overall outcome rating is assessed satisfactory. It especially
succeeded in improving the infrastructure assets of the participating municipalities and
their utilities, contributing to their compliance with EU directives. It also contributed to
EU integration by financing feasibility studies for more investments to be financed by the
EU, and by delivering studies that support the reform process necessary to bring the
water sector in Croatia in compliance with EU efficiency and management standards.
Relevance is rated as highly satisfactory as it contributed substantially to sector progress
towards EU requirements and standards in a disadvantaged area of Croatia. The sector's
relevance in the EU integration process is further shown by the fact that about a quarter
of the EU funds to be allocated to Croatia in the next 7 years is for water and wastewater
investments.
" During the very thorough data collection for the ICR, it was found that the data provided by the utilities
earlier also contained other services (such as greenery and grave yards); thus the baseline set at the time of
restructuring, 1.21 for 2009, was not correct and is revised to 0.9.
17


﻿Efficacy is rated satisfactory. The project was well implemented and achieved substantial
results. This is all the more evident considering that feasibility studies, design, and
bidding had to be done after Board approval (January 2008-December 2012), which
meant that a substantially shorter time was available for construction.
Funds were re-allocated from the utility Investments Component B1 to B2 in 2011 and
that helped achieve a flood retention capacity of 800 million m 3 - increased from the
originally envisaged target of 720 million m3 set in 2009. This over-achievement under
the Flood Protection Sub-component is considered highly satisfactory.
Furthermore participating utilities have improved their operational performance by
noticeably reducing their working ratio to 0.7 on average. They have also improved their
billing and collection capacity and have begun to adjust tariffs towards cost recovery
levels. The two graphs below show these improvements.
Figure 1: Improvement of the working ratio  Figure 2: Improvement of billing and collection
for participating utilities water supply and  (revenues) for participating utilities' water supply and
wastewater services between 2008 and 2012  wastewater services between 2008 and 2012
1.00                                    14- o   -o-
0DA  -
070 - O----------------- -------------------
10000000                             - --oo--o---------------------------
0,60
0.50                                             200  2009  2010  2011  2012
2098  2009  2010  2011  2012                           Yuer
Year                                 --i@i-CoectD.n
Efficiency is rated satisfactory. It is important to note that the project targeted the most
economically disadvantaged areas of Croatia, where utilities are financially weak and
tariffs relatively low, with no summer surcharge. During the project's lifetime, the
participating MWSCs have steadily improved their financial position, as reflected by the
Operating Ratio analysis. The project also provided technical assistance to help reduce
water losses and improve the financial capacity of the participating MWSCs.
3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
The project targeted communities in the poorest areas of Croatia. These communities
were also the most affected by the war. The project delivered significant social benefits
due to increased coverage of basic service of water and wastewater. Additional flood
water retention reduces the risk of widespread flooding, with its associated loss of assets
and business, which would cause particular hardship for the poorer and more vulnerable.
(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
The project made a substantial contribution to the institutional analysis and strengthening
of the sector. It exceeded expectations on the number of feasibility studies for
18


﻿infrastructure investments to be financed by EU funds. HV's capacity has also improved.
Other financier and sector experts have reported noticeable progress in HV's capacity to
manage the preparation of feasibility studies and designs of sub-projects to be financed
by the EU and other IFIs. Finally, beyond targeted technical assistance to the
participating utilities, it financed a well-received study on institutional optimization of the
sector, which now requires follow up and implementation. The study analyzed utility
agglomeration options that would help achieve efficiency, ensure sustainability, and
greatly help in the absorption of EU funds. A tangible benefit, achieved by the project
closing date, has been the improved capacity of local utilities as reflected in the improved
operating ratio and the collection rate in the targeted MWSCs. The graphs in Annex 3
illustrate this progress.
(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
According to HV, the project helped streamline procurement procedures and build
substantial procurement capacity within the organization. The World Bank procurement
guidelines were found to be very clear and easy to follow, and the team provided clear
support during complex procurement processes. New technologies were introduced by
the project, especially for wastewater treatment, which included biological treatment
ponds and tertiary treatment with nano-filtration of the effluent. Such investments have
brought new knowledge to the water sector in Croatia and are likely to be replicated as
necessary. HV and utility staff have been trained on new technologies as well as project
management. Finally, the project piloted utility agglomeration in Virovitica, Davor-Nova
Gradiska, and Virovitica where municipalities joined forces and formed one "regional"
utility to implement and manage the built assets over the long term.
(d) Ecological revitalization through TA
The project also assisted in ecological restoration of several sites in the Slavonia area,
where anthropogenic activities led to degradation of habitats, namely over-engineering or
non-maintenance post engineering intervention. Through several TAs, the project
contributed to ecological and hydrological revitalization, predominantly through project
preparation for revitalization of flood plain, rehabilitation of meanders, and creation of
new aquatic systems. Furthermore, these activities allowed for streamlining discussions
with the public and local communities and led to improvement of tourist offerings and
services through the planning of agro- and eco-tourism, fisheries, and the creation of
recreational areas (jogging/paddling/rowing, etc.).
3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
This is a core ICR and no dedicated beneficiary survey was carried out. However, as the
project closed, HV carried out a customer survey to measure satisfaction with water
supply and sewerage services in the project target areas. Satisfaction rates varied by area
and were dependent on the level of completion and the direct benefits to customers from
project investments. On average satisfaction rates were about 81% among those
customers already connected to a service, meeting the target of 80%.
19


﻿4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Low
Given the imminent accession of Croatia to the EU and the attention and funding of the
sector, the risk to the development outcome is considered low. However, there are some
critical measures that HV has to implement to ensure effective start-up of all project
investments as well as their long-term sustainability:
*  The financial position of the utilities has improved, however to ensure sustainable
revenues the municipalities must take action to accelerate the connection rate to new
assets, especially sewer lines. In some areas the willingness to connect is low - as
shown by the customer survey. This appears to be due to a lack of construction
permits for many houses in the project areas. A new policy was recently introduced to
allow for connections to properties without permits and for connections to become
mandatory within a year of water supply and sanitation construction. Some
municipalities have already taken steps in this regard.
*  The project delivered an important and well-received study on the institutional
options for the Water Sector. If the recommendations are not implemented,
compliance with EU requirements may be delayed.
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory.
The design proved to be relevant, despite being prepared within a short period of time,
with a clear vision and objective. If more time was available for preparation, it would
have been possible to have more sub-projects ready by effectiveness -- the primary cause
of delay in the first two years of implementation. The Team could have developed a
methodology for economic and financial analysis to be later used to appraise the sub-
projects. Additional preparation time would also have allowed more discussion on
repayment terms and the contribution of municipalities, a better staffed PIU, and a
completed Operations Manual.    It would also have reduced uncertainty and
miscommunication between the PIU and the Bank. The TA component was designed
flexibly enough to respond effectively to emerging demand, such as the study on
agglomeration.
(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory.
The Bank team developed a strong partnership with HV and the PIU. It support HV at
critical phases of the project.  While there were some TTL changes, handovers were
carried out smoothly. In addition to procurement and FM, the team worked closely with
HV on all financial, economic, institutional, environmental and EU-related matters,
which helped shape the TA component of the project to maximum effect.
20


﻿(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory.
Overall Bank performance is rated moderately satisfactory. More time for preparation
could have allowed for smoother implementation during the early years and the
completion of all preparatory activities. The supervision team provided excellent
implementation support and worked closely with the client in every aspect of the project.
Supervision was regular and benefitted from the presence of a team based in Zagreb,
which included an engineer, an environmental specialist, and an economist.
Subsequently, the TTL was assigned to the region, which allowed for more frequent
visits. The Bank team responded in a timely manner to client requests for variation orders
and restructured the project to refocus its components and outputs, especially on the TA
component.
5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory.
There was a delay in the signing the first two Subsidiary Financing Agreements between
HV and the municipalities, and therefore, in project effectiveness and the start of
implementation. Such delays were associated with the project being implemented in
several municipalities, with varying capacity. In particular, negotiations on the local
contribution and repayment conditions with many of the participating municipalities took
a long time. There were also some delays with the establishment of a speedy mechanism
to approve the numerous withdrawal applications. Difficulties were finally overcome and
the project implemented and closed on time without extension. Generally, there was
strong support and interest in the project from the sector Ministry, even though attention
shifted to other priorities, especially to the challenge posed by huge EU investments
towards the final years of the project. The Borrower decided not to ask for an extension
of the project closing date and to use HV's funds instead to complete all pending
contracts. While this decision put considerable pressure on HV to complete all contracts,
it is considered positively in this evaluation and a sign of maturity by the Borrower in
managing its external debt commitments.
(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory.
HV implemented the project well, although it took a long time for HV to establish
adequate implementation capacity. Very little happened in the early years of the project
and the PIU was inadequately staffed until the end of year two. Implementation
substantially accelerated from the third year of implementation as the PIU was better
staffed and a new, and highly effective PIU Manager was brought in to lead the project.
The PIU was strategic in the use of the project's funds. While in the early years of the
project it focused mainly on designing and launching the physical components, only later
did it pay increased attention to implementing the project's TA component. It
strategically revised the content of the TA and asked for the Bank's support to supervise
and design new TA activities, such as the study on utilities agglomeration.
21


﻿(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory.
The overall assessment of borrower performance is satisfactory. HV and Croatia are
seasoned partners of the World Bank and did well in completing the project on time, with
about 92.2% of the loan disbursed and all targets met or exceeded.
6. Lessons Learned
Lessons learned include:
*  Time for preparation was too short, in particular for the utility investments
component (Component BI). At the early stages of project implementation, HV had
difficulties staffing the project, as its specialists were busy implementing other
projects including those financed by the Bank. At the time of Board approval, the
sub-project pipeline for components B 1 and B2 should have been at a more advanced
stage of preparation. It took nearly two years from the Board date to sign the first
works contract. A longer preparation period would have allowed a less concentrated
physical implementation. At the same time, the TA component had no pre-determined
pipeline, which allowed for flexibility to address the sector's priority needs as the EU
preparation process unfolded. Utilities with committed business improvements plans
were able to put forward their proposals and receive the support needed from the
project.
*  While some utilities had the capacity to implement, engage beneficiaries, and
supervise the works effectively, others required considerable support from HV. In the
weakest utilities works were delayed. This indicates that a further concentration of
utilities would not only foster financial but also technical efficiency. The PIU took
some risk in selecting financially weaker and less capable utilities, but the investment
and payoff proved worthwhile.
*  Political support is critical for these types of projects. Municipalities and elected
mayors and council members had to make tough choices on tariff adjustments and
enforce connections. Absence that support, implementation can be delayed and utility
performance minimal. Political commitment must also be sustained at the central
level to implement reforms to move the sector towards EU compliance. It is important
for HV and the MoA to maintain strong capacity, a clear sector vision, and to sustain
their commitment to agglomerate utilities.
*  The PIU was not ready and staffed at the beginning of the project and this
substantially contributed to the initial delays. When a project is to be implemented
very quickly, with designs to be done during the implementation phase, sufficient
capacity should be mobilized and trained at the very start of the project to accelerate
the preparation of the pipeline.
*  Feasibility studies prepared for EU funding (Component A) were reviewed by the
New EU members' infrastructure project advisory (JASPERS). The reviews and
inputs by JASPERS, conducted for the first time under IWP, increased the likelihood
of financing by the EU.
*  Through the installation of new wastewater treatment technologies, the project helped
introduce innovative solutions in Croatia. The know-how developed through the IWP
is expected to facilitate expansion and use of these new technologies as part of the EU
22


﻿co-funded projects in the upcoming EU financing period, 2014-2020, to meet the EU
acquis.
* The location of the task team leader and operations officer in Croatia and Central
Europe helped the project advance at critical moments. This was especially the case
in the final years of project implementation.
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
MoF had no comments on the ICR. There were no issues raised by HV and Ministry of
Agriculture. Their comments were sent in a draft version and were addressed. Comments
received from MoA and the final report from HV are included in Annex 6.
(b) Cofinanciers
Not Applicable
(c) Other partners and stakeholders
JASPERS commended the project for its capacity building. It reported improved capacity,
especially within HV for the assessment and validation of investment proposals and
feasibility studies. It also commended the TA component of the project and its
contribution to the sector reform analysis and agenda for Croatia.
23


﻿Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing
(a) Project Cost by Component (in Euro million)
Estimate
Appraisal    Restructuring   Actual/Latest
Estimate PAD      Paper        financed by     Percentage of
(EUR        Dec 14, 2011    Bank funds       Appraisal
millions)       (EUR        (EUR millions)
millions)
(A) Technical              4.84          9.69           5.65            117%
Assistance
A.1. EU Accession          2.06
support
A.2. Project                             5.36           3.88            126%
Implementation             1.03
Support
A.3. Institutional         1.75          4.33           1.77             101%
Strengthening
(B) Investments           95.16         90.31          81.44             86%
B.1. Utility
Investmets               88.15         78.81          70.53             80%
Investments
B.2. Flood Protection      7.01         11.50          10.91            156%
Investments
Interest and other                                      3.42
charges on the Loan
TOTAL              100.00        100.00          90.5112           9
(b) Financing
Appraisal      Actual/Latest    Percentage of
Source of Funds           Estimate PAD       Estimate
(USD millions)   (USD millions)
Borrower                                6.67             6.96            104%
International Bank for                133.41           119.63             90%
Reconstruction and Development
Total                                 140.08           126.59             90%
12 Table does not reflect the final application for EUR1.6 million that was being processed on June 26, 2013.
24


﻿Annex 2. Outputs by Component
Component A
The component financed the preparation of feasibility studies and designs to be
implemented under the project. It also financed Technical Assistance for the sector,
including for utilities. This included (i) the development of a model-based decision
making process for the selection Wastewater Treatment (WWT) technology and the
improvement of technological operation of WWT plants; (ii) a very well received study
on Institutional Options for the Water Supply and Wastewater sector, i.e., a set of
proposals for utility structure optimization and agglomeration.
The project also supported utility capacity building, including technical assistance to
reduce water losses, improve efficiency and the financial position of the utilities.
Finally and very importantly, the component financed the preparation of studies and
designs for more investments in the water supply, wastewater and flood protection sector
that amount to about EUR 123 million for EU and other IFIs financing. The details and
status of the studies are shown in the following table:
Table 1: Project applications for EU financing prepared through the Project *
IWP financed project applications prepared for EU financing
Estimated value of
Component                Type of task             Status/Comment           ivsmn      ER
investment (EUR)
Wastewater investments in  Preparation of Feasibility  Prepared documentation was    72,645,506
Krapina-Zagorje County    Studies, Preliminary    reviewed by Jaspers. Contract
(Sewerage system Zabok and  Designs and Appraisal  completed by end-2012.
Zlatar                   documents
Wastewater investments in  Preparation of Feasibility  Prepared documentation was    20,305,460
Krapina-Zagorje County    Studies, Preliminary    reviewed by Jaspers. Contract
(Sewerage system_Krapina  Designs and Appraisal  completed by end-2012. Sub-
documents               project Krapina is included in
HV's priority list for financing by
EU Structural Funds.
Sewage network and WWTP   Preparation of Conceptual Contract completed and presented  4,500,000
in Jastrebarsko City      Solution, Feasibility  to representatives of municipal
Studies and Preliminary  company and town of
Design                  Jastrebarsko.
Sewerage network and      Preparation of Feasibility  Contract completed in December  7,266,667
WWTP in Pozega            Studies, Preliminary    2012. For financing either by EU
Design and Main Design  Structural Funds or EIB.
Sewerage network and      Preparation of Feasibility  Contract completed in December  4,266,667
WWTP in Varazdinske       Studies, Preliminary    2012. For financing either by EU
Toplice                   Design and Main Design  Structural Funds or EIB.
25


﻿IWP financed project applications prepared for EU financing
Estimated value of
Component                Type of task              Status/Comment            Estmen (eR)
investment (EUR)
WWTP in Petrinja City      Preparation of Conceptual Contract completed in December    5,266,667
Solution, Preliminary   2012, included in the EU priority
Design and bidding     list. HV is financing in parallel the
documents in accordance  preparation of Feasibility Study,
with FIDIC rules        Environmental Impact
Assessment, and application
document for the project and the
main design for sewage collector.
WWTP in Moscenica          Preparation of Conceptual Contract completed in December    4,480,000
Solution, Preliminary   2012, included in the EU priority
Design and bidding     list. HV is financing in parallel the
documents in accordance  preparation of Feasibility Study,
with FIDIC rules        Environmental Impact
Assessment, and application
document for the project and the
main design for sewage collector.
Rainwater drainage in Dugo  Preparation of        Contract completed by end-2012.      6,133,333
Selo - Martin Breg         Preliminary Design and  To be financed either by EU or
Final Design            EIB funds.
Ecological revitalization of  Study               Based on the study, project          1,000,000
Laslovo_meander                                    application had been prepared and
was financed through IPA Cross
Border Cooperation. Revitalization
is already completed.
*One of the feasibility studies covered 2 areas, thus 9 items in the table instead of the 8 reported in the RE
IWP financed project documentation
Estimated value of
Component                Type of task              Status/Comment           ivsmn      ER
investment (EUR)
Revitalization of Bapska area  Study              Contract completed in December  N/A. Preparatory
- Ilok                                            2012.                           documentation for
project application
(for EU funds or IFI
financing) that is still
not prepared.
Regulation of the water    Study                  Contract completed in December  N/A. Preparatory
regime and revitalization of                      2012.                           documentation for
watercourses in the                                                               project application
Baranjska Karasica river                                                          (for EU funds or IFI
basin                                                                            financing) that is still
not prepared.
Ecological revitalization of  Study               Contract completed in December  N/A. Preparatory
the area of old Vuka riverbed                      2012.                          documentation for
- Antinski serpentine                                                             project application
(for EU funds or IFI
financing) that is still
not prepared.
26


﻿Component B
Sub-component Bi: Utility Investments
Virovitica. Virovitica sewerage system consists of the sewerage network covering the
central part of the city, transport pipeline to the location of the existing wastewater
treatment plant the (WWTP), joint municipal/industrial WWTP and discharge to the
outfall canal. It covers the majority of the city population. IWP financed the expansion of
the existing network to the neighboring settlements and the construction of additional
sewerage system retention space. Specifically:
(i)  Construction of the sewerage collectors in the settlements of Korija, Sv. Durad,
Podgorje and Golo Brdo
(ii)  Construction of the a Retention basin of 5000 m3 needed to increase retention for
storm water.
All planned bidding procedures for the procurement of equipment, execution of
construction works and supervision services were advertised and completed. A total of
five bidding procedures were conducted for the procurement of pumps and pipe material,
construction of approximately 30.5 km of sewerage collectors and the retention tank.
For Rezova6ka Kr6evina and Milinovac, works started in October 2011 and by project
closing 9.5 km were completed, as well as all works on two pumping stations.
Ogulin. Ogulin was without a functioning sewerage system and the population relied on
septic tanks for discharging their wastewaters. IWP constructed the sewerage network for
the central part of the city, transport main and a tertiary level WWTP. Due to the carst
nature of the area and the lack of a surface water body that could be used for discharge of
plant effluent, a high level of effluent quality has been set as a condition by the Ministry
of Environment and Nature Protection. IWP financed:
(i)  Construction of sewerage network (approximately 15 km) and 12 pumping
stations
(ii)  Design, construction, testing and handover of biological WWTP for Ogulin.
(capacity of 7500 PE with wastewater treatment to the level required for discharge
into the ground in carst conditions).
Northern Baranja. In Northern Baranja the water supply system was only partially in
place. The project financed the development of additional water sources and the
extension of the water supply network into the eastern part of the area. Investments
financed by the IWP included:
(i)  Designing, construction, testing and handover of well fields "Topolje" and
"Prosine
(ii)  Construction of the water reservoir and water supply network in the settlement of
Batina (including pressure pipeline, water reservoir of 200 m3 and water supply
network).
14.5 km of water supply pipelines were constructed as well as well field Topolje 40 1/s,
well field Prosine 30 1/s and water reservoir.
27


﻿Nagice. The sewerage system for the Municipality of Nasice was mainly completed,
covering the central part of the city, and including recently completed mechanical
WWTP, but it was necessary to upgrade the existing WWTP and expand existing
sewerage network to cover neighboring settlements. Controlling of waste water disposal
was a priority to safeguard regional drinking water sources. Investments financed under
the project included:
(i)  Construction of the sewerage system in the settlement of Velimirovac,
(ii) Construction of the sewerage system in the settlements of Jelisavac, Ladanska,
Lila, Ribnjak,
(iii) Designing, construction, testing and handover of biological WWTP for the city of
Na§ice,
(iv) and SCADA.
A total of 48.5 km of collector network were constructed as well as 16 pumping stations
- 2 in the area of Velimirovac and 14 in the area of Jelisavac.
Davor - Nova Gradiska. The regional water supply system Davor - Nova Gradiska
(DNG) was developed to provide water supply for the town of Nova Gradiska and 10
other municipalities with more than 50,000 people. A regional water supply system was
established because in this area, there is only one reliable source of drinking water, which
can deliver adequate quantity and quality of water; it is located in Davor. From Davor the
water has to be transported by a transmission main to the whole project area. Investments
financed under the IWP included:
(i)  Construction of the water supply mains and distribution network. These
investments were divided in to 3 separated construction contracts (due to the size
and the status of readiness) 'Davor - Staro Petrovo selo' 'Staro Petrovo selo -
Nova Gradiska' and 'Adamovci - Batina'.
(ii) Construction of the water reservoir 'Staro Petrovo selo'.
(iii) Design and construction of a water treatment plant 'Davor' of capacity of 150.0
1/s and the well field.
All works are completed by the project closing date, except the construction of inter-
county water supply pipeline Staro Petrovo Selo - Zapolje - PS Ljupina, pumping station
Ljupina, and water treatment plant in Davor that are being completed by HV.
The total length of water supply pipelines constructed under this sub-project is 127 km,
including auxiliary facilities (well field Davor 150 1/s, water reservoirs Staro Petrovo
Selo and Davor #2 and #3, and 2 pumping stations in Ljupina and Cernik), about 15%
more works than initially planned.
Southern Baranja. Investment in southern Baranja covered the construction of the
sewerage network in the settlements of Bilje and Darda, located north of Osijek. This
area is close to the Kopacki Rit National Park, and it is important to secure high standards
of environmental protection from wastewaters in the area. After evaluation of different
options, it was decided that all wastewaters from those two municipalities will be
transported to Osijek for treatment at Osijek's WWTP. The main collector was
constructed by HV financing while IWP financed the construction of the collection
28


﻿network in both municipalities. 24 km of collector network was constructed under IWP
(13 km in the area of Bilje and 11.8 km in the area of Darda) as well as 5 pumping
stations - 4 in the area of Bilje and one in the area of Darda.
Slavonska Podravina. The Slavonska Podravina sub-project was divided into two sub-
projects: Podravska Slatina and Donji Miholjac, both with the objective to create a
foundation for development of a regional water supply system and secure sufficient
quantity of water for the residents of the Podravina region.
Podravska Slatina:  The water supply mains Medinci-Moslavina Podravska were
constructed. This included construction of 24 km of water supply pipelines and increased
the capacity of the well field by 40 1/s. The contract was signed for design, manufacture,
supply, installation, testing and commissioning of the water treatment plant "Medinci"
that included reconstruction of the existing facility and extension up to the total capacity
of 99 1/s. Works in Slatina were not completed by December 31, 2012 and are being
completed by HV.
Donji MihoIjac: Activities included construction of water supply mains Donji Miholjac-
Kapelna-Viljevo and water supply network of the settlements Ivanovo, Bockovac, Blanje
and Viljevo, Kapelna and Cret Viljeva6ki Works were launched in March 2011 and the
technical inspection was conducted in June 2012. The total length of water supply
pipelines constructed under this sub-project is 37.5 km, which is 7.5 km more than the
initially planned length.
Vinkovci (Ivankovo, Cerna, Otok and Komletinci). The area around Vinkovci
included a number of smaller municipalities that did not have a wastewater collection,
treatment and disposal system. The population instead relied on septic tanks for
discharging wastewater. The IWP financed construction of the sewerage networks and
WWTP in 4 municipalities: Ivankovo, Cerna, Otok and Komletinci (Otok and Komletinci
are connected in a single system).
The 3 biological WWTP were constructed with the following design capacities: Ivankovo
- 8500 PE, Cema - 6000 PE and Otok - 8000 PE. Completion of investment has allowed
development of sewerage systems in the Vinkovci area (that was started under the
previous Bank-financed Reconstruction Project for Eastern Slavonia, Baranja, and
Western Srijem). All newly constructed systems are operated and maintained by
Vinkovci water and sewerage company. 22 km of collector network were constructed
under this sub-project as well as 4 pumping stations and one overflow facility.
Vukovar. Following the devastation in the recent war, and the post-war recovery, the
municipality of Vukovar needed to upgrade and expand its sewerage network. Part of this
effort was also financed by IWP and included the construction of the sewerage collector
and the pumping stations to connect the sewerage systems of Borovo Naselje with the
city of Vukovar, and so eliminate sewerage outfalls in to the Danube. IWP financed the
construction of the main collector till the presumed location of future biological WWTP
(that will be financed with EU funds). 6.3 km of main collector were constructed under
29


﻿the project as well as 4 pumping stations, 3 overflow facilities, approximately 5 km of
secondary collector network and 3.5 km of connections to the main collector.
Ilok. The sewerage collection system for Ilok had been reconstructed and expanded
(including under WB Eastern Slavonia project), but all collected wastewaters were
discharged into the Danube. The IWP financed the municipal WWTP, an 8000 PE
biological treatment ponds (aerated lagoon) situated near the Danube.
Dugo Selo and Rugvica. Dugo Selo and Rugvica are middle size municipalities in
Zagreb County, located in the Sava river plain. Before IWP they had only a partially
completed wastewater collection network, and wastewater was discharged into the Sava.
IWP financed:
(i)   Design and construction of the WWTP Dugo Selo-Rugvica (25,000 PE).
Contracts were signed in December 2010 but were not completed by Decmber
31, 2012. HV is completing the remaining works with its funds.
(ii)  (ii) Construction of the wastewater collector needed to bring wastewater to the
WWTP including: Hru§6ica-Rugvica in the length of approximately 10 km,
collector Connecting point A - Dugo Selo, collector connecting point A -
Je2evo in the length of 11 km, collector Velika Ostrna-Obedi§6e Je2evsko in the
length of approximately 8.5 km with 7 pumping stations
The total length of collector network constructed under this sub-project is 40 km,
including auxiliary facilities (15 pumping stations, 3 overflow facilities).
30


﻿Table 2: Value of works under different sub-subprojects that could not be completed by December 31, 2012
Contract price without VAT        Value of works that could not  % of
be completed by end 2012   unfinished
Exchange                                                             works per
rate at                                   (EUR)                    sub-project         Comments
Project description         days of     (EUR)          (HRK)        1 EUR= 7,5      (HRK)        until
bids                                      HRK                      12/31/2012
opening
Construction of the inter-county water                                                                              Works unfinished until end-
HV/NC    supply pipeline Staro Petrovo Selo -                                                                                2012 financed by HV. Sub-
B/D-     Zapolje - PS Ljupina, pre-pump station  7.38   3,081,525.86   22,740,459.06   315,650.39   2,367,377.89   10%       project completed by June 30,
NG -     Ljupina, water supply for the section                                                                               2013.
W1       Batrina - Dragovci, Nova Kapela - Donji
Lipovac and Adamovci
HV/IC    Designing, constracting, testing and                                                                               Works unfinished until end-
B/D-     handover of Well field "Davor"       7.19      4,772,257.52   34,305,936.33    50,609.82    379,573.68     1%       2012 financed by HV. Sub-
NG -                                                                                                                         project completed by June 30,
CWG1                                                                                                                         2013.
TOTAL DAVOR - NOVA GRADIKA                    7,853,783.38   57,046,395.39   366,260.21   2,746,951.57
Projektiranje, izrada, dobava, izgradnja,                                                                           Works unfinished until end-
HV/NC    testiranje i primopredaja vodocrpiligta                                                                             2012 financed by HV. Sub-
B/SP -   "Medinci" / Designing, constracting,  7.26     2,115,784.83   15,352,490.18   168,167.38   1,261,255.32    8%      project to be completed by
CWG1    testing and handover of Well field                                                                                   September 30, 2013.
"Medinci"
TOTAL SLATINA:                                 2,115,784.83   15,352,490.18   168,167.38   1,261,255.32
HV/NC   Designing, constracting, testing and                                                                                Works unfinished until end-
B/DS -   handover of Wastewater Treatment Plant  7.29   4,336,879.58   31,608,657.26   276,096.84   2,070,726.29    7%       2012 financed by HV. Sub-
CWGI     of the city Dugo Selo                                                                                              project to be completed by
September 30, 2013.
Construction of the collectors "Spojna                                                                             Works unfinished until end-
HV/IC   toka A-Je2evo" in the city ofDugo Selo  7.42    1,559,526.81   11,565,418.04    38,718.11    290,385.83     3%       2012 financed by HV. Sub-
B/DS -                                                                                                                      project completed by June 30,
W2                                                                                                                           2013.
HV/NC    Construction of the collector Obedig6e                                                                              Works unfinished until end-
B/DS -  Je2evsko - Velika Ostrna in the town of  7.29   1,447,445.30   10,549,474.92   739,029.80   5,542,723.52   53%      2012 financed by HV. Sub-
W4       Dugo Selo                                                                                                           project to be completed by
September 30, 2013.
TOTAL DUGO SELO                                7,343,851.69   53,723,550.22  1,053,844.75  7,903,835.64
TOTAL                                         17,313,419.90  126,122,435.79  1,588,272.34  11,912,042.53    9%
31


﻿Sub-component B2 - Flood Protection
Investments under this sub-component were:
*  Rehabilitation of the north dike in the Lonjsko Polje wetland area. This will protect
the Zagreb-Lipovac motorway and agricultural land north of the motorway from high
flood waters. The said investment prevented flooding of the area during the floods in
late 2010 and 2011;
*  Construction of part of the south dike in the Lonjsko Polje wetland area;
*  Construction of overflow  structure in Palanjek which is required for water
management and system utilization;
*  Rehabilitation of dikes in Trebarjevo Desno and Martinska Ves Desna which was
needed as the existing dikes were old and in a risk of collapsing. Works included
construction of a protection wall to protect nearby houses;
*  Rehabilitation and expansion of the existing left Sava dike on the section Gunja -
Rajevo Selo (km 14+020.92 to km 24+608);
*  Reconstruction of the Drava-Danube dike in Baranja (1.3 km of the Drava-Danube
dike in Baranja was reconstructed)
*  Contracts for construction of the South dyke of the Lonjsko Polje retention basin -
phase I, km 12+745 to km 19+120, revetment and protective wall in Trebarjevo
Desno, as well as for consulting services of supervision of works was signed and
completed, except for the South dike, where approx. 90% of the works were
completed.
32


﻿Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
I.     Background
The main goal of the Project was to improve water supply services, wastewater services,
and flood protection measures in selected municipalities in Croatia. Proposed investments
would also enable Croatia to meet EU directives. Implementation of the Project was to
result in benefits to individuals and society via (a) provision of piped water supply that
will ensure quality and security of supply while permitting increased consumption; and
(b) collection and treatment of wastewater through sewerage networks and wastewater
treatment plant that will reduce health risks by isolating wastewater from humans,
directly and through groundwater contamination. The Project was also expected to
contribute to improved operating efficiency and overall financial position of participating
utilities.
At the time of the Project's appraisal, investments were not yet identified. Therefore, the
Project Appraisal Document (PAD) did not carry out the economic and financial rate of
returns of the overall project, and instead stipulated that the economic and financial
analysis was to be carried out as a part of the feasibility study of each sub-project that
would be part of the Inland Waters Project13. The feasibility studies were made part of
Subsidiary Financing Agreements (SFAs) signed with participating MWSCs.
A total of 12 sub-projects were identified, at different stages of the Project's lifetime. The
baseline information is thus sector wide and not specific to each participating utility. The
bases for ex-post economic and financial analysis (NPV and IRR) are the respective
feasibility studies.
The working ratio 14 was the only financial indicator among the Project Development
Objective (PDO) indicators, measuring improvements in the operating performance of
MWSCs. While its baseline value was not available due to the above mentioned reasons,
during the course of the Project it was reported on an annual basis as a simple average
value for all participating utilities. A target value at the Project's closure was set at 1.0,
which means that at the Project level, MWSCs should break even, i.e., meet their cash
commitments through operating revenues.
The financial analysis, in addition to working ratio, takes also into account improvements
in the bill collection rate to measure improvements in the operating efficiency of MWSCs.
Moreover, HV had to ensure through SFAs that (a) utilities raise tariffs within affordable
levels, in a timely manner to meet operating and investment costs; and (b) utilities submit
their financial statements to HV on an annual basis, so that their financial situation could
regularly be monitored.
" Project Appraisal Document, Inland Waters Project, page 17/paragraph 49, and page 18/paragraph 51.
14 Working ratio is calculated by dividing operating expenses (excluding depreciation) by operating
revenues. A working ratio below 1 indicates that company is able to recover operating costs from annual
revenue.
33


﻿II.    Economic and financial analysis assumptions
As the majority of sub-projects were identified at the later stage and investments were
largely completed by June 2013. Their impact will be visible from 2013 or 2014.
Therefore, the ex-post economic and financial analysis is based on the expected outcomes
as estimated by participating utilities and confirmed by HV.
In the financial analysis, incremental revenues are calculated as a result of the increase in
population connected to water supply and sewerage systems and projected tariff increases
over the economic life of investments. The capital investment costs at the Project's
closure amount to HRK 618.4 million.
The cost and benefit streams are forecasted for a period of 30 years and include only the
incremental costs and benefits that result from the Project. The discount rate used is 8
percent, which was used in feasibility studies, and considered appropriate for these types
of projects, where the water supply and sanitation services are public services. Costs and
benefits are expressed in real prices.
The data at appraisal are taken from the respective feasibility studies. However, the Bank
team was not able to validate the methodology used for NPV and IRR calculations by
different consultancy companies that were in charge of producing feasibility studies. The
information that was made available to the team was taken informatively, but the ERR
and FRR at completion were done using a more conservative approach (i.e., for tariff or
population increase forecasts). Moreover, in some cases the quality of data received from
MWSCs (e.g., KG Park - Donji Miholjac) was poor or not credible, and the team had to
use its own best judgment in making certain projections.
III.   Economic Analysis and Financial NPV and IRR
Feasibility studies of each sub-project outline results of the conducted financial NPV and
IRR. An ex-post calculation of the financial NPV and IRR was performed at the Project
closure for all sub-project investments in 12 different utilities.
A. Economic analysis
The economic rate of return (ERR) for the overall project at completion is 16% and the
NPV is HRK 2.04 billion. The economic analysis is based on the assumptions that the
economic benefits of compliance with EU Water related Directives is quantifiable with
the willingness to pay for improved water supply and wastewater services; the collected
amount has been used as a proxy for estimating the economic value of the willingness to
pay. The other proxy used in this analysis is the costs savings for consumers. Economic
costs of the project include investment and operational cost.
Table 1 shows the ERR of 16% and a positive economic NPV of HRK 2.04 billion for the
overall project at its completion. The resulting NPV is relatively high due to vast cost
savings from customers that will connect to the sewage system. For example, the cost of
cleaning a septic tank is four times the monthly costs of the sewerage service charged by
34


﻿utility to an average household. The ERR is also good considering the nature and location
of investments, as well as a dismal socio-economic environment in Croatia during the
entire period of project implementation.
Table 1: Results of the economic benefits and costs for 12 MWSCs
Net Present Value (in HRK)
Benefits                                            2,523,496,432
of which willingness to pay                         1,067,800,567
of which cost savings to customers (from septic     1,455,695,865
tank cleaning, sewerage service, and prevented
costs of bottled water purchase)
Costs                                                485,599,444
of which operational costs                           186,236,446
of which investment costs                            299,362,998
NPV                                                 2,037,896,988
NPV                 ERR                 B/C             Discount rate
2,037,896,988           16%                 5.2                8.0%
Source: World Bank calculations, SFAs, feasibility studies
The total amount of capital expenditure for the improved access to water supply and
sanitation services and improved quality of water to domestic population in the service
area of 12 participating utilities was estimated at around EUR 81 million. With around
200,000 project beneficiaries, this is equivalent to around 81 EUR/capita/year of
investments during the project implementation.
The ERR does not quantify the benefits of significant investments in the flood protection,
as no systematic data were available to do a comprehensive analysis. A total of HRK 95.6
million was invested into flood protection infrastructures in the Sava river basin.
Retention volume for flood protection (PDO indicator) in the basin has increased from
the baseline's 600 million m3 to 800 million m3 at the Project's closure, reaching a target
value set in the Results Framework. Additional complementary investments planned by
HV for 2013 would further increase the retention volume to around 1 billion in3. The
main objectives of these investments were (i) to protect households and infrastructure
facilities directly threatened by flooding in the Sava basin; and (ii) to increase retention
volume in the basin and lower the Sava's water levels, which also has a positive impact
on neighboring countries (Serbia and Bosnia & Herzegovina). Additionally, these
investments contributed to protection of agricultural production (region's predominant
activity) and preservation of flora and fauna in the Lonjsko Polje Nature Park.
In particular, the following benefits have been assessed by sub-components:
(i) Rehabilitation of Lonjsko Polje north dyke - protection of the international
transport Corridor X (Zagreb-Lipovac) and agricultural land in the area
(ii) Construction of part of Lonjsko Polje south dyke - protection of 7,000 directly
threatened inhabitants in seven villages and part of the city of Sisak (37,000
inhabitants), and 12,000 ha of agricultural land
(iii) Construction of overflow structure in Palanjek - protection of the city of Sisak
(37,000) and several smaller villages
35


﻿(iv) Rehabilitation of dykes in Trebarjevo Desno and Martinska Ves - protection of
800 inhabitants and several important regional roads
(v) Reconstruction of left Sava dyke Gunja-Rajevo Selo - protection of 6,500
inhabitants
B. Financial rate of return
One of the main objectives of the project following its closure was to achieve a
financially balanced situation for all participating utilities. Two scenarios are developed
to estimate the financial NPV and FRR at completion. The first scenario assumes gradual
increase of tariffs until full cost recovery over the 30 years period. It results with an FRR
of 8% and a financial NPV of HRK 16.9 million for the overall project (Table 2).
Because reaching a cost recovery in 30 years for this type of investment is a conservative
assumption, Scenario I is considered as a low-case scenario. The second scenario
assumes tariffs increase to meet full cost recovery in 3-4 years after project completion
and generates an FRR of 13% and a financial NPV of HRK 622 million at project's
completion. This is a result of a strengthened financial position of MWSCs, measured by
improvements in the working ratio. By end-2012, 10 out of 12 MWSCs were able to
cover their operating and maintenance costs from collected revenues.
Table 2: Financial rate of return at project closure for 12 MWSCs
Financial Rate of Return
At appraisal             At completion
Scenario 1       Scenario 2
Net Present Value (NPV) in HRK million    N/A               16.9             622
Internal Rate of Return (IRR)             N/A               8%               13%
Source: World Bank calculations
Financial results at completion were tested by two scenarios also at the sub-project basis
(Table 3). FRRs are positive in both scenarios, with the majority of MWSCs being in the
upper range (8-16%). NPVs under Scenario 2 are positive and larger than those at
appraisal for all utilities except for Darda; while Scenario 1 results with NPVs below
values estimated at appraisal for some utilities. In those cases, tariffs should be modified
in the medium-term to ensure cost recovery.
Table 3: Financial Rate of Return by sub-project
Net Present Value (NPV)      T    Internal Rate of Return (IRR)
in HRK million
At            At completion           At           At completion
appraisal  Scenario 1   Scenario 2    appraisal  Scenario 1   Scenario 2
Water supply sub-project investments
Donji             3.4        8.0          8.0          9.9%      12.0%        12.0%
Miholjac
Beli Manastir  N/A           1.7         53.7       N/A           8.4%        15.5%
Davor-Nova      -57.0      -63.0         95.5          0.1%       4.1%        11.2%
G.
Slatina           5.7       -1.1         15.5          9.2%       7.6%        12.0%
36


﻿Net Present Value (NPV)      T     Internal Rate of Return (IRR)
in HRK million
At            At completion           At           At completion
appraisal  Scenario 1    Scenario 2   appraisal   Scenario 1  Scenario 2
Sewerage sub-project investments
Nasice           -5.2         6.6         68.2         6.4%        8.0%        11.2%
Ogulin         N/A            2.2         83.8       N/A           8.3%        15.5%
Virovitica     N/A           -6.0         22.6       N/A           6.5%        11.9%
Darda           275          11.8         46.4         9.4%       10.0%        15.3%
Dugo Selo       -46          47.3        108.0         1.3%        9.1%        13.4%
Ilok             -0.4         7.4         28.2         9.0%       10.4%        15.6%
Vukovar          32.1       -42.0         39.9        19%          1.1%        11.0%
Vinkoyci       N/A           58.9         58.9         6%         12.0%        12.0%
Source: World Bank calculations, SFAs, feasibility studies
IV.    Financial and operational performance of participating MWSCs
Enhanced operating efficiency of participating MWSCs leads to their long-term financial
viability. This is to be achieved through improvements in the bill collection rate and
working ratio. Additionally, utilities were requested to increase their tariffs and introduce
development fee to cover incremental operating expenses and new capital investment
costs. Tariff modifications required prior approval of the local self-governments, as they
need to be socially affordable but also set at level which is sufficient to cover operating
expenses incurred by utilities.
A. Working ratio
The analysis of 12 participating utilities at the project completion shows that most
utilities have improved their financial position during the course of the project. The
average working ratio in 2012 amounted to 0.7, exceeding the target value of 1.0 for the
year (Figure 1). Moreover, 11 out of 12 utilities have achieved the working ratio below
1.0 (Table 4), which indicates a solid financial cash position of each of them at the
project completion.
Figure 1: Evolution of working ratio for 12 MWSCs 2008-2012
1.00
0.90-
a   0.80-
0.70-
S   0.60-
0.50
2008          2009          2010          2011          2012
Year
Source: World Bank calculations, MWSCs
37


﻿Table 4: Working ratio at project of 12 MWSCs at 2008-2012
Working Ratio
MWSC                                Baseline                 YR 5
(2008)                 (2012)
Ilok                                                     0.8                    0.9
Vinkovci                                                 0.7                    0.7
Darda                                                    1.3                    0.9
Beli Manastir                                            1.4                    0.9
Nasice                                                   0.7                    0.8
Virovitica                                               0.8                    0.7
Vukovar                                                   1.3                   0.6
Davor - Nova Gradiska                                    0.6                    0.4
Dugo Selo                                                1.4                    0.9
Ogulin                                                   1.1                    1.0
Slatina                                                  0.2                    0.5
Donji MihoIjac                                           0.6                    0.6
Average working ratio                                0.9                   0.7
Source: World Bank calculations, MWSCs
Evolution of the working ratio by utility is illustrated by Figure 2. Most utilities have
improved their operating performance in the course of the project implementation.
Figure 2: Evolution of working ratio by MWSCs 2008-2012
KG Park (Donji MihoIjac)
Dukom (Dugo Selo)
Komrad (Slatina)
Vodov. Kanalizacija Ogulin
Regionalni vodovor Davor - Nova Gradiska
Vodovod grada Vukovara
Vodovod Virkom
Nasicki vodovod
Baranj ski vodovod (Beli Manastir)
Vodoopskrba (Darda)
Vinkovacki vodovod i kanalizacija
Komunalije Ilok
-     0.2   0.4   0.6   0.8   1.0   1.2   1.4   1.6   1.8
m2012 m2011 m2010 m2009 m2008
Source: World Bank calculations, MWSCs
B. Billing and collection efficiency
All utilities increased their billing revenues during the project implementation (with the
exception of Davor - Nova Gradiska), due to higher water and sewerage tariffs and high
collection efficiency. The aggregate increase in billing and collection revenues was 48
and 47%, respectively, in period 2008-2012 (Figure 3).
38


﻿Figure 3: Evolution of billing and collection for 12 MWSCs 2008-2012 (in HRK)
140,000,000 r-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
130,000,000  -------------------------------------------------------------------------   ----------
120,000,000 --------------------------------------------------------------------  --------------  ---------
110,000,000  ---------------------------------------------------------  -------  --------------------------
100,000,000  -------------------------------------------  -------  ---- ----------------------------
90,000,000---                 -----  ----
90,0 0,0 0  ----- ----------  ------------ ------------------------------------------------
80,000,000
2008         2009         2010         2011         2012
Year
wm*emBilling           -0Collection
Source: World Bank calculations, MWSCs
Collection efficiency rates are among the most critical factors that affect the utilities'
operating efficiency. The aggregate collection rate for all utilities decreased slightly from
91% in 2008 to 90% in 2012 (Figure 4). Although results vary by MWSCs, they are
mostly a product of the global economic crisis that has been looming since 2008.It has
had a severe impact on household income in Croatia and affected mostly its poorest areas,
such as municipalities in Baranja or Slavonija.
Figure 4: Collection rate evolution for 12 MWSCs 2008-2012
100.00%  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
95.00%  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
C)85.00% ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
80.00%
2008           2009           2010           2011            2012
Year
Source: World Bank calculations, MWSCs
Table 5: Billing and collection revenues for 12 MWSCs (in HRK 000)
Billing                     Collection           Collection rate
MWSC            Baseline     YR 5       %     Baseline    YR 5       %      208      01
%                                                       %       008    201
2008         2012             2008         2012
1 . Ilok                2,276      2,271    100%      2,011     1,999     99%     88%     88%
2. Vinkoyci            28,764      37,819    131%    22,977     29,248   127%     80%     77%
3. Darda                1,550      3,073     198%     2,527     2,823    112%     163%    92%
4. Beli Manastir        6,222      9,854     158%     5,667     9,356     165%    91%      95%
5. Nasice               7,383      13,099    177%     5,901     10,376   176%     80%     79%
6. Virovitica           8,502      17,552   206%      7,952     15,704   197%     94%     89%
7. Vukovar              6,467      16,989   263%      6,575     16,682   254%     102%    98%
8. Davor-Nova            934       1,923    206%       631      1,515    240%     68%      79%
Gradiska
39


﻿Billing                  Collection         Collection rate
MWSC          Baseline    YR 5           Baseline   YR 5     %      2008   2012
2008      2012             2008     2012
9. Dugo Selo         11,957    14,569   122%    9,477    12,518   132%   79%     86%
10. Ogulin           7,654     8,519    111%    10,724   11,921   111%   140%   140%
11. Slatina          4,785     4,738    99%     3,886    4,792    123%   81%    101%
12. Donji Miholjac   4,480     4,480    100%    4,310    4,310   100%    96%     96%
Total for 12         90,973   134,887  148%    82,639   121,245  147%    91%     90%
MWSCs
Source: World Bank calculations, MWSCs
C. Water production and sales
The PAD estimates that an increase in water production and sales volume would be one
of the key factors contributing to incremental revenues of 12 participating utilities.
However, this factor cannot be captured in this analysis at this stage, since the expected
impact of investments will be seen as of 2013. Several utilities experienced an increase in
the volume of water produced and sold. While the impact of it on the aggregate volume
of water produced and sold in all utilities is minor (Figure 5), these utilities managed to
influence billing over the period and thus improve their financial performance. The
access to piped water and sewerage system by population in the service area of
participating utilities, as a consequence of the project, is expected to grow sharply from
2013 and thus further contributed to financial and operational efficiency.
Figure 5: Evolution of water production and sales for 12 MWSCs 2008-2012
27,000,000
25,000,000
~.  23,000,000                                             ...      ...
Z21,000,000                                                     .. ....
19,000,000
17,000,000
15,000,000
2008        2009       2010        2011       2012
Year
-   Water production  memnWater sales
Source: World Bank calculations, MWSCs
D. Financial efficiency
Another incremental benefit for utilities is enhanced financial efficiency and
improvements of financial management practices. The project has contributed to it
through consultancy services provided to all utilities, which mainly focused on setting up
separate cost-accounting systems for multi-purpose utility companies. The water and
sewerage activities of each respective utility were thus looked at separately and cross-
subsidization of other activities performed by the MWSC was eliminated.
40


﻿The operating revenue has a growing trend, higher than that of the operating costs, as a
result of tariff increase at a higher pace than expenses (Figure 6). It should be noted
however that the impact of the project investments on the operating costs, and of the sub-
loan cost on the total cash expenses, will be seen starting from 2013.
Figure 6: Evolution of operating revenue vs. operating costs
for 12 MWSCs 2008-2012 (in HRK)
160,000,000 -
140,000,000 -
120,000,000
100,000,000
80,000,000
60,000,000
40,000,000 -
20,000,000 -
0
2008         2009        2010         2011         2012
a    Operating costs      maOperating revenues
Source: World Bank calculations, MWSCs
The overall operating expenses have increased by 15%, while the operating revenues rose
49% over the project's lifetime (Table 6). However, results vary significantly by utility.
Table 6: Operating costs and revenues for 12 MWSCs 2008-2012 (in HRK)
Operating costs                 Operating revenues
Baseline      YR 5               Baseline      YR 5
2008         2012                2008         2012
1. Ilok                 1,855,103     1,916,970  103%    2,276,075     2,270,913  100%
2. Vinkovci            20,166,687    24,590,755  122%   28,764,173    37,819,322  131%
3. Darda                2,000,360     2,442,189  122%    1,549,934     3,073,456  198%
4. Beli Manastir        8,707,817     8,352,376  96%     6,222,134     9,854,486  158%
5. Nasice               5,307,064     9,345,865  176%    7,382,722    13,098,887  177%
6. Virovitica           6,947,633     7,940,945  114%    8,501,803    17,551,587  206%
7. Vukovar              8,598,584     9,566,078  111%    6,466,520    16,989,335  263%
8. Davor - Nova
523,071       661,298   126%     933,933      1,923,372  206%
Gradiska
9. Dugo Selo           17,111,421    17,639,581  103%   11,957,182    14,569,224  122%
10. Ogulin              8,413,792     8,599,682  102%    7,653,957     8,518,634  111%
11. Slatina             1,182,561     2,135,827  181%    4,784,725     4,738,120  99%
12. Donji Miholjac      2,500,000     2,500,000  100%    3,953,786     4,175,725  106%
Total                  83,314,092    95,691,564  115%   90,446,945   134,583,061  149%
Source: World Bank calculations, MWSCs
Energy and personnel expenses make up the bulk of operating expenses. In 2008, energy
and personnel expenses accounted for 65% of the total operating costs, while in 2012
their share increased to 69%.
41


﻿The electricity costs as a percentage of the total operation and maintenance (O&M) costs
is within the range of 12-18%, which is a very good indicator of energy efficiency,
compared to average electricity cost of utilities in Western Europe. During the period
2008-2012, the portion of energy costs in operating costs was constant and at around 13-
14% for all 11 utilities taken together, demonstrating a good direction towards sustaining
operating expenses and improving utilities' efficiency.
Personnel expenses take up more than half of the total operating costs, due to a relatively
high number of staff per 1,000 water connections in comparison to most Western
European utilities. Moreover, personnel expenses increased by 31% over 2008-2012,
which is higher than the 19% increase in the total O&M costs over the same period.
Reduction of the staff costs is one of the key challenges for Croatian utilities to improve
their operating efficiency in the future and achieve financial sustainability.
Other than high collection rates, significant tariff increases were among the most
important factors contributing to improved financial efficiency of utilities. Tariffs for
water and wastewater services nearly doubled since 2007, which was a significant step
towards covering the incremental operating expenses, resulting from new investments in
the water and sewerage network.
E. Loan repayment capability
The Bank loan was transferred from the Ministry of Finance to HV. HV then signed
SFAs with participating MWSCs and transferred 70-95% of the Bank loan as a grant
from HV to the utility. The remaining portion was transferred as a loan. The repayment
of the Bank loan is utility specific. In principle, MWSCs contribute up to 30% of the total
debt service, HV contributes with 25% of the debt service, while the remaining portion is
covered by the central government budget. MWSCs' share of the debt is recovered from
the development fee, introduced specifically for the purpose of this project and collected
by the utilities. Municipalities are co-signers of the SFAs and also guarantors of a debt
service in the event of utilities' default on repayment.15
It should be noted that most of the participating MWSCs are multi-service public
companies under the ownership of local self-governments. The utilities are financially
and legally independent entities and have to operate on cost coverage basis, according to
the law.16
The SFAs were signed under the same conditions as those of the main loan from the
Bank to the Ministry of Finance. Grace period for the loan is 5 years hence, as per SFAs
utilities will commence the sub-loan repayment (which includes a capitalized interest
from beginning of the sub-project) in 2012, in two equal annual installments for a period
15 The Subsidiary Financing Agreement will also specify that the debt service payments will be made by
the utilities to HV. Project Appraisal Document, Inland Waters Project, page 18/paragraph 53.
16 The principle of full cost recovery for water services' from the Framework Water Directive has been
transposed into the Act on Water Management Financing, primarily through Article 3.
42


﻿of 15 years. Interest rate is EUR LIBOR + 0.22 to 0.35%, the commitment fee is 0.25%
and the front-end fee is 0%.
All utilities have introduced development fee to cover sub-loan repayment, which in
some cases was increased over the project implementation to ensure full coverage of the
debt service costs. The Bank team determined that in cases of Beli Manastir and Donji
Miholjac the 2012 level of development fee is not sufficient to service the annual debt
cost, and therefore municipalities will have to approve a fee/tariff adjustment in 2013.
The other challenge for utilities is to achieve a high (i.e., sufficient) collection rate of this
fee.
43


﻿Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes
(a) Task Team members
Responsibility/
Names                       Title             Unit        specialty
Specialt
[Lending
Stjepan Gabric           Senior Operations Officer   ECSUW    Water Engineer
Hana Huzjak              Operation Analyst Consultant  ECSTR  Financial Analysis
[Maria Teresa R. Lim      Program Assistant           ECSSD    Team Support
Mirela Mart              Consultant                  ECSOQ    FM
Norval Stanley Peabody   Consultant                  EASIS    Social
Sudipto Sarkar           Sector Leader               EASWE TTL
Antonia G. Viyachka      Procurement Specialist       ECSO2   Procurement
Michael John Webster     Sr Water & Sanitation Spec.  AFTU1   Engineer
Supervision/ICR
Nurul Alam               Senior Procurement Specialist  ECSO2  Procurement
Lynette Alemar           Senior Program Assistant    ECSSD    ISR/Team support
Blanka Babic             Consultant                  ECSUW    Economist
Arben Bakllamaja         Financial Specialist        ECSUW    ICR
Ljiljana Boranic         Team Assistant              ECCHR {Team Support
Elisabetta Capannelli    TTL                         ECSRO {TTL
[Majed El-Bayya           Lead Procurement Specialist  ECSO2   Procurement
Stjepan Gabric           Officer      Operations     ECSUW    Engineering
Financial Analysis!
Hana Huzjak              Operation Analyst           ECSTR    Moniorn
Monitoring
Bogdanka Krtinic         Program Assistant           ECCHR Team support
Lamija Marijanovic       Financial Management Specialist ECSO3  FMS
.Marino         Lead Water and Sanitation                     .
Manuel G.                Specialis                    ECSUW   Water Specialist
Specialist
Kishore Nadkarni         Consultant                  ECSEG    Financial/Economics
Norval Stanley Peabody   Consultant                  EASIS    Social
Sudipto Sarkar           Sector Leader               EASWE TTL
Amelito Velasco          Procurement Analyst         ECSO2    Procurement
Natasa Vetma             Senior Operations Officer   ECSEN    Environment
Antonia G. Viyachka      Procurement Specialist       ECSO2   Procurement
Anneliese Viorela Voinea  Financial Management Analyst ECSO3  FMS
Michael John Webster     Senior Water & Sanitation   AFTU1 TTL
Specialist\.
44


﻿(b) Staff Time and Cost
Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                              USD Thousands (including
F  No.of saff eeks travel and consultant costs)
[Lending                    I
FY06                       1                                 52.08
FY07                       1                                198.39
Total:                                250.47
Supervision/ICR
FY07                                                          1.02
FY08                                 32.13                  136.02
FY09                                 37.02                  107.55
FY10                                 35.78                  108.97
FY11                                 31.06                  108.26
FY12                                 18.36                   69.90
FY13                                 18.73                   86.24
Total:         173.08                 617.96
45


﻿Annex 5. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
Not applicable.
46


﻿Annex 6. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR
1. Relevance of Project Objectives
The project's development objective was to improve water supply services, wastewater
services, and flood protection measures in municipalities selected from the inland part of
Croatia.
Higher level objectives to which the project was designed to contribute were:
(i)    to increase the service coverage of water supply and wastewater collection
and treatment, in the inland part of Croatia, by investments in construction of
the water utility management infrastructure and technical assistance
supporting service. Envisaged and performed activities were in line with the
objective of the country to meet EU directives to provide good quality water
and collect and treat wastewater. The Technical Assistance component was
tailed to help: (a) prepare projects that would help the country to absorb EU
funds and meet EU directives; and (b) strengthen the beneficiary water
utilities which in turn will help to promote better management for the
provision of water and wastewater services; and
(ii)  to minimize impact of floods in the Sava River Basin in Croatia as well as in
downstream riparian countries which provides a positive regional impact of
the project by envisaged investments in the central Posavina area which will
increasing the flood water retention volume.
The following key performance indicators to measure the project's success were used to
determine the success of the project related to the utilities. The indicators presented
below are the entire set of indicators for the project. However, their application depended
on the nature of the investments as determined in the Results Framework:
o  coverage of public water supply: this will be achieved through the proposed
investments in targeted municipalities;
o  coverage of sewerage: this will be achieved through the proposed investments in
targeted municipalities;
o  volume of wastewater treated: this will be achieved through wastewater treated -
as per applicable legislation-in the targeted municipalities;
o  retention volume for flood protection: through the flood protection component the
retention volume will increase from 600 to 800 million m3 in the Lonjsko Polje
flood plain;
o  working ratio: this initiative to improve the operational efficiency of the utilities
will be supported through the Technical Assistance (TA) component. Working
ratio is defined as cash operating expenses divided by collected revenues and
should decline due to operational efficiency;
o  percentage of customers satisfied with the service: the TA component supported
an improvement in the quality of service provided by the utilities. This has been
measured through an increase in percentage of satisfied customers, verified
through surveys collected before and after the implementation of each sub-
project; and
47


﻿o projects submitted to the Government that will be proposed for financing by the
EU or other financial institutions.
2. Suitability of Project Design
Project Design was defined through multiannual programme of cooperation between the
World Bank and the Republic of Croatia were concept of the Inland Waters Project was
introduced in September, 2005. PAD concept was confirmed by signing of the Loan
Agreement and Project Agreement on June 12, 2007 in Davor and ratified on July 13,
2007. by the Croatian Parliament.
Upon the conclusions of the Joint Portfolio Review of 21 February 2011, the Government
of the Republic of Croatia requested restructuring of the Loan and reallocation of the
Loan amounts, the Bank approved the proposed restructuring in May 2011.
The approved restructuring did not cause changes in project design only improve already
defined objectives by including potential flood protection investments in the Drava and
Danube river basins.
Therefore relevant amendments were added to the Loan Agreement. The amendments
included the replacement of text in Schedule 1. Project Description, Part B: Investments,
point 2 of the Loan Agreement to include potential flood protection investments in the
Drava and Danube river basins, and reallocation of Loan proceeds in Schedule 2. Project
Execution, Section IV Withdrawal ofLoan Proceeds, Part A: General, point 2:
Category                     Amount of theLoan allocated
Category(EUR million)
(1) Consultants' Services and Training for Parts A. 1 and A.2 of  3  5.2
the Project
(2) Consultants' Services and Training for Part A.3 of the   1.7--+4.2
Project
(3) Works and Goods for Part B.1 of the Project             85.5  76.45
(4) Works and Goods for Part B.2 of the Project             6.8  11.15
(5) Interest and other charges on the Loan accrued on or before  3
October 15, 2012.
TOTAL AMOUNT                                                   100
It was also request that the Annex 5 to the Loan Agreement, Section I, para (iv) Advances
(sections 5 and 6), sub-para Ceiling (section 6.1) is amended to read "E 2 million"
instead of "E 1 million".
3. Suitability of Implementation Arrangements
The Republic of Croatia, represented by the Ministry of Finance as the Borrower of the
Bank loan. The Bank loan proceeds pass on to HV to implement the project in
accordance with the project objective and in line with the Government's plan to
implement the Croatian Water Management Strategy. An Project Implementation Unit
(PIU) - comprising 9 staff - was created in HV and this unit co-ordinate day to day
project activities and draw upon the resources and expertise of HV as necessary.
48


﻿Nowadays the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA), previously Ministry of Regional
Development, Forestry, and Water Management (MRDFWM), and initially Ministry of
Agriculture, Forestry, and Water Management (MoAFWM) is the sector ministry that
oversees the development of the water sector including compliance with EU directives at
the municipal utility level and proper installation of flood protection measures. The MOA
also supervised the activities of HV, so also this project to its finalization.
The key functions of HV are outlined below:
o  implement the flood protection component and the TA related to national policies;
o  prepare sub-projects with the utilities for investments to be made at the utility
level, with support from consultants;
o  carry out procurement functions for expenditures incurred by HV under the
project. HV will also carry out the procurement on behalf of utilities as they have
limited number of trained staff and would need assistance on procurement matters.
HV's assistance could include: preparation of bidding documents; evaluation of
bids (utilities will be represented in evaluation committees),
o  make all disbursements from the Designated Account for all components of the
project;
o  ensure that the utilities make their debt service payments to the escrow account in
a timely manner;
o  monitor the flow of funds for the financial management purposes of the project;
and
o  report the progress made in the project through the Project Reports on a six-month
basis
o  prepare final report of the Project
The utilities benefit from the project and carry out the investments with the assistance
from HV so that the expected service standards are met. The utilities also generate
resources through increases in tariffs to pay for their portion of debt service. The utilities
also implement the Technical Assistance component so that it makes operational
improvements. The key functions of utilities are outlined below:
o  prepare the sub-projects with HV and consultants;
o  carry out the procurement functions with HV;
o  ensure that debt service payments are deposited in the escrow account in a timely
manner;
o  supervise the contractors, with the support from HV, to ensure that project
objectives are being met;
o  implement the institutional strengthening component so that the utilities operate
more efficiently; and
o  provide necessary information to HV so that the Project Reports are prepared on a
timely basis.
Municipalities that would benefit from the project signed the Subsidiary Financing
Agreement with HV, along with the participating utilities. The municipalities are
shareholders of the utilities and take important decisions on investments and tariffs. As a
result, they were involved through the Subsidiary Financing Agreement and assured HV
49


﻿that the utilities satisfactorily implemented the project and utility tariffs raised within
affordable levels to provide the resources that are necessary for debt service.
The implementation arrangements have been provided for adequate involvement of the
different stakeholders. No difficulties have been encountered in this regard.
4. Project Implementation
The project implementation commenced with short delays, due to delays in preparation
by HV, but also long lasting the Banks approvals of the fundamental sub-projects
documentation such as Terms of References for the Feasibility Studies and the Feasibility
Studies as such, but generally the Bank provided necessary support the work of PIU.
Delays were also during implementation of the activities during construction works but
finally planned activities have been proceded and mostly completed within the original
timeframe.
Based on the Project Implementation Plan, adopted by Hrvatske vode and the World
Bank, subsidiary financing agreements (SFA) were signed in the second half of 2007 and
early 2008 with all the towns and municipalities accepted and approved by the Croatian
Government and the World Bank in the process of preparation of Project implementation,
namely: Ogulin, Virovitica, municipalities in the area of Northern Baranja and Nagice,
since they have fulfilled all the conditions for the commencement of Project realization.
In 2009, SFAs were signed with municipalities in the area of Southern Baranja, as well as
the municipalities in the area of the County of Slavonski Brod-Posavina (sub-project
Davor - Nova Gradi9ka). In mid-2010, two SFAs were signed with the towns Vukovar
and Ilok, and in October 2010 with the municipalities of Cerna, Ivankovo and Otok. In
December 2010, the SFA was signed for the sub-project Dugo Selo-Rugvica, and in
February 2011 the last SFAs were signed for the sub-projects Podravska Slatina and
Donji Miholjac. A total of 12 Subsidiary Financing Agreements were signed, by which
EUR 84.699 million was committed or approx. EUR 79 million of World Bank Loan. At
project completion, addendum to the Subsidiary Financing Agreements can be signed in
accordance with actually incurred costs of sub-projects.
The value of contracts signed under Component A. Technical Assistance amounted to
EUR 9 million.
The value of contracts signed under Component B 1 amounted to EUR 81.6 million.
The value of contracts signed under Component B2 amounted to EUR 11.8 million.
By the end of 2012, activities under almost all contracts were completed. There are 6
remaining contracts for construction works representing the functional units which were
not completed by the end of 2012 (2 contracts under the Davor-Nova Gradi§ka project:
"Design, manufacture, supply, installation, testing and commissioning of the well field
Davor", "Construction of the inter-county water supply pipeline Staro Petrovo Selo -
Zapolje - PS Ljupina, pre-pump station Ljupina, water supply for the section Batrina -
50


﻿Dragovci, Nova Kapela - Donji Lipovac and Ad2amovci"; 1 contract under the
Podravska Slatina sub-project: ,,Design, manufacture, supply, installation, testing and
commissioning of the of the well field Medinci", and 3 contracts under the Dugo Selo
sub-project: "Design, manufacture, supply, installation, testing and commissioning of the
wastewater treatment plant in Dugo Selo" and "Construction of the collector Obedi§6e
Je2evsko - Velika Ostrna in the town Dugo Selo", "Construction of the collector
Connecting point A - Je2evo in the town Dugo Selo". Approx. EUR 1.6 million remains
unrealized. Also, an additional EUR 0.8 million is not achieved in 2 contracts in Flood
Protection, but these contracts are implemented as functional units. As per the
Contractors' dynamic plans, completion of unrealized works is foreseen in June 2013,
and they are financed through the regular budget of Hrvatske vode. Unfinished contracts
per subprojects are presented in Appendix 5.
5. Project Cost and Financing
Compared with the original estimate made at project appraisal, the project has utilized the
available funds. Reallocation of project funds was made in timely and effective manner.
A total of EURO 92,9117 millions of Loan amount was withdrawn by the end of June 30,
2013.
Information regarding the project costs, financing and procurement are provided in the
Attachments.
6. Project Benefits
The primary beneficiaries have been the population of areas targeted by the project where
householders have access to water supply and wastewater services. In addition, farmers
and local agricultural organization are now realizing increased yields and incomes due to
better flood control. The table "Project Outcome indicators" summarizes the status of
performance indicators. The Project exceeds the initial development targets for all
elements.
Technical Assistance Component
Sub-component Al - EU accession support: The project produced three major
achievements:
o  The sub-project "Preparation of sub-projects of the sewerage system in the
County of Krapina-Zagorje" has contributed to preparation of feasibility studies,
preliminary designs, environmental impact assessments and documents required
for applying to the EU. The project has been included in the priority list of 39
projects being prepared for financing from the future Cohesion funds. It has also
ensured successful implementation of the IPA Environmental Protection
Operational Programme 2007-2013, which for the wastewater projects focuses on
increasing connection levels to sewerage and wastewater treatment facilities, by
17 One final application for EUR 1.6 million was being processed on June 26.
51


﻿constructing new WWTPs and networks, as well as increasing the efficiency and
reliability of the public sewerage and WWTP as well as by repairing existing
sewerage networks with significant permeability.
o  The sub-project "Consultants' services for development and application of models
and guidelines to facilitate decision-making in the extension of wastewater
treatment plants and to increase operational efficiency of existing WWTPs" has
provided an overview of the efficiency of operation of existing WWTPs and will
facilitate decision-making regarding the selection of technology for upgrading to
tertiary treatment. The results of this project are aimed at protecting Croatia's
water resources and complying to EU standards.
o  The study "Study of the institutional options in the water supply and wastewater
sector" provide analyse and elements for prescribing the by-laws necessary for
establishment of water service areas and institutional capacities.
Sub-component A2 - Project Implementation Support: The objective of this sub-
component was realized through preparation of feasibility studies, bidding documents
and contract documents, review of designs and preparation of annual audit reports.
Consulting services related to this sub-component included services of expert supervision
of construction and preparation of innovative studies related to flood management and
wetland revitalization.
Sub-component A3 - Institutional Strengthening of Utilities: The objective of this sub-
component was achieved through the preparation of feasibility studies, design documents
required for obtaining the necessary permits, assistance in reducing water losses and
improvement of financial statuses of municipal utilities, customer surveys at the
beginning and end of Project implementation, and conducting construction supervision.
Investment Component.
Sub-component B] - Utility investments: The Government has adopted the goal of
meeting EU standards of wastewater treatment and collection. The wastewater treatment
potentially eliminated the threats to the quality of groundwater aquifer, which is the
population's primary source of clean water. Reduced biological oxygen demand (BOD)
has also improved water quality to downstream areas, thereby improving the quality of
water discharged in the Sava and Drava and, later in the Danube.
Sub-component B2 - Flood control: The expected benefits consist of increased protection
against floods for valuable agricultural land and rural infrastructure. The project has
improved the overall economic situation in the area and at the same time contributed to
increased farmers' incomes.
7. Borrower's Performance and Lessons Learned
The Borrower's and implementing agency's performance have been satisfactory with
outstanding performance starting from the preparation phase, during which the Borrower
showed a high degree of commitment and cooperation with the Bank and throughout the
project implementation as the Borrower and HV have been prompt in resolving problems
52


﻿and responding in timely and efficient manner to Bank requirements. In particular, HV
was very effective with support from the Borrower. There have been no problems with
the provision of counterpart funding.
All procurement actions have been managed by the PIU established by and within HV.
The PIU has managed the project implementation with little delay in the beginning but
highly effectively at the end of the project. HV as implementing agency has taken full
responsibility for the financing of all works that could not be completed by the project
closing date.
Lessons Learned -
1. Project preparatory phase must take adequate time to help to avoid problems in
the implementation phase.
2. It is essential from the beginning of the project to have sufficient capacity of staff
in the PIU, and the remuneration system in the implementing agency or in the PIU
must be adequately established depending on the commitment on the work in
order to be able to motivate staff.
3. Utility  companies that do not have sufficient capacity   necessary  for
implementation of the project should be supported by the HV.
8. Bank's Performance and Lessons Learned
Bank's performance has been satisfactory, less in the preparatory phase, but very
cooperative in project implementation phase. Bank's team was changed during the project
implementation, but the change did not have impact on the continuity of the project
performance. Supervision and procurement review were performed in timely manner
providing advice to the Borrower and PIU whenever needed. The Bank's team has
established a very effective relationship with the implementing agency.
53


﻿P    5  4 7 2
REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE
10000 Zagreb, UI. grada Vukovara 78, P.P. 1034
Phone: (+385 1) 61 06 111, Fax: (+385 1) 61 09 201
Class: 900-02/10-01/33
RefNo: 525-12/0926-13-6
Zagreb, June 21, 2013
The World Bank Office , Croatia
INTARNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Radnidka cesta 80/IX
10000 Zagreb
OBJECT: INLAND WATERS PROJECT (LOAN 7453-HR)
Implementation Completion and Results Report - Comments
On June 12, 2013 you sent to us the Implementation Completion and Results Report (ICR) for
the Croatia Inland Waters Project prepared by the Bank. You asked our review and official
comments on the report including those on the ratings and you also asked Borrower's own
evaluation of the Project.
We have reviewed the ICR and our comments are as follows:
BORROWER PERFORMANCE
Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
ORIGINAL TEXT
Croatian Waters implemented the project well, although it took a long time for Croatian
Waters to establish adequate implementation capacity. Very little happened in the early years
of the project and no Pll was actually set-up until the end ofyear 2.
COMMENT
PIU was set up from the begining of the Project but PU was not fully staffed.
ORIGINAL TEXT
Implementation substantially accelerated from the third year of implementation as the PIU
was fully staffed. The delays accrued in the final months of the project, however, could have
been managed more timely. Croatian Waters could have worked more closely with some of
the utilities, supporting them with the management of the ongoing contracts.
54


﻿Municipalities that would benefit from the project signed the Subsidiary Financing
Agreement with Croatian Waters, along with the participating utilities. The municipalities are
shareholders of the utilities and take important decisions on investments and tariffs. As a
result, they were involved through the Subsidiary Financing Agreement and assured Croatian
Waters that the utilities satisfactorily implemented the project and utility tariffs raised within
affordable levels to provide the resources that are necessary for debt service.The
implementation arrangements have been provided for adequate involvement of the different
stakeholders. No difficulties have been encountered in this regard.
The project implementation commenced with short delays, due to delays in
preparation by Croatian Waters, but also long lasting the Banks approvals of the fundamental
sub-projects documentation such as Terms of References for the Feasibility Studies and the
Feasibility Studies as such, but generally the Bank provided necessary support the work of
PIU.
Delays were also during implementation of the activities during construction works but finally
planned activities have been proceded and mostly completed within the original timeframe.
Compared with the original estimate made at project appraisal, the project has utilized the
available funds. Reallocation of project funds was made in timely and effective manner. A
total of EURO 92,91 millions of Loan amount was withdrawn by the end of June 30, 2013.
The primary beneficiaries have been the population of areas targeted by the project where
householders have access to water supply and wastewater services.
In addition, farmers and local agricultural organization are now realizing increased yields and
incomes due to better flood control.
The Borrower's and implementing agency's performance have been satisfactory with
outstanding performance starting from the preparation phase, during which the Borrower
showed a high degree of commitment and cooperation with the Bank and throughout the
project implementation as the Borrower and Croatian Waters have been prompt in resolving
problems and responding in timely and efficient manner to Bank requirements. In particular,
Croatian Waters was very effective with support from the Borrower.
All procurement actions have been managed by the PIU established by and within Croatian
Waters. The PIU has managed the project implementation with little delay in the beginning
but highly effectively at the end of the project. Croatian Waters as implementing agency has
taken full responsibility for the financing of all works that could not be completed by the
project closing date.
Bank's performance has been satisfactory, less in the preparatory phase, but very cooperative
in project implementation phase. Bank's team was changed during the project implementation,
but the change did not have impact on the continuity of the project performance. Supervision
and procurement review were performed in timely manner providing advice to the Borrower
and PIU whenever needed.
55


﻿Inland Waters Project (Loan 7453-HR)
Implementation Completion and Results -summary
The Inland Waters Project development objective was to improve water supply
services, wastewater services, and flood protection measures in municipalities selected from
the inland part of Croatia.
The project was designed to contribute to increase the service coverage of water supply and
waste water collection and treatment in the inland part of Croatia by investments in
construction of the water utility management infrastructure and technical assistance
supporting service.
All those activities were in line with objectives of the country to meet EU directives to
provide good quality of water and collect and treat wastewater.
Technical Assistance was tailed to help to prepare projects that would help the country to
absorb EU funds, meet EU directives and strengthen the beneficiary water utilities to promote
better management for the provision of water and wastewater services. Also to minimize
impact of floods in the Sava River Basin in Croatia as well as in downstream countries which
provide a positive regional impact of the project by investments in the central Posavina area
which will increasing the flood water retention volume.
Inland Waters Project was defined through multiannual programme of cooperation
between the World Bank and the Republic of Croatia where concept of the Inland Waters
Project was introduced in September, 2005. PAD concept was confirmed by signing of the
Loan Agreement and Project Agreement on June 12, 2007 in Davor and ratified on July 13,
2007. by the Croatian Parliament.
Upon the conclusions of the Joint Portfolio Review of 21 February 2011, the Government of
the Republic of Croatia requested restructuring of the Loan and reallocation of the Loan
amounts. The Bank approved the proposed restructuring in May 2011.
The approved restructuring did not couse changes in project design only improve already
defined objectives by including potential flood protection investments in the Drava and
Danube river basins.
The Republic of Croatia, represented by the Ministry of Finance as the Borrower of
the Bank loan. The Bank loan proceedes passes on to Croatian Waters to implement the
project in accordance with the project objective and in line with the Government's plan to
implement the Croatian Water Management Strategy.
Nowadays the Ministry of Agriculture, previously Ministry of Regional Development,
Forestry, and Water Management, and initially Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry, and Water
Management is the sector ministry that oversees the development of the water sector
including compliance with EU directives at the municipal utility level and proper installation
of flood protection measures. The Ministry of Agriculture also supervised the activities of
Croatian Waters, so also this project to its finalization.
The utilities benefit from the project and carry out the investments with the assistance from
Croatian Waters so that the expected service standards are met. The utilities also generate
resources through increases in tariffs to pay for their portion of debt service. The utilities also
implement the Technical Assistance component so that it makes operational improvements.
56


﻿COMMENT
Croatian Waters worked hard to cooperate with utility companies during the project
implementation. Delay in project implementation was to come up at the turn of 2011-2012
years, there was a delay in flow of money of relevant institutions to pay the contractor and
Croatian Waters had to suspend work on most construction sites. Delay in payment did not
last long, but it impact on delay in project implementation for several months and it was
reflected at the end of the project.
Lessons Learned
ORIGINAL TEXT
The fifth and last, a PIU was not ready and fully staffed at the beginning ofthe project and
this substantially contributed to the initial delays. When a project is to be implemented very
fast, with designs to be done during the implementation phase sufficient capacity should be
mobilized at the very start ofthe project to accelerate the preparation of the pipeline.
COMMENT
We think that PIU was ready, we agree that problem was the lack of the staff at the beginning
of the project.
Regarding the ratings of the project we don't have remarks.
Attached please also find the summary of the Borrower*s Implementation Completion Report.
Regarding the World bank's policy to make final ICR available to the public after they are
distributed to the Executive Direktors, we think that data in ICR are not confidential so the
ICR can be published.
Sincerely,
ASSISTANT MINISTER
DRAZEN KUREd
57


﻿Annex 7. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
Not applicable
58


﻿Annex 8. List of Supporting Documents
*  Project Appraisal Document
*  Environmental Framework
*  Aide memoires
*  ISRs
*  Restructuring Paper
*  Borrower progress reports and final report with annexes
*  Available EU accession documentation
*  Implementation Plan for Water utilities Directives revised 2010
*  Croatia Policy notes, a Strategy for Smart, Sustainable and Inclusive Growth
*  Report on Institutional Options in the Water and Wastewater Sector
*  Report on retrospective review of land acquisition
59


﻿Cakovec                       HUNGARY
S LO VE N IA -opavnca
I TA LY           ROATIA                                        Krapina  Varazdinske
Topicj                                                                  .46° -
46
Northernii4
Z GRE                          Virovitica       Dro             Baranå
sla-vo k                      'eSout*en   Rconstruction of the
ovna            BaD r ava-Danube dike
O astrebarsko                                                                 Baj [raa
FlKroa  Kupa                 ood Protectign lnoSERBIA
KalvcCentral Posavina                     P.zega.a            oo$
R-leka                                   erina                                                              _
Pazin                   Ogulin                                                              va Y
Slav Brod
Sava
Cres
U/nije
Gospic
silba  1j).b Pg
Premudo'1ý
Molat                                                              BOSNI        AND
A  ria      ti c                       adar                                                 ERZEG            A
S  e  a                 DugiOlok  Q
Korn
eSibenik
CROATIA                                                                 )
INLAND WATERS PROJECT                                                 Br
SET 1 INVESTMENTS                                 4>
SET 2 INVESTMENTS                          W          Hvar,
SET 3 INVESTMENTS                                           Korcula
SET 4 INVESTMENTS
FLOOD PROTECTION                                                         Pelj soc
PROJECT APPLICATIONS PREPARED FOR EU FINANCING                                       ,.                   MONTENEGRO
RIVERS                                                       L
4,   PORTS                                                                               Dubrovni
o   SELECTED TOWNS                                     0      25     50      75     100 Kilometers
9   MAJOR TOWNS                                        I_     _  __      _   __      |
®   COUNTY (ZUPANIA) CAPITALS                             10
NATIONAL CAPITAL
-- - INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
o14o                                                            16"                                               18o


