Report No. PID5986
Project Name                     Senegal-Pilot Agricultural Export (+)
Promotion Project
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Agriculture
Project ID                       SNPE51610
Borrower                         The Government of Senegal
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Agriculture
Date This PID Prepared           July 1997
Appraisal Date                   September/October 1997
Expected Approval by RVP         December 1997
1.      Country/Sector Background.   In contrast with most African
countries, the agricultural sector (including forestry, livestock
and fisheries) accounts for only 209 of GDP.   Agriculture is,
however, the main occupation of 60- of the population.    A large
portion of foreign exchange earnings comes from the agricultural
sector, with groundnut exports ranking third to fish and tourism.
Although declining in relative importance, groundnuts still make up
approximately 60- of farm cash income.   Groundnuts and cotton occupy
50- of the cultivated land, the rest being devoted to food crops
(millet, sorghum, rice, maize and cowpeas). In addition, pastoral
production has always been important, accounting on average for 35t
of the agricultural value added.
2.      Agricultural production has stagnated or even regressed since
the beginning of the decade. While, prospects for Senegal's main
export and import substitution crops have improved since the parity
change of the CFAF, there is concern that the sector has not
responded as well to the favorable conditions created by the parity
change as other francophone countries. Despite this generally
disappointing performance, the agricultural sector has the greatest
potential for employment and growth in the short to medium term,
through export growth and forward and backward linkages. Given the
fact that 809 of the poor live in rural areas, agricultural
development is the most likely means to improve the living
conditions of the poorest. In addition, prospects of agricultural
development are not all that grim: pockets of dynamism have emerged
in the private sector related to high-value crops or activities
either for exports or urban markets, such as confectionery
groundnuts, horticulture, cattle fattening, etc. Rural populations
are also becoming more vocal and dynamic as producer organizations
are strengthening and are ready to take an active role in providing
a range of services for their members. It is therefore crucial to
diagnose the sources of blockage and leverage points in order to
support potential sources of sectoral growth. Because of the
potential for non traditional crop production, the Government is
considering with the support of the Bank and possibly other donors,
to initiate an agricultural export promotion operation that could



directly assist individual producers/exporters and their private
organizations in responding to the demand and product requirements
of the regional and international markets, especially for non
traditional agricultural products. Such an operation is also
expected to contribute to private sector development, consolidation
of growth, poverty alleviation and environmental conservation.
3.      Objectives.   The project's objectives would be to diversify and
develop private agricultural exports, a core objective of the
Government's export-led growth strategy. This would be achieved
through: (a) specific actions aimed at export market development and
diversification out of groundnuts and fisheries; (b) strengthening
of existing private professional organizations and encouraging the
creation of farmer associations and the establishment of an
interprofessional group of producers' and exporters' associations;
and (c) upgrading of export facilities at the airport.
4.      Project Description.   The project would have the following
components:
(a)     Export Promotion and Diversification Activities by
assisting Senegalese producers in: (i) market research, customer
identification, meeting quality requirements, trial shipments and
obtaining pre-export finance; (ii) product development and
processing, and quality control via targeted adaptive research; and
(iii) establishment of business partnerships between local exporters
and foreign businesses and assistance in identifying regional and
overseas niches.
(b)     Support to Producers/Exporters' Associations by:
strengthening existing privately-controlled professional
organizations: producer groups, export associations, cooperatives,
interprofessional groups of professional associations, which could
become a major vehicle for non traditional export market development
and for lobbying activities etc.; (ii) encouraging the creation of
farmer associations; and (iii) setting up a central referral/data
information service and products packaging center as well as
providing management and legal advice required for the formal
establishment of nascent associations and for developing their work
programs together with training in simplified cost accounting and
management principles.
(c)     Upgrading of Export Facilities through rehabilitating the
infrastructure at the Dakar and/or St-Louis airports for preserving
perishable products in transit; and
(d)     Support to Project Management by qualified private
professionals experienced in agricultural export, logistics and
farmer organization.
5.              Project Implementation.   Project implementation will be
under the general supervision and guidance of the Ministry of
Agriculture. The project management will be assumed by private
agricultural export professionals. Its staff of agricultural export
professionals, will be recruited through local competition to
- 2 -



provide technical and market development advice to individual
producers/exporters and their associations. The project management
team may be assisted by internationally recruited technical
assistants (on short- or medium-term contracts) experienced in
export development and finance, logistics and farmer organization
and possibly connected to an extensive network of foreign buying
agencies. Interprofessional group of agricultural producers and
exporters' associations, formally established as non-government
associations, would be represented in a Project Steering Committee
(PSC) responsible for supervising the implementation of the proposed
project and coordination and monitoring of overall project
activities. It is expected that these beneficiaries would gradually
assume the financing of the management unit.
6.              Costs and Financing.   Total project costs are tentatively
estimated at US$11 million with proposed financing as follows:
US$5.6 million from IDA; US$3.4 million from cofinanciers (possibly
CIDA, EU); US$1 million from the Government, and US$1 million from
agricultural producers/exporters.
7.              Sustainability.   The project would enhance the capacity of
the agricultural export sector to respond to the country's export
promotion and diversification objectives. By strengthening farmer
organizations and helping establish an interprofessional group of
such organizations, the project would contribute to build a local
capacity that would further ensure that actions initiated under the
project are carried out and pursued upon project completion. In
view of the importance of the private sector's effective
involvement, financial contribution and effective participation in
project activities, project benefits will be also maintained after
project completion, with all direct cost of services to be recovered
at the end.
8.              Lessons from Experience.   The Bank experience in
supporting export promotion in Africa and other regions shows that
while traditional exports need to be part of an outward-oriented
strategy, the future is in non traditional exports. Foreign market
development, the identification of customer and product requirements
beforehand, and the presence of a catalytic mechanism that
facilitates the establishment of partnerships between local
agricultural producers and foreign investors -- have proven to be
central factors for successful entry into the international markets.
Even a modest increase in a country's share of world markets has
often been an important ingredient for growth. The project design
will take into account the above lessons of experience.
9.              Rationale for IDA Involvement.   The 1994 devaluation of
the CFA Franc has provided an important incentive for agricultural
export development and diversification that exporters/producers are
taking advantage of. A number of high value-added agricultural
export products from Senegal also continue to be competitive on
overseas and regional markets. By providing an effective vehicle to
support private investment and private sector involvement in
improving the performance of non traditional exports, and by
streamlining the role of agricultural professional organizations in
- 3 -



the agricultural export sector, the project fits well in the Bank's
country strategy. It will also complement local initiatives being
undertaken through a series of workshops, action plans and trade
facilitation studies, to enhance private sector involvement in
agricultural and agro-industrial activities with significant export
potential. The work being done by the existing Groupe de Reflexion
Strategique (GSR) and local consultants could serve as a basis for
project preparation and appraisal.
10.             Environmental Aspects.   An environmental analysis will be
conducted for the project with a view to ensuring that it will have
no significant negative environmental impacts, that the industries
in the sector are not polluting, and that the expected increases in
cultivated areas will take place on cleared land, with no impact on
forests. It is expected that the project will create incentives for
the stabilization of agriculture by promoting environmentally sound
cash crops and by increasing household income in rural areas through
the marketing of high value agricultural products. It is also
expected that the project would be classified under environmental
category B.
11.             Project Objective Categories.   The project will contribute
to the following Project Objective Categories (POCs): capacity
building and private sector development and indirectly, poverty reduction.
12.             Benefits. The project will directly benefit private
agricultural producers/exporters and their professional
organizations, and reach indirectly smaller growers of exportable
crops. It will foster improved links between production and markets
and result in increased exports of high-value agricultural products
and contribute to reducing the country's excessive reliance on a
couple of traditional products. The project is also expected to
help create jobs for producers/exporters and to bring them new
technology and training opportunities. It will therefore lead to
important institutional and capacity building benefits.
13.             Risks.   The major foreseeable risks are likely to be the
difficulty in securing the right implementation expertise in the
full range of activities to be covered under the project, and
possible attempts by government agencies to interfere with the
project activities. The first risk will be reduced through
supplementing in-country capacity with ad hoc short-term outside
expertise with international export market connections. As for the
second risk, upfront agreement will be made with the Government on
entrusting project implementation to an autonomous project
management team, staffed with qualified and experienced
professionals entirely selected from the private sector. In
addition, the strengthening of agricultural professional
organizations would further encourage their involvement in lobbying
activities for their trade and empower them to better represent
their interests while participating in project activities. Another
risk could be the difficulty in harmonizing various donor approaches
to supporting agricultural export activities, which may further
delay the expected project results. Donors are increasingly
acknowledging the potential for diversifying and developing
-4 -



Senegal's agricultural export base and the need for coordinating
their activities in the field and, in this respect, setting up the
proposed project with parallel cofinancing arrangements is expected
to further provide a catalylic mechanism and an appropriate forum.
Contact Point            The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Note:   This is information on an evolving project.     Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending February 6, 1998.
- 5 -



Annex
Environmental assessment:
An environmental analysis was conducted for the project with a view
to ensuring that it will have no significant negative impact, that
the expected increases in cultivated areas will take place on
cleared land, with no impact on flora and fauna, and that mitigation
measures will be taken to minimize the impact of pesticides on soil,
water resources and affected population. It is expected that the
project will create incentives for the stabilization of agriculture
by promoting environmentally sound cash crops and by increasing
beneficiaries' income in rural and urban areas through the marketing
of high value agricultural products. Given the scope of project
activities, the project is classified under environmental category B
according to the Operational Directive (OD) 4.01, Annex E.
- 6-



