                                         Document of
                                       The World Bank




                                                                Report No: 30743


                         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                   (PPFI-Q0640 IDA-30170)

                                             ON A

                                            CREDIT

                            IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 5.9 MILLION
                             (EQUIVALENT TO US$ 8.0 MILLION)

                                            TO THE

                                   REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL

                                            FOR AN

                     AGRICULTURAL EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT




                                       December 23, 2004




Environmental and Socially Sustainable Development IV
Country Department 14
Africa Region

                                        CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                                 (Exchange Rate Effective November 2004)

                                          Currency Unit = Franc CFA (FCFA)
                                             FCFA 100 = US$ 0.20
                                                 US$ 1 = FCFA 494

                                               FISCAL YEAR
                                          January 1-    December 31

                                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS         Country Assistance Strategy
CFA         Communauté Financière Africaine (African Financial Community)
EAGP        Equipe Autonome de Gestion du Projet (Autonomous Project Management Team)
EU          European Union
EurepGAP European Retailers Practice - Quality Management System for Agricultural Production
FOB         Free on Board
FOS         Fondation Origine Sénégal (Senegal Origin Foundation)
IFLEX       Information sur les Fruits et Légumes d'Exportation du Sénégal (Information on export-oriented fruit
and vegetables in Senegal)
MTR         Mid-Term Review
ONAPES      Organisation Nationale des Producteurs et Exportateurs horticoles du Sénégal (National Horticultural
Producer and Exporter Organization)
PAD         Project Appraisal Report
PPEA        Projet de Promotion des Exportations Agricoles (Agricultural Export Promotion Project)
PSAOP       Projet des Services Agricoles et Organisations de Producteurs (Agricultural Services and Producer
Organization Project)
QAE         Quality at Entry
SEPAS       Sénégalaise d'Exportation des Produits Agricoles (Senegalese Agricultural Produce Export Company)
SME         Small and Medium Enterprises
SOE         Statement of Expenses
VAT         Value-Added Tax


                                        Vice President:      Gobind T. Nankani
                                     Country Director        Madani M.Tall
                                       Sector Manager        Mary Barton-Dock
                   Task Team Leader/Task Manager:            Ismael S. Ouedraogo

                                          SENEGAL
                  AGRICULTURAL EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            11
6. Sustainability                                                                13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 14
8. Lessons Learned                                                               16
9. Partner Comments                                                              19
10. Additional Information                                                       19
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             20
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             21
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             23
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             25
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             27
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                28
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            29
Annex 8. Borrower's Report                                                       30

Project ID: P051610                                                  Project Name: Senegal:AG.EXPORT PROMOTION
Team Leader: Ismael Ouedraogo                                        TL Unit: AFTS4
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 23, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: Senegal:AG.EXPORT PROMOTION                              L/C/TF Number: PPFI-Q0640; IDA-30170
   Country/Department: SENEGAL                                                            Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Agricultural marketing and trade (83%); Central government
                            administration (17%)
                  Theme: Rural policies and institutions (P); Export development and
                            competitiveness (P); Rural markets (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 08/05/1997                                     Effective: 05/19/1998                08/20/1998
     Appraisal: 09/29/1997                                         MTR:                             09/24/2001
      Approval: 12/09/1997                                      Closing: 12/31/2002                 06/30/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVT. OF SENEGAL/EQUIPE AUTONOME DE GESTION DU PROJET
                                           (EAGP)
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Gobind T. Nankani                              Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:               Madani M. Tall                                 Mahmood Ayub
Sector Manager:                 Mary A. Barton-Dock                            Jean-Paul Chausse
Team Leader at ICR:             Ismael Ouedraogo                               Ousmane Sissoko
ICR Primary Author:             Jane C. Hopkins


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: HS                               S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

Senegal has been involved in industrial scale horticulture production and exports since the 1970s

but the sector has experienced erratic cycles of growth and contraction. Horticultural exports,
which had reached 30,000 tons in the mid-1970's, had dwindled to 2,500 tons by the early
1990's. Although the 1994 devaluation of the CFA franc provided a favorable macro-economic
environment and stimulated agricultural exports, the horticultural sector did not respond as
robustly as anticipated. In 1995/96, horticultural exports had increased to only 6,000 tons and the
range of products remained limited. When the Agricultural Export Promotion Project (Projet de
Promotion des Exportations Agricoles, PPEA) was conceived, the growth potential of the sector
was recognized, but was far from being realized. .

The development objective of the Agricultural Export Promotion Project was to increase the
volume and diversify the mix of agricultural exports. The indicators chosen to measure program
success were the export volume both for traditional and non-traditional horticultural exports. This
objective was to be accomplished through (a) specific actions aimed at export market
development and diversification, (b) institutional strengthening of existing producer/exporter
associations, and (c) upgrading of the export infrastructure located at the Dakar airport.

This objective supported the poverty reduction and growth priorities identified by both the
government's agricultural growth strategy and the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS).
Both called for "sustainable, private-sector led economic growth with equity and poverty
reduction" through, inter alia, the diversification of production and exports of both traditional
and non-traditional high value crops.

During the 2002-2003 season, Senegal exported 11,356 tons of fresh fruits and vegetables with a
value of 7.849 billion FCFA (US$14.5 million). This corresponds to 690 FCFA (about US$ 1.32)
per kilogram -- more than five times the average agricultural sector revenue (excluding fisheries
and livestock). A 2003 study indicates that the horticulture sector has contributed to the economic
development of the country and rural areas through the generation of 1 billion FCFA in rural
incomes and the creation of almost 10,000 jobs (Diarra, 2003). The project's development
objective continues to be highly relevant today. The project was successful in bringing about a
revitalization of the sector and generating a strong momentum among public and private partners.
Senegal is now poised to seize a growth potential that is much higher than the gains realized to
date and the Senegalese government is enthusiastic about the important role of the horticulture
sector in the country's growth and poverty reduction strategy.

3.2 Revised Objective:

The project's development objective remained unchanged during project implementation.

3.3 Original Components:

To achieve the development objectives, the project was designed to include the following three
components:

    Component 1: Export promotion and diversification (US$4.6 million).                  Under this
    component, the project was to assist Senegalese producer/exporters in: (i) market research,
    customer identification, meeting quality requirements, completing trial shipments, obtaining



                                                 - 2 -

    pre-export financing, and developing crops for maritime export; (ii) product development and
    processing and quality control via targeted adaptive research; and (iii) the establishment of
    business partnerships between local exporters and foreign businesses and assistance in
    identifying overseas and regional niches. In addition, the project was to contract on an ad hoc
    basis for more specialized services such as research related to new product development,
    product quality certification, international ISO certifications for product processing and the
    establishment of national norms and standards.

    Component 2: Support to producers/exporters associations (US$2.7 million). The project
    aimed to: (i) strengthen existing private professional organizations, e.g. producer groups,
    export associations and cooperatives; (ii) encourage the creation of farmer associations by
    providing a suitable strategy; and (iii) set up a central referral / information service and
    provide legal advice for nascent associations. Under this component, the project was also to:
    (i) facilitate product consolidation and processing by packaging efficiently and by applying
    effective quality controls in selected packing centers established under the project and (ii)
    provide specific assistance to smaller exporters and producers to improve their access to
    formal financial services. Strengthened professional organizations were expected to play a
    major role in lobbying the government for issues affecting the sector, such as the inadequate
    availability of water in Dakar and land tenure issues, and were seen as a key ingredient for
    ensuring sustainability of project activities.

    Component 3: Upgrading of export facilities (US$1.4 million). The third component of
    the project was to upgrade cold storage facilities at the airport in Dakar. All infrastructure
    rehabilitated under the project was to be privately managed with appropriate cost recovery for
    maintenance.

Given the private sector nature of the project, and drawing on past experience, project
management (US$1.7 million) was carried out by private professionals experienced in agricultural
export related activities.

At a final beneficiary workshop to discuss project achievements, some participants mentioned that
the project did not focus enough on attention on supply side/production issues. However, this
was a strategic design choice during project preparation.        In light of global changes in the
agrofood industry and an increased emphasis on food safety and standards, marketing issues (e.g.,
market information/intelligence, quality, shipping and packaging tests, new product tests, export
infrastructure), rather than production issues, were determined to be the factor most `limiting' to
Senegalese export expansion and conversion of its comparative advantage to a competitive
advantage. It was the right strategic choice -- investment (money or time) in new technologies to
improve production techniques and harvested quality will occur only if there is a proven market
potential -- and now a second round of constraints, many of them focused on production issues
(e.g., access to land, water and financing), has emerged and will be addressed in a new project
under preparation.

Upgrading the Dakar export facility was a high priority for the government and a necessary
component for sustaining (and enhancing) the project's development objective of increased and



                                                  - 3 -

diversified agricultural exports. However, a combination of hard (physical infrastructure) and soft
(capacity building) investments was needed to achieve the development objective -- project
components included both, and the design proved effective in demonstrating the export potential
of the Senegalese horticultural sector.

3.4 Revised Components:

Although the project components were not revised during implementation, a "commodity supply
chain" approach was adopted following the mid-term review (MTR).                   It was felt that this
approach would allow the complementarities and synergies between components to be exploited
more effectively, thereby increasing overall project impact. In addition, the MTR identified the
following priority activities for post-MTR implementation: (i) completion of the airport terminal,
(ii) completion of the collective handling facility, (iii) introduction of a quality management system
within producer/exporter enterprises, (iv) export diversification focused on onion/garlic
development in the Senegal River Valley and melons, and (v) capacity building of
producer/exporter associations (in particular vis à vis quality, market monitoring, and
management).

3.5 Quality at Entry:

A Quality at Entry (QAE) assessment carried out by the Bank's Quality Assurance Group (QAG)
in 1997 rated the QAE as `Best Practice'. The assessment gave the project highly satisfactory
ratings for (i) the concept, objectives, and approach, (ii) the poverty and social aspects, (iii) the
financial management aspects, and (iii) the risk assessment and sustainability. Satisfactory ratings
were given for (i) the technical and economic aspects, (ii) the environmental aspects, (iii) the
institutional capacity analysis, and (iv) the readiness for implementation.

In hindsight, QAE is rated satisfactory. Several shortcomings in project preparation combined to
hinder implementation effectiveness: (i) the strength of initial government ownership, (ii) the
realism of the financing plan, including provisions for counterpart funding and cost recovery, (iii)
institutional capacity and consensus, and (iv) the realism of the implementation plan and readiness
for first year implementation. Although additional attention to these issues would have increased
implementation effectiveness, it may have also resulted in longer project preparation time ­ the
project was prepared in a record five months.

At appraisal and negotiations, the government agreed to project implementation arrangements
that put the private sector in the drivers seat. However, this issue became a stumbling block soon
afterwards, delaying project effectiveness. In addition, the condition of opening a project account
and making an initial counterpart deposit was dropped during negotiations.              In its place, a
complex system that placed the burden of counterpart collection responsibilities on the suppliers
of goods and services (they were to be paid, in part, with treasury checks or tax credits) was
adopted. Ensuing problems caused a suspension of disbursements to the special account and put
the project, which was otherwise highly successful, at risk for a short period of time.

Given the lack of private sector consensus on several key elements of the project (e.g. the airport
terminal design, the location for a packaging facility and agreement on who it will serve, the role


                                                  - 4 -

of small/medium-sized exporters in an industry with increasingly rigid standards), the
implementation schedule was unrealistic. There may be a trade-off between the time required for
project preparation and implementation readiness.        On a compressed five-month preparation
schedule, it can be difficult to address such issues and achieve a solution ­ however, the process
required for industry buy-in should then be built into project implementation and disbursement
schedule.

Other than these factors, the project was well prepared and consistent with the CAS and
government priorities.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:


Achievement of the overall project objective is deemed satisfactory despite obstacles
encountered during implementation which caused substantial delays in completion of the
infrastructure component of the project.

This rating is based on the following results achieved during project implementation:

   l The volume of exports has doubled from 6,592 tons in 1997/98 to 14,080 tons in 2003/04
        -- this was the key project performance indicator, with a project completion target of
        10,000 tons (see Annex 1). The value of horticultural exports nearly tripled (increasing
        from 3,671 million FCFA in 1997/98 to 9,759 million FCFA in 2003/04).

   l Senegal is no longer a mono-product country: production and exports are diversified with
        more than 20 varieties tested and introduced in 15 geographically diverse markets;

   l Senegal has diversified its transport strategy and is now specialized in both air and sea
        transport for horticultural products;

   l The two major producer/exporter associations (ONAPES and SEPAS) ­ one for the very
        large producer/exports and the other for small to medium sized operation ­ came to a
        consensus on the design of the airport facility and agreement on the role and functions of a
        Foundation devoted to the promotion of the sector. This was no small achievement given
        the starting position of both organizations and demonstrates the institutional development
        impact that occurred during the course of the project;

   l The industry has an awareness of quality issues that did not exist prior to project
        interventions -- internal audits to assess compliance with EurepGAP standards were an
        eye-opener to all, provided a baseline, and highlighted to all the arduous path to a
        competitive quality management system. The "EurepGAP Zero Assessment" is the only
        one of its kind conducted in sub-Saharan Africa ;

   l In terms of outreach, nearly 10,000 jobs were created (of which 250 were in the formal
        sector) and US$1.6 million in annual salaries was generated (of which 50% went to rural
        women).


                                                - 5 -

4.2 Outputs by components:


Component 1: Export promotion and diversification (US$4.6 million at appraisal; US$1.9
million actual)

This component is rated highly satisfactory in that it met, and even exceeded, most of its
designated targets. The project successfully assisted Senegalese producer/exporters in accessing
new markets and in putting quality standards in place for horticultural exports: (i) thirty formal
exporter/importer relationships were established by the end of the project (against a target of 5
per year), (ii) seventeen new market outlets were identified through participation in trade fairs (12
fairs were attended) and study tours (11 study tours were completed), (iii) `cahiers de charge'
(which detail the production methods, handling procedures and packaging standards for exports
to European markets) were developed and distributed for four products, and (iv) a certificate of
origin program, `Origine Senegal', was developed to foster a uniform quality standard for
Senegalese exports.

In terms of diversification, the project was successful on two fronts ­ both market and product
diversification. Prior to the project's intervention, all horticultural exports were air-freighted.
During the 2001-2002 season, however, Senegal exporters successfully diversified into sea freight
transport (see Table 1 below). The move into sea freighted horticulture actually represented the
opening of new market segments that are distinct from, and additive to, the existing air freight
markets. This innovation proved particularly important for green beans. It allowed Senegal's
exporters to maintain their cost-based competitive advantage in bobby beans (versus the higher
priced green runner beans). During the 2003-2004 campaign, about 80% of green beans were
exported by sea-freight. By the end of the project, a total of 27 sea freight shipment trials (in
addition to the 28 air freight shipment trials) were successfully carried out and evaluated.

Product diversification tests identified 20 promising new products and 11 new packaging
procedures. While the export potential has not yet begun to be realized for many of the new
products, two success stories ­ cherry tomatoes and mangos -- are worth noting. Mango exports
have grown from about 300 tons in 1997/98 to 3,500 tons in 2003/04 ­ the bulk being sent by
sea freight (see Table 1 below). Although Senegal supplies less than 1% of the EU market, its
share could grow very quickly. The origin of this take-off was technical assistance from Côte
d'Ivoire provided through the project, which led to improvements in production and processing
techniques as well as a new marketing strategy. Cherry tomato exports increased from about 900
tons in 1997/98 to about 3,800 tons in 2003/04 (with the share being transported by sea freight
increasing from 42% to 95%).

The methods and processes tested under this component define the frontier of "best practice"
within the Bank for promoting horticulture export. It delivered real, market tested, results and
provided well documented processes and steps (valuable knowledge products) which allow for
duplication, subsequent refinement and scaling-up.




                                                 - 6 -

              Table 1. Annual volume of horticultural exports, 1997/98 to 2003/04 (tons)

                                                                                                                Estimated
                                1997/98       1998/99     1999/00       2000/01       2001/02       2002/03       2003/04

 Air Freight
     Green beans - ' Bobby'                                               4,471        2,975         1,847         1,510
    Green beans - ' Filet'                                                900           919           961          1,157
     Subtotal                    4,922         5,382       5,418          5,371        3,894         2,808         2,667

     Cherry Tomatoes              500          500          450           400           261           162          180
    Mangoes                       281          300          300           300           360           404          400
    Melons                          0            0           0              0            50            45           53
    Other                         300          300          324           350           600           264          450

 Subtotal                        6,003         6,482       6,492          6,421        5,165         3,683         3,750

 Sea Freight
     Green beans - ' Bobby'         0            0           10           150          1,380         1,945         3,084
    Green beans - ' Filet'          0            0           0              0           157            96          164
     Sub-total                      0            0           10           150          1,537         2,041         3,248

     Cherry Tomatoes              369          301         1,426          1,875        2,181         3,310         3,632
    Mangoes                         0          377          317           650          1,590         2,222         3,100
    Melons                        220          517          503           106            0             0           200
    Other                           0            0           0              0            35           100          150

 Subtotal                         589          1,195       2,256          2,781        5,343         7,673        10,330

 TOTAL                           6,592         7,677       8,748          9,202        10,508        11,356       14,080
Note: The `other' category includes okra, hot peppers, zucchini, sweet potatoes, miniature pickling corn, snap beans,
sweet peas, passion fruit and essential oils


Component 2: Support to producers/exporters associations (US$2.7 million at appraisal;
US$1.1 million actual)

Development of social capital and institutional capacity can be difficult within industries where
intense internal competition persists and where one large exporter dominates the industry vis à vis
a number of smaller exporters. Given the diversity of industry agendas that existed on the eve of
the project it is quite an achievement that significant progress was made in developing the
institutional capacities of producer/exporter associations and in leaving behind an institutional
platform on which a follow-up project could be built.

It is more difficult to deliver on "soft" infrastructure (e.g. institutional capacity, knowledge assets,
and     social      capital)    than       "hard"   infrastructure       --    particularly       when       dealing    with
public-private-producer organization partnerships. By all accounts, the project was very
successful in this area, generating substantial momentum within the industry and leveraging
additional public and private sector investment. However, it is also very difficult to measure
changes in institutional capacity; the indicators for this component are largely `input' indicators
(e.g. number of members trained) rather than `outcome' indicators.                                 For this reason, the
component was given a satisfactory rating.

The two major producer/exporter organizations are the Sénégalaise d'Exportation des Produits


                                                            - 7 -

Agricoles (SEPAS), grouping together 20 smaller and medium-size affiliates, and the
Organisation Nationale des Producteurs et Exportateurs Horticoles du Sénégal (ONAPES),
grouping together seven major operators and accounting for 75% of exports. ONAPES' statutes
specify that each member own a processing facility, have refrigerated storage, and produce at
least 50% of the volume it exports (which must be at least 200 tons annually). Given the divergent
interest and needs of these two producer/exporter associations, they preferred to maintain their
autonomy rather than be amalgamated into a single umbrella organization.

The project was able to not only establish effective working relations with both groups, and their
respective members, but also successfully facilitate a process whereby common interests and goals
for the future of the industry were identified and agreement was reached on the need for and the
roles/functions of a Foundation to promote the interests of the industry as a whole.

Members of the two producers/exporter associations actively participated in the project by setting
priorities and implementing project activities. These activities included: (i) monitoring progress on
the construction of the export facilities; (ii) participation in the sites and preliminary design of a
packaging house; (iii) taking leading roles in the dissemination of results of the quality
management program; and (iv) participation in the design of the follow-up project. The project
also managed to bring new producers into the project, in spite of the competition to established
producers that this represented.

Members of the two major producer/exporter associations benefited greatly from project financed
training and services (1,360 persons were trained), a central data and information center is
functional, the project initiated the regular publication of a bulletin (Information sur les Fruits et
Légumes d'Exportation du Sénégal ­ Iflex) using partner institutions, and it set up the website
www.iflexsenegal.org, which contains information on fruits and vegetables for export from
Senegal. The website integrates a "members" section and a "publications" section to refer to
strategic documents relevant to the "Qualité Origine Sénégal" certification scheme.

Senegalese producers successfully passed 60 tests of pesticide residue on fruits and vegetables
that were carried out on random samples, which further improved Senegal's name as a reliable
and safe exporter (an image that had to be regained after it was lost in the 1980s). The project
also entered into collaboration with the Projet des Services Agricoles et Organisations de
Producteurs (PSAOP) and the private foundation Ceres-Locustox to further its progress in this
field, and initiated a monitoring program in which exporters implement "best practices".

Component 3: Upgrading of export facilities (US$ 1.4million at appraisal; US$4.8 million
actual)

Under this component, a state-of-the-art cold storage facility was designed and constructed at
Dakar Airport and an innovative packaging center (Feltiplex) was recently completed in
Sangalkam. Two extensions of the project closing date, were required to complete the facilities
(the packaging center was actually completed after the close of the project with a substantial
financial contribution from the Government). This was the result of initial delays in coming to a
consensus on the design (in the case of the airport terminal) and on the location (in the case of the



                                                  - 8 -

packaging center), followed by lengthy delays in construction and coordination by the Maitre
d'Ouvrage Delegué (AGETIP).

Although there were substantial delays in construction, and the facilities are not yet operational,
the component is rated marginally satisfactory due to the quality of the resulting infrastructure
and the innovative and inclusive process by which the facilities were designed and constructed
which enhanced institutional capacity and generated momentum for increased private sector
investment in the industry.

The initial design for the airport cold storage facility was developed in line with a small-size
planned budget and the idea of retrofitting an old warehouse -- a much harder prospect than
building a new structure. The commissioned designer suggested a one-story facility essentially
targeting small-sized operators who needed a flexible facility that could not only store
pre-conditioned air freight pallets for shipment but also allow for smaller export quantities to be
bulked into pallets and pre-conditioned at the airport facility itself. The design envisioned reduced
cold storage space and only one entry door -- two features that did not account for the
preoccupations and needs of the medium-to-large sized operators, who raised objections.

In collaboration with the producer/exporter associations, a decision was made to scrap the initial
designs and to push for an alternative consensus design. A difficult and lengthy consultative
process ensued and included: (i) a public-private joint study tour of Kenya's airport export
facilities; (ii) a return to the original designer to account for the concerns and suggestions for all
parties; (iii) increased participation of all key stakeholders in the design, bidding process and
(weekly) supervision of the construction; and (iv) a reallocation of funds to accommodate a
two-story structure that cost more but met the preoccupations of both types of operators. The
decision to allow this process to run its course was risky (in terms of meeting the project's
infrastructure objectives on time and within budget) but extremely valuable. It allowed the
various actors in the industry to come together and develop a common understanding and resulted
in an innovative, state-of-the-art, facility albeit at a higher cost (in terms of time and money).

Once construction of the airport facility began, a variety of technical and engineering difficulties
were encountered (many due to the fact that the task was a rehabilitation and not a new
construction) which further delayed completion of the facility. The airport facility was completed
in June 2004, technical tests were carried out in September, and final inspection and acceptance
by the Government is expected in December.

The project financed the construction of one packaging center (Feltiplex) located in Sangalkam.
Construction began in March 2004 and has just been completed with funds committed by the
Government. Delays in construction of the packaging facility were related to identifying an
appropriate site, securing the land, and a shortfall of funds caused by the depreciation of the US
dollar relative to the Euro-pegged CFA Franc. Equipment for the facility was acquired prior to
project closing and the Government made a strong commitment to the future of the industry by
committing the funds necessary (FCFA 421.5 million) to complete the construction.

Although the facilities are complete, they are not yet operational. The management of both



                                                    - 9 -

facilities will be contracted to private actors and the ownership (and stream of future revenues)
eventually transferred to a Foundation (Fondation Origine Senegal, FOS) responsible for
promoting the sector and maintaining the high standards for the Senegal label. The successful
contracting of management responsibilities and transfer of ownership are critical for future growth
in the sector and the sustainability of project investments (see discussion below).

The process of creating the Foundation is currently underway, based on results of the June 2004
feasibility study funded by the project. The Government has engaged the former project director
to oversee the process and a detailed action plan and timetable are in place (as outlined in the
October 2004 pre-appraisal aide-memoire for the new Agribusiness and Agricultural Market
Development Project). A draft decree to create the Foundation was prepared in October and
transferred to the Ministry of Finance for review. The administrative process ("circuit") is
expected to be completed by March 2005 and the Foundation to be in place and operational by
May 2005.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

The economic analysis conducted for the ICR shows much better results than those estimated at
appraisal, which indicated an ERR of 15% and an IRR of 23%. These excellent results reflect the
quicker results realized by the project and the much brighter prospects for Senegal's exports than
the project anticipated at appraisal. The switching values with respect to the aggregate export
volume and average FOB prices for fruits and vegetables are all above 50% of the base values,
indicating the soundness of the results. At appraisal, the switching value with respect to the
prices of green beans and tomatoes was about 30%.

        Results of economic and financial analysis:

 Variables                                 Economic analysis          Financial analysis
 Rate of return                                  84%                         72%
 Net present value (@ 12%)               CFA 16 billion ($28 M)     CFA 13 billion ($23 M)



        Sensitivity analysis: switching values:

 Variables                                 Economic analysis       Financial analysis (IRR)
                                                (ERR)
 Total export volume                             -92 %                       -90 %
 Aggregate FOB price                             -92 %                       -90 %



An economic impact analysis of the fruit and vegetable industry was carried out in 2001 and
updated in 2003. In addition to documenting the strong comparative advantage of Senegal's
production of fruits and vegetables for export, it also shows the large employment impact (9,937
jobs created), particularly among rural women.




                                                  - 10 -

4.4 Financial rate of return:

The financial analysis also shows favorable results, as shown in the table above. The switching
values also indicate the soundness of the results.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

The project's institutional development impact has been high and Senegal is now poised to be a
big player on the horticultural export scene. The quality assurance program, which focused on
capacity building, succeeded in raising the awareness of the importance of quality to growth in the
sector -- there is now a shared understanding between the agroindustrial enterprises and the
small/medium sized enterprises (SMEs) of the importance of building and maintaining Senegal's
reputation as an exporter of quality horticultural products. Senegal's largest producer/exporter,
SAFINA/Agrocap obtained EurepGAP certification in 2003, and two more operators are on track
to becoming certified. The challenge, in terms of broad-based growth and poverty reduction, will
be to keep SMEs and smallholders in the supply chain by further strengthening their ability to
meet market requirements.

Those who have watched the Senegalese horticultural sector for some time, state that there has
been a behavioral change in the actors over the past five years ­ the industry has matured and
become more professional.          The industry's newsletter (IFLEX) and website -- initiated and
supported under the project -- are first-rate and have been a valuable tool in terms of industry
awareness building. Perhaps the strongest evidence of the positive changes occurring in the
sector (and the institutional impact of the project) is its attractiveness to investors. Senegal's
potential is being confirmed by the likes of Compagnie Fruitiere, currently setting up a significant
production base in the Senegal River Valley with an investment of 6 million euros in 2003-04 and
an additional 2.5 million euros projected for 2005. The company is projecting an annual export
volume of 4,000 tons initially with an increase to 8,000 tons by 2007/08.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:


 The main factor outside the control of government or implementing agency that affected the
 project was the collapse of three major airlines, leaving the country exposed to an inability to
 deliver the product to market. This was made worse by the overall air industry's decline
 following the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks on the United States. However the project
 recovered quickly by chartering its own air transport, and branching out into marine transport.
 Another negative factor was the steady appreciation of the EURO-pegged CFA Franc, which
 resulted in a shortfall of funds to complete the conditioning center.


5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

 The main factor subject to government control was government counterpart funding. Difficulty
 in mobilizing these funds came close to shutting the project down.           The project had set
 Government's contribution at 20% to be raised to 40% after 2000. When the tax rate was 20%,



                                                     - 11 -

 the Government simply needed to write off the taxes of providers of services to the project, and
 make no actual contribution. For some goods and services, however, the tax rate was less than
 20% and overall tax rate (VAT) was later lowered to 10%. The Government was required to
 make an actual contribution in these cases. In the absence of a project counterpart fund account,
 the mechanism for doing so was complicated and the accounting firm which was contracted to
 handle the project's accounting resorted to submitting Statement of Expenses (SOEs) that
 included these taxes. The irregular practice was uncovered during a Bank audit.

 The project implementing agency severed its ties with the accounting firm (which is now
 dissolved), and the Government was requested to reimburse the Special Account.                The
 Government was slow in allocating funds for the reimbursement, and the Bank temporarily
 suspended disbursement to the project until the situation was resolved by a personal intervention
 by the President of the Republic of Senegal. With its contribution due to increase to 40%, the
 Government then decided to set up a Counterpart Fund, which it had forcefully argued against
 during project's negotiations. To the Government's credit, the Counterpart Fund has been
 regularly fully funded, but a change in the country's computerized budget system made actual
 disbursement difficult until 2004.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

 The implementing agency performed well overall. A strong commitment and action within the
 implementing agency enabled the project to meet its objectives, despite the setbacks mentioned
 above. The major factor subject to implementing agency control that affected implementation
 was a breakdown in communications between the project staff and one of the producer/exporter
 associations. This was resolved quickly following the recommendations of a Bank supervision
 mission.

5.4 Costs and financing:

 Total project costs at appraisal were estimated at US$10.4 million, with IDA financing at
 US$8.0 million, the Government contribution at US$1.4 million and beneficiary contributions
 (producer/exporters) at US$1.0 million. Actual project costs were US$10.04 million. The
 Government's actual contribution to the project was a half million dollars higher than projected
 due to their commitment to absorb the cost of completing the construction of the packaging
 facility. The beneficiary contribution was much lower than the appraisal estimate. The original
 design assumed the private sector beneficiaries would contribute financially to all aspects of
 project implementation. Given the financial capacity of the beneficiaries, this was not a realistic
 assumption.     Beneficiaries ended up only contributing (on a matching grant basis, with a
 minimum contribution of 20%) to activities in which they directly participated (e.g. study tours,
 trade fairs), resulting in a much lower overall contribution than the US$1.0 million projected in
 the PAD.

 Overall, actual project costs were very close to costs projected at appraisal. However, there
 were substantial reallocations across project components. Costs for upgrading the export
 infrastructure were substantially higher than the estimates projected in the PAD (US$4.8 million
 versus US$1.4 million), whereas the actual costs for the market promotion and diversification



                                                    - 12 -

 and the support to producer/exporter associations components were less than half the original
 projections. Although the project was prepared expeditiously using standard cost estimates, the
 project design was sufficiently flexible, and the supervision sufficiently proactive, to allow for
 adjustments along the way. The principal factors that contributed to the increased costs of the
 infrastructure component were (i) the change in the design of the airport terminal (the final
 design is technically superior but more expensive) and (ii) the decision to construct an innovative
 packaging facility rather than attempt to renovate an existing, outdated, facility poorly suited to
 the needs of small and medium sized producer/exporters. Both changes were initiated in
 response to beneficiary concerns and thus increase greatly the likelihood of project sustainability.


 Implementation delays were significant. The project, instead of being implemented in four years
 (1998-2002), was extended for a total of 18 months (almost 40% longer). The first extension
 was from December 2002 to December 2003, and the second was to June 2004. Reasons for the
 implementation delays include: (i) delays in receiving counterpart funds, (ii) rejection, by the
 beneficiaries, of the initial airport terminal designs and the lengthy consensus building process
 needed to arrive at an acceptable alternative design, (iii) technical difficulties encountered while
 rehabilitating the airport terminal, (iv) communication/coordination problems between the
 various contracting teams working on the airport terminal rehabilitation project, (v) entrenched
 special interests which led to a falling out between project management and the
 producer/exporter association representing large-scale producer/exporters near the beginning of
 the project, (vi) departure of several key project management unit staff and a decision to not
 replace them, and (vii) delays in confirming the new project coordinator.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:


The sustainability of the project is rated likely for the following reasons:

(a)     The project was managed in a quasi-autonomous manner with active involvement of and
support from the private sector ­ these actors, with financial interests at stake, are likely to stay
engaged ;

(b)     Senegalese exporters' awareness of the stringent quality requirements of export markets
was greatly increased and their willingness to improve their quality management systems was
demonstrated following the quality audits (EurepGAP Zero Assessments), and the fact that
Senegal may soon have three exporters certified by EurepGAP;

(c)     The project supported the creation of a Foundation (a concept put forward and endorsed
by the private sector). A plan for sustainable financing of the Foundation's activities in support of
the industry (which includes ownership of the infrastructure financed by the project) has been
proposed and accepted by the private sector and the Government;

(d)     Studies indicate that the costs and benefits of the infrastructure will be attractive to private
investors interested in the management of the facilities and to beneficiaries in the use of their



                                                  - 13 -

services.

(e)     Based on the success of this relatively small project, a follow-on operation with a
horticultural component is planned and preparation is underway. The new project would build on
the successes of the PPEA and widen its scope to focus on agricultural marketing issues more
broadly, as well as production issues identified under the PPEA that will effect the ability to
maintain quality and reach export potential (e.g. access to land, water and financing). This will
further ensure sustainability of the results.

The creation of a Foundation endowed with the project's hard (infrastructure) and soft
(knowledge) assets is a key element for ensuring sustainability. It is also the institutional
cornerstone for follow-on investments. Since the Foundation has not yet been created, nor have
the assets been transferred, there is some risk in terms of sustainability. The risk, however, is
thought to be minimal for the following reasons: (i) the Bank has verbal agreement with the
Government of Senegal on the transition arrangements to ensure sustainability, (ii) a decree to
create a Foundation endowed with the project assets has already been drafted and was submitted
to the Ministry of Finance in November for review, (iii) the Government has hired the former
project coordinator to oversee the process, and (iv) a time-bound action plan was developed and
agreed-upon during the pre-appraisal mission for the new operation (see October 2004
aide-mémoire).

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

Ownership of the infrastructure built by the project will eventually be transferred to a Foundation,
soon to be created.       The stream of revenues from the rental of these facilities will be
managed/invested by the Foundation for the benefit of the industry. The Foundation will also
manage the label, "Qualité Origine Sénégal".

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:


Bank performance during preparation is rated satisfactory. Bank staff provided adequate support
in terms of staffing and competences. The project was well identified, and reflected the country's
priorities for growth and poverty reduction. It was prepared in record time - five months from
identification to approval.

7.2 Supervision:


Bank performance during supervision is rated satisfactory. Supervision missions were undertaken
with reasonable regularity and provided relevant advice and recommendations. On two occasions
there was an eleven-month gap between formal supervision missions largely due to budget
constraints. However, this was not judged to have had a serious impact on the overall quality of
supervision, given that the Bank's field-based staff had an ongoing dialogue with the project team
and provided `day-to day' supervision of project activities.      According to the implementing
agency and the technical assistance firm, the Bank supervision team deserves high marks for its



                                                  - 14 -

handling of difficult vested-interest issues and facilitation of a consensus among industry actors.
Preparation of the mid-term review mission was particularly thorough and well planned ­ it
resulted in increased government and beneficiary ownership of the project. The only shortcoming
cited was the occasional delayed delivery of mission aide-mémoires.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:


Based on the above comments, the overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:


The borrower's performance at the project preparation stage was satisfactory. The Borrower
effectively provided ample opportunities for primary beneficiaries to participate in setting
priorities within the time frame and limited resources of the project. Overall, project preparation
was both efficient and smooth, particularly in the context of following on an otherwise difficult
structural sector adjustment program.

7.5 Government implementation performance:


The Government's implementation performance is rated satisfactory.            Although the timely
mobilization of counterpart funding resulted in implementation delays, the Government intervened
on behalf of the project, in a big way, at two critical stages.         Following a suspension of
disbursements by the Bank, the President of the Republic, intervened directly to rapidly unlock the
government funds necessary to reimburse the Bank for ineligible expenses. The suspension was
thus lifted within three months ­ so quickly that an unsatisfactory rating was never registered in
the Project Status Report. The Borrower must also be highly commended for readily accepting to
provide substantial additional funds to complete construction of the packaging facility (Feltiplex)
when it was clear that IDA resources would be insufficient to do so and the construction would
not be complete prior to the close of the project. In the end, the Government's financial
contribution to project implementation exceeded the counterpart funding envisaged at project
appraisal and negotiations, attesting to the engagement of the Government and the momentum
generated by the project within the industry.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

Project management/implementation was carried out by an autonomous unit recruited from the
private sector and supplemented with technical assistance from an international consulting firm
with expertise in horticultural exports. Project staffing was very lean compared with the original
design and perhaps stretched a bit too thin to be highly effective. There were also financial
management issues (see discussion above) early on which had a negative impact on
implementation. However, performance of the implementing agency is rated satisfactory overall,
as it was able to effectively manage project activities, field supervision missions, and made
maximum use of professional outside consultants, when it recognized its own lack of capacity.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:




                                                - 15 -

Based on the discussion above, overall borrower performance is rated satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

The project's public-private partnership approach was very innovative at the time the project was
designed. Although such partnerships are now more common, they are not always successfully
implemented. The following innovative ideas, introduced during implementation, contributed to
the successful outcome of the project design:

   l Adhering to a supply-chain approach in introducing new and diversified product-lines
       (mangoes), packaging (pre-pack), and diversified transport (air and sea freight), starting at
       the market end (continental EU and Great Britain) and involving private exporters
       throughout the whole process.

   l Implementing a participatory approach with all beneficiaries in the design, procurement,
       and implementation of the collective cold chain infrastructure built by the project.

   l Emphasizing       a total quality control system, through: (i) the introduction of
       EurepGAP-based quality reference book; (ii) the audits of the quality management systems
       of all producers/exporters; (iii) the design of tailored action plans to improve firms' quality
       management systems; and (iv) an invitation extended to the EurepGAP chairman to visit
       Senegal to advise and learn from small producers/exporters about constraints and
       opportunities in competing in quality-conscious international markets.

   l Initiating the creation of a private foundation endowed with the project's assets (physical
       infrastructure and know-how) to serve the sector.

   l Creating a valuable "soft asset," the label Origine Senegal Fruits et Legumes, that is
       destined to be the flagship of Senegal's drive to successfully compete in international and
       regional markets.

Important lessons can be drawn from the application of these ideas ­ they are itemized below.

(1) Accumulation of soft assets is critical for triggering growth and private sector
investment: Recent work by growth economists indicates that the processes of initiating growth
and sustaining growth are separate and distinct activities.          However, both depend on the
accumulation of soft assets in the form of new business models, new management capabilities,
newly developed products and/or new systems of distribution and market access (e.g. new supply
chain structures, product quality control systems, etc.). Markets for these "knowledge assets" do
not exist; hence, accumulating them requires public sector investment in high quality `learning by
doing' processes like those undertaken in this project.

The World Bank does not have a record of successfully investing in soft assets, which serve to
open new markets and effectively leverage private investment by demonstrating new modes and
means of wealth creation. It has even less of a record of successfully sustaining the process of
soft asset accumulation, institutional learning and continuous institutional reform or innovation



                                                 - 16 -

required to sustain growth.        This project provides a notable exception, not only in the
effectiveness of the institutional learning that it triggered, but also in the momentum generated for
continued institutional innovation.     The project was able to double exports by successfully
investing in soft assets that changed the perception (both internally and externally) of the
Senegalese horticultural sector to that of a serious competitor/contender on the horticultural
export scene, thereby leveraging additional outside private investment.           Factors critical to
accomplishing this were: (i) high quality, commercially savvy, technical assistance which provided
real commercial demonstration effects, (ii) a bottom-up, versus top-down, inclusive
implementation process, (iii) an infrastructure construction process that build the `hard'
infrastructure in tandem with the `soft' infrastructure, and (iv) allowing a longer time frame for
project implementation.

(2) Business savvy international technical assistance is an effective means of providing the
hands-on demonstration effects necessary to shift institutional/business paradigms:
International expertise in residence coupled with issue-specific study tours and serious, hands-on
commercial demonstrations were critical to the success of the project and to building the
professionalism of local operators. Such commercially sophisticated and practical          technical
assistance (which entails more than writing reports, funding study trips or undertaking one-off
demonstration projects) can succeed in jump-starting growth (i) in quality differentiated products,
(ii) in new production processes and (iii) in new niche market openings.

Demonstration effects were provided not only for new crops and cropping systems but also, and
more importantly, they tested new marketing methods and pricing protocols which allowed
producers and marketers to realize attractive profits. The manuals, marketing plans and branding
efforts which emerged from the project all trigged growth, because (i) they were developed by
serious and competent experts with ample commercial know-how (and know-who) and (ii) they
captured commercially valuable knowledge.

(3) A bottom-up, versus top-down, inclusive approach is key for building capacity and
assuring sustainability: Many export promotion projects in the region have partnered with
`apex' (faitière) export organizations. The conventional wisdom appeared to be that such a
structure was necessary for the success of an export promotion project, and if the structure didn't
exist, it was created as a condition of credit effectiveness. The membership and interests of many
existing (or artificially created) apex organizations tend to be geared toward larger
producer/exporters, more exclusive than inclusive, and slower to embrace fundamental changes in
business models. Such apex, or `federated', organizations are difficult to develop within industries
where intense internal competition persists and where several large exporters dominate the
industry sector vis à vis a number of smaller exporters. Given the diversity of agendas within the
industry on the eve of project implementation, it is significant that substantial progress was
realized in developing an institutional platform that will serve as a basis for follow-on project
investments.    This institutional platform has generated momentum in the industry and has
attracted additional private sector investment.

This project succeeded by adopting a `bottom-up' and inclusive approach. It worked through the
two existing associations, with much success, to generate industry consensus and `demand' for



                                                  - 17 -

an `apex' organization in a form, and with attributes and functions (Fondation Origine Senegal),
acceptable to all actors. The commercial knowledge generated by the project was not captured by
any single exclusive organization but rather it was available to all industry participants without
bias or preference ­ initiating a competitive `self selection' and `self improvement' process. The
approach was in part forced on the project, since the two existing associations, representing very
different interest groups, had a mutual mistrust and did not want to federate. A crisis developed
when the project did not give its backing to one organization that wanted to create one unique
entity based on criteria which would have eliminated the other one. The consensus building
process that ensued resulted in delays in project implementation, but in retrospect, it was critical
to the success of the project and the sustainability of project results.       It led to substantial
institutional development, eventual buy-in for the design of the innovative export infrastructure
facilities and agreement over the creation of a Foundation representing the interests of all actors.

(3) The infrastructure investment process can be an important tool for institutional
development: For institutional capacity building and sustainability, the infrastructure construction
process matters greatly. Infrastructure development provided the raison d'être and focus around
which the social capital or software elements of the project coalesced. Even if the infrastructure
itself proved less significant in terms of realizing project outcomes than the software elements, as
an enabler and inducement to sustain the process of social capital accumulation it proved
invaluable. Significant delays in the construction of the airport terminal and packaging facility
resulted in a marginally satisfactory rating for this component. However, the conscious decision
to scrap initial construction plans and delay the process by including a diverse set of stakeholders
in the design and location decisions, was instrumental in structuring the industry, building its
capacity and arriving at a more widely-shared understanding of key market forces shaping the
sector. The industry has emerged with a consensus concerning the management arrangements for
the infrastructure investments, the level of professionalism needed to build Senegal's competitive
advantage, and the roles and function of a Foundation to promote the industry's interests.

(4) The standard four-five year credit implementation time frame is too short to build
sustainable institutional capacity: Building institutional capacity -- particularly when it involves
public-private-producer organization partnerships -- is a difficult process to undertake and an
even more difficult process to forecast and to direct precisely. The Bank has not had a great deal
of experience in successfully investing in social capital, nor does it have a track record of
sustaining such investments for the time required for institutions and social capital to become to
become self-sustaining.

Creative ways to develop and sustain social capital need to be explored. For example, drawing
from innovations implemented under this project, social capital can take the tangible form of a
brand which effectively differentiates products in terms of their quality. Once accumulated "brand
equity" can be leveraged as a further investment to increase institutional capital still further. In
addition, placing financial control over fixed assets in the hands of a federated organization and
using the cash flow generated from leasing out these assets can be an effective way to sustain
development of social capital.

Although this credit was notably successful in building institutional capacity, the process took



                                                 - 18 -

longer than initially planned. The Bank needs to not only place more emphasis on the `software'
side of investment operations, but also to be realistic in terms of the implementation time required
to address the software side of growth and the length of the commitment needed to ensure
sustainability.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:


(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                               - 19 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                          1
                Indicator/Matrix                      Projected in last PSR              Actual/Latest Estimate
Increase in private horticultural exports by   10,000                          14,080
15% a year, from 6,000 T to 10,000 T




Output Indicators:
                                                                          1
                Indicator/Matrix                      Projected in last PSR              Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Market potential for increased and
diversified exports identified

1.1 Number of exporters reached                50                              58
1.2 Number of producers reached                1000                            698
1.3 Number of private exporters/importers      20                              30
relations established formally
1.4 Trial shipments completed and evaluated 40                                 55
(5-10 per year) for a total of 40
1.5 Trade fair participations and study tours  N/A                             23
1.6 Research contracts on new product          N/A                             66
development effective (trials)
1.7 Number of products standardized (new       N/A                             4
products and packaging)


2. Etablish effective capacity of agricultural
professional organizations to bulk and export
products

2.1. Members using services of packaging       N/A                             0
centers
2.2 Members attending project trainings and
using its services (total number of persons    N/A                             1360
trained)
2.3 Central data information/referral is       1                               1
functional


3. Selected export facilities are upgraded

 3.1 Packaging centers constructed &           1                               constructed, not yet operational
operational
3.2 Air freight cold storage terminal          1                               1
constructed

1End of project




                                                            - 20 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                            Appraisal     Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                            Estimate       Estimate      Appraisal
                       Component                            US$ million   US$ million
1. Export Promotion and Diversification Activities             4.20             1.84            44
2. Support to Procucer/Exporter Associations                   2.40             1.10            46
3. Upgrading of Export Facilities                              1.30             4.39           338
4. Project Management                                          1.50             1.83           122

Total Baseline Cost                                            9.40             9.16
 Physical Contingencies                                        0.20             0.18            90
 Price Contingencies                                           0.80             0.70            88
                        Total Project Costs                   10.40           10.04
                  Total Financing Required                    10.40           10.04


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                      1
                                                 Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category            ICB              NCB                2        N.B.F.   Total Cost
                                                                 Other
1. Works                           0.72              0.00          0.10          0.00        0.82
                                  (0.54)             (0.00)      (0.07)          (0.00)     (0.61)
2. Goods                           0.48              1.27          0.35          0.00        2.10
                                  (0.37)             (0.92)      (0.30)          (0.00)     (1.59)
3. Services                        0.00              0.00          6.52          0.00        6.52
                                  (0.00)             (0.00)      (4.97)          (0.00)     (4.97)
4. Export Promotion                0.00              0.00          0.94          0.00        0.94
Services
                                  (0.00)             (0.00)      (0.87)          (0.00)     (0.87)
5. Operating Costs                 0.00              0.00          0.00          0.00        0.00
                                  (0.00)             (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)     (0.00)
6. PPF                             0.00              0.00          0.00          0.00        0.00
                                  (0.00)             (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)     (0.00)
   Total                           1.20              1.27          7.91          0.00       10.38
                                  (0.91)             (0.92)      (6.21)          (0.00)     (8.04)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                      1
                                                 Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category            ICB              NCB                2      N.B.F.    Total Cost
                                                                 Other
1. Works                           0.00              2.09         0.18           0.00       2.27
                                  (0.00)            (1.25)       (0.18)         (0.00)     (1.43)
2. Goods                           1.10              0.41         0.43           0.00       1.94
                                  (1.10)            (0.41)       (0.42)         (0.00)     (1.93)
3. Services                        0.00              0.00         3.19           0.00       3.19



                                                  - 21 -

                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (3.19)            (0.00)           (3.19)
   4. Export Promotion                      0.00               0.00              1.09             0.00              1.09
   Services
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.06)            (0.00)           (1.06)
   5. Operating Costs                       0.00               0.00              1.52             0.00              1.52
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.47)            (0.00)           (0.47)
   6. PPF                                   0.00               0.00              0.03             0.00              0.03
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.03)            (0.00)           (0.03)
       Total                                1.10               2.50              6.44             0.00             10.04
                                           (1.10)             (1.66)            (5.35)            (0.00)           (8.11)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                IDA         Govt.        CoF.         IDA          Govt.      CoF.       IDA      Govt.     CoF.
1. Export Promotion and         3.60         0.60         0.40        1.91         0.10       0.01       53.1      16.7      2.5
Diversification Activities
2. Support to                   1.80         0.60         0.30        1.10         0.10       0.03       61.1      16.7     10.0
Producer/Exporter
Associations
3. Upgrading of Export          1.20         0.10         0.10        3.60         1.20       0.00       300.0    1200.0     0.0
Facilities
4. Project Management           1.40         0.10         0.20        1.50         0.50       0.00       107.1    500.0      0.0
TOTAL                           8.00         1.40         1.00        8.11         1.90       0.04       101.4    135.7      4.0




                                                           - 22 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

An economic and financial analysis was conducted for the ICR patterned on the one carried out at
appraisal. Most of the underlying hypotheses of the ex-ante economic and financial analysis conducted at
appraisal proved to be reasonable: (i) demand for high-valued fruits and vegetables remains strong in world
markets targeted by Senegal; (ii) FOB and producer prices change to reflect market incentives; (iii)
agricultural production, trade policy, and the macro-economic environment in Senegal remain stable and
favorable, considering the untapped potential of the Senegal River valley and the Government's
commitment to implement recommendation of the Integrated Framework; (iii) producers/exporters
associations play their role in assisting members, as the project successfully implemented a capacity
building program in total quality management; (iv) constraints related to irrigation, land tenure and export
financing, if still real, have not worsened, as exports increased sharply during project implementation.

One assumption did not hold: Contrary to expectations, airfreight rates did increase considerably, due to
reduced traffic stemming from failed airline companies (Air Afrique, Swiss Air, Sabena) and increased risk
premiums following September 11, 2001. However, the project deftly helped exporters weather the storms,
first by arranging shipment with alternative air carriers and developing sea freight for the long term.

The economic and financial analysis for the ICR uses export, price and cost data observed from 1998 to
2003 and projected from 2004 to 2015. The analysis is conducted in 1997 prices in order to allow a
comparison with the ex-ante economic and financial analysis conducted during appraisal. To do so, price
and cost data are deflated using MUV (Manufacturing Unit Value index) for world prices and costs and
Senegal's CPI (Consumer Price Index) for domestic prices and costs.

Other key assumption of the economic and financial analysis include the following:

l With the project, exports of fruits and vegetables would increase from the current (2004) 13,000 tons
     to 50,000 tons in 2015. Without the project, exports would have increased from 6,000 in 1998 to
     23,000 tons. The 50,000 ton target for 2015 remains a conservative assumption, as several individual
     exporters express confidence that based on the project-induced momentum, they could reach each the
     20,000-30,000 plateau in the next five years. Such confidence is supported by the spectacular
     explosion in Senegalese mango exports, which increased tenfold from 1997 (300 tons) to 2004 (3,000
     tons). Senegalese exporters are also emboldened by their recent success in mango, melon and green
     bean exports by sea freight. It is clearly apparent that the project has achieved quicker results, and has
     identified much brighter prospects, for Senegal's exports than the project envisioned at appraisal. By
     contrast, the 'without project' assumption of 23,000 tons can be seen as extremely optimistic, given that
     Senegalese exports were sliding (leading to the initiation of the project) and that Senegal has never
     achieved much higher exports in the past. Along with the increase in exports, producers/exporters are
     also expected to bring to local markets incremental quantities of good quality fruits and vegetables.

l Total cost includes public investments (for the construction of export facilities, quality enhancement
     programs, and capacity building efforts), private investments (totaling 1.5 billion CFA) to upgrade
     private entrepreneurs' production and       processing infrastructure needed to comply with quality
     requirements, and incremental production costs. Public investment includes total IDA credit (in 1997
     prices) over the 1998-2004 disbursement period and the supplemental Borrower's contribution of about
     450 million CFA in 2004 which was needed to complete the construction of the packaging facility
     (Feltiplex). This additional Borrower's contribution became necessary when IDA's resources, eroded
     by the slide of the US Dollar against the EURO and the CFA, proved insufficient to cover the total cost
     of the Feltiplex.



                                                     - 23 -

Economic Analysis

The economic analysis confirms the favorable results of the ex-ante analysis conducted at appraisal. In
fact, both the ERR and NPV are even more impressive than at appraisal (25% and $5.8 million) despite the
conservative assumption of the incremental export volume. The switching values vis à vis key factors
such as the increase in volume and the FOB price received indicate the robustness of the results.

Results of economic and financial analysis:

     Variables                           Economic analysis               Financial analysis
     Rate of Return                             84%                            72%
     Net Present Value (@ 12%)         CFA 16 billion ($28 M)         CFA 13 billion ($23 M)
         Note: $1=CFA 555

Sensitivity analysis: switching values

     Variables                          Economic analysis (ERR)      Financial analysis (IRR)
     Total export volume                          -92 %                       -90 %
     Aggregate FOB price                          -92 %                       -90 %



Financial Analysis

The financial analysis also confirms the favorable results of the ex-ante analysis conducted during
appraisal and the switching values underscore the soundness of the results.

Results of the Economic and Financial Analysis at Appraisal

     Indicators                            Economic Analysis            Financial Analysis
     Internal Rate of Return                      25 %                         23%
     Net Present Value                       5.8 US million                $4.4 million




                                                   - 24 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              06/03/1997                2    SR. FINANCIAL ANALYST            S               S
                                             (1); SR. AG. SVCES.
                                             SPECIALIST (1);


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              09/29/1997                8    SR. FINANCIAL                    S               S
                                             ANALYST (1); SR. AG.
                                             SVCES. SPECIALIST (1);
                                             ECONOMIST(2);
                                             OPERATIONS ANALYSTS
                                             (2); CONSULTANTS (2)
              10/25/1997                                                      S               S

 Supervision
              11/03/1998                2    PRINCIPAL FIN.                   S               S
                                             ANALYST (1); AG.
                                             SVCES. SPECIALIST (1)
              06/12/1999                2    PRINCIPAL FIN. ANALYST           S               S
                                             (1); AGR. SERVICES SPEC. (1)
              10/26/1999                2    AG.SERVICES SPEC (TTL) (1)
              06/03/2000                4    AGRIC ECONOMIST (1);             S               S
                                             AGRIC. ECONOMIST (1);
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                                             CONSULTANT (1)
              11/08/2000                6    AG. ECONOMIST (TTL) (1);         S               S
                                             SR. AG. SERVICES SPEC (1);
                                             AG. ECONOMIST (1); HR
                                             OFFICER (1); FINANCIAL
                                             MGMT SPECIA (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1)
              10/06/2001                6    TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             CO-TTL/AG.SERVICES SP. (1);
                                             AG. ECONOMIST (1); AG.
                                             ECONOMIST. (1); PROC.
                                             SPEC. (1); FINANCIAL SPEC.
                                             (1)
              06/13/2002                7    SR. AG. ECONOMIST (2); SR.       S               S
                                             AG. SERVICES SPECI (1); AG.
                                             SERVICES SPECIALIS (1);
                                             LEAD PRIVATE S. DEVELO
                                             (1); OPERATION ANALYST
                                             (1); ASSISTANT (1)
              12/19/2002                6    TEAM LEADER (1);                 S               S
                                             CO-TTL/AG.SERVICES SP. (1);



                                              - 25 -

                                           AG. ECONOMIST (1);
                                           ENVIR.SPEC. (1); PROC.
                                           SPEC. (1); FINANCIAL SPEC.
                                           (1)
               12/19/2002              6   AG. ECONO, TEAM LEADER             S    S
                                           (1); CO-TTL, AG. SERV. SPEC
                                           (1); AG. ECONO (1);
                                           ENVIRON. (1);
                                           PROCUREMENT SPECIAL (1);
                                           FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                           (1)
               05/19/2003              5   TTL (1); AG. SERV                  S    S
                                           SPECIALIST (1); AGR
                                           ECONOMIST/M&E (1);
                                           PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                           (1); F.M SPECIALIST (1)

 ICR
               05/03/2004             7     SR. AGR. ECONOMIST                S    S
                                            (2); AGR. ECONOMIST
                                            (1); PROCUREMENT
                                            SPECIALIST(1); F.M.
                                            SPECIALIST (2);
                                            SAFEGUARD
                                            SPECIALIST (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation           37.80                        112.07
  Appraisal/Negotiation                20.70                         68.14
  Supervision                        146.30                         404.97
  ICR                                   0.70                           2.39
  Total                                205.5                        587.46




                                            - 26 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 27 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 28 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Danielou, M., 2004.     Successes and Challenges in Africa's Horticulture, draft chapter in
forthcoming IFPRI report, September 2004.

Diarra, A., 2003. Etude de l'impact des activites d'exportation des fruits et legumes du Senegal
dans l'economie rurale du Senegal, PPEA Consultancy Report. September 2003.

EurepGAP, 2003. EurepGAP: Introduction Among Small-scale Farmers in Developing
Countries. EurepGAP Consultancy Report. Plantconsult. December 2003.

Gergely, N., 2001. Etude de lÍmpact des Activites d'Exportation des Fruits et Legumes du
Senegal dans l'Economie Rurale du Pays. PPEA Consultancy Report, July 2001.

Hausmann, Ricardo, D. Rodrik, A. Velasco, 2004. Growth Diagnostics. Harvard University
Working Paper. September 2004.

IFLEX, Origine Senegal, Newsletters.
www.iflexsenegal.org

Project de Promotion des Exportations Agricoles (PPEA). Rapport d'Achevement du Project.
May 2004.

Rodrik, Dani. Growth Strategies. Harvard University Working Paper. September 2003.

Senegal Provides the Blueprint for Successful Cooperation. EurepGAP - The Global Sustainable
Partnership for Safe and Sustainable. Newsletter. May 2004.

World Bank. Project Appraisal Report, Republic of Senegal: Agricultural Export Promotion
Project. Report No. 17156-SE. November 6, 1997

World Bank. Staff Aide-Memoires.




                                              - 29 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Report

1. Justificatif

Le présent document constitue le rapport d'achèvement du Projet de Promotion des Exportations Agricoles
(PPEA). Il vise à évaluer les objectifs et à mesurer les performances du projet du point de vue de sa conception, de
son exécution proprement dite et de l'expérience acquise. Il permet aussi d'évaluer l'efficacité des relations entre le
projet et la Banque Mondiale. Ultimement, le rapport cherche à tirer des leçons pouvant être utiles dans le futur et
à mesurer l'impact du projet en matière de développement.

2. 0bjectifs du projet

Le PPEA avait été conçu comme projet pilote visant à développer et diversifier les exportations agricoles par la
mise en place de conditions favorables et notamment en dotant les entreprises du secteur privé d'outils
indispensables à leur développement. Il s'agissait de permettre, à terme, le renforcement des capacités techniques,
organisationnelles et juridiques des entreprises et des organisations professionnelles en leurs donnant les
compétences nécessaires pour aborder les marchés internationaux dans de bonnes conditions. La réalisation de ces
objectifs devait permettre au Gouvernement du Sénégal de répondre à sa volonté de relance des exportations
agricoles pour contribuer à la croissance économique nationale et à la lutte contre la pauvreté (génération d'emplois
et de revenus).

Les objectifs principaux du projet étaient la hausse significative des exportations horticoles privées de 6 000 en
1998 à 10 000 tonnes à la fin du projet (prévu en fin décembre 2002), la croissance significative des autres produits
agricoles exportés et l'introduction de produits nouveaux. Ces objectifs devaient être atteints : (a) en favorisant la
promotion (identification des marchés porteurs notamment) et la diversification des exportations ; (b) en renforçant
les capacités des exportateurs, des organisations professionnelles, des associations de producteurs exportateurs et la
création d'association de producteurs ; (c) en réhabilitant ou en créant des infrastructures de base dédiées aux
exportations dans les aéroports de Dakar et de Saint Louis.

3. Conception du projet

Approche composantes. Pour atteindre ses objectifs, le PPEA a d'abord adopté une approche par composante telle
que décrite dans le manuel de procédures. Cette approche a été suivie pendant la première année d'exécution du
projet avec une articulation des actions du projet autour de trois composantes principales

La première composante, la promotion et la diversification des exportations, comprenait (i) des actions de
recherche de marché, l'identification des clients, l'amélioration de la qualité, des essais d'expédition, le suivi des
ventes et des expéditions, (ii) le développement des produits et le contrôle par la mise à disposition de moyens de
recherche-développement et (iii) la recherche de partenaires commerciaux pour les opérateurs privés impliqués
dans la production et l'exportation des produits ayant démontré un potentiel important au niveau du pays mais
également pour des produits nouveaux dont les potentialités auront été confirmées sur les marchés visés (outre-mer
et sous-régionaux).

La deuxième composante, l'appui aux organisations de producteurs exportateurs, devait favoriser les actions en
faveur (i) du renforcement des organisations professionnelles existantes (groupes de producteurs, associations
d'exportateurs, coopératives, groupes interprofessionnels, etc.) et la mise en place des infrastructures collectives,
(ii) de la création d'associations de producteurs-exportateurs et de producteurs si nécessaires, (iii) de la mise en
place d'informations économiques et la mise à disposition de conseils juridiques, économiques et de gestion pour
les entreprises et les associations privées du secteur.

La troisième composante, la réhabilitation des infrastructures d'exportation, concernait les sites de Dakar et autres
localités. Elle comprenait l'agrandissement, la réhabilitation des hangars de stockage réfrigérés ou non, des aires
de préparation, et la mise en place d'une gestion durable des installations réhabilitées.



                                                         - 30 -

Approche filières. En fin 1999, avec la collaboration de la firme GEOMAR International (partenaire d'exécution
technique du projet), les interventions du PPEA ont été réorientées vers une approche filières. Cette approche
privilégiait la définition des interventions par filière tout en respectant le cadre des différentes composantes du
projet. Elle a permis de mieux comprendre la problématique de chaque filière grâce notamment au développement
d'une expertise multidisciplinaire, de développer des relations privilégiées avec les opérateurs dans chacune des
filières et, par conséquent, de mieux cibler les interventions du projet. Sur le plan opérationnel, l'approche filières a
permis, comme nous le verrons plus loin, des réalisations significatives sur une période de temps relativement
courte : bonne identification des créneaux porteurs, des besoins et des contraintes des différentes filières, mise en
place d'actions pilotes ciblées, croissance quantitative et qualitative des exportations de produits incluant le haricot
vert et la mangue.

Depuis la revue à mi-parcours (RMP) de septembre-octobre 2001 qui avait permis de réaffirmer la pertinence du
PPEA, tant sur le plan de ses objectifs que de sa démarche, l'équipe autonome de gestion du projet (EAGP),
assistée de la firme GEOMAR International et avec la participation des bénéficiaires, a restructuré son programme
d'actions autour des cinq activités prioritaires suivantes :

     - Réalisation et opérationnalisation d'une GARE DE FRET ;
     - Gestion de la QUALITE (LMR, traçabilité, EurepGAP) ;
     - DIVERSIFICATION des produits, des procédés de conditionnement et des zones de production ;
     - Installation d'infrastructures POST-RECOLTE (amélioration des infrastructures de chaîne de froid en
     amont de la gare de fret, au niveau de l'exploitation et à travers des centres de conditionnement
     spécialisés/Feltiplex) ;
     - RENFORCEMENT DES CAPACITES des opérateurs (veilles stratégique et commerciale, information,
     promotion de l'Origine, amélioration des capacités managériales et de gestion des opérateurs économiques).

Ces cinq activités prioritaires ont été conduites de la revue à mi-parcours jusqu'à la fin de la période d'exécution du
projet.

4. Evaluation des objectifs

L'objectif global du projet visant à faire passer les exportations de produits horticoles de 6 000 à 10 000 tonnes a
été atteint et même dépassé (environ 12 000 tonnes en 2003). Comme le montre les indicateurs de performances
présentés et approuvés lors des différentes réunions du Comité de Pilotage et des missions de supervision de la
Banque Mondiale durant l'exécution du projet (voir annexe), le projet a contribué à travers plusieurs de ses actions
à la consolidation des filières ou à la création de conditions propices à leur croissance, et a ainsi contribué à
l'augmentation du volume enregistré. Il s'agit notamment des actions qualité dans la filière haricot vert, des
formations rapprochées dans la filière mangue, et des actions d'appui dans le domaine du fret aérien et maritime. Il
s'agit aussi des programmes-tests qui ont permis le paramétrage de filières classiques comme la tomate cerise ou le
melon, et ont ainsi donné la possibilité à plusieurs opérateurs de taille moyenne d'accéder aux connaissances
requises et d'explorer de nouveaux créneaux, jusqu'alors réservés à des exportateurs chevronnés.

Par sa composante « Promotion et diversification des exportations », le projet a permis de tester de façon positive
une vingtaine de variétés de sept nouveaux produits, ainsi que leur introduction sur une quinzaine de marchés
géographiquement diversifiés. Il a en outre réalisé une étude sur le profil stratégique de développement des filières
d'exportation, qui dégage des perspectives réelles de croissance, et permet l'élaboration d'une stratégie argumentée
de développement du secteur.

Par sa composante « Appui aux organisations de producteurs exportateurs », le projet a consolidé les deux
structures existantes, et créé le cadre favorable à une concertation professionnelle, notamment pour l'organisation
du fret et la gestion de la qualité.

Par sa composante « Réhabilitation des infrastructures d'exportation », le projet a enfin permis la construction




                                                          - 31 -

d'une gare de fret pour les produits horticoles à l'aéroport de Dakar, tandis que la réalisation d'un centre de
conditionnement à usage collectif (Feltiplex) est en cours.

5. Résultats du projet

Au cours de son exécution, le PPEA a généré de nombreux résultats avec un impact significatif en matière de
développement.

Des infrastructures stratégiques au développement de la filière : la Gare de fret et le Feltiplex. Ces deux
réalisations vont contribuer indéniablement à l'amélioration de l'environnement dans lequel les exportations de
fruits et légumes se réaliseront désormais. Il est apparu que le défi que posait la réalisation ces outils techniques
majeurs ne se situaient pas seulement au niveau de la mobilisation des ressources, mais également sur le plan de
leur conception même qui ne faisaient pas l'unanimité au départ. Le PPEA aura réussi à bâtir une infrastructure qui
tienne compte des besoins des exploitants de toutes tailles, tout en prévoyant un mécanisme de gestion privée.

Une démarche qualité implantée au niveau des entreprises et sur le plan institutionnel. Les activités de
promotion de la qualité parrainées par le PPEA ont permis aux exploitants du Sénégal de se démarquer des autres
exploitants de la sous-région en se dotant d'une démarche structurée de mise en oeuvre des référentiels de Bonnes
Pratiques Agricoles, ceci au niveau des entreprises ainsi que sur le plan institutionnel. Le PPEA a pu amorcer un
travail allant dans le sens du développement de systèmes d'assurance qualité. Cette action a été lancée en réponse
aux exigences du marché européen. Elle a été basée sur l'audit préalable des entreprises fort apprécié par toutes les
parties prenantes. Pour la première fois au Sénégal, les principales entreprises exportatrices de fruits et légumes ont
donc été évaluées quant à leur performance qualité et à leur degré de conformité à un référentiel basé sur
EurepGAP (référentiel international) dans le but de mieux les assister à se mettre à niveau. Les différentes actions
qualité conduites à partir de cet audit ont été réalisées sous l'égide du Comité National de Suivi de la Promotion de
la Qualité Intrinsèque des Produits Horticoles regroupant les principales institutions sénégalaises concernées (DPV,
DH, CDH, ASN, Fondation Ceres-Locustox, etc.). Cette démarche, d'abord appliquée aux produits frais dans le
cadre du PPEA, prendra toute son importance sur le créneau des produits transformés afin de garantir la
composition interne des produits, leur qualité intrinsèque et leur sûreté (hygiène et salubrité).

Le Référentiel Qualité initié par le projet dans le cadre de la promotion de l'Origine Sénégal et disponible en
format papier ou électronique, a été, après évaluation, considéré comme un Plan de gestion des maladies (Pest
Management Plan) avec des normes autrement plus contraignantes que celles exigées par la Banque mondiale, à
savoir l'Evaluation environnementale (OP 4.01) et la Gestion intégrée des maladies (OP 4.09). En d'autres termes,
il respecte les politiques de sauvegarde environnementale.

Une connaissance détaillée des créneaux porteurs et du potentiel de croissance du secteur. Avec le PPEA, les
professionnels et les acteurs institutionnels associés à la filière, ont développé une meilleure connaissance des
possibilités de diversification effectives du Sénégal. Les travaux de veille commerciale et stratégique de même que
les nombreux tests de diversification conduits ont donné une dimension concrète et documentée aux opportunités de
diversification sur une gamme très large de produits : melons LSL, melon cantaloup, papaye, pois mange tout,
variétés nouvelles de gombo et de piment, patate douce, fruit de la passion, framboise etc. Le Sénégal n'est
désormais plus une origine mono-produit.

Croissance durable des exportations des trois produits phare : haricot vert, tomate cerise, mangue. Au
démarrage du projet, il avait été constaté une stagnation des exportations du Sénégal. Les actions de développement
soutenues par le PPEA sur les grandes filières ont visé plusieurs points critiques : agréage qualité, suivi commercial
des filières, design d'emballages, introduction de techniques longue conservation, introduction des petits
producteurs aux filières plus spécialisées. On constate aujourd'hui sur ces filières un impact significatif en termes
de diversification à l'intérieur de la gamme (utilisation de certaines formules préemballées) et de diversification des
modes d'expédition (développement de la logistique maritime). Il en a résulté un croissance soutenue des volumes
exportés qui, rappelons le, ont dépassé l'objectif de 10 000 tonnes fixé au PPEA lors de son lancement.




                                                          - 32 -

L'atteinte d'un premier stade de diversification - produit. Le grand succès de diversification du PPEA a été le
décollage effectif de la filière mangue. Les appuis du projet en matière de professionnalisation des exportateurs ont
permis de capitaliser sur le parc végétal existant et de proposer un produit de qualité qui a capté l'attention des
importateurs européens. Suite à ce succès commercial, on a constaté au fil des années une croissance rapide des
surfaces plantées, ce qui augure la poursuite de la tendance à la hausse des exportations de ce produit, qui a atteint
les 2 600 tonnes en 2003 contre 300 en début de projet, amenant le Sénégal nez à nez avec Israël, l'autre origine
leader sur la période ciblée (juin-octobre). Toutes les connaissances techniques acquises dans le cadre des appuis du
PPEA à la filière mangue ont été capitalisées dans le « Guide Export - Mangues du Sénégal » publié sous les
éditions techniques IFLEX.

Au terme du projet, les efforts de diversification ont permis, après un paramétrage technique, de relancer le melon
export qui s'est repositionné sur les marchés européens du fait de l'engagement de plusieurs opérateurs, de l'intérêt
grandissant des partenaires importateurs actuels pour ce produit et des difficultés rencontrées par l'Amérique du
Sud sur le double plan climatique et phytosanitaire

A la suite des activités de diversification du projet, on peut également s'attendre à un positionnement d'autres
gammes de produits que le PPEA a appuyé : le gombo intéresse de plus en plus certains partenaires européens qui
voient en le Sénégal une source intéressante d'un produit qui gagne progressivement des parts de marché; et les
compléments de gamme (piments, mini légumes, pois) pré-emballés (sachets et barquettes), qui devraient
naturellement se développer suite à l'ouverture de la Gare de fret et la création du Feltiplex, de même qu'en raison
de problèmes internes de pays leaders tels que le Zimbabwe.

Pour d'autres initiatives appuyées par le PPEA, portant sur des productions à caractère plus traditionnel, on
s'attend à ce que les premiers résultats soient suffisamment favorables pour susciter une poursuite des travaux,
débouchant sur une augmentation de l'activité sur le moyen terme. Des produits tels que la patate douce, l'oignon
ou l'ail ont un potentiel certain, tant sur le plan national que régional, et les résultats techniques obtenus pourront
être rapidement repris par les exploitants.

Dans le cas des autres produits que sont l'asperge ou la framboise, le potentiel demeure quoique plusieurs questions
techniques qui permettraient de conclure à une productivité suffisante pour garantir la compétitivité de l'origine, ne
sont pas encore réglées. Toutefois quelques opérateurs poursuivent les essais et il est possible que sur les cinq
prochaines années ces filières émergeront graduellement et induiront un investissement plus soutenu.

L'élargissement des opportunités logistiques. L'action du PPEA a touché le fret aérien et maritime. Sur le plan de
l'infrastructure, la gare de fret va permettre une diversification des possibilités d'affrètement aérien et une
meilleure organisation des vols charters, ce qui dynamisera ce secteur qui a souffert de crises majeures au cours des
deux dernières années, tant au plan international (coût du carburant, renouvellement des flottes, resserrement des
mesures de sécurité, transition technologique des aéronefs cargo) qu'au plan de l'Afrique de l'Ouest (faillites Air
Afrique/ Sabena/ Swissair, surconcentration des capacités sur le réseau Air France) .

D'autre part, le PPEA a soutenu l'émergence d'exportations par voie maritime de produits traditionnellement voués
à l'aérien. C'est le cas du haricot vert dont la percée par voie maritime devrait se raffermir avec l'accès des
exploitants à une logistique de froid mieux maîtrisée (services de pré-cooling à la gare de fret, Feltiplex) et donc
plus profitable, ouvrant des possibilités intéressantes pour d'autres produits de la gamme des légumes exotiques et
de contre-saison (okra/ gombo, pois mangetout).

Finalement, avec le PPEA, le Sénégal a commencé à tirer parti de son avantage comparatif déterminant que
constitue son statut de dernière escale à la remontée sur l'Europe avec des temps de transit parmi les plus courts de
toutes les origines tropicales. Les succès techniques sur le haricot vert et le melon préfigurent une croissance rapide
sur ce créneau logistique des produits de masse qui nécessitent un coût de fret réduit pour garantir un prix
compétitif.

Une image de marque de l'origine. A travers le matériel promotionnel innovant qu'il a produit, le PPEA a




                                                         - 33 -

contribué à améliorer l'image de marque de l'origine. Ce résultat a été atteint au travers, notamment, la production
de calendriers promotionnels non conventionnels, la production d'une banque d'images photographiques
frappantes sur la gamme Origine Sénégal, le développement de marques et d'emballages visuellement attrayants et
différenciés, le maintien d'une cohérence visuelle dans le matériel de communication issu du projet. Le niveau du
matériel promotionnel a donc été sensiblement relevé par le PPEA, démarquant sensiblement l'origine et fixant des
standards qui orienteront les stratégies promotionnelles futures des exploitants.

Accès des PME aux créneaux à plus forte valeur ajoutée et développement par les petites et moyennes
entreprises (PME) de compétences stratégiques. Le projet a travaillé avant tout avec les PME du secteur en leur
faisant expérimenter des productions diversifiées, offrant un potentiel de valeur ajoutée important. Ainsi, au terme
du projet, les PME exportatrices ont étendu leur gamme à l'exportation, autrefois centrée sur le haricot bobby, à des
produits tels que le haricot filet, le haricot préemballé, les technologies longue conservation etc. Cette
diversification donne aux PME l'opportunité de dégager des marges supérieures, et de renforcer leur rentabilité en
contrant le mouvement à la baisse dans lequel le haricot bobby avion s'était engagé.

Un investissement rural et des partenariats avec des PME. Bien que les actions spécifiques en matière de
mobilisation de financements n'aient pas été réellement conduites, le PPEA a joué un rôle significatif dans la
conclusion de partenariats durables, particulièrement au niveau de la mangue et du melon. A ce jour plusieurs
groupes internationaux demandent l'appui indirect de la Firme et de l'EAGP pour accompagner le développement
progressif de ces formules. Dans le cas de la mangue, il est très probable, de manière analogue au scénario de
développement de la filière ivoirienne, qu'importateurs et exportateurs créent des joint-ventures pour le
financement de chaînes de conditionnement et d'installations de pré-cooling modernes. Selon les résultats de la
campagne melon 2004, il est également fortement probable que ce genre de scénario se reproduise pour ce produit.

D'autre part, le succès du PPEA sur la filière mangue aura incité les exploitants agricoles à étendre leurs vergers de
même qu'à procéder à des créations nouvelles. De tels investissements, la plupart réalisés sur ressources propres,
sont non négligeables et peuvent être estimés à plusieurs centaines de millions de francs CFA. Sur ce créneau, le
PPEA sera parvenu à réaliser sa vision initiale qui justifiait l'absence de ligne de crédit : susciter une dynamique
d'investissement essentiellement privée et pérenne, fondée sur le développement d'une offre commercialement
compétitive. De tels comportements ont également été observés sur la papaye, avec un fort investissement des
exploitants au niveau de la protection des vergers contre les effets du vent, de même que pour l'extension des
surfaces plantées. Ici encore l'investissement aura été soutenu par la solide profitabilité de la filière et les
perspectives encourageantes ouvertes par le PPEA.

Une meilleure circulation de l'information entre les opérateurs et le milieu via IFLEX (version papier et
électronique) et le Référentiel OS. Le développement de la formule IFLEX par le PPEA (bulletin périodiques,
éditions techniques, site Web (www.iflexsenegal.org) a fourni un vecteur de communication puissant entre les
acteurs de la filière d'une part, mais également avec leurs partenaires du milieu institutionnel et privé. Le PPEA a
institué un principe de diffusion rapide des informations générées par le projet, tant sur le plan des acquis
techniques que du point de vue des options stratégiques développées à travers ses travaux. Il en a résulté une plus
grande convergence de vues des acteurs des filières, voire un resserrement des liens et une meilleure coordination
des approches. En fin de projet, le PPEA a visé à pérenniser cette approche en tentant de la rendre la plus
autoportante possible, en la rattachant à la structure pérenne (la Fondation Origine Sénégal Fruits et Légumes), en
capitalisant sur sa diffusion pour générer des revenus publicitaires ou en attirant des sponsors, et en développant
des supports de diffusion peu coûteux (format électronique) tout en demeurant attrayants. On peut ainsi compter sur
ce qu'une part importante du concept IFLEX ait des chances de survivre passé le terme effectif du projet.

Sur le plan de la qualité, l'initiative du PPEA de constituer un référentiel de base pour les aspects qualité associés
au label de l'origine Sénégal (le Référentiel Qualité Origine Sénégal), a donné aux exploitants une base
documentaire et conceptuelle solide à partir de laquelle construire le tissus de normes et pratiques qui a déjà donné
une crédibilité effective au label Origine Sénégal. Sur ce plan, le Référentiel Qualité OS a placé les exploitants
sénégalais loin au devant des professionnels des autres pays de la zone UEMOA qui, à ce jour, abordent à peine ces
concepts (Mali, Burkina, Mauritanie, Guinée) ou dont la taille de l'industrie est telle que son inertie empêche une
mise à niveau rapide (filières traditionnelles ananas/banane de RCI). Le Sénégal aura ainsi fait de grands pas pour



                                                        - 34 -

combler l'écart qui le sépare du niveau atteint par les pays d'Afrique de l'Est, du Sud et des Amériques.

Le rassemblement des acteurs institutionnels autour d'une vision commune. Le travail sur le profil stratégique
entamé à partir de la revue à mi-parcours a donné aux autorités du pays une meilleure appréciation de la
contribution effective et potentielle du secteur, tant en matière de croissance économique que de réduction de la
pauvreté. Plus spécifiquement, le profil stratégique et les études socio-économiques complémentaires ont mis en
exergue le niveau important d'emploi généré par ces filières, donnée peu connue des observateurs économiques.
D'autre part, en capitalisant sur les acquis des expériences de diversification, conduites par le PPEA, il a été
possible de produire une vision prospective du développement de la filière qui s'appuie sur des constats techniques
éprouvés et non sur de simples spéculations statistiques; le message transmis aux autorités en aura été d'autant plus
fort. Finalement, le PPEA, en produisant du matériel imprimé reprenant de façon synthétique et percutante les
principales options stratégiques de la filière horticole, puis en le diffusant à travers un éventail diversifié de canaux
(APIX, STRADEX, NEPAD, Banque Mondiale, réseau des ambassades, opérateurs privés), s'est assuré de ce
qu'une fois son action achevée, un relais institutionnel solide perdurera afin de mobiliser les soutiens requis.

Rapprochement des organisations composant la profession. Un autre impact du projet a été la résolution du
clivage ONAPES/SEPAS. Cet impact est issu de l'approche d'inclusion préconisée par le PPEA, qui visait à
impliquer les exploitants des deux organisations dans des activités concrètes tout en respectant les priorités de
chaque association. Est-ce que le rapprochement constaté se poursuivra pour aboutir à une interprofession
matérialisée par l'Origine Sénégal? La priorité du PPEA s'est limité à poursuivre la réalisation effective de projets
d'intérêt commun (Gare de fret, Feltiplex, Référentiel qualité OS) qui ont contribué à nuancer les conditions d'une
telle fédération.

L'émergence d'une formule efficiente de développement des exportations horticoles (l'EAGP). Le PPEA a
permis de développer une approche novatrice de soutien aux exportations, fondée sur l'expérimentation technique
et commerciale ainsi que sur la diffusion rapide et efficace de l'information issue des travaux. La focalisation «
marché » du projet lui a permis de développer des interventions sur des niches porteuses, tout en cédant le
leadership des projets aux exploitants eux-mêmes. Par ailleurs, il apparaît qu'une structure légère d'exécution mise
dans des conditions de fonctionnement adéquates et souples, atteint des résultats significatifs dans des délais
relativement courts

6. Impact socio-économique

L'analyse financière et économique des filières d'exportation a été réalisée en 2001 (Gergely) et 2003 (Diarra).
L'analyse a montré que la valeur ajoutée générée, c'est-à-dire la richesse créée par les principales filières
d'exportation (haricot vert, tomate cerise et mangue), s'élevait à 5,5 milliards de F CFA pour un volume total
exporté de près de 11 000 tonnes soit 520 F CFA/kg, un taux cinq fois plus important que la moyenne de tous les
produits agricoles (hors pêche et élevage). Toujours d'après l'analyse, avec plus de 10 milliards de F CFA de
recettes (campagne 2002/03), les filières d'exportation de fruits et légumes se placent au deuxième rang des
pourvoyeurs de devises par tonne exportée dans le secteur agricole après la pêche et devant le coton, l'arachide et
les produits phosphatés. Des projections ont montré qu'en multipliant les volumes actuels par cinq, soit 55 000
tonnes de produits exportés, ces filières pourraient se hisser au premier rang. De plus, avec 10 000 emplois ruraux
créés (28% dans la région du Fleuve et 72% dans la région des Niayes), les filières d'exportation de fruits et
légumes distribuent plus d'un milliard de F CFA de salaires par an (431 et 454 millions en main d'oeuvre rurale
féminine et masculine respectivement). Ainsi, les résultats de l'analyse ont montré que les activités des agents des
filières d'exportation de fruits et légumes sont rentables financièrement et viables économiquement répondant ainsi
aux attentes des autorités sénégalaises en terme de stratégie de lutte contre la pauvreté. En effet, ces activités
assurent un revenu incitateur à leurs différents acteurs (58% aux agents directs, 11% aux banques et à l'Etat sous
forme d'intérêts et de taxes, 22% aux ménages ruraux, 9% pour l'amortissement de l'investissement). En terme de
création de richesse et d'apport en devises, on l'a vu, les filières fruits et légumes export sont en très bonne place
dans le secteur agricole. En ce qui concerne les emplois essentiellement ruraux générés, le niveau est très élevé par
rapport au volume exporté. De plus, avec un taux de 35% de main d'oeuvre féminine, les filières fruits et légumes
d'exportation répondent à un autre objectif des autorités sur la promotion de l'emploi féminin. Finalement,




                                                          - 35 -

l'approche économique de l'étude a confirmé que les filières d'exportation de fruits et légumes sont génératrices de
richesse pour la collectivité et donc pour toute l'économie nationale.

7. Influence de facteurs dans l'exécution du projet

Pendant l'exécution du projet et tel qu'il a été développé précédemment, les actions ont participé à la réalisation
des objectifs fixés. Néanmoins, un nombre de facteurs internes et externes ont influencé l'exécution du projet de
telle sorte que des retards significatifs ont été connus dans la réalisation de plusieurs programmes justifiant
l'extension de la durée d'exécution.

Mobilisation des ressources financières. La domiciliation du pouvoir de décaissement (signature des chèques) au
niveau de l'Equipe Autonome de Gestion du Projet (EAGP) dans les premiers mois d'exécution du projet a été un
facteur favorable à la réalisation des objectifs selon l'approche adoptée. Il convient de rappeler ici que, dans son
approche, le projet a privilégié la réalisation d'actions pilotes en collaboration avec les opérateurs privés (basées sur
un partage des coûts proportionnel au degré de risque d'innovation). Le projet devait donc être capable de prendre
en compte avec efficience au moins deux facteurs clés pour la réussite de son approche à savoir partager les risques
d'innovation avec les opérateurs et mobiliser les ressources logistiques et financières nécessaires à la réalisation des
programmes techniques. Or, sur le plan de la trésorerie, des difficultés dans la mise à disposition des ressources
financières nécessaires à la bonne exécution du projet ont été rencontrées dès le début du projet en raison du faible
niveau du compte spécial et des lenteurs administratives au niveau du traitement des DRF (contrat avec la
Fondation du Secteur Privé). A partir d'avril 2000, le niveau du compte spécial du projet a été relevé ce qui a
permis la réalisation d'un nombre important d'activités techniques pendant l'année en cours. Par contre la non
rectification d'une erreur de procédures dans l'utilisation des fonds IDA au début du projet (paiement des impôts
sur les salaires du personnel d'appui) et l'absence de mise en place d'un fonds de contrepartie pour le projet par le
gouvernement sénégalais, ont conduit au blocage du compte spécial pendant la phase intensive de réalisation du
programme de travail du PPEA. Ce blocage qui a perduré pendant les 5 premiers mois de l'année 2001 a
sérieusement perturbé l'exécution du plan de travail du PPEA. Même si la mobilisation des fonds de la Banque
Mondiale s'est améliorée après la revue à mi-parcours, celle-ci restait conditionnée à la mobilisation souvent
difficile des fonds de contrepartie sénégalaise.

Disponibilité des ressources humaines. La gestion et la mise en oeuvre du projet, avec l'accord de toutes les parties
prenantes, ont été confiées à une équipe autonome, composée de professionnels du secteur privé. La structure de
gestion est gérée comme un service privé avec un personnel sous contrat à durée limitée. Au démarrage du projet,
tous les principaux postes ont été pourvus. Hormis son Directeur, l'EAGP comptait alors deux experts Marchés
(national et international), un expert OP (national), un expert Financier et Suivi/évaluation. A partir de fin 1999,
l'EAGP a été assistée par la firme GEOMAR International qui a dépêché un expert résident et fait intervenir des
experts ponctuels. Le départ volontaire et prématuré du Directeur du projet en 2000 et plus tard le non
renouvellement de trois des quatre contrats d'experts ont eu une incidence sur l'organisation du projet. L'expert
national OP qui avait été nommé provisoirement Directeur par intérim, n'a été confirmé dans la fonction de
Directeur du projet qu'en octobre 2001. La restructuration du PPEA issue de la revue à mi-parcours a transformé
l'EAGP en une structure légère réalisant ses programmes à travers des collaborations institutionnelles ou par la
sous-traitance à des compétences privées. Cette formule a donné des résultats intéressants non seulement en matière
de diversification mais également sur les plans de la gestion de la qualité et de la coordination des acteurs des
filières.

Relations avec le bailleur de fonds. Pendant la période d'exécution du projet, les échanges entre la Banque
Mondiale et le PPEA ont été généralement constructifs. Toutefois, des facteurs ont pu contribuer indirectement aux
retards enregistrés dans les réalisations de l'EAGP, parmi lesquels :

     - le départ/changement du task manager impliqué dans le montage du projet en cours d'exécution de la
     première phase ;
     - certains délais de communication entre le projet et l'équipe de suivi à Washington (délais dans l'obtention
     des avis de non objection et des aides mémoire des missions de supervision, par exemple) ;
     - peut-être aussi une certaine rigidité face aux difficultés financières rencontrées par le projet et qui pourrait


                                                           - 36 -

     être due à un manque de dialogue avec la nouvelle équipe gouvernementale en place en 2000 ou au manque de
     prise en compte des difficultés de transition entre l'ancienne et la nouvelle équipe au pouvoir.

Relations avec les organisations professionnelles. Une des difficultés rencontrées lors de la mise en oeuvre du
PPEA a été de faire évoluer graduellement la perception du projet comme source de financement vers une relation
qui vise un véritable partenariat technique d'innovation basé sur le partage de risques ainsi que sur des objectifs
commerciaux. La participation des opérateurs privés aux différentes activités initiées par le projet n'a pas été
acquise automatiquement et immédiatement. Le projet a su graduellement démontrer la pertinence de plusieurs
initiatives et de susciter l'intérêt et la participation des opérateurs. Il est important de souligner que toutes les
activités engagées ne pouvaient pas concerner tous les opérateurs dans leur globalité et ne pouvaient donc pas
toutes susciter leur intérêt. En effet, les besoins des opérateurs varient suivant leur typologie et ne sont pas les
mêmes pour les petits ou nouveaux qui ont bénéficié en majorité d'appuis rapprochés de type « coaching », que les
plus gros et les plus chevronnés pour lesquels les programmes visaient plus particulièrement par exemple
l'amélioration de la qualité, l'amélioration des infrastructures de base et de la logistique d'exportation.

Relativement à la typologie des évoquée, on notera qu'au démarrage du projet, les opérateurs sénégalais étaient
regroupés en deux organisations professionnelles : la SEPAS et le GPH. En fin 1999, les professionnels des filières
d'exportations se sont réorganisés. Cette réorganisation a abouti à la création de l'ONAPES, regroupant les anciens
membres de la GPH et quelques opérateurs de taille moyenne de l'ancienne SEPAS, la nouvelle SEPAS regroupant
la majorité des petits et moyens opérateurs.

En 2000, le projet a traversé une période de relations difficile avec l'ONAPES naissante. Les points de divergence
portaient essentiellement sur les initiatives du projet mais étaient en fait, en grande partie, liés à un certain manque
de communication entre l'organisation professionnelle et le projet. Cette situation a évolué depuis vers une relation
de travail constructive qui prend en compte les préoccupations de l'ONAPES et de ses membres.

On notera que l'esprit de collaboration entre le projet et les deux organisations professionnelles a été
particulièrement développé dans le montage du dossier crucial relatif à la réalisation de la gare de fret, à celle du
Feltiplex et à la gestion de la qualité.

L'implication des autorités sénégalaises. Au démarrage du projet, les performances du gouvernement ont pu
s'apprécier à travers l'application de mesures facilitant la mise en oeuvre du projet. Il s'agit essentiellement de
l'autorisation de la domiciliation du transfert de signature de la DDI à l'EAGP qui a abouti à la mise en oeuvre de
procédures simples permettant la mobilisation à tout moment des ressources allouées au projet (lorsqu'elles étaient
disponibles).

Au cours de l'exécution du PPEA, la République du Sénégal a connu une alternance politique. Cet événement
politique majeur a entraîné de profonds changements au niveau de tous les démembrements de l'Etat impliqués
dans le projet. Ces changements intervenus ont eu des conséquences plus ou moins directes sur le projet (démission
du Directeur appelé à d'autres fonctions, négociations difficiles avec la Banque Mondiale pour le déblocage du
compte spécial, etc.). Toutefois, les nouvelles autorités ont adhéré au projet et l'ont prouvé en mettant en place en
juin 2001 un fonds de contrepartie, il est vrai parfois difficile, à mobiliser mais dont l'absence aurait pu être fatale
pour le projet et en accordant un financement additionnel pour combler le gap budgétaire lié à la chute du dollar
américain. Il s'agit là de performances importantes à souligner qui ont eu un impact dans l'exécution de la
deuxième phase jusqu'à la fin du projet.

Taux de change. Au moment où des décaissements importants devaient être opérés pour la construction des
infrastructures d'expédition et post-récolte, le dollar américain a connu une baisse sans précédent face à l'euro. De
fin 2002 à début 2004, le PPEA a perdu plus de 450 millions de francs CFA sur son budget prévisionnel. Cette
perte du taux de change a entraîné des réajustements budgétaires importants et la recherche d'un financement
additionnel pour la réalisation du Feltiplex.

Dégradation de la situation du fret aérien. Au cours de la campagne 1999/2000, les exportateurs avaient déjà
connu d'importantes difficultés d'évacuation des produits (haricot vert notamment). Cette situation s'est beaucoup


                                                          - 37 -

dégradée pendant la campagne 2000/20001 avec la déficience de la compagnie Air Afrique et des coûts croissants
du fret pour les capacités charter (influencés par le coût du carburant et le cours du dollar). Cette situation a eu un
impact sur le projet dans la mesure où les principales préoccupations des opérateurs se sont concentrées, de façon
très compréhensive, sur les problèmes d'évacuation de leurs produits souvent au détriment de leurs engagements
dans les programmes, notamment ceux liés à la diversification. Face à cette situation préoccupante, le projet a
même dû s'impliquer pour apporter une contribution au règlement des problèmes logistiques rencontrés notamment
en appuyant au développement des expéditions maritimes.

Gestion des dossiers d'infrastructures. Un certain nombre de facteurs internes et externes ont contribué à retarder
la livraison des infrastructures. La nécessité de parvenir à un consensus avec les exportateurs quant au design de la
gare de fret et du Feltiplex, aura requis plusieurs études et concertations qui, bien qu'essentielles au succès du
projet auprès des bénéficiaires, auront retardé le lancement des appels d'offres de plusieurs mois. La coordination
du dossier de la gare de fret, faisant intervenir trois sociétés différentes, un maître d'oeuvre et un maître d'ouvrage
pour sa réalisation, s'est avérée particulièrement délicate. Les aspects financiers du dossier de la gare de fret (mise
en place des crédits documentaires spécifiques, négociation des avances de démarrage, dépassement budgétaire du
volet génie civil) et du Feltilplex (dépassement du budget prévu pour la construction et l'équipement, gap financier
dû à la dépréciation du dollar) ont été très complexes à gérer. Sur le plan technique, la construction de la gare de
fret a rencontré des imprévus caractéristiques d'une réhabilitation d'infrastructure existante. Enfin, dans le cas du
Feltiplex, l'attribution du terrain a pris plus de temps que prévu et a nécessité de rechercher des solutions avec la
communauté rurale de Sangalkam (un terrain de 1,7 ha a été attribué au projet Feltiplex en fin juillet 2003).

Financement et période d'exécution du projet. Le financement du projet a été assuré par la Banque Mondiale
(crédit IDA 3017/SE) pour un montant de 5 900 000 DTS et une contrepartie nationale couvrant à partir de juin
2001, 60% du budget de fonctionnement du projet. Des réaménagements budgétaires ont été réalisés à partir de la
revue à mi-parcours et lors de l'exécution des périodes de prorogation du projet pour tenir compte au mieux des
changements opérés dans la conception des programmes prioritaires.

Initialement prévu pour une période de 4 ans, l'exécution du projet s'est finalement étendu sur 5 ans et dix mois
(octobre 1998 - juin 2004). Deux périodes additionnelles ont été accordées au projet par la Banque Mondiale
d'abord pour toute l'année 2003 puis pour six mois en 2004. L'année 2003 avait été considérée comme
déterminante dans la consolidation des acquis, l'achèvement des infrastructures (Gare de Fret et centres de
conditionnement à vocation collective/ Feltiplex), la promotion de la qualité et la préparation de l'après PPEA avec
la mise en place de la Fondation Origine Sénégal. Des facteurs internes et externes d'ordre technique et financier
n'ayant pas permis l'achèvement ordonné des dossiers d'infrastructures incluant la mise en place effective de leur
cadre de gestion et de préparer la phase ultérieure du projet, le PPEA s'est vu accordé une période additionnelle de
6 mois fixant la date de clôture du projet au 30 juin 2004.

8. Pérennisation du projet

L'action du PPEA aura permis de confirmer la pertinence de la mise en place d'une structure légère orientée sur
les multiples dimensions du développement de la filière horticole d'exportation. Ces dimensions sont les suivantes
:

     - Diversification des pratiques et productions au travers des actions pilotes conduites en partenariat avec les
     opérateurs privés et les associations ;
     - Infrastructures ;
     - Communication et diffusion d'informations techniques, notamment au travers du dispositif I-Flex;
     - Amélioration des pratiques en matière de gestion de la qualité : mise en place du référentiel OS, audit des
     exploitations, formations aux techniques de récolte et de conditionnement ;
     - Développement de modèles innovants d'infrastructures d'utilité publiques améliorant la chaîne de froid et la
     conformité aux normes de qualité.

Au cours de la deuxième phase d'exécution du projet, l'option visant la création d'une Fondation Origine Sénégal -




                                                          - 38 -

Fruits et Légumes (FOS/FL) est apparu comme le meilleur garant pour la pérennisation des importants acquis du
PPEA et la réalisation de l'énorme potentiel d'exportation des fruits et légumes du Sénégal sur le marché mondial
et régional estimé à 50 000 tonnes dans le moyen terme. Cette option a d'ailleurs été reprise par le futur projet «
Programme de Développement des Marchés Agricoles » (PDMAS) (actuellement en préparation) dont l'un
objectifs est d'assurer la continuité des actions du PPEA

La FOS/FL aura pour objectif d'appuyer le développement de l'horticulture commerciale au Sénégal (par
opposition à l'horticulture de subsistance). Ce champ pourra cependant être restreint dans un premier temps au
seul domaine de l'exportation et de l'import-substitution.

Les domaines d'intervention de la Fondation seraient multiples mais avant tout axés sur les domaines suivants :

     - la création d'infrastructures à vocation collective et/ou favorisant l'émergence des PME exportatrices du
     Sénégal dans le secteur horticole ;
     - la diversification et le développement de la valeur ajoutée des productions horticoles d'exportation par
     l'introduction de nouvelles pratiques agronomiques, commerciales et de transformation ;
     - l'amélioration des pratiques en matière de gestion de la qualité ;
     - le maintien d'un processus de veille active sur l'évolution des marchés, de la concurrence et du secteur
     horticole national ;
     - la capitalisation et la diffusion des informations commerciales et techniques requises par les décideurs
     institutionnels et privés concernés par l'horticulture ;
     - le développement d'outils de promotion de l'origine.

La FOS/FL se veut avant tout un vecteur d'innovation et de diversification qui permette d'inclure les PME et le
monde paysan sénégalais dans la dynamique de croissance qui est attendue du secteur horticole commercial. Son
action, visant la professionnalisation la plus large possible des intervenants du cluster horticole sénégalais,
aboutira, à terme, à la reconnaissance par l'industrie de la distribution alimentaire d'une véritable labellisation de
l'origine, qui serait alors un gage de qualité, de constance et de prévisibilité.

9. Performances de la Banque Mondiale et de l'emprunteur

Banque Mondiale. La Banque a mené annuellement une ou deux missions de supervision composées du Task
Manager entouré d'une équipe multidisciplinaire. Ces missions aboutissaient à l'élaboration d'aides mémoire
tirant des conclusions et faisant des recommandations pour la poursuite des activités du PPEA. Ces
recommandations ont permis au projet de recadrer les différents programmes et d'amélioration leur impact sur le
terrain.

Elles ont aussi permis de rencontrer les autorités sénégalaises de tutelle et de confirmer que les orientations du
PPEA s'inscrivaient parfaitement dans la stratégie de développement du secteur par le gouvernement du Sénégal.
Le suivi permanent des responsables de projet (services agricoles, administratifs et financiers) de la mission
résidente ont été d'un apport appréciable à la bonne exécution des programmes du projet.

Emprunteur. Le Comité de Pilotage (CP), instance de gouvernance paritaire, a été installé au démarrage du projet.
Pendant l'exécution du PPEA, le CP s'est réuni à 8 reprises. Ces réunions ont été l'occasion de contrôler le bon
fonctionnement du projet sur le plan du déroulement des activités et de la gestion financière par rapport aux
objectifs fixés. Elles ont aussi permis de valider les activités prévues, les budgets prévisionnels définis dans les
plans de travail annuel du projet et d'entériner les conclusions et recommandations de la Banque Mondiale suite
aux missions de supervision.

En juin 2001, le Gouvernement du Sénégal a permis l'inscription au Budget Consolidé des Investissements (BCI)
un fonds de contrepartie alors que celui-ci n'était pas prévu au démarrage du projet. Cette performance a permis au
projet de poursuivre ses activités pendant la deuxième phase. En fin de projet, l'engagement du Ministère de
l'Economie et des Finances à combler le gap budgétaire lié à la dépréciation du dollar américain a permis au projet
d'initier la construction du Feltiplex.



                                                          - 39 -

L'EAGP avec l'appui de son partenaire d'exécution technique, a exécuté de manière satisfaisante les activités du
projet pour lui permettre d'atteindre ses objectifs. La qualité du suivi-évaluation du projet et la documentation des
résultats ont été jugées de grande qualité. La réalisation d'un site Web a consolidé et élargit la stratégie de
communication du projet et accru la visibilité des résultats obtenus. En outre, le PPEA aura su, notamment à
travers son programme qualité, créer des partenariats institutionnels solides avec tous les membres du Comité
National de Suivi du Programme de Promotion de la Qualité Intrinsèque des produits d'exportation.

10. Leçons tirées

La poursuite du renforcement des performances du secteur des exportations horticoles du Sénégal passera par des
prises de décisions basées sur les leçons tirées du PPEA relatives notamment au potentiel des filières d'exportation,
à la conception du projet et à sa mise en oeuvre, à l'efficacité des interventions du projet et à la
pérennisation/structuration des filières d'exportation.

Par ses diverses actions pilotes, le travail du PPEA consistait à démontrer, voire confirmer, les potentialités
d'exportation pour différentes filières. En réalisant des actions concrètes, le PPEA a voulu effectuer un meilleur
paramétrage des difficultés des opérateurs en ce qui concerne la disponibilité d'outils de production, la mise en
conformité qualité des entreprises, la maîtrise d'itinéraires techniques pour de nouveaux produits, l'accès aux
infrastructures post-récoltes adaptées et la logistique d'exportation. Sans prétendre avoir pu résoudre toutes les
difficultés auxquelles font face les opérateurs, le PPEA a pu donner des exemples concrets et tracer quelques voies
pour la réalisation du véritable potentiel du Sénégal dans les domaines de l'exportation agricole. Cette réalisation
passera nécessairement par l'adoption et le développement d'une culture d'innovation par les opérateurs au sein
des différentes filières d'exportation.

Concernant la conception du projet, il est important de rappeler que le PPEA a été conçu comme un projet pilote
qui devait, rapidement et de manière quasi exclusive, intervenir en aval de la chaîne d'exportation. Ainsi,
pratiquement, le PPEA a été monté comme un projet d'assistance technique à la commercialisation des produits
d'exportation. Cette approche adoptée dans plusieurs projets dans la sous-région faisait suite à de nombreuses
initiatives des bailleurs de fonds qui accordaient auparavant beaucoup plus d'importances à la production en tenant
peu compte des conditions de mise sur le marché. D'emblée, les programmes de type PPEA laissaient présumer que
le principal problème à résoudre se situait au niveau de l'information en aval de la chaîne d'exportation. En
comblant cette lacune, la croissance des filières devait, de façon presque automatique, être assurée par les forces du
marché ce qui permettraient alors aux exportateurs de profiter des opportunités identifiées.

En tenant compte de ce qui précède immédiatement et sur la base de l'expérience de collaboration du projet avec le
secteur privé, il est judicieux de se pencher sur les domaines d'intervention/type d'actions où le PPEA a pu ou
pourrait apporter des appuis efficaces et leurs limites :
- Gestion de l'innovation. L'expérience et le degré de participation des opérateurs privés dans les initiatives du
projet semblent confirmer l'intérêt d'une méthodologie d'intervention basée sur un partenariat technique, un
partage de risques d'innovation et un apport de savoir-faire complémentaire par le projet (ressources internes ou
externes).

- Appui au développement des partenariats et coaching des nouveaux opérateurs. Par son impartialité et le
capital de connaissances accumulé, le projet a servi de catalyseur et d'outil pour faciliter la mise en relation des
opérateurs sénégalais et des partenaires technico-commerciaux.

- Formations qualité. Dans les filières où une base de production est existante, les actions de formation qualité
deviennent prioritaires et le projet a apporté un appui significatif dans ce domaine. Ceci est le cas des filières
comme le haricot vert et la mangue. Dans les cas du haricot vert, des formations pratiques qualité au niveau des
centres de conditionnement qui furent initiées par le PPEA et les initiatives qualité liées aux Bonnes Pratiques
Agricoles ont permis d'amorcer le processus d'implémentation d'un système de contrôle de qualité intrinsèque et
commerciale et de poser les jalons de la mise en place de systèmes de traçabilité qui sont désormais




                                                         - 40 -

incontournables en raison des exigences sur les marchés d'exportation. L'impact immédiat des formations
pratiques a été encore plus marquant en ce qui concerne la filière mangue. On relèvera une croissance sur la durée
de vie du projet du volume de mangues exportées. Celui-ci est passé de près de 300 tonnes à plus de 2600 tonnes)
Les différentes initiatives de formation et l'appui sur le terrain a permis une augmentation significative des
volumes de mangues exportées par voie maritime. La formule d'assistance/formation sur le terrain par des
praticiens de l'industrie est un moyen efficace de transférer les compétences au niveau des opérateurs.

- Infrastructures de base. Deux programmes liés aux infrastructures ont été inclus dans les activités du PPEA qui,
à la base, n'était pas conçu pour la réalisation de ce type d'investissements. Il s'agit de la gare de fret à l'aéroport
Léopold Sédar Senghor et d'un centre de conditionnement destiné à l'usage collectif (Feltiplex). Malgré la nature
technique de ce type de réalisation, on peut considérer qu'un projet comme le PPEA était bien placé pour gérer ces
dossiers en raison de son dégrée d'implication avec les filières d'exportation. La viabilité et la définition des
schémas organisationnels de ces infrastructures sont étroitement liées à la connaissance pratique des
préoccupations, des besoins et des contraintes auxquels font face les opérateurs. Il est juste de constater que ce
travail qui nécessitait une concertation importante avec les opérateurs, n'a pas pu être mené dans des conditions
optimales au démarrage des études techniques sur la gare de fret. Néanmoins, on notera que, malgré les retards
enregistrés dans la réalisation du projet, la période de gestation a permis l'établissement d'un dialogue constructif
et d'une relation de travail entre tous les opérateurs et le projet. Ceci a sans doute aussi permis de définir un
schéma qui respectera mieux les besoins réels de la filière.

- Matériel de communication/promotion. La mise en place des outils de communication et de promotion est un
autre domaine dans lequel le projet a apporté un appui efficace aux opérateurs et aux organisations
professionnelles. Le design et l'habillage des cartons, l'image de marque constituent des outils promotionnels
efficaces et participent à l'effort de standardisation des produits. Le programme d'appui à la réalisation des
maquettes de cartons a été sollicité et bien reçu par les opérateurs et leurs clients. Le projet a également pu réaliser
une série d'outils promotionnels de haute qualité (affiches, calendriers, dépliants) et instituer le concept IFLEX
(bulletin, éditions techniques, Web). Cette action a aussi été fortement appréciée par l'ensemble des opérateurs et
des partenaires du projet. De plus, elle a pu atteindre le double objectif de promouvoir les produits et l'Origine
auprès des clients étrangers et, en même temps, de servir de référence pour motiver les opérateurs à être à la
hauteur de l'image projetée. Il convient de rappeler ici que la création d'un label « Origine Sénégal » peut
constituer un élément fort et fédérateur pour l'ensemble des exportateurs du Sénégal.

- Pérennisation et transfert des compétences. Pendant la première phase du projet, le PPEA s'est focalisé sur la
mise en place d'actions techniques visant l'atteinte de résultats concrets en partenariat avec les opérateurs ou les
organisations professionnelles. Plusieurs de ces actions ont déjà eu un impact dans certaines filières, notamment le
haricot vert, la mangue et aussi dans le domaine de la définition du schéma opérationnel de la gare de fret. Cet
impact a aussi été obtenu grâce à l'implication des organisations professionnelles sur d'importants dossiers
stratégiques (gestion de la qualité, développement de la filière mangue, gare de fret etc.). La question clé de la
pérennisation des activités du projet et du transfert de compétences à une éventuelle structure pérenne a été
longuement débattue dans la deuxième phase du projet. Elle a abouti à l'idée de la création d'une Fondation basée
sur le partenariat public/privé (voir plus haut). Les appuis de la Fondation devront être orientés vers des comités
techniques oeuvrant sur un problème spécifique.

En conclusion, le PPEA se définissait avant tout comme un projet pilote qui avait pour objectif d'aider à cerner une
stratégie d'appui qui faciliterait l'essor de PME et la création de valeur ajoutée dans le secteur horticole, en visant
les créneaux à l'exportation. Comme son nom l'indique, le PPEA était d'abord orienté sur les filières d'exportation,
plus spécifiquement les filières nationales. On peut retenir que cette approche ciblée a eu l'intérêt de maintenir une
cohérence et une synergie des interventions techniques entre elles. On note en effet que l'intervention du PPEA au
niveau des filières d'exportation aura pu intégrer des aspects liés à la logistique, l'innovation technologique, la
recherche commerciale, les stratégies promotionnelles ou les procédés d'assurance qualité. Toutefois, plusieurs
domaines restent à consolider afin de développer la base de PME structurées émergentes qui sera en mesure
d'accentuer le rythme de développement du secteur et fournira le marché national, régional et/ou international en
produits agroalimentaires de qualité. On citera notamment :




                                                         - 41 -

    - La mobilisation de l'investissement privé
    - L'accompagnement à la croissance des PME agro-alimentaires et exportatrices
    - La diversification des zones de production
    - La reconversion des Niayes
    - La logistique maritime
    - L'élargissement de la gamme
    - L'approche client
    - L'assurance qualité et la normalisation
    - L'évolution technologique et des procédés
    - Le capital humain
    - La formation technique spécialisée
    - L'innovation et la recherche appliquée
    - La veille commerciale
    - La consolidation institutionnelle
    - L'intégration régionale de la filière agro-alimentaire

Finalement, par son organisation et sa méthodologie, le PPEA aura rempli sa mission initiale qui était de permettre
aux autorités, aux partenaires et aux privés de mieux cerner le potentiel de développement de la filière horticole
tout en dégageant les axes d'intervention qui permettront de faire émerger une industrie solide, porteuse de
croissance, d'investissement et d'emploi. Dans le travail d'intégration des acquis du PPEA à la dynamique générale
de développement du pays, il est toutefois important de garder à l'esprit la principale force de l'intervention PPEA,
à savoir « l'approche filière » qui aura permis de cibler des interventions à fort impact. Une telle efficacité serait
fortement diluée en dispersant les interventions à travers une série de programmes à vocation transversale sans
prévoir de mécanisme intégrateur. En d'autres termes, tout élargissement de la portée d'un futur projet devra
respecter le principe de focalisation sectorielle et d'intégration des appuis.




                                                          - 42 -

- 43 -

