Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 17146-SE
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 5.9 MILLION
(EQUIVALENT TO US$8.0 MILLION)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT
November 6, 1997
Agriculture m
Country Department 14
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective October 1997)
Currency Unit = CFA Franc (CFAF)l
CFAF 100 = US$0.17
US$1 = CFAF 590
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS                 Country Assistance Strategy
CECI                NGO involved in Research and International Cooperation (Centre
d'Etudes et de Cooperation Internationale)
CIDA                Canadian International Development Agency
EU                  European Union
GPH                 Senegal's Professional Horticultural Group (Groupement des
Professionnels de l'Horticulture)
IDA                 International Development Association
NGO                 Nongovernmental Organization
PCD                 Project Concept Document
SEPAS               Senegal's Agricultural Product Exporters' Organization (Senegalaise
d'Exportation deProduits Agricoles et de Services)
SOE                 Statement of Expenditures
Vice President:    Mr. Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:    Mr. Mahmood Ayub
Sector Manager:    Mr. Jean-Paul Chausse
Task Team Leader:    Mr. Ousmane Sissoko
'The exchange rate of the CFAF is fixed at 100:1 to the French Franc which is a floating currency.



SENEGAL
AGRICULTURAL EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT
CONTENTS
-Page No
A: Project Development Objective ................................................................2
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators  ..........................                        .....................2
B: Strategic Context ................................................................2
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project .....................2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy ...............................................................                       2
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices .......................                     ......................3
C: Project Description Summary ................................................................3
1. Project components ....................................................3
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project ..................................................3
3. Benefits and target population ..................................................4
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements ..................................................4
D: Project Rationale ..................................................5
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection .....................................5............5
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies                                         .          6
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                                               .7
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                                                                 7
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                                  .7
E: Summary Project Analysis                                                                .7
1. Economic                                                              .7
2. Financial                                                             .8
3. Technical .8
4. Institutional .8
5. Social                                                              .8
6. Environmental assessment .9
7. Participatory approach ...............................................................9
F: Sustainability and Risks                                                              .9
1. Sustainability: .........................9
2. Critical Risks ......................                                                                                           10
3. Possible Controversial Aspects ......................                                                                           10



G: Main Loan Conditions ......................                                                10
1. Effectiveness Conditions .......................                                    10
2. Other .......................11
H. Readiness for Implementation ....................... 1
1. Compliance with Bank Policies ....................... 11



Annexes
Annex 1.     Project Design Summary                                                  12
Annex 2.     Detailed Project Description                                            14
Annex 3.     Estimated Project Costs                                                 17
Annex 4.     Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary                                           18
Annex 5.     Financial Summary                                                       20
Annex 6.     Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                               21
Table A.     Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements                             24
Table B.     Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review                  25
Table C.     Allocation of Credit Proceeds                                        26
Annex 7.     Project Processing Budget and Schedule                                  27
Annex 8.     Documents in Project File                                               28
Annex 9.     Statement of Loans and Credits                                          29
Annex 10.    Country at a Glance                                                     31
Annex I I    Summary of the Environmental Analysis.                                  33
Map: IBRD 29056



I



Senegal
Agricultural Export Promotion Project
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Region
Country Department 14
Date: November 6, 1997                               Task Team Leader: Mr. Ousmane Sissoko
Country Director: Mr, Mahmood Ayub                   Sector Manager: Mr. Jean-Paul Chausse
Project ID: SN-PE 51610   Sector: Agriculture        Program Objective Category: ESD/PSD
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)   Program of Targeted Intervention:  [] Yes [x] No
Project Financing Data               [] Loan      [x ] Credit      [ ] Guarantee     [] Other [Specifyl
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m/SDRin): US$8.0m/SDR 5.9m
Proposed terms:                       [ ]  Multicurrency      []  Single currency, specify
Grace period (years): 10          [    Standard Variable  []  Fixed           []    LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: n/a
Service charge: 0.75%
Financing plan (US$m, ):
Source                             Local              Foreign           Total
Government                                                1.4                                  1.4
IDA                                                       3.2                4.8               8.0
Producers/Exporters                                       0.4                0.6               1.0
Total        5.0                 5.4             10.4
Borrower: Government of Senegal
Guarantor:
Responsible agency(ies): Ministry of Agriculture
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):    1998      1999       2000      2001    2002  2003
Annual      0.6        1.5        2.2      2.2    1.2   0.3
Cumulative     0.6        2.1         4.3      6.5    7.7   8.0
For Guarantees:                               [    Partial credit    [  Partial risk
Proposed coverage:
Project sponsor:
Nature of underlying financing:
Terms of
financing:
Principal amount (US$)
Final maturity
Amortization profile
Financing available without guarantee?:           []   Yes               [    No
If yes, estimated cost or maturity:
Estimated financing cost or maturity with guarantee:
Project implementation period: 1998-2002 Expected effectiveness date: 2/1998  Expected closing date: 12/2002



-2 -
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
The project's objectives are to diversify and develop private agricultural exports, a core objective
of the Government's export-led growth strategy. This would be achieved through: (a) specific actions
aimed at export market development and diversification; (b) strengthening of existing private
producers/exporters' professional organizations, and encouraging the creation of farmers' associations
where neededl and (c) upgrading of export facilities at the airport of Dakar.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: 13909-SE of 1/26/95   Date of latest CAS discussion: 2/16/95.
New CAS will be presented to the Board in early 1998.
The project supports the CAS objective of sustainable economic growth with equity and poverty
reduction, which explicitly also recognizes the facilitation of supply response from the private sector
through diversification of production and exports of both traditional and non traditional high value crops,
as a major sustainable source.
Following the 1994 devaluation of the CFA Franc, which provided an important incentive for
agricultural export development and diversification, a number of high value-added agricultural export
products from Senegal have become competitive on overseas and regional markets. By providing an
effective vehicle to support private sector investment and involvement in export crop development and
diversification, and by streamlining the role of agricultural professional organizations in the agricultural
export sector, the project fits well in the Bank's country strategy.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Because of previous economic and institutional distortions over the past decade, farmers'
reluctance to invest in new or improved technologies and the natural degradation of land, agricultural
production has stagnated in Senegal since the beginning of the decade. While, prospects for Senegal's
main export and import substitution crops have improved since the parity change of the CFA Franc in
January 1994, there is concern that the sector has not responded as well as some other francophone
countries to the favorable conditions created by the parity change. The Government's strategy
recognizes that despite this generally disappointing performance, the agricultural sector has a great
potential for employment and growth in the short to medium term, through export growth and forward
and backward linkages, and that pockets of dynamism are emerging in the private sector, involved in
high-value crops or activities either for exports or urban markets, such as horticulture, confectionery
groundnuts, cattle fattening, etc.
The Government's Lettre de Politique de Developpement Agricole (LPDA) issued in April 1995,
and supported by the Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit (PASA: Cr 2738-SE) defines broadly
Senegal's medium- and long-term agricultural policy. It is consistent with the macroeconomic
development strategy designed to respond to the new opportunities created by the change in the parity of
the CFA Franc in 1994. The major objectives of the strategy as set out in the LPDA are: (i) a sustained
agricultural growth of 4% per annum; (ii) improved food security; and (iii) increased rural employment
and income. To achieve these objectives, the Government has undertaken to: (i) deregulate prices and
trade of agricultural products and inputs; (ii) withdraw from all commercial activities to focus on public
service functions, such as policy formulation, agricultural services, regulatory functions, monitoring and



-3 -
evaluation; (iii) adopt a legal framework to promote land-tenure security and private investment; (iv)
promote agricultural intensification and diversification; and (v) decentralize government functions and
transfer their management to civil society as much as possible.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The Government's strategy toward increasing agricultural production aims at supporting the private
sector development and involvement in agricultural production and export through specific measures
indicated above. In order to develop the potential sources of sectoral growth and in view of the potential
for non traditional crop production, the Government is considering, with the support of the Bank and
possibly other donors, setting up an agricultural export promotion operation that could be a major vehicle
in assisting individual producers/exporters and their private organizations in responding to the demand
and product requirements of the regional and international markets, especially for non traditional
agricultural products. This operation is expected not only to contribute to further agricultural growth and
private sector development, but also to increasing the income of some of the rural poor since 80 percent
of the country's poor live in rural areas where agriculture is the main income generating activity.
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2for a detailed description and Annex 3for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Component                Category      Cost Incl.    % of    Bank-        % of
Continzencies  Total  financinz    Bank-
US$MM)               (US$M)   financing
A. Export Promotion and           Institution        4.6        44         3.6        45
Diversification Activities        building
B. Support to Producers/Exporters'  Institution      2.7        26         1.8        23
Associations                      building
C. Upgrading of Export Facilities    Physical        1.4        14         1.2        15
(Project Management)              Project            1.7        16         1.4        17
Management
Total     10.4        100        8.0       100
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project will support the Government's export-led strategy and reforms undertaken to
deregulate prices and trade of agricultural products and inputs. The existing policy and institutional
framework would not inhibit the project viability and sustainability; this continues to be perceived as
favorable by most producers/exporters.
3. Benefits and target population:
The project will benefit tens of private agricultural producers/exporters and their professional
organizations, and reach thousands of smaller growers of exportable crops. It will foster improved links
between production and markets and result in increased exports of high-value agricultural products and
contribute to reducing the country's excessive reliance on a couple of traditional products. The project is
also expected to help create jobs for producers/exporters and to bring them new technology and training
opportunities. It will therefore lead to important institutional and capacity building benefits (cf. para. El
below).



-4-
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation period: Four years: 1998-2002
Executing agency: Ministry of Agriculture
Project coordination: Project Management Team
Project oversight (policy guidance, etc.): Project Steering Committee (below).
Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements:
The Project Management would ensure that separate project accounts are established and
maintained in accordance with principles and practices satisfactory to IDA, and provide annual financial
statements. The Private Sector Foundation (PSF), established under the Private Sector Capacity Building
Project (Cr. 2759-SE) as a private agency, which has now gained significant experience in financial
management, disbursement and procurement, would be entrusted with processing all financial services
including the accounting system, financial management, disbursement and procurement under the
project. The project financial management system will ensure adherence to accounting and auditing
standards acceptable to the Bank, and provide timely and reliable information that can give early warning
in project implementation. During appraisal, PSF's following key areas have been reviewed and found
in sound agreement with Bank established procedures: Staffing was found to be adequate; the foundation
is staffed with three former big auditing firms' employees. Accounting: PSF has developed a powerful
accounting software, "Progeco", that segregates levels of responsibilities with regard to authority of
input and control. Procurement and Disbursement procedures were found to be consistent with Bank
requirements. Furthermore, the project's financial specialist will oversee payment and procurement
processes together with procurement contract management information and project expenditures. All
project accounts, the special account and financial statements would be audited by independent auditors
acceptable to IDA. The audit report would specifically include the auditors' opinion on the Special
Account and on the reliability of Statement of Expenditures (SOEs) as a basis for IDA credit
disbursement. The audit report would also include an assessment as to whether goods and services have
been procured from eligible sources, and an opinion on the proper utilization of goods and services
under the project. The auditors' reports would further include a statement on the adequacy or otherwise
of the accounting system and internal controls. The cost of audit would be paid from the IDA Credit.
The audited statements, accounts, auditors' long-form reports and short-form opinion reports would be
submitted to IDA not later than six months after the end of each fiscal year. The appointment of auditors
satisfactory to IDA will be a condition of Credit effectiveness.
Monitoring and evaluation arrangements:
Project monitoring will be carried out through regular field visits and written reports by the
project management. Semi-annual progress reports on project activities will also be established by the
management. Project monitoring by the Government will be made through a Project Steering Committee
which will include representatives from the Government and the private sector. They will be responsible
for reviewing and approving the project's budgets and annual work program (AWP) including all major
contracts, once a year. Producers' and exporters' professional organizations will be also involved in
project execution through participation in thematic technical committees to review and follow up the
project activities and advise on the selection of beneficiaries for project support. Project outcomes will
be evaluated during execution and at project completion. A project mid-term review will be carried out
by the Government and IDA after the second year of project implementation.
Reporting. During the project's four-year implementation period (1998-2002), project accounts, special
account, SOEs and financial statements will be audited every year by an independent auditor acceptable
to IDA and according to international auditing standards, with the audit reports to be submitted to IDA



-5 -
no later than six months after the end of each project year. The Government will also remit to IDA semi-
monthly reports showing progress toward the achievement of agreed upon objectives, and an
implementation completion report will be submitted to IDA within six months of IDA credit closing.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Some donors are currently involved or considering to engage in selected agricultural export
promotion activities. Examples include the European Union (EU) which is providing financial assistance
to smaller exporters and has established a guarantee fund to cover the four main formal banks (BICIS,
CBAO, CNCAS, SGBS) for extending loans to agricultural exporters. Similarly, CIDA is working with
a Canadian NGO to provide technical and advisory support to individual producers and farmer
organizations engaged in horticultural crop production with some export activity, in the areas of St.-
Louis and Thies. However, since their activities remain relatively small, these donors are anxious to
work with IDA as a catalyst to cover a broader range of activities directed at agricultural export
promotion and diversification. In this context, they are also contemplating additional support to the
sector for the coming years, under parallel financing arrangements with IDA. As a result, the idea of
going ahead with the proposed project has been recognized as the appropriate route by such donors and
the Government alike. Because of their teething problems and difficulties in grouping all interested
producerslexporters, the alternative of executing the project by existing private export organizations such
as the Senegalaise d'Exportation de Produits Agricoles et Services (SEPAS) and the Groupement des
Professionels de l'Horticulture (GPHM, was rejected. Similarly, project execution by an arm of the
Government was considered and rejected in view of high demand for efficiency that such a business
oriented operation requires, in addition to the need for maintaining a higher private sector involvement in
the operation throughout.
The project supports the CAS objective of sustainable economic growth with equity and poverty
reduction, which explicitly also recognizes the facilitation of supply response from the private sector
through diversification of production and exports of both traditional and non traditional high value crops,
as a major sustainable source. (cf. para. B I above).



-6-
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing
andplanned):
Sector issue                  Project            Latest Supervision (Formn 590)
Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation   Development
Progress (IP)   Objective
(DO)
Bank-financed
Business Environment          Private Sector Capacity          S              S
Building Project (Cr. 2759-
SE). Ongoing.
Business Environment          Private Sector Development
Operation. (Planned for FY
99).
Agricultural Diversification  Agricultural Research II (Cr.    S              S
2107-SE). Completed.
Small Rural Operations II        U              U
(Cr. 1992-SE). Ongoing.
Agricultural Policy           Agricultural Services Project    S              S
(Cr. 2108-SE). Ongoing.
Agricultural SECAL (Cr.          S              S
2738-SE). Completed.
Agricultural Intensification and    Agricultural Services and
Diversification               Producer Organizations
Program (Planned for FY
1998).
Other development agencies
CECItCIDA                    Production and Regional
Marketing Support to
Vegetable Producers in St.-
Louis and Thies.
EU                            Export Guarantee and Credit
to Small and Medium Size
Enterprises.
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)



-7 -
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The Bank experience in supporting export promotion in Africa and other regions shows that while
traditional exports need to be part of an outward-oriented strategy, the future is in non traditional exports.
Foreign market development, the identification of customer and product requirements beforehand, and
the presence of a catalytic mechanism that facilitates the establishment of partnerships between local
agricultural producers and foreign investors -- have proven to be central factors for successful entry into
the international markets. Even a modest increase in a country's share of world markets has often been
an important ingredient for growth. The project design takes into account the above lessons of
experience.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Government's commitmnent is illustrated by the fact that it has undertaken a number of
initiatives including a series of workshops, action plans and trade facilitation studies, to encourage and
enhance private sector involvement in agricultural and agro-industrial activities with significant export
potential. It also acknowledges that the project will have to be privately managed.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
In view of the Bank's prior involvement in private sector development in Senegal, the
importance of agricultural diversification and export in the country strategy, and the expected catalytic
role the Bank may play, the Government has requested Bank support for launching the present operation
and coordinating donor activities in the field of agricultural export promotion.
E: Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
[x] Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV=US$ 5.8 million; ERR= 18% []Cost Effectiveness Analysis:n/a
The two approaches used--Economic Rate of Return and Net Present Value--both provide very
favorable results. An evaluation of the present value of net benefits from the project shows that the
project would result in net revenue of US$5.8 million after ten years and US$17.3 million after fifteen
years. A second method used is a computation of the Economic Rate of Return, which yields a rate of of
return of 18% at ten years and 25% at fifteen years. Compared to an opportunity cost of capital of 12%,
the project looks well ahead of covering its costs by the first ten years. Sensitivity analysis indicates that
the rate of return is robust. There is a 92% probability that the ERR would be above 12%. The
switching values measured are all above 30% of base values. A summary of the results is presented in
Annex 4.
There are numerous benefits to the Senegalese economy. A more coordinated and streamlined
effort towards agricultural exports would enhance Senegal's image on the world market. Export
diversification and increased exports of high valued horticultural crops would reduce the risks of declines
in export revenue due to dependence on a few traditional exports and increase Senegal's market share
and competitiveness. It would also increase the value of Senegalese agricultural exports. Agricultural
export industries would expand leading to increased taxes payable to Government. The expansion of
these industries and increase in small-holder production and export of agricultural crops, would both
generate employment. The resulting incomes from this increased employment would have a multiplier
effect in other sectors. The infrastructure to be developed from this project would also be useful to other
exports.
The structure of the project is such that it would empower agricultural exporters' and producers'



-8-
associations. The resulting benefits are numerous including: increased efficiency in the transfer of
information on prices and emerging markets to exporters and producers through their associations;
improved quality and packaging procedures; joint negotiations for freight capacity and charges; joint
training, promotion and use of improved technology; innovation and advocacy towards a favorable
policy environment: strong associations, in a coordinated effort would be able to address the constraints
of irrigation and land tenure. These latter benefits though mostly unquantifiable, will go a long way
towards strengthening the Senegalese agricultural export production and marketing sector.
2. Financial (see Annex 5): NPV=USS 4.4 million; FRR= 15%
The project financial analysis was conducted relaxing the assumptions of shadow pricing and
taking into account taxes, duties and contingencies. The results presented in Annex 5 confirm the
financial soundness of the project. Under the project, the Government's contribution will be limited to
covering taxes and duties estimated at US$1.4 million, while producers/exporters will share in the costs
of services requested by them and contribute gradually to covering maintenance and operating costs.
Fiscal impact: The fiscal impact is further expected to be positive in view of expected taxes payable to the
Government, conservatively estimated at US$1.7 million.
3. Technical:
The project technical design and cost estimates are appropriate to Senegal's needs and were
confirmed by representatives of major producers'/exporters' professional organizations to be within their
expectations.
4. Institutional:
Project implementation will be under the general supervision and guidance of the Ministry of
Agriculture (MOA) as decided upon by the Government of Senegal (GOS). Other interested ministries
and private producers and exporters' associations, formally established as non-government associations,
would be represented in a Project Steering Committee (PSC) responsible for supervising the
implementation of the proposed project and coordination and monitoring of overall project activities.
The establishment of the Project Steering Committee will be a condition of IDA Credit effectiveness.
Project management will be assumed by professionals experienced in private agricultural export
operations, recruited through open competition, to provide technical and market development advice to
individual producers/exporters and their associations. The project management team may be assisted by
international technical assistance (on short- or medium-term contracts) experienced in export
development and finance, and farmer organization, and connected to an extensive network of foreign
buying agencies. It is expected that project beneficiaries would gradually assume the financing of
services provided by the management team and that the capacity to provide critical services will continue
to be available after project completion.
5. Social: n/a
6. Environmental assessment: Environmental Category   []A   [x] B  []C
An environmental analysis was conducted for the project with a view to ensuring that it will have
no significant negative impact, that the expected increases in cultivated areas will take place on cleared
land, with no impact on flora and fauna, and that mitigation measures will be taken to minimize the



.9-
impact of pesticides on soil, water resources and affected population. It is expected that the project will
create incentives for the stabilization of agriculture by promoting environmentally sound cash crops and
by increasing beneficiaries' income in rural and urban areas through the marketing of high value
agricultural products. Given the scope of project activities, the project is classified under environmental
category B according to the Operational Directive (OD) 4.01, Annex E.
7. Participatory approach:
Project preparation involved a significant participatory approach. Beneficiaries including private
producers/exporters were involved in project preparation and design through information sharing,
systematic consultation and collection of feedback and written comments. Similarly, CECI-an NGO
actively involved in supporting vegetable production and marketing, and donors interested in agricultural
export such as CIDA and EU, were also consulted systematically and contributed primarily through
sharing information on the subject.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The project would enhance the capacity of the agricultural export sector to respond to the
country's export promotion and diversification objectives. By strengthening farmer organizations and
agricultural exporters' professional groups, the project would contribute to build a local capacity that
would further ensure that actions initiated under the project are carried out and pursued upon project
completion. In view of the importance of the private sector's effective involvement and participation in
project activities and costs, project benefits will be also maintained after project completion, with all
direct cost of services to be recovered at the end. During project execution, beneficiaries will be required
to contribute between 20 and 40 percent of the direct costs for all of their requested project support,
according to eligibility criteria and cost sharing mechanisms established in the Project Implementation
Manual.



-.O-
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                      Risk Rating      Risk Minimization Measure
Annex 1, cell "from Outputs to Objective"
Continued Government commitment for greater role M         The Government has so far agreed that
of private sector in ag. exports may be short-lived.       private sector play a leading role in ag.
export and this will be confnired
through clear delineation of the
Government and private sector
respective roles under the project.
Uncoordinated donor action may entail risks of  M          Systematic coordination with other
duplication.                                               projects and structures and
collaboration with ag. professional
organizations will be a core activity of
project management team.
Producers willingness to group for product  N              Through providing in time market data,
processing, packaging/labeling and shipping may be         price information and common
difficult to materialize.                                  packaging and other services, the
proposed project will play a key role in
facilitating the grouping of
producers/exporters to bulk and
standardize their production in order to
take full advantage of export
opportunities.
Annex 1, cell "from Components to Outputs"
Non availability of local project management and    N      Reasonable in-country capacity exists;
implementation capacity.                                   this may be supplemented by short-
term external expertise with
international market network
connections. In addition, assurances
will be obtained that key staff will
undergo an open competitive selection
process and should be satisfactory at all
times during project execution.
Overall Risk Rating M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects: n/a
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
A key project related conditionally will be the need to agree with the Government on the
establishment of an autonomous project management structure staffed with private professionals
experienced in agricultural export. Other conditions will include obtaining agreement from the



Government that it will: (a) appoint a Project Management Team with key personnel satisfactory to IDA
at all times, and establish a Steering Committee with equal private and public representation; (b) appoint
independent auditors satisfactory to IDA, to audit all project accounts and financial statements; (c) adopt
a Project Implementation Manual acceptable to IDA. The draft Project Implementation Manual was
discussed during Negotiations and found satisfactory
2. Other: n/a
H. Readiness for Implementation
[ ] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation. [x ] Not applicable.
[x ] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
[x ] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
[ ] The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
lx]  This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[ ]   [The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies
with all other applicable Bank policies.]



- 12 -
Page 1 of 2.
Annex 1
Senegal: Agricultural Export Promotion Project
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary        Key Performance Indicators'    Monitoring and Supervision  Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:                                                            (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Sustainable economic growth   GDP and agricultural growth  National statistics
with equity and poverty                                   Customs data
reduction and supply response
from private sector through
diversification of agricultural
production and ag. exports.
Project Development         General objectives:                                     (from Objectives to Goal)
Objectives
Export diversification and  Increase in private horticultural   National statistics  Macro and fiscal policy of the
increase in agricultural exports  exports by 15% a year, from  Customs data         Government to remain
through private sector.     6,000 T to 10,000 T from 1998                           favorable.
to project end, significant
increase in other ag. exports, and
exporting new products.
Specific objectives:         Annual Work Program (AWP)
Increase in share of project  and Semi-annual Progress
supported exporters in: private   Reports (SPR)
horticultural exports by 15% a
year, from 1998 to project end,
the increase in other ag. exports,
and exporting new products.
Project Outputs                                                                     (from Outputs to Objectives)
1. Market potential for    1.1 No. of private exporters  1.1. 1. Annual Work Program   Continued Govt. commitment
increased and diversified    reached: 50 by project end,   (AWP)/Semi-annual      for greater role of private sector
export has been identified   and over 1,000 producers      Progress Reports (SPR)   in ag. exports
1.2 No. of exporters/importers   1.2.1 AWPISPR
relations established
formally: 5 a year, at least.
1.3 Trial shipments completed    1.3.1. AWP/SPR
and evaluated: 5-10 a year.
1.4 Trade shows participation w/ 1.4.1 AWP/SPR
impact on ag. export
development.
1.5 Research contracts on new    1.5.1 Signed and executed
product development          contracts
effective.
1.6 No. of products          1.6.1 Project reports
standardized.
2. Establish effective     2. 1 Members using services of  2.1.1 AWP/SPR            Coordination w/other project
capability of ag. professional  packaging centers.                                and structures to avoid risks of
organizations to bulk and                                                         duplication.
export products
Baseline and targeted values should be shown, with the latter divided into values expected at mid-term, end of project and full impact.



- 13 -                                               Page 2 of 2
2.2 Members attending project   2.2.1. AWP/SPR
training and using its svcs.
2.3 Central data/info. referral is
operational.
3. Selected export facilities are  3.1 Packaging centers       3.1.1 Field visits, supervision. Producers willingness to group
upgraded.                       operational (1-2) and their                                for product processing,
services used.                                            packaging and shipping.
3.2 Improved airport storage    3.2.1 Field visits, supervision.
capacity (refrigerated
storage, outside sheds)
Project Components            Inputs:                                                        (from Components to Outputs)
1. Export promotion and       1.1 Int'l market research                                      Availability of implementation
diversification activities.  1.2 Intl' events (fairs, seminars,                            capacity.
tours)
1.3 New product development
1.4 Product quality /presentation
improvement
1.5 Trial shipments
1.6 Ag. export guidelines
prepared by int'l and nat'l
experts.
(US$4.6 million)
2. Strengthening of ag.       2.1 Product packaging and
professional organizations.     national labeling
2.2 Acctg., mgmt. , other
training
2.3 Central referral/data info.
svc.
2.4 Financial and legal advisory
services
2.5 Newsletters and Export
Manuals.
2.6 Nb of financial packages
prepared w/ project
assistance.
2.7 Packaging centers
operational (1-2).
(US$2.7 million)
3. Upgrading of selected export 3. 1 Refrigerated and outside
facilities.                     storage facilities for
perishables
(US$1.4 million)
4. Project management         4. 1 Project management team     4.1.1. Project reports.
operational at project
inception, and collecting
performance data.
(US$1.7 million)



- 14 -                                 Page l of3
Annex 2
Senegal: Agricultural Export Promotion Project
Project Description
Project Component I - US$4.6 million (total cost of component, including contingencies)
Export Promotion and Diversification Activities. Under this component the project will assist
Senegalese producers/exporters in: (i) market research, customer identification, meeting quality
requirements, trial shipments, obtaining pre-export finance and developing maritime agricultural
export crops in addition to those currently exported by air ; (ii) product development and
processing, and quality control via targeted adaptive research; and (iii) establishment of business
partnerships between local exporters and foreign businesses and assistance in identifying
regional and overseas niches. The project will provide direct in-house assistance from its staff
including a specialist in market research and product development, who is also expected to draw
upon his international network corporate connections for market information, identifying and
securing outlets and establishing commercial partnerships. In addition, the project will provide
for contracting ad hoc services with local or international firms and institutes in those areas
requiring more specialized inputs such as research for new product development including
agricultural product processing, product quality certification, international ISO certifications for
product processing, the establishment of national standards and norms, etc. which will be
financed fully by the project.
With respect to market research and development, the project activities will not only be
geared at overseas markets but also at developing regional niches. Both traditional and non
traditional horticultural products, for which potential for increasing Senegal's share is promising,
will be encouraged and benefit from project support for which there is a clamor from
producers/exporters engaged in crops such as green beans for which the country could maintain a
leader role over the coming years in addition to melon, grapefruit, confectionery groundnuts, and
others such as cashew nut, cherry tomato, avocado, mango, asparagus, aubergine, okra, pepper,
tropical plants, etc. The project will finance the full cost of those research activities which will
benefit the entire agricultural export community. The project will also encourage and contribute
to business canvassing activities for all promising products as well as exporters' participation in
selected specialized international fairs. Trial shipments including product preparation and
forwarding of new export crops will be also conducted under the project to further support export
diversification; these will be complemented with the follow-up of export transactions, product
acceptance and final sale results.
Project Component 2 - US$2.7 million (total cost of component, including contingencies)
Support to Producers/Exporters' Associations. Under this component, the project will deal
primarily with: (i) strengthening existing private professional organizations: producer groups,
export associations, cooperatives, interprofessional groups of professional associations, which
could become a major vehicle for non traditional export market development and for lobbying
activities, etc.; (ii) encouraging the creation of farmer associations by developing a proper
strategy with the help of the project's farmer organization specialist; and (iii) setting up a central
referral/data information service as well as providing management and legal advice required for
the formal establishment of nascent associations and for developing their work programs
together with training in simplified cost accounting and management principles. In this respect,



- 15 -
Page 2 of 3
project support will benefit existing and future producers'/exporters' associations and their
individual members. Because product quality and presentation constitute key requirements for
tapping external markets, the project would facilitate product grouping for packaging and quality
controls in selected packaging centers that may be established under the project. Major existing
associations, including the Senegalaise d 'Exportation de Produits Agricoles et Services (SEPAS)
and the Groupement des Professionels de l 'Horticulture (GPH), whose activities account for the
bulk of horticultural exports of the country, have already indicated their interest in participating
in project activities and willingness to contributing to cost sharing for the expected project
support. Direct assistance and short-term consultancies will be provided under this component
to provide training in simplified accounting systems, management and legal advice in preparing
statutes and operating principles and procedures. A central referral/data information service will
be established to provide just-in-time infornation to producers/exporters on going market prices,
cargo plans, quantity and quality requirements, etc. A provision will be also included in the
project primarily to help smaller members of exporters/producers' associations prepare sound
financial packages including relevant technical infornation and thereby, help make their
businesses more attractive to local banks and further improve their access to formal financial
services.
In addition to representing the interests of their members, producers/exporters'
associations are expected to be play a major role in lobbying activities for the trade in dealing
with common issues affecting their members on which they will have an increased bargaining
power. In doing so, it is expected that such problems including but not limited to the inadequate
availability of irrigation water in the neighborhood of Dakar, land tenure issues, etc.
Strengthening of professional organizations will also bring other benefits such as furthering local
institutional capacity for project oversight and execution, and ensuring the sustainability of
project action once it is completed.
Project Component 3 - US$1.4 million (total cost of component, including contingencies)
Upgrading of Export Facilities through upgrading/rehabilitating infrastructure (cold storage,
storage capacity, outside sheds, etc.) at the airport for preserving perishable products in transit.
Such rehabilitation will concern the airport of Dakar. Studies and the actual execution of work
will be carried out under this component. All infrastructure upgraded under the project will be
privately managed with appropriate cost recovery for maintenance.
Project Management and Implementation
The project will be implemented over a four-year period from 1998 through 2002, under
the generai supervision and guidancq of the Ministry of Agriculture. The project will provide
support for project management which will be assumed by qualified private professionals
experienced in agricultural export or related activities and farmer organization. The support for
project management will cover investment costs and operating costs on a decreasing basis, for a
total of US$1.7 million including contingencies.
So far, all stakeholders including the GOS, would-be beneficiaries and donors, concurred
that the project management team will have full autonomy in decision-making and carrying out
day-to-day project activities, and be responsible for achieving the agreed upon monitorable
results under the project. As it was recognized that project management will be entrusted to
experienced and able private professionals with a mastery of the trade, all key project staff will
be selected on the basis on an open competitive process and with fixed term renewable contracts.



-16-                                 Page 3 of 3
The project management unit will be a light autonomous structure, which will be
managed in a private fashion, with fixed term contractual staff and no Government interference
in day-to-day management. At project inception, a National Project Manager (NPM) will be
recruited on a fixed term contract of two years, renewable on the basis of demonstrated
performance. He will be assisted by technical staff including two senior local professionals
experienced in agricultural export or related activities, a local financial and accounting specialist
and support staff.
The NPM will have management, coordination and monitoring responsibilities including
but not limited to: (a) implementing the project, coordinating and monitoring project execution;
(b) contracting and supervising the execution of contracts between the project and specialized
institutions and the technical assistants for market research and product development,
dissemination of export standards and requirements, adaptive research, technical agricuwtural
advice, etc.; (c) preparing the project's annual work programs (AWPs), annual budgets, acccunts
and financial statements, progress reports, disbursement applications and procurement plans and
execution; (d) liaising with the Government, institutes and professional organizations involved in
agricultural export crops promotion, etc.; and (e) coordinating project activities with those of
donors. Major responsibilities of the senior local professionals will involve: (a) disseminating
information on product quality standards and requirements; (b) advising and following up on the
efficient use of technical packages for specific export crop production; (c) coordinating export
promotion activities including fairs, business tours and market tests; (d) following up the
activities of agriculturl producers'/exporters' associations and helping the formal of
establishment thereof, if any; (e) coordinating training activities and field demonstrations; (f)
helping prepare these organizations' business plans, budgets and financing options; and (g)
assisting in data management, dissemination including memberships, price, market and
production indicators.
The project management team will be assisted by a team of international technical
assistance - an export development and sales specialist with financiallexport finance experience,
data management and export logistics expertise - who will be paired with the above local
expertise. Such technical assistance will further provide services for: (a) setting up appropriate
accounting and financial management systems for the agricultuml professional associations; (b)
designing the data base management; (c) providing guidance and advice to local professional
staff with the objective of helping develop a local expertise that could overtime become the
foundation of a specialized private service for export market development and export logistics
management; (d) promoting the establishment of professional organizations, where warranted;
(e) preparing the training programs and organizing training sessions; and (f) provide the required
training to transfer their knowledge, know-how and responsibilities to the local professional
staff. In this connection, the technical assistance will be accountable and its performance will be
evaluated on, among other things, the extent to which such transfer actually takes place. Ad hoc
technical assistant assignments in export logistics and air freight advisory will be also secured.
The above technical assistance contract will be financed for a period of two years which may
possibly be extended for a duration not to exceed twelve months upon satisfactory performance.
Appointment of project management team with key personnel to be satisfactory to IDA
at all times during project implementation would be a condition of Credit effectiveness. To
ensure that the provisions of the Project Implementation Manual are observed by the project
management, the draft document was discussed at negotiations and found satisfactory. The
adoption by the Government of a Project Implementation Manual acceptable to IDA will be a
condition of Credit effectiveness.



- 17 -
Annex 3
Senegal: Agricultural Export Promotion Project
Estimated Project Costs'
Proiect Component                                                 Local           Foreign        Total
- --------------------US $ million--------------------
Export Promotion and Diversification Activities                     1.2             2.9          4.2
Support to Producers'/Exporters' Associations                       1.5             0.9          2.4
Upgrading of Export Facilities                                      0.6             0.7          1.3
Project Management                                                  1.3             0.3          1.5
Total                                                               4.6             4.9          9.4
Total Baseline Cost
Physical Contingencies                                           0.1              0.1         0.2
Price Contingencies                                              0.3              0.5         0.8
Total Proiect Cost                                                  5.0             5.4         10.4
Numbers may not add up due rounding



- 18 -                                    Page I of 2
Annex 4
Senegal: Agricultural Export Promotion Project
Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
(in US$ million)
Present Value of Flows               Fiscal Impact
Economic        Financial
Analysis        Analysis'       Taxes            Subsidies
Benefits                 12.1            11.7             1.7
Costs                     6.3             7.3             1.4
Net Benefits              5.8             4.4
IRR (10 year)            18%             15%
IRR (15 year)            25%             23%
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
The economic analyses were conducted in constant 1997 prices. Economic costs were computed as
current financial costs minus taxes, duties and price contingencies. The total economic cost used for the
analyses is US$ 8.5 million, while the financial cost is US$ 9.6 million; the corresponding present
values are US$6.3 million and US$7.3 million, respectively. The present value of economic benefits are
US$12.1 million and that of the financial benefits is estimated at US$11.7 million.
Main Assumptions:
The underlying assumptions for the project economic analyses are as follows:
That demand for high valued agricultural products (fruits, nuts and vegetables, etc.) remains strong
especially in targeted markets and for the identified products;
* That the targeted markets (or market niche) remain opened for export;
* That international freight rates and handling charges do not increase excessively to make exports
unprofitable;
* That producer prices change in relation to international prices to reflect the true market incentives;
* That the agricultural production and trade policy environment remains favorable and the overall
macroeconomic environment remains stable;
* That producers and exporters associations play their role in assisting members;
* That constraints such as irrigation, land tenure, export financing will be alleviated or at least not
worsen.
'If the difference between the present value of financial and economic flows is large and cannot be explained by taxes
and subsidies, a brief explanation of the difference is warranted, e.g., "The value of financial benefits is less than that of
economic benefits because of controls on electricity tariffs."



- 19 -
Page 2 of 2
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
Various factors that are likely to change were analyzed and are discussed in this section. Increased cost
of air freight would increase transfer costs, reduce margins and make some commodities unprofitable to
export. Increased use of sea freight for some crops such as mango, aubergine and melon which is a
possibility, would reduce their transfer costs, increase the margin and make them more profitable to
export.
Increased costs of production or low domestic supply, would lead to increased producer price followed
by lower margins, making export unprofitable. Reductions in international prices and increase in
handling charges could make exports unprofitable. An analysis of the variables used in the economic
analyses and effect of their changes on the rates of return led to the identification of the critical values
shown in table below.
Switching (Critical) Values
(in CFAF)
Variable                              Switching        Base         Percentage
Value           Value         Change
Producer
Prices/kg
Green Beans                    400          250                60
Cherry Tomato                  800           100              700
Exchange Rate      (FCFAIUS$)                   850          590                44
Air Freight                                     702          520                35
International Prices/ kg
Green Beans                   1020          1500              -32
Cherry Tomato                 1500         2250               -33
A simulation was conducted using the Crystal Ball software, around the critical values by building in
probabilities and possible distributions. A simulation of 20% change in producer prices, 10% change in
air freight, international prices and exchange rate, led to a favorable result in terms of project viability.
There was a 92% chance that the ERR would at least equal the opportunity cost of capital, i.e. above
12%. It is therefore concluded that the overall performance of the project is robust.



- 20 -
Annex 5
Senegal: Agricultural Export Promotion Project
Financial Summary
(in US$ million)
Years Ending
Implementation Period         Operational Period
1998   1999   2000   2001   2002   2033   2004   2005
Project Costs
Investment Costs                  1.9    2.9    2.4    2.0
Recurrent Costs                   0.3    0.3    0.3    0.3    0.3    0.3    0.3    0.3
Total                           2.2    3.2    2.7    2.3    0.3    0.3    0.3    0.3
Financing Sources (% of total proiect
costs)
IDA                               78     78      77      75
Government                        13      16      15     12
Beneficiaries                      9      7       10     13  100    100    100    100
Total                          100    100     100    100 I
Detailed project financial analyses were conducted and are summarized in para E2 above. They confirm the financial
soundness of the project and its fiscal sustainability. Under the project, the Government's contribution will be limited to
covering taxes and duties estimated at US$1.4 million, while producers/exporters will share in the costs of services
requested by them and contribute gradually to covering maintenance and operating costs. The fiscal impact is further
expected to be positive in view of expected taxes payable to the Government, conservatively estimated at US$1.7
million.



- 21 -
Page I of 6
Annex 6
Senegal: Agricultural Export Promotion Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
1.    All goods, works and services financed under the IDA Credit would be procured in
accordance with IDA guidelines of goods, works and services [(Guidelines: Procurement under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, January 1995 as revised in January and August 1996 (Goods and
Works Guidelines),and Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers, January 1997 (Consultants Guidelines)]. Contracts to supply goods and equipment,
vehicles and consulting services would be processed under a contractual arrangement with the
Private Sector Foundation (PSF), which has adequate experience and control procedures in place
for procurement and is presently supported under the Private Sector Capacity Building Project
(Credit 2759-SE), and awarded by the project management. Contract for civil works would be
processed under a contractual arrangement with the Agency for the Management and Execution
of Public Works (AGETIP), which has extensive experience in civil works contracts using Bank
procedures.
Contracts for works
2.    There is only one major civil works contract--for upgrading the cargo warehouse
capacity at the Dakar airport--to be carried out under the project, which is estimated to cost
US$720,000 of which IDA financing is expected to be about US$540,000. This contract would
be procured by International Competitive Bidding (ICB), acceptable for the Bank. For all other
contracts, involving minor works, each is expected to cost less than US$50,000, with an
aggregate amount of US$100,000. These contracts would be awarded on the basis of at least
three quotations from eligible contractors.
Contracts for vehicles. goods and equipment
3.    Contracts for vehicles, goods and equipment would be grouped by lots. Contracts for
lots expected to exceed US$200,000 would be procured by International Competitive Bidding
(ICB) procedures, acceptable to the Bank. Use of ICB is only expected for the refrigeration
equipment to be used in the extension of the storage facilities at the Dakar airport, at an
estimated cost of US$540,000. There would be no other procurement by International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures as the lots for all other vehicles and equipment are not
expected to exceed US$200,000 per contract and are therefore not likely to attract international
bidders. National Competitive Bidding (NCB), procedures acceptable to IDA, would be used for
contracts equivalent to or more than US$50,000 and less than US$200,000. The total value of
goods to be procured under NCB should not exceed US$1,300,000 for the life of the project.
Contracts under US$50,000 for the procurement of items that cannot be grouped into bulk
procurement and for readily available off-the-shelf goods would be procured by comparing price
quotations obtained from at least three local suppliers. Procurement by this method should not
exceed the total sum of US$350,000 for the life of the project. The implementation unit would
be required to prepare a computer-based system to monitor that the aggregate amounts agreed
upon would not be exceeded during project implementation. IDA's prior review procedures for
civil works and goods would apply to all purchases for which the contract value is equivalent or



- 22 -                               Page 2 of 6
in excess of US$50,000.
Contracts for Technical Assistance and Traininsz
4.1    Oualitv- and Cost-Based Selection (OCBS)
Except as otherwise stated in paragraph 4.2 below all consultants' contracts would be
procured using QCBS. Consultants' services, as listed in paragraph 3.13 to 3.18 of the
Guidelines will also be procured using QCBS.
4.2    Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
a) Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications:  Services for contracts for
assignments for which the need for preparing and evaluating competitive proposals
is not justified and estimated to cost less than US$20,000 equivalent per contract for
individual contracts and US$50,000 equivalent per contract for consulting firms,
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of appropriate qualifications
and references in accordance with paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultants
Guidelines. Services that may fall in this category would be related to research,
product quality and development, product dissemination, financial advice,
establishment of national norms, and proper operational procedures.
b) Single Source Selection. Services estimated to cost less than US$20,000 equivalent
per contract for individual consultants and US$50,000 equivalent per contract for
consulting firms, may, with IDA's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with
the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.1 1 of the Consultants Guidelines.
c) Individual Consultants.  Services for consultants and other contractual staff
employed by project management would be procured under contracts awarded to
individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through
5.3 of the Consultants Guidelines.
4.3    Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants:
a) Scheduling the Selection Process. The selection process for the recruitment of
consultants, including the cost estimate, the contract packaging, applicable
procedures, the short list, selection criteria, the proposed implementation program
and the disbursement schedule shall be furnished to IDA for its review and prior
approval, in accordance with paragraph 1 of Appendix I of the Consultants
Guidelines.



- 23 -                                 Page 3 of 6
b) Prior Review. (i) All contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to
cost the equivalent of US$100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1
and 2 [other than the 3rd subparagraph of para 2 (a)] and 5 of Appendix I of the
Consultants Guidelines shall apply. (ii) All contracts for the employment of
consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of US$50,000 or more per contract,
but less than US$100,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 [other than the
2nd subparagraph of para. 2 (a)] and 5 of Appendix I of the Consultants Guidelines
shall apply. (iii) All contracts for the employment of individual consultants
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$20,000 or more, the qualifications, experience
and terms of reference (TORs) of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for
its prior review and approval.
4.4    Post Review. All contracts not governed by the paragraph 4.3 (b) above, the procedures
set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 of the Consultants Guidelines shall apply.
Disbursements
Use of statements of expenses (SOEs):
1.    Disbursements will be fully documented except for expenditures for operating costs,
training and contracts for goods and consulting firms costing less than US$100,000 equivalent.
Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) will also be used for contracts for individual consultants
costing less than US$50,000 equivalent. The training program will be included in the Annual
Work Program and approved annually. All expenditures above 20 percent of the initial deposit
to the Special Account would be eligible for direct payment by IDA. All supporting documents
will be retained by the Project Management and made readily available for review by periodic
IDA supervision missions and external auditors.
Special account:
2.           To ensure that funds for project implementation are available as and when
needed, a Special Account in local currency would be established at a commercial bank
acceptable to IDA, with an initial deposit equivalent to US$600,000, to cover about three months
of expenditures, to be withdrawn from the Credit Account after Credit effectiveness. The
Special Account would be replenished monthly or more often when the total disbursed amounts
to one third of the initial deposit, whichever is sooner.
3.           The Credit funds are expected to be disbursed faster than the standard
disbursement profile for agricultural projects in Senegal, in view of the shorter implementation
period for this operation which, in essence, is a private sector support operation including
institution building and time-bound technical assistance. Disbursements are expected to be
completed by December 31, 2002.



- 24 -                                    Page4 of6
Annex 6, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$'000 equivalent)
Expenditure Category                         Procurement Method                   Total Cost
(including
contingencies)
ICB        NCB        Other          NBF
1. Works                         720                     99                          819
(540)                  (74)                         (614)
2. Goods                         487         1,265       350                         2,103
(365)       (917)      (300)                       (1,582)
3. Services                                             6,563   1/                  6,521
(4,976)                     (4,900)
4. Miscellaneous                                         942    2/                   942
(868)                       (868)
Total                         1,207       1,265      7,955            0          10,385
(905)       (917)     (6,219)          (0)         (7,964)
Note:    N.B.F.  Not Bank-financed (includes elements procured under parallel cofinancing
procedures, consultancies under trust funds, any reserved procurement, and any other
miscellaneous items).
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA credit.
1:     All consulting services would be obtained in accordance with the Bank's procurement guidelines (see
also paras. 4.1-4.4 of this annex). Most consultant services would be obtained using short lists from
databases already compiled by other IDA funded projects in the country.
2:     Miscellaneous expenditures are those related to the project's incremental operations costs. They
include rent, utilities, office supplies, vehicle and equipment operating and maintenance costs, and
travel allowances of project staff. They would be mostly obtained through local shopping
procedures, given the small amounts of the individual purchases and the difficulty in combining them
in sufficiently large lots.



- 25 -
Page 5 of 6
Annex 6, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure           Contract Value          Procurement         Contracts Subject to
Category              (Threshold)              Method               Prior Review
I. Works               Equal or more than     ICB                     Equa! or more than
US$50,000                                     US$50,000
Less than US$50,000    Comparison of at least
three quotations
2. Goods               Equal or more than     ICB                     Equal or more than
US$200,000                                    US$50,000
Equal or more than     NCB
US$50,000
Less than US$50,000    National Shopping
3. Services                                                           Equal or more than
US$20,000 for
individuals and equal or
more than UtS$50iooo for
firms.
4. Miscellaneous
Total value of contracts subject to prior review: $7.8m, or 75% of total costs



-26  -Page 6 of 6
Annex 6, Table C: Allocation of IDA Credit Proceeds
Amount
Expenditure Category                 in US$million      Financing Percentage
1. Works                                               0.6            100% of foreign and
80% of local
expenditures
2. Vehicles, Equipment and Materials                    1.1          100% of foreign and
80% of local
expenditures
3. Consultaht Services and Training                     3.0          100%
4. Ag. Export Promotion Services                        1.2          100%
5. Operating Costs                                      0.9          80% 'till 6/30/2001;
40% thereafter
6. PPF                                                  0.4
7. Unallocated                                          0.8
Total                                                   8.0



- 27 -
Annex 7
Senegal: Agricultural Export Promotion Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                              Planned                 Actual
(At final PCD stage)
150
B. Project Schedule                                     Planned                 Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      6                        5
First Bank mission (identification)                   06/03/1997              06/03/1997
Appraisal mission departure                           09/29/1997               9/29./1997
Negotiations                                          11/15/1997              10/15/1997
Planned Date of Effectiveness                         02/01/1998
Prepared by: Ministry of Agriculture
Preparation assistance: [PPF, trust funds, cofinanciers, etc.]
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Mr. Mahmood Ayub (Country Director, CD 14)
Mr. Jean-Paul Chausse (Technical Manager, AFTA3)
Mr. Ousmane Sissoko (Sr. Financial Analyst, Task Team Leader)
Mr. Leopold Sarr (Ag. Services Specialist)
Mr. Abdoulaye Seck (Economist)
Ms. Lynn Engstrand (Private Sector Development Specialist)
Mr. Dirk Prevoo (Operations Analyst)
Ms. Andrea Vasquez (Task Assistant)
Ms. Asha Ayoung (Procurement Specialist)
Mr. Wolfgang Chadab (Disbursement Officer)
Mr. Kishor Uprety (Lawyer)



- 28 -
Annex 8
Senegal: Agricultural Export Promotion Project
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Detailed Cost Tables
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
Detailed Economic Analysis
*Including electronic files.



Generated: 11/07/97
Annex 9
Status of Bank Group Operations in Senegal
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
(As of September 30, 1997
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                  and actual
Loan or   Fiscal                                                                                                                        disbursements a/
Project ID    Credit       Year               Borrower                       Purpose
No.                                                                              IBRD        IDA     Cancellations  Undisbursed        Orig   Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 90
Active Loans
SM-PE-2369    IDA29850      1998   REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL               INTEGR.HEALTH S.DEV.              0.00      50.00            0.00         49.13        0.00       0.00
SN-PE-41567   IDA29510      1997   REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL               ENDEMIC DISEASES                  0.00      14.90            0.00         14.78       14.92       0.00
SN-PE-44383   IDAN0240      1997   REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL               URBAN TRANS REP TA                0.00       6.60             0.00         6.71        0.00       0.00
SN-PE-46648   IDA29720      1997   REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL               REGIONAL POWER                    0.00      10.50            0.00         10.54        0.00       0.00
SN-PE-46768   IDA29630      1997   REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL               SUST.PART.ENGY.MGMT.              0.00       5.20            0.00          5.20        0.00       0.00
SN-PE-2373    IDA28720      1996   REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL               HIGHER EDUC I                     0.00      26.50            0.00         22.94       24.15       0.00
SN-PE-35621   IDA28730      1996   REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL               PILOT FEMALE LITERAC              0.00      12.60             0.00         9.94       10.58       0.00
SN-PE-2346    lDA27580      1995   REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL                WATER SECTOR                     0.00     100.00             0.00        84.69        97.90     97.89
SN-PE-2376    IDA27590      1995   REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL               PRIV.SCTR.CAP.BLDG                0.00      12.50             0.00         8.02         9.44      9.44
SN-PE-35615   IDA27230      1995   REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL               COMM NUTRITION                    0.00      18.20            0.00         13.08       15.17      15.20
SN-PE-2357    IDA24730      1993   REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL               HUMAN RES DEV'T II                0.00      40.00            0.00         16.12       14.69       0.00
SN-PE-2342    IDA22660      1991   REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL               TRANSPORT SEC. SECAL              0.00      65.00             0.00        15.02         9.30      9.10
SN-PE-2331    IDA21080      1990   REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL               AG. SERVICES                      0.00      17.10            0.00          1.82          .63        .62
SN-PE-2327    IDA19920      1989   REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL               SMALL RURAL OPS. II               0.00      16.10            0.00          5.79        5.64       0.00
SN-PE-2339    IDA18680      1988   REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL               INDUSTRY SECTOR                   0.00      33.00            0.00          5.66        4.04       3.94
Total                                                                                                  0.00     428.20             0.00       269.64      206.46    136.19
Active Loans         Closed Loans           Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                 149.40           1,187.68            1,337.08
of which has been repaid:                  0.00              168.10              168.10
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                 428.20             976.78            1,404.98
Amount sold                      :                0.00               5.46                5.46
Of which repaid              :                 0.00               5.46                5.46
Total Undisbursed                :              269.64               6.37              276.01
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Rating of 1-4: see OD 13.05. Annex D2. Preparation of Implementation Summary (Form 590). Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a
letter based system will be used (HS . highly Satisfactory, S - satisfactory, U = unsatisfactory, HU . highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in
Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.                                                                                                              OQ
0
Generated by the Operations Information System (QIS)



- 30 -
Page 2 of 2
Senegal
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 30-Sep-97
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval            Company          Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1980                  BHS                     0.00     .46    0.00    0.00    0.00     .46    0.00    0.00
1981/88               ICS                     3.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994/96               SOGECA                  0.00     .33    0.00    0.00    0.00     .28    0.00    0.00
1996/97               AEF SERT                .63      .43    0.00    0.00     .63     .39    0.00    0.00
1997                  SEF NBA SA              1.86    0.00    0.00    0.00     .93    0.00    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:                   5.49    1.22    0.00    0.00    4.56    1.13    0.00    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan   Eauity  Ouasi  Partic
1997                  GTI DAKAR              13.09    1.50    1.51    0.00
Total Pending Commitnent:         13.09    1.50    1.51    0.00
Generated by the Oprations Information System (OIS) on 1 1/07/97



-31 -
Annex 10                                                      Page 1 of 2
Senegal: Agricultural Export Promotion Projec
Senegal at a glance-
...                ~~~~~Sub-'
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           ha8l      Lw
lSenegall-  Afdsa' Menai.mmGaat~
Population mid-1996 (milons)  .                       .7       60     3.22
GNP per capita 1096 (USS)                            56L40b0
GNP199604150asum   ~ ~ ~ ~4.9                     294    1.601
Average annual growth. 19909
Population (%M.                                                 2.7      1.7,
Labor fbrce()27                                                  .        .     GPGi
*                    ~~~~~~~~~~per            --
Mosm recent estlnate btssyearavblaatc  1980)                                     ampleaIlIU
Poverty. headoount ktdc Uox ppt5n
Urban population (U of totalpopula#an                 42        31.      20.,
LUfeexweCtm   at bdehyw)5                                       52-      63
Infant morWtalt (per' 1.6000AeWfs2                              9        69 
Chid msJnutriton (% ofwwts5                           20
A==es to safe water (U ofppfao)..                               4        53
Illiteracy (Ucp~so. g  5.                              7        43      '34
Gross primary enrollment( ooAeap fao                  60        72      10
Male                                                67        7       li2          Lwhomum
Female                                           .8365                09     _  _ _  _ __  _ _ _  _ __  _ _ _  _ _
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS, ad LONG-TERKTRENDS,
1976'   1985       1905    190
GOP (billons US$)                            .9      26         4.9     5.1
Gross domesfti ivesamlmVGDP                 17.     10. .    15.        16.3             OseU D
Exports of goods and swvbcesGDP.           368      :2.        31.6    30.6-
Gross domestic savin)gs/GOP                 12"5   :-0.7,      104 .11.4
Gross national savinasrGOP.                 60       -5.        9.      10.0
Current account baiance,JGO                 4.4: :.:16.6      -6.1    -6.8
Interet payments/GP                         I.       2.0.       1.2       .      Saviti
Tota debt/GOP                               IS      90.4.-    79.0
Tota debt service/exports                   5.      20.7       17.6
Present value of debt1GDP                     .        .      51.6
Present Valu odeeprs.                                  ..     148.9                          nsmm
:197545  190646.  -1906       190116  199746
(average annual gowth)
GDP                                 2.0     1.9      46        5.6       .9            -
GNP per capita                     -1.2   .-03':   -.S.6                 1
Exports of goods and servIces:      2.2     2.9:    8.1          4      4.1
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY                                                         ______________
(% of GDP)                                 17        9         95      19
Agticultume                                26.9    16.        21.0     2`1.3     32-
Industry                                   20.3    15.6        19.5    19.7
Manufacturng                              16.4    11.3       12.9    12.9        .
services                                   52.8    67.9       59.6     69.0.4
Private consumption                        72.2    83.9       78.4    76.2       .*I
General government consumptio              15.2    16.8        11.2    10.4
Imports of goods and services              41.6    40.9       3.8.     351.5 
,197545  1916-96     195    1996
(average on-el growth)                                                           Gi'wS l5b5fto5pIW lePUw4%)
Agricuftur                                  -1.4     1.5        0.9      7.5     a0-
Industry                                    2.1      3.0       9.7      7.0
Manufacturing                              2.5      2.4       9.6      5.       i
services                                    3.1      1.7       4.7      4.5
Private consumption                         3.0      0.9      10.1      6.2       e
General govemnment consumption              5.3    -2.9         1.6     1.3                                    I 
Gross domestic ienvstmnt                    4.48     5.0      29.2    114.5.   -.e
Imports of goods end servicess              3.3    -0.4        6.6      5.6
Gros nationa product                        1.6      2.2       4.6       5.6   I"                                      n
Note: 1996 data ame prellmlnauy esttrmates.
*The diamonds show four key Indficator in the counbY (in bold) compwted with its income-group average. I data we mfiessig. ledummnil W
be iuncoplete.



-32 -                                                    Page 2 of 2
Senegal
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975    1985       1996    1996
Domestic prces                                                                    nfla on)
(% changJ)                                                                       40
Consumer prces                              31.7     13.0       8.1      2.8
Impliit GOP deflator                        11.5      9.1       7.6      2.8    20
Government finance                                                                f
(% of GDP)                                                                               91   s2   93  s9   es   so
Current revenue                             18.9     18.2       16.9    15.6    -20
Current budget balance                       2.6    -0.5        3.8      3.8               -     GDP w    Crt
OveraN surplus/defkit                        -0.3     -3.5      -1.4     -1.4
TRADE
1975    19685      1995    1995
(milons USS)                                                                      Export and Import lvls (miil US$)
Total exports (fob)                          503      515       969      98       e 500
Groundnut products                         209       53       102       80
Phosphates                                   ..      58        33       38
Manufactures                                13        8        40       33      o000 
Total imports (cit)                          612      904      1.383    1,440
Food                                       190      197       394      398       10                v      rI I
Fueland enrgy                               46      173       138      176
Capital goods                              '129      83        180     '188 6____________
Export price index (1987=100)                 ..       74        90       91           so  91  s2  93  94   9   9s
Importprice index (1987=100)                           82       125      131                  o  EDimpons
Terms of trade (1987=100)                      ..      91        72       69
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975     1985      1995    1995
(rnimons USS)                                                                     Current account balance to GDP ratio (% |
Exports of goods and services                688      851     1.544    1.588      0                                      1
Imports of goods and services                782    1,165     1,797    1,852          901  9S  92 193   94   5   9 |
Resource balance                             -94    -314       -253    -264
Net income                                   -76    -127       -155    -130       5 4
Netcurrenttransfers                          -10        8       110       58
Current account balance,                                                             LJLJ
before official capital transfers         -179     -434       -298    -337    1 T
Financing items (net)                        175     420        380      390                        L|
Changes in net reserves                        5       14       -82      -64   |-1S
Meno,:
Reserves induding gold (mill.L USS)           31       15       283    -291
Conversion rate (1oca11USS)                214.3   449.3      499.2   511.6
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975    19U5       1995    1996
(migions USs)                                                                    Composition of total debt, 1995 (milL US$)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed         349    2,563     3,845                                A A
IBRD                                        10      89         35       23                     G 231
IDA                                        43      232      1,126    1,194              128
B
Total debt service                            42      190       296             |                            1128
IBRD                                         1       10        16       12
IDA                                          0       4         14       15
Composition of net resource flws                                                       E
Ofical grants                              44        96       371                  1246
Official creditors                          39      130        48
Private creditors                           19       -5       -25                         \/               C
Foreign direct investment                   23      -16         1                                        347
Portfolio equity                            0         0         0            |                 7
700
WVorld Bank program
Commitments                                 31       25       216       42      A-IBRD                     E-Bilateral
Disbursements                               19       33       107      110      B- IDA    D- Othr mullatl  F - PrFivate
Prindpal repayments                          0        6        18       17      C-IMF                      G-Short-term
Net fows.                                   19      27         89       93    __1
Interest payments                            1        8        12       11
Nettransfers                                18       19        77       82
Development Economics                                                                                           8U28U97



- 33 -
Annex 11                                     Page I of 9
Senegal: Agricultural Export Promotion Project
Summary of the Environmental Analysis
L. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
1.1 Preamble
Senegal has a semi-arid climate -with a significant temperature variations throughout the country. Lying in the
transition zone between the Sudano-Guinean region and the Sahel, the country's climate is characterized by
wide rainfall va?l2rion with limited amount of surface water and biomass resources but considerable amount
of ground water. With its fragile narural resource base, an increasing population and poor farming practices,
resource degradation is accelerating. The population is relatively dense, and with a demographic growth rate
of 2.7 percent per annum and 61% of rural population, the demand for land and renewable natural resource is
takling a great toll on the country's narural resource base resulting in the potential degradation of the physical
environment. The country's agricultural production has grown at a rate of not more than 2.7 percent per
annum with an extension of areas under cultivation rather than through intensification of productivity.
This prevailing situation has subjected Senegal to a potential ecological and socio-economic crisis in the past
rvo decades which has led to a severe land degradation and massive migration of its rural population to the
cities and uroan centers, and even to -uhe neighboring humid West African countries.
To reverse this situation and help arrest the degradation of this fragile natural resource base, the Governrnent
of Senegal with its donors partners, pa-ticularly the World Bank-, have initiated the country's first
environmental strategic framework, trie National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP), in order to define the
strategies and provide the necessary legislative framework and regulatory mechanism required to protect,
control, enforce and monitor the use of the country's poor natural resources.
Senegal is an agricultural country where the natural resource degradation is being accelerated by the pressure
from the rain-fed and irrigated farming in the dry and semi-humid areas, combined with itinerant pastoral
practices from the degraded region in the northern part of the country, and by the incessant migration.
The agricultural activities have led to considerable problems, such as: soil degradation; ground water
pollution: over-exploitation of the unconfined, water table aquifers; flora-fauna reduction; and the degradation
of the populations' health conditions. These damages are likely to be more important around lakes and dams
where diseases such as malaria and schistomiasis are prevalent.
The Pilot Agricultural Export Promotion Project (PAEPP) will engender an intensive agricultural activity
which will have some repercussions on the fragile ecosystem of the country. The implementation of the
project may lead to a surface water withdrawals, particularly from the lakes of the Diama dam. Also, the
ground water may be impacted, notably, through boreholes in shallow aquifers, as well as, the destruction of
the vegetation cover in the Senegal river valley, the digging of irrigation drainage canals, the use of
agrochemicals such as fertilizers, pesticides, and herbicides, and the concentration of population which could
put damageable pressures on the natural resource base, including the flora and fauna.
The Project will also increase the work-time on the overall work line, such as from farming to packaging,
transportation and storage. Even if the agricultural activity is advantageous economically, it cannot be done
without negative impact on the physical environment and the social fabric.



Page 2 of 9
- 34 -
The immediate consequences of the project's impact on the environment are two folds:
(i) at the physical level, there will be a significant "change" due to the loss of vegetation cover already
in an advanced degradation stage in the Niayes region and the loss of forage in the Senegal river
valley zone. Also, the population pressure will accelerate the degradation of the soil and water
contamination, and cause an uncontrolled felling of trees for use as fuelwood; and
(ii) the disruption of the traditional agricultural practices of autochtones and the destruction of fauna's
habitat. The damages of the use of pesticides particularly on farmers and riparian population can also
be added.
The natural resource base of Niayes zone and, particularly Dakar's region and its vicinity, is already suffering
due to the intensive exploitation of soil, water aiid vegetation cover through over-population. The capacity to
contain this over-ecploitation of the natural resources of the region has been considerably reduced and the risk
of salinization and water depletion, as well as, soil erosion remain extremely high.
The zones around Diama are presently attracting a rapid movement of people which would impact the
vegetation cover as well as the fauna and their habitats.
Conversely, the Casamance zone and the south in general remain intact compared to the above regions. The
production potential of this region is one of the highest in the country. The ecosystem is renewed very
quickly due to its relatively good soils, the sufficient rains and undisturbed vegetation.
To increase the sustainability of the PAEPP and avoid the degradation of the physical and social environment,
in particular the soils, water resources and vegetation of this fragile ecological system, it is envisaged to set up
on a regional basis at the early stages of the site preparation, preventive and mitigative measures accordingly.
As a result, an environmental assessment (EA) has been conducted as part of the PAEPP. The EA complies
directly with the World Bank 's directives, in particular OD 4.01 and its Annex C: Environmental Mitigation
Plan.
1.2 Project Description
The main objectives of the project are to: assist the private farmers involved in both traditional and non-
traditional crop production and export; support and motivate new and innovative producers in the
development of high value-added crops which can be produced in Senegal; and strengthen farmers
organizations by providing technical advice and training to farmers in crop production, export and
management. Also, the project will contribute to improve storage of perishables by upgrading facilities at the
airports of Dakar and St. Louis and encourage bulk shipment
The project comprises four main components:
1.2.1 Promotion and Diversification Activities
These activities will consist of: (i) market research, customer identification, meeting quality
requirements, trial shipments and obtaining pre-export finance; (ii) product development and
processing, and quality control via targeted adaptive research; and (iii) establishment of business



Page 3 of 9
- 35 -
partnerships between local exporters and foreign businesses and assistance in identifying regional and
overseas niches.
The project will provide direct in-house assistance from its staff including a specialist in market
research and product development, who is also expected to draw upon his international network
corporate connections for market information identifying and securing outlets and establishing
commercial partnerships. In addition, the project will provide for contracting ad hoc services with
local or international firrns and institutes in those areas requiring more specialized inputs such as
research for new product development including agricultural product processing, product quality
certification, international ISO certifications for product processing, the establishment of national
standards and norms, etc. Both traditional and non-traditional horticultural products, for which the
potential for increasing Senegal's economic share are promising, will be encouraged and benefit from
project support for which there is a clamor from producers and exporters. The project will also
encourage and contribute to business canvassing activities for all promising products as well as
exporters' participation in selected specialized international fairs.
1.2.2 Support to Producers/Exporters Associations
Under this component, the project will support producers/exporters by: (i) strengthening existing
private professional organizations: producer groups, export associations, cooperatives and inter-
professional groups, which could become a major vehicle for non-traditional export market
development and for lobbying activities, etc.; (ii) encouraging the creation of farmer associations; and
(iii) setting up a central referral/data information service, as well as, providing management and legal
advice required for the formal establishment of nascent associations and for developing their work
programs together with training in simplified cost accounting and management principles. In this
respect, project support will benefit existing and future producers/exporters' associations and their
individual members. Because product quality and presentation constitute key requirements for tapping
external markets, the project would facilitate product grouping for packaging and quality controls in
selected packaging centers that may be established.
1.2.3 Upgrading of Export Facilities
To improve product quality the project will upgrade and /or rehabilitate existing infrastructure such as
cold storage, storage capacity, outside sheds, etc. at the airport for preserving perishabte.products in
transit. Such rehabilitation will involve small but important work at the airport of Dakar, and possibly
that of St. Louis if volumes so warrant. Preliminary studies and the actual execution of work will be
carried out under this component. It is expected that the component will be co-financed under parallel
financing by other donors involved in agricultural export promotion activities in the country.
1.2.4 Project Management and Implementation
The project will be implemented over a four-year period from 1998 through 2001, under the general
supervision and guidance of the Ministry of Agriculture. The project will provide support for project
management which will be assumed by qualified private professionals experienced in agricultural
export or related activities and farmer organization. The support for project management will cover
investment costs and operating costs on a decreasing basis.



Page 4 of 9
- 36 -
The project management team will have full autonomy in decision-making and carrying out day-to-day
project activities, and be responsible for achieving the agreed upon monitorable results. All key project staff
will be selected on the basis of an open competitive process and with fixed term renewable contracts.
1.3 Initial Conditions
Senegal has a total land area of 196,720 km2. It is located in West Africa, bordering the Atlantic Ocean
between Guinea -Bissau and Mauritania. The Atlantic Ocean stretches for over 500 kilometers along the
western portion of the country. Senegal is bounded by four countries, Guinea-Bissau and Guinea in the
South, Mauritania in the North, and Mali in the East. The Gambia is almost an enclave of Senegal, in the
Center. The terrain is generally low, rolling plains rising to foothills in southeast. Three rivers flow across
the country in an east-west direction: Senegal river (170km) in the north; the Gambia river (750km) and the
Casamance river in the south.
Senegal has a dry tropical climate, hot and humi'd. It has a rainy season (June to October) with strong
southeast winds;nc, a dry season (November to May) dominated by the hot, dry harmattan winds. The
environment is characterized by occurrences of soil erosion, desertification, overgrazing, overfishing and a
wildlife population threatened by poaching. The country has three types of vegetation; forest in the south,
Savannah in the central part and steppe-like in the north.
In 1994, Senegal had a population of about 8.5 million, giving an average density of 36 people persquare
kilometer. The annual population growth rate is currently 2.7 percent. The religion is predominantly Muslim
(94 percent), with small populations of Christians (5%) and traditional religions (1%).
In general, women and children in Senegal suffer from inadequate access to education and other social services.
For instance, in 1988 thepercentage of total population age 15 and over literate 28.6%; male literacy 38.8%
and female literacy 19.4%. This is evidenced by key social indicators such as infant mortality and mortality of
children under 5 years. The average life expectancy in the country is 50 years.
1.4 Statutorv Framework.
The Pilot Agricultural Export Promotion Project is a direcf fit into the overall frameWorlof the agricultural
policy and the natural resources management policies which the Government of Senegal and the donors
partners have defined and embodied in the three major undertakings:
(a) The Agriculture Development Policy Letter;
(b) The National Environmental Action Plan (to be adopted in September 1997); and
(c) The Land Tenure Action Plan.
t Although Senegal does not have a legal requirement at this time for formal enviromnental assessment, the land
0 tenure law has been revised in 1996. The revised version of the land tenure law is still in conflict with
I customary law with respect to the stated fact that all land belong to the State. Although it includes provisions
0 to decentralize land tenure rights to village communities, it is unclear whether the State can overrule the village
decisions. Increasingly, land adjudication is being decided on a more decentralized basis by the heads of the
I



Page 5 of 9
- 37 -
family. Thus, there is a gradual emergence of the sense of private ownership. Hence, family groups have
actively attempted to establish their rights over portions of community land, often extending their overall
domain and encroaching on virgin, unexploited areas. The lack of land tenure security is a source of negative
impact to the natural resource base, as well as, potential cultural conflict on the social resettlement fabric of
communities in the country.
1.5 Probable Impacts of the Project.
In general, the proposed Pilot Agricultural Export Promotion Project (PAEPP) would engender changes on
the ecological systems to be developed and these changes are bound to affect the fragile vegetation cover, soil
fertility, the ground water as well as the surface water, and to a large extent, the social fabric of the riparian
population.
1.5.1 The Possible Positive Impacts of the Project
It is however clear from the assessment that the project's impact on the natural resource base as well as the
social and economic fabric is globally positive. It will contribute to the maintenance of the social equilibrium of
the regions population by globally maintaining the ecosystems equilibrium through the amelioration of the
quality of life of the people. The creation of employment for the economically active would reduce the rural
-xodus, improve the quality of life of both males and females, which would reinforce the production capacity of
he exploiters, improve their dietary intakes and reduce malnutrition, in particular, infant malnutrition. This
,vould eventually have significant positive impact at the national level, as well as, lead to potential financial
jenefits and appreciation in the improvements of the living standards in the country. The gain from the exports
vill reinforce the economy and the positive impacts will benefit nationally the producers/exporters.
1.5.2 The Possible Negative Impacts of the Project.
i addition to the project negative impacts on the vegetation cover, the soil and the affected population,
enerally water related diseases do exist due to the presence of lakes and drainage canals in the project are.
otential negative impact from pollution exists in areas where water is withdrawn in large quantities from the
ireatic aquifers that may result in droughts. Water related diseases are important in areas where surface
ater are to be used, mainly in the Saint-Louis region. The incidence of malaria and bilharzia contamination of
aters by fertilizers and pesticides, and soil erosion can post major threats especially where there is poor water
anagement, over-use of fertilizers and pesticides and poor drainage
idertaking the crop production and related activities without a sound natural resources renewal measures
:ll undoubtedly lead to an irreversible, disruptive ecosystem. The affected population could be exposed to
veral risks, such as health and social crisis, and even in the short terrm to a decrease of life standards, if no
egrated measures of protection and improvement are taken to prevent the immediate effects on the physical
vironment and the social fabric.
,otential cultural conflict that could arise between autochtones and allotchtones farmers may contribute to
negative impacts if the land tenure problems for which the autochtones are still sensitive are not totally
ved.
degradation of the land and the vegetation cover could lead to the reduction of productivity, increase the
.flict between farmers and stock breeders, and accelerate the intensive over-use of fertilizers.



- 38 -                                Page 6 of 9
At the export level, the search for quality products will lead, on one hand, to the increase in the quantitative use
of agrochemicals for treatment during cropping, packaging, and storage, and on the other hand, to an increase
of road and air traffic. As a result, negative impacts will occur mostly in road traffic accidents, noise effects
due to increase load of vehicles and airplanes transportation, gas emission effluents, and from contamination as
a result of pesticide misuse and over-use.
Other possible negative impacts are soil degradation, salinization and water pollution, and transportation related
activities, especially, in the Niayes areas. Degradation of the vegetation is more of a threat in the St. Louis
region, and the downstream of Senegal River in the northern part of the project area, such as Walo.
At the institutional level, if the rules and preventive measures are not clearly defined to enable the public sector
play its new role of service promoter (see the LPDA), the implementation of the project by the private sector
can lead to a conflict between the two sectors which could hamper the overall success.
1.6 Mitigation Measures
The mitigation plan, which is in conformity with the World Bank's operational directives, attempts to put in
place the required mechanisms to control the effects of the project on the natural environrnent. It is envisaged
to carry out an inventory of the natural resources prior to the implementation of the pilot agricultural export
promotion project and to establish a monitoring and surveillance mechanism for the rehabilitation and
management of the perimeters, including the crop production and complimentary commercial activities at
specific sites.
The particular measures advocated within the framework of the project are the organization of the populations
which will directly or indirectly be affected by the execution of the project. In order to ensure that the
recommendations of the assessment are carried out, and subsequent mitigative measures are implemented, it is
envisaged that community based organizations are established, supported and trained in the management of all
environmental issues generated by the project.
The mitigation measures include standard techniques to prevent or control: erosion and agrochemical pollution,
increased social infrastructures, afforestation efforts combined with irrigation development, and a strong
emphasis on information campaign for soil, water and biomass conservation.
As one of the most important concerns is the potential negative impacts of the water-related diseases on the
riparian population, protection measures to minimize such risks is very important. The type of crops to be
cultivated will be another indicator to predict the possible trend of the diseases at the specific sites. Most of the
project areas have little preventive measures to mitigate health risks.
It is important that hygiene education and conmmunity based management and awareness component be
developed to ensure better sanitation and water supply services to the affected groups.
A ground water quality and soil salinization monitoring system should be set up before any further development
of fragile sites particularly in the Niayes areas. A meaningful activities such as an up to date geographical
information system (GIS) should be developed for further survey to subsequently quantify the natural resources
available in the areas by national research institutes (CSE, CDH/ISRA, etc) which will undertake a detailed
desk and field inventory study of each site.



Page 7 of 9
- 39 -
For the implementation of these measures, there is a clear need for a collaborative effort between the project
management, local communities and non-governmental organizations ( NGOs), as well as, outside specialists to
help enhance irrigators, traders and the entire populations knowledge on how to sustain the resource base in the
project zones.
Another measure of paramount importance is to devise a mechanism for the protection of the ground and
surface water resources from contamination either by agrochemicals or salinization. This measure requires a
water resources expert or an institution with the expertise which can be able to intervene on behalf of the
relevant Governnental structures to help develop guidelines for monitoring and follow-up of the water
resources.
It is proposed that the Government and the producers/exporters support the four components and finance a
study to complement the findings of this environmental assessment on health risks and the protection of the
local environment.
The suggested institutions responsible of the implementation of the above activities are:
1. the Ministry of Water Resources which will coordinate and site the monitoring and the follow up
facilities;
2. the public works enterprises will build the infrastructures; and
3. specialized firms in water resources management to design the system and analyze the date, this firm
can also assist the administration and producers/exporters.
1.7 Environmental Monitoring
The environmental monitoring of the project must be coordinated at the central level by the Ministry of
Environment and Natural Resources Protection in collaboration with the Ministries of Agriculture and Water
Resources.
At the local level, it is envisaged to involve the services of non-govermmental organizations as well as the
services of the irrigators and the population at large. If the PAEPP is to be sustainable, envionmental
monitoring must be integral to the management process.
The environmental monitoring component will play an important role. These evaluations would impact
positively on the management process only if they identify major environmental and human problems, and verify
:hat the recommendations of the EA have been carried out. In the medium and long term, these evaluations
,vould reduce the unpredictable impacts of the project on the environment by enabling the management to
)ropose new measures, revisiting earlier recommendations and designing new directions to minimize
manticipated negative impacts.
('he primary concern will be the identification, at the earliest stages of project implementation and on a
:ontinuous basis, of any pollution of the water resources, degradation of the soils, increase in the risks of
liseases and the social tension between the various players of the project notably the farmers, investors,
terders, the migrant workers and the traditional land owners.



Page 8 of 9
- 40 -
The monitoring of all the above activities should be carried out by recognized Non -Governmental
Organizations and private firms who have experience in community development projects and are familiar with
the overall natural resources and land use activities, particularly in the Niayes and Saint-Louis areas. The
monitoring project should be allocated a reasonable annual amount of funding for an effective implementation,
according to the draft terms of reference and the prepared budget (annex 6).
1.8 Recommendations
The most important concern in agricultural activities in semi-arid country like Senegal is the negative impacts
of water-related diseases, soil degradation and water contamination and its over exploitation. There is a weak
institutional link between existing irrigation scheme and preventive public health. Therefore, it is
recommended that the-communities be involved in hygiene education and sanitation development in affected
villages, and to train producers and their employees in a safe use of agrochemicals.
A natural resource inventory and water resource management component will be required in the early
planning stages of the crop production to ensure that appropriate preventive measures can be taken in a timely
manner.
It is recommended that the Government of Senegal support the reinforcement and the management of a
ground water, surface water and soil quality monitoring system and community instinttional development
component which will include the following: (i) local capacity building; (ii) social infrastructure component;
and (iii) community based natural resource management.
The project should benefit from detailed studies of the anticipated sites prior to actual development by
carrying out detailed inventory of the natural resources, evaluate the immediate effects of the zones on the
resources and recommend the possible solutions in the medium and long term for the preservation of the
resources which are of paramount importance for the maintenance of the ecological equilibrium.
A ground water quality and soil salinization monitoring system should be set up before any further
development of fragile sites, particularly in the Niayes areas. A meaningfuil activities such as aliup to date
geographical information system (GIS) should be developed for further survey to subsequently quantify the
natural resources available in the areas by national research institutes (CSE, CDH/ISRA, etc..) which will
undertake a detailed desk and field inventory study of each site.
At the local level, it is recommended that the services of non-governmental organizations (NGOs) for
sustainable and environmental monitoring as an integral part of the management process. This will also
permit the reinforcement of the national capacity in the crop production and commercial activities. The local
NGOs seem to be the best actors to be considered. They will, in collaboration with the project, carry out case
by case studies on the socioeconomic aspects.
Like wise, there should be a strong support for the establishment of community based organizations in the
affected villages to provide the leadership in sound natural resources management. These community based
groups may provide innovative techniques for more effective local level management which may prove useful
ror the private irrigation and agro-processing project. Taking the lead role may also encourage the application
zf conservation measures to reduce any unexpected negative impact on the natural and social environment .



Page 9 of 9
-41-
It is recommended that a control system be established to monitor the water resources quality and behavior
and soil quality, especially in the areas which will utilize surface water and ground water. This will be an
effective way of eliminating the risk of salinization.
The NGOs experiments in community development will prove to be valuable for the reduction of the risk of
diseases spreading in the areas of intervention where the public health risks are high. This type of an
intervention would facilitate community development in such zones which are highly populated.






MAP SECTION



[BED 29056
16'                            15'                            14'                           15'                             12'
A Nnueknhnlt  /  ~ ~ ~   MA  U R i TA  N IA ~~AGRICULTURAL EXPORT
~~  ~~   ;77~~~;tj~~~2-~~ '-~~~4~~  ~~  Tell ~~PROMOTION PROJECT
~~A. 4~~~~a71&                                  4LnC Tn~~~~~d Gui- I
LIII  ~~~~~~~-*I'~~~~~          _____            SAIT_              IY.16~
U'1.  4IAOl%,L   /    MbeuIeLkIlE                        /                Oem Sege                                                                                    -        PRIMARY ROADS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PRMAY RAD
ii ~~~~~n4yi~~~~~ <~~~'.<  ISI~~~~~~~ -iNt~~~~~~~~./~~~~~'---                                                                                                                 ROUTE S PRINOPALES~~~~~~RUTS PINIPLE
SECONDARY ROADS
ROUTES SECONDAIRES
D   SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
L  0    U                                                                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CITES ET VILLES CH0ISIES
LIT ~~~~~~~ ,~~~~,,I-.'N'  ,uu~~~~~~~~~~~~~~''                                                                                                                             *       DEPARTMENT CAPITALS~~~~~~~~~~~~~EPRTEN CPIAL
N'.                            MBkhR          \ Done,~~~~hkh                                                                                                                                                                  CAP) TALES DES ISEPARTEMENTS
N',  Yx.  Mouse                                       N,                                                                                   '1             15'                @       EROION CAPITALS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5-REIONCAITL
'P  ~~~~'~~'   N~~~    S  D.SMSOIt,%      9.                                VE~~~~~~~~~TiI.ngee                       <N Bk..CAPITALED DES REGIONS
II'                    ThE                 JR1B         nub                                                                                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~Nf.             NATIONAL CAPITALS
IT'  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  E~~~~~~APTL  AINL
B-                                                                                                                             - - - - -  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES
~~  HIES    <~~~~~~              'KeIn~~~ben     '                           -'..                                                                                                                         L ~  IMITES DES GEPATETMSNT5
I                                                                                                                                       en       -%o                                   REGION BOLINDAR ES
~~~'I  I,nuII'i'N                                                                                                                              In ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'                       LIM1TSS DES REGIONS~~~~~~~~~~~K.,LIITSDE kGfN
N>                    ~~~~~~INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
nIIIN41u~~~~~~-3al  I*~~~~~  ~~3INNMbenr  II                          ~Ndi66-LIMITES INTESNATIONASES
N"  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ft
K' AK N'K~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
'V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1'
SN1  >Ki~~~k'uI'>  IN'-ThiI,u~~~~o K'  0'Q  N  Ad~~~~    u~~  N                   Tembocoende           VIA  Mt    7- <'U   ND  A                                                            5            5N5D           10050  10
10.1 K  LI' <~~~~~~~~~~~~>   ~~~~   ~~~~<'2tK'.n  Rip        *              Meke                      ,-<          A '..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D..f
I  (f<.                                                                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KILOMETERS
n                                                                                                                                                                     Thismup.nnsp.edunedkylheMnpDenun Sn,,nfN,WnnIuIRenL.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Th~ .  -P'd-  y h~M. D~,~U~t fTh WldS
A  ~~~~~~~~~~$BIA                N                                                                                                                       nn~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OGti Anndnn-linply,o-nh EpnnnflTh.eW-ldSnn-k G-p, -
'-N  N<KN'   4~   > vTiljKo.N  jli~-   ~ KuK~g                --                                                                                                                                                 iedpn,eIAenhelenl ton -nymen -ny,enynnson
~~&7J4LIi                                                                                                                        SirntpIs  ~.'                                                             nnnep,enneo- se Zh enKhn-s
47    A 4                                                                                                                                                                     _________________________K__L_D_____ !_ -1' '~
4",, lT~~ Iu.  .<'Ieu~'  ~   4!    INCIj4OR   ~~  <    K1  \  *ICtde             <'    ~     ~      ~       NA7L~CSNAS PARK               Meke                Serepe tL PARKSM.  S.aY.ALGERIA
LI'~~~N~~>' <+KIKKNITL  ksios~~~~~~~~~~~&  Co  ..'"u<  .  /  y                                             7-"  7-"'N.       .e' Edeugee                           K'    ,1    MAURITANIA   I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MAUITAIA 
'K       TnAOSeO~~GUINEA -BISSAU                                                                                                                             gan 
Vt <N 'K   TIN'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NN
-~~~~~~    41<                                                                                                                                                                             7-.'~~~~~~~~~~~~~1' %13  2
SEPTEMBER 1997



