Page  1
CONFORMED COPY   
CREDIT NUMBER 3017-SE
Development Credit Agreement
(Agricultural Export Promotion Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated February 18, 1998 
CREDIT NUMBER 3017-SE 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated February 18, 1998, between REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
(B)
the Association has received a letter, dated April 21, 1995, from the 
Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
strengthen the Borrower’s agricultural sector (the Program) and declaring the 
Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program;  
WHEREAS the Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set 
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not 
a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; 
or (b) for the purpose of any payment to 
persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if 
such payment or import, to the 
knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United 
Nations."
(c)
Section 6.03 is modified to read: 
"Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Association.  If (a) the right of the 
Borrower to 
make withdrawals from the Credit Account shall have been suspended with 
respect to any 
amount of the Credit for a continuous period of thirty days, 
or (b) at any time, the 
Association determines, after consultation with the 
Borrower, that an amount of the Credit 
will not be required to finance the Project’s 
costs to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit, or (c) at any time, the 
Association determines, with respect to any contract to 
be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were 
engaged in by 
representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Credit during the 
procurement or the execution of such contract, without the Borrower having taken 
timely and 
appropriate action satisfactory to the Association to remedy the 
situation, and establishes 
the amount of expenditures in respect of such 
contract which would otherwise have been 
eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, or (d) at any time, the 
Association 
determines that the procurement of any contract to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in 
the 
Credit Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such 
contract 
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, or 
(e) after the Closing Date, an amount of the Credit 
shall remain unwithdrawn from the Credit 
Account, the Association may, by notice 
to the Borrower, terminate the right of the Borrower  to make withdrawals with respect 
to such amount.  Upon the giving of such notice, such 
amount of the Credit 
shall be canceled.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“AWPB” means the annual work program and budget prepared by the Borrower 
for the purpose of the Project pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement; 
(b)
“Franc de la Communauté Financière Africaine” and “CFAF” mean the 
currency of the Borrower; 
(c)
“MA” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Agriculture; 
(d)
“MOF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Economy, Finance and Planning; 
(e)
“Mitigation Plan” means the plan, dated September 1997, prepared by the 
Borrower for the purpose of mitigating adverse environmental effects of the Project; 
Page  3
(f)
“Performance Indicators” means the indicators referred to in Schedule 6 
to this Agreement;  
(g)
“Procedures Manual” means the manual adopted by the Borrower pursuant to 
Section 6.01 (d) of this Agreement containing, inter alia, work plans, training plans 
and procedures to be used for the purpose of implementation of the Project, and such 
term includes any schedules to the Procedures Manual; 
(h)
“PMT” means the Project Management Team established by the Borrower 
pursuant to Section 6.01 (a) of this Agreement; 
(i)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters, dated 
September 22, 1997 and October 22, 1997, between the Borrower and the Association; 
(j)
“Project Steering Committee” means the committee established by the 
Borrower pursuant to Section 6.01 (b) of this Agreement; and  
(k)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to five million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 5,900,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
CFA Francs a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure and attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
cancelled. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2002, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower 
of such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Page  4
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each January 15 and July 15 commencing January 15, 2008 and ending July 15, 2037.  
Each installment to and including the installment payable on July 15, 2017 shall be 
one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal. 
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01 (a)  The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, environmental and technical practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the 
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this 
Page  5
Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works, and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association and 
furnish to Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, 
a plan for the future operation of the Project; and (b)
afford the Association a 
reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the Borrower on said plan. 
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall take all necessary measures  to implement the 
Mitigation Plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions, the following 
additional event is specified, namely that a situation has arisen which shall make it 
Page  6
improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions: 
(a)
the Borrower has appointed a Project Management Team, in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and has, in accordance 
with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, appointed all the 
key staff thereof; 
(b)
the Borrower has established a Project Steering Committee in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 3 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(c)
the Borrower has, in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement, appointed an auditor for purposes of Article IV of this 
Agreement; and 
(d)
the Borrower has adopted a Procedures Manual, in form and substance 
acceptable to the Association. Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date 
of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for Finance 
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of 
the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economy, Finance and Planning
Rue Charles Lainé
P.O. Box 4017
Dakar
Republic of Senegal
Cable address: 
Telex:
Minifinances
61203 G
Dakar
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
Page  7
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
By /s/ Mamadou Mansour Seck 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Jean-Louis Sarbib 
Regional Vice President 
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
Amount of the Loan
    Allocated (Expressed in
% of 
Expenditures
Category
Dollar Equivalent)
     Financed
(1)
Civil works
    400,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and
80% of local
expenditures
(2)
Goods, including
    800,000
100% of foreign
vehicles,
expenditures and 85%
equipment and
of local 
expenditures
materials
(3)
Consultants' services,
  2,200,000
100%
including training
and audit
(4)
Export promotion
    900,000
100%
services
(5)
Incremental
    700,000
80% for payments
operating costs
made until
June 30, 2001
thereafter 40%
(6)
Refunding of
    300,000
Amount due pursuant
Project Preparation
to Section 2.02 (c) 
of
Advance
this Agreement
(7)
Unallocated
    600,000
TOTAL
  5,900,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
Page  8
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
provided, however, that if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another 
country from the territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in 
such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be “foreign expenditures”; 
(c)
the term “export promotion services” means the expenses incurred on 
account of participation of agricultural professionals in trade fairs, workshops and 
seminars aimed at promoting the export of agricultural products and trial shipments to 
be carried out under Part A of the Project; and
(d)
the term “incremental operating costs” means the incremental expenses 
incurred on account of Project implementation, management and monitoring, including 
office supplies, vehicle operation, travel and supervision costs but excluding 
salaries of officials of the Borrower’s civil service. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) goods and works under 
contracts not exceeding $50,000 equivalent; (ii) services of consulting firms under 
contracts not exceeding $50,000 equivalent; and (iii) services of individual 
consultants under contracts not exceeding $20,000 equivalent, under such terms and 
conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) promote the development and 
diversification of the Borrower’s agricultural export market; (b) strengthen the 
existing private professional agricultural organizations in the territory of the 
Borrower, (c) promote the creation of farmer associations and organizations in the 
territory of the Borrower; and (d) upgrade the Borrower’s export facilities.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Export promotion and Diversification Activities 
1.
Carrying out of market research and customer identification survey through the 
provision of technical advisory services, including participation in international, 
regional or national trade fairs, workshops and seminars. 
2.
Provision of technical advisory services to meet the quality requirements for 
trial shipments and promote pre-export financing, including equipment and material 
required therefor. 
3.
Provision of technical advisory services in the area of products development and 
processing, and quality control via targeted adaptive research, including equipment 
required therefor. 
4.
Provision of technical advisory services and logistical assistance for the 
establishment of business partnerships between local exporters and foreign businesses. 
5.
Provision of technical advisory services for the identification of regional and 
overseas outlets for agricultural products.
Page  9
Part B:
Support to Producers and Exporters Associations
1.
Provision of technical advisory services for: (i) the strengthening of existing 
private professional organizations including producers’ groups, export associations, 
cooperatives and inter-professional groups; (ii) the promotion of farmers’ 
associations; and (iii) the setting up of a central referral and data information 
service and packaging centers. 
2.
Establishment of associations and the development of their work programs through 
the provision of management and legal advisory services, including training in 
simplified cost accounting and management principles.
Part C:
Upgrading of Export Facilities 
Upgrading or rehabilitation of the export facilities at the airport in Dakar, 
including cold storage and other storage facilities.
Part D:
Support to Project Management 
Provision of technical advisory services and logistical assistance for the 
management of the Project. 
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement 
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of this Section.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of Contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for works shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $500,000 equivalent or more each, and contracts for goods shall be 
grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $400,000 equivalent or more each. 
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic
contractors
The provisions of paragraph 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works 
to be carried out by domestic contractors.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,300,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
Page  10
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $350,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3.
Procurement of Small Works 
Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price 
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified 
domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include 
a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant 
drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the 
lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources 
to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review 
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or 
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services for market research, financial services and 
farmers organization, estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, 
may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Page  11
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Based on Consultants Qualifications
Services for research on production quality, dissemination, financial services 
and establishment of norms and operational procedures, estimated to cost less than 
$50,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Single Source Selection
Services for financial, procurement and disbursement management, which are 
estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, may, with the 
Association’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the  
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms  
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$100,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $20,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be 
awarded only after said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program 
1.
The Borrower shall implement the Project in accordance with the Procedures 
Manual, and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not 
amend or waive any provision thereof if, in the opinion of the Association, such 
Page  12
amendment or waiver may materially and adversely affect the implementation of the 
Project. 
2.
The Borrower shall, until the completion of the Project, maintain the PMT and a 
team of staff with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association.  The 
key staff shall consist of a Project Director, two senior professionals with expertise 
in agricultural export or related activities, one specialist in producers’ 
organization, and a financial specialist. The PMT shall be responsible for the overall 
implementation and day-to-day operation of the Project. 
3.
For the purpose of oversight of the Project, the Borrower shall maintain, until 
the completion of the Project, a Project Steering Committee with terms of reference 
acceptable to the Association. The Project Steering Committee shall be chaired by the 
representative of the Ministry of Agriculture and shall consist of two representatives 
of MA, two representatives of MOF and four representatives from the professional 
organizations. 
4.
The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association, not later than 
November 30, each year preliminary annual work program and budget. The Borrower and 
the Association shall discuss each preliminary AWPB at the joint annual review 
referred to in paragraph 6 of this Schedule, and, after incorporating the comments of 
the Association, the Borrower shall, not later than January 1, adopt the annual work 
program and budget (AWPB).
5.
The Borrower shall furnish to the Association a semi-annual progress report 
including information on the status of the Project, having regard to Performance 
Indicators, and based on data from the monitoring system. The report shall include, 
inter alia: (a) a summary statement on the status of execution of each project 
activity; and (b) a table showing compliance with project covenants and progress in 
implementing agreed policy objectives.
6.
(a)
The Borrower shall carry out jointly with the Association, a 
comprehensive annual project implementation review aimed at: (i) documenting progress 
toward objectives; (ii) identifying and resolving obstacles to project implementation; 
and (iii) adjusting, in agreement with the Association, targets and corresponding 
programs to reflect progress achieved in the implementation of the Project as of the 
date of the review, and ensuring responsiveness to changes to effectively achieve the 
objectives of the Project. 
(b)
The Borrower shall, not later than four weeks prior to the review 
referred to in (a) above, furnish to the Association a report, in such detail as the 
Association shall reasonably request, including an evaluation of the progress achieved 
in Project implementation.
(c)
Promptly after completing such reviews, the Borrower shall carry out 
recommendations arising out of said reviews, with due diligence and efficiency and in 
accordance with appropriate practices, taking into account the Association's comments 
thereon. 
7.
The Borrower shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance the indicators set forth in Schedule 6 to 
this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof; 
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about May 31, 2000, a report integrating the results 
of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of 
this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the 
period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and 
(c)
review with the Association, by June 30, 2000, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b) of this 
paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
Page  13
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association views on the 
matter.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (5) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for  the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
CFAF 300,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that 
unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be 
limited to an amount equivalent to CFAF 150,000,000 until the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 1,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid 
out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
Page  14
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.  Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow 
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be. 
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 6
Performance Indicators
1.1.
Number of private exporters reached: 50 by Project end and 1000 producers.
1.2.
Number of exporters/importers relations established formally: 5 per 
year, 
at least.
1.3.
Trial shipments completed and evaluated: 5-10 per year.
1.4.
Trade shows participations with impact on export development. 
1.5.
Research contracts on new product development effective. 
1.6.
Number of standardized products. 
Page  15
1.7.
Preparation of export guidelines and newsletters.
2.1.
Members of producers/exporters organizations using services of packaging 
centers. 
2.2.
Members producers/exporters organizations attending Project training and using 
its services. 
2.3.
Central data information referral established.
3.1.
Packaging centers operation (1-2) and their services used. 
3.2.
Improved airport storage capacity (refrigerated storage, outside sheds).
