Dosum.ut of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4515-EC
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF TIE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$80.0 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
FOR THE
EMERGENCY PETROLEUM RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
April 24, 1987
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Worid Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Sucre (S/.)
S/. 1.00     =  0.0067 US$
US$ 1.00     =  150 SI.
The US Dollar/Sucre exchange rate has been floating since
August 1987.  Conversions in the Memorandum of the President
were made at the US$1.00   S/. 150 which represents the
average exchange rate at the time of the appraisal.
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
B/D                 Barrels Per Day
CAF                 Corporacion Andina de Fomento
(Andean Development Corporation)
CEPE                Corporacion Estatal Petrolera Ecuatoriana
(National Oil Company)
IDB                 Inter-American Development Bank
LPG                 Liquefied Petroleum Gas
MOP                 Ministry of Public Works
USAID               United States Agency for International Development



FOR OmCA USE ONLY
ECUADOR
EMERWRNCY PETROLEUm RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                     Republic of Ecuador
Beneficiary:                  Corporacion Estatal Petrolera Ecuatoriana
(CEPE)
Amount:                       US$80.0 million equivalent
Terms:                        Seventeen years, including four years grace,
at the standard variable interest rate.
On-Lending Terms:             US$79.7 million would be channeled to CEPE
as an equity contribution; the remaining
US$0.3 million would help finance an emergency
preparedness study.
Financing Plan:               Local resources      US$10.2 million
CAF                 US$11.7 million
IBRD                US$80.0 million
Total               US$101.9 million
Economic Rate of Return:      Over 100%
Staff Appraisal Report:       None
Thidocumenthas a restricted distribution and may be used by rcipients only in the perfonnance
of their dkiofdutie Its contents may not othbrwise be dWscid without Wodd Bank authoduion.



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL  1ANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AtNl DEVELOPIDNT
TO THE EXECUIIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOW  TO
TEE REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR FOR THE
EMRGENCY PETROLEUM RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
1.        The following report and recommendation on a proposed loan to
Ecuador for US$80.0 million equivalent is submitted for approval in
response to a request for emergency assistance by the Government of Ecuador
within the context of its earthquake reconstruction program. The proposed
loan would have a term of 17 years, including four years grace, at the
standard variable interest rate, and help finance the reconstruction of the
Trans-Ecuadorian Pipeline urgently required to restore oil production and
exports. The Government of Ecuador would channel US$79.7 million of its
loan to the Corporacion Estatal Petrolera Ecuatoriana (CEPE) as an equity
contribution, and would use US$0.3 million for the execution of an
emergency preparedness study.
2.        Background.  On March 5 and 6, 1987, the remote oil-producing
north-eastern region of Ecuador was hit by two major earthquakes,
accompanied by destructive landslides. The earthquakes resulted in a death
toll of qt least 1,000, left about 16,000 persons homeless, and destroyed
rural infrastructure. The major economic cost to Ecuador is undoubtedly
the interruption of oil production and exports which resulted from damage
to major sections of the Trans-Ecuadorian crude oil and LPG pipelines, and
the impact of this on the economy, given the fact that the petroleum sector
accounted for 15 percent of GDP and about half of all exports in 1986. The
cost of restoring oil exports, through rebuilding the damaged pipeline
system, construction of a connection to the TrRns-Andean pipeline through
Colombia (with Mexican assistance), and related works is estimated at
US$117 million. Road and bridge infrastructure damage is estimated at
US$20 million. Damage to agriculture, housing, health and urban services,
while substantial, would have been worse had it not been for the low
population densities and limited productivity of the affected areas. By
contrast, foregone oil revenues, until the end of July 1987, are valued at
about US$600 million, and the multiplier effect of reduced exports,
decreased public expenditure and restricted domestic oil consumption is
likely to be substantial. All in all, a conservative estimate of the
overall damage would be about US$1.0 billion, equivalent to about R percent
of GDP. When combined with loss of export revenues equivalent to 8 percent
of GDP associated with the 1986 oil price decline, these adverse exogenous
developments are creating an extremely difficult economic situation for the
country.
3.        Reconstruction Program.  From an economic perspective, the
Government reconstruction program gives top priority to the immediate
restoration of oil production and exports. However, the Government is
also engaged in plans to resettle refugees, to minimize the effects of the
events on indigenous peoples, to rebuild the housing stock and to
reconstruct basic services. Substantial bilateral and private assistance
has been mobilized in these areas. In addition, the Bank is preparing to
reformulate the ongoing National Low-Income Housing Loan (Ln. 2135-EC) to
assist in housing reconstruction. Attention is also being given to the
restoration of communications through reconstruction of the road which



- 2 -
parallels the pipeline, and the construction oi additional road links to
the affected communities, with USAID, IDB and self-help assistance.
Present plans to deal with the direct environmental impact of crude oil
spilled when the pipeline was destroyed provide for clean-up and subsequent
monitoring of water quality in the adjacent river systems. In addition, an
environmental impact study of the earthquake, including a review of its
impact ori ind:genous peoples, is being carried out with USAID funding.
4.        Prior to the disaster, Ecuador was producing about 280,000
barrels of crude oil per day (of which 120,000 equivalent were for domestic
use) equivalent to an annual production rate of 102 million barrels.
Ecuador currently plans to produce 66 million barrels in 1987, a shortfall
of 36 million barrels, valued at about US$600 million at current world
prices.1/ Government plans assume a 30-percent drop in domestic energy
use. This would be achieved through rationing of supplies to wholesalers
or consumers. Demand management is also benefitting from the recently-
announced increases in domestic oil product prices which have brought the
price of gasoline to international levels and that of the composite barrel
of oil products consumed to 75 percent of international levels. This will
help curb consumption and smuggling to Colombia and Peru, as well as
generate an estimated US$120 million in additional fiscal revenues in 1987.
5.        In addition to the measures being taken in the petroleum sector,
macro-economic measures being planned to mitigate the effects of the
earthquake on the economy include a five-percent reduction in public sector
expenditures (including reductions in the investment program), and a
restriction on imports by public sector agencies. The decline in oil
production in 1987 is expected to lead to a small reduction in real GDP.
In spite of these difficult economic circumstances, the Government is
determined to maintain the economic policy reforms, aimed at liberalizing
the Ecuadorian economy, instituted over the last two years.
6.        Project Objectives.  The primary objective of the proposed
project would be to restore urgently oil production and export flows. In
addition, the project would help (i) minimize the environmental impact of
the disaster and related reconstruction programs; (ii) enhance CEPE's
capacity to deal with the crisis and its aftermath; and (iii) enhance the
Government's preparedness to deal with future national emergencies.
7.        Project Descriptione  The proposed project would consist of: (i)
equipment and civil works related to the reconstruction of the
Trans-Ecuadorian crude oil and LPG pipelines, including repair and
reconditioning of related pumping and loading installations, and clean-up
of oil spills caused by the earthquake; (ii) well-workovers and
rehabilitation/maintenance works required to avoid long-term damage to the
oil fields due to the interruption of production; (iii) oil field
development to boost oil extraction to a level of about 320,000 B/D by
1/ This is a rough estimate of the opportunity cost. It ignores increased
transportation and processing costs, and the incremental LPG import
costs related to the reduced output of the Ecuadorian refinery.
A recent Venezuelan protocol agreement to swap 12.5 million barrels of
crude oil is to be repaid in crude, barrel for barrel, over a 7-month
period. An arrangement with Nigeria for 1.5 million barrels of crude
oil is presently being negotiated.



- 3 -
end-1987 in order to recoup lost production; and (iv) technical assistance,
including engineering, management and inspection services, and consultants
to prepare a plan for the management of future national emergencies. The
Government would be the Borrower and US$79.7 million of the loan proceeds
would be passed to CEPE as equity to help strengthen its finances. The
remaining US$0.3 million would be used by the Government to carry out the
emergency preparedness study.
8.        Reconstruction of the crude oil and LPG lines and related works
would be implemented by Texaco (operator of the CEPE-Texaco Consortium)2/
and would be completed by August 15 and September 1, 1987, respectivelyi3/
Oilfield work would be carried out by the Consortium and CEPE in their
respective production areas over a period of about 9 months. The total
project cost is estimated at US$101.9 million, with a foreign exchange
component of US$57.0 million (56 percent). A breakdown of costs and the
financing plan are shown in Schedule A. The Corporacion Andina de Fomento
(CAF) would provide US$11.7 million in co-financing to be assigned to items
procured in the early phase of the reconstruction. The CAF loan would be
for 13 years, including 3 of grace, at a variable interest rate (currently
8.25 percent p.a.).    Given the urgency of the project, the Bank loan
would provide for US$20 million (25 percent of loan amount) in retroactive
financing, and streamlined procurement procedures are being used to
combine speed of execution with economy and efficiency in acquisition of
goods and services. These procedures involve presentation of at least
three quotations from qualified suppliers/contractors, under procedures
acceptable to the Bank. The main pipeline construction contract, currently
being negotiated, was bid using these procedures. Amounts and methods of
procurement and of disbursement, and the disbursement schedule are shown in
Schedule B. A timetable of key project processing events and the status of
Bank Group operations in Ecuador are given in Schedules C and D,
respectively. A map and Technical Annex are also attached.
9.        Rationale for Bank Involvement.  The Bank's strategy in Ecuador
has been to support major structural reforms aimed at creating a more open
economy, and to support the expansion of essential productive activities
and social and physical infrastructure. Given the key role which the
petroleum sector plays in the economy, the benefits of this program will
not be realizable until petroleum production and exports are fully
resumed. Rapid Bank response to the disaster would provide not only
urgently needed financing in the wake of the sudden curtailment of
Ecuador's most important source of revenues, but would also provide
assistance to ensure that the reconstruction is carried out in a quick yet
orderly fashion.
10.       Agreed Actions.  CEPE and the Ministry of Public Works have
signed an agreement to coordinate pipeline and road works in the project
2/ Owned 62.5 percent by CEPE and 37.5 percent by Texaco; it accounts for
84 percent of the country's oil production. The pipeline is wholly
owned by CEPE (but operated by Texaco).
3/ Texaco's ultimate parent company, Texaco, Inc., entered into Chapter 11
proceedings under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code on April 12, 1987. The Bank
has been informed by CEPE and Texaco that, as of this date, none of
Texaco's subsidiaries involved in Ecuador are directly affected by the
proceedings. The legal documentation for the loan includes pertinent
safeguards.



- 4 -
area. Moreover, CEPE has selected (and is moving expeditiously to hire)
external auditors and consultants to assist it in the monitoring of project
execution and cost control. At negotiations, the Government confirmed its
agreement with. the following actions: (i) by June 30, 1987, to prepare and
agree with the Bank on a plan of action to take into account, as appropriate,
the conclusions of an ongoing review of the environmental impact of the
disaster, and carry out that action plan, and by November 30, 1987 to review
its implementaion with the Bank; (ii) to monitor water quality in the
affected areas; and (iii) by June 30, 1987 to prepare a plan of action for
earthquake victims (including resettlement), to carry out that program, and
by November 30, 1987 to review its implementation with the Bank. CEPE also
confirmed its agreement with the following: (i) to take acrions required to
clean up oil spilled during the earthquake; (ii) by September 30, 1987, to
complete, jointly with the Government, a study to assess the full impact of
the disaster on CEPE's finances, prepare and agree with the Bank on a plan of
action to improve them, and by November 30, 1987 to review its implementation
with the Bank; (iii) by July 1, 1987 to hire consultants to carry out an
Emergency Preparedness Study; (iv) by November 30, 1987, to have a study of
its future insurance needs related to the pipeline carried out by specialized
consultants; and (v) to provide monthly project progress reports to the Bank.
11.       Justification.  Economic benefits under the project are the
value-added from oil production which, without the reconstruction, could not
be exported or consumed locally. The project would have a pay-back period of
about one month, and an internal economic rate of return of well over 100
percent. Because of the area's unfavorable geology and climate, the rough
and unstable terrain, and steep slopes and erosion suffered along the damaged
stretches of the pipeline, a detailed review of alternative alignments for
pipeline reconstruction was made. It concluded that of three possible
alternative routes to the existing one, all would incur higher construction
costs and longer completion times, but only one would significantly reduce
seismic and geologic risks. That alternative would, however, require at
least an additional 13 months to construct, and therefore is not a practical
option for immediate pipeline reconstruction. Nevertheless, CEPE would carry
out an economic and technical analysis of the feasibility of building a
back-up pipeline along that route, to act as insurance against similar
disasters ia the future. This study would include an analysis of the causes
of, and circumstances surrounding, the damage to the pipeline, and would be
financed partly from an ongoing Project Preparation Facility and partly under
the proposed project.
12.       Risks.  The main risks include time and cost overruns which could
result from challenging terrain conditions, and inadequate management and
cost control. Texaco's experience in operating the pipeline, combined with
the special project monitoring assistance to be provided to CEPE, will
minimize these risks. Close Bank supervision will also be provided.
13.       Recommendation.  I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed loan.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
April 24, 1987



Schedule A
ECUADOR
EMERCKNCtY PETOLEUM RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Estimated Costs and Financing Plan
Estimated Costs                                 Local    Foreign   TOTAL
~~~~~~~~~~--(US*  million) ~~
(a)  Pipeline Reconstruction
(i)    pipeline constr. (incl. clean-up)   15.3        8.5      23.8
(ii)   pipe (26")                             -        4.1       4.1
(iii)  pipe (10")                             -        0.3       0.3
(ivl  other materials                        4.8        1.0      5.8
(v)    bridges                               0.4       5.1       5.5
(vi)   telecommunication                     0.3       1.6       1.9
(vii)  Balao terminal                        1.2       2.8       4.0
(viii) air logistics                         3.2       0.8       4.0
Subtotal                           25.2      24.2     49.4
(b)  Maintenance and rehabilitation of
Consortium fields (CEPE's share)
(ii    drilling, work over & well services  2.4        7.5       9.0
(ii)   equipment and others                  1.4        1.1      2.5
Subtotal                          :g        YX      1F.T
(c) Aecelerat. devetop. of CEPE's fields
TTj- drilling, well service & marinten.    1.8         7.4       9.2
(ii)   equipment and vehicles                4.6       7.4      12.0
Subtotal                          6.4      Ib75     M177
(d)  Technical Assistance
li)    engineering and Mgt (Texaco)          0.3       0.6       0.9
(ii)   monitorin; and inspection             0.1       0.2       0.3
(iii)  CEPE studies                          0.1       0.1       0.2
(iv)   emergency prep. study                 0.1       0.1       0.2
Subtotal                          0.6       1.0      1.1
Base Costs                           36.0      48.6     84.6
Physical Contingencies/               8.6       8.4      17.3
Total Costs                  44.9      57.0    101.9
1/ 35 percent for pipeline construction, 25 percent for other pipeline
items (exept 26" pipe) and technical assistance, and 10 percent for
oil field development and rehabilitation components.
Financing Plan                             Local    Foreign   TOTAL
-- (US$ million) -----
Government ICEPE                            10.2         -      10.2
CAF                                           -        11.7     11.7
IBRD                                        34.7      45.3      80.0
TOTAL                                     44.9       57.0    101.9



-6-
Schedule B
ECUADOR
I_GtC Y PETOLBEM  RCONSTRUCTION PROJECT
A. Procurement
Project Element                          Procurement Methods             Total Cost
L.I.B. Int'l   L.C.B. Local   Other
Shopping       S Shopping
1. Pipeline Construction                  32.1                               32.1
(22.5)                             (22.5)
2. Other civil works and                   5.7    4.0                         9.7
logistics                           (4.7)  (4.0)                       (8.7)
3. Pipe                           4.4                                         4.4
4. Other pipeline - related       12.4     3.0            1.5                16.9
materials & equipment       (10.3)   (3.0)           (1.5)              (14.8)
5. Oi' field works               17.5             5.0                        22.5
(14.5)          (5.0)                      (19.5)
6. Oil field  equip. & mat.       14.3                                       14.3
(12.5)                                     (12.5)
7. Project mgt. & monitoring                                      1.4         1.4
(1.4)      (1.4)
8. Studies                                                        0.6         0.6
(0.6)      (0.6)
TOTAL                        49.6    40.8    8.0    1.5       2.0       101.9
(38.3)  (30.2)  (8.0)  (1.5)   (2.0)       (80.0)
LIB: Limited International Bidding.
LCB: Local Competitive Bidding.
Figures in parenthesis are amounts to be financed by IBRD Loan.
B. Proposed Disbursements by Cacegory
Category                                 Amount             Percentage
(US$5=on)
Pipeline construction                     22.5            70% of expenditures
Other pipeline-related civil works         8.7           100X of expenditures
Pipeline equipment and materials          14.8  )        100% of foreign expenditures
Oilfield equipment and materials          12.5  )          and 75% of local expenditures
Oilfield works                            19.5           100Z of expenditures
Technical assistance                       2.0           100I of expenditures
TOTAL                               8o.0
C. Estimated Bank Disbursements
Bank FY                 87                  88
---- US$ million 
Annual                             22.1               57.9
Cumulative                        22.1                80.0



-7-
Schedule C
ECUADOR
EMERGENCY PETOLEUM RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Timetable of Key Processing Events
(a)   Time taken to prepare:                      Two weeks
(b)   Prepared by:                                Government and CEPE with
Bank assistance
(c)   First Bank mission and Appraisal
Mission Departure:                          March 11, 1987
(d)   Negotiations:                               April 13, 1987
(e)   Planned Date of Effectiveness:              May 29, 1987



-8-
Schedule D
Page 1 of 2
ECUADOR
E4ERGENCY PETROLEUM RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ECUADOR
A.  STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1987)
--- US$ million---
Amount
Loan or                                                  (less cancellations)
Credit    Fiscal
H4umber    Year    Borrower    Purpose                  Bank   IDA  Undisbursed
22 loans and 6 credits fully disbursed                  277.3  37.5      -
1429      1977     Ecuador      Highways                 14.3   -       0.3
1644      1978      Ecuador     Rural Development        18.0   -       10.1
1776      1980     Ecuador      Guayaquil Urban
Development            31.0   -        9.3
1882      1q80     Ecuador      Highways                 55.0   -      27.3
1991      1981     Ecuador      Rural Development        16.9   -      13.3
2044      1982      Ecuador     Rural Development        16.1   -       12,7
2096      1982      Ecuador     DFC                      60.0   -       0.9
2135      1982      Ecuador     Housing                  35.7   -       16.8
2171      1982      Ecuador     Education                16.0   -       12.5
2221      1983      Ecuador     Small Scale Enter-
prise Credit           40.6   -        2.8
2516      1985      Ecuador     Public Sector
Management              6.0   -        5.9
2626      1986      Ecuador     Agriculture Sector    100.0   -        33.1
2672      1986      Ecuador     Industrial Finance    115.0   -        49.9
2673      1986      Ecuador     Third Small-Scale
Enterprise Credit      30.0   -       20.0
2713      1986      Ecuador     Power Sector
Improvement 1/          8.5   -        8.5
2752      1987      Ecuador     Agriculture Credit 2/  48.0   -        48.0
2774      1987      EMAP-G      Guayaquil1/
Water Sup. II          31.0   -       31.0
Total                                      919.4  37.5
of which has been repaid                 208.2   3.4
Total now outstanding                      711.2  34.1
Amount sold                      3.2
of which has been repaid      3.2          -     -
Total now held by Bank and IDA             711.2  34.1
Total undisbursed                                         302.4
1/ Not yet signed.
2/ Not yet effective.



-9-
Schedule D
Page 2 of 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1987)
Type of      (amount in US$ million)
Fiscal Year                                 Business    Loan    Euity    Total
1966 & 1972   La Internacional, S.A.        Textiles      3.7      0.2       3.9
1969, 1973,   Compania Financiera
1975 & 1977   Ecuatoriana de Desarrollo
1981, 1982      S.A. (COFIEC)               DFC           -        0.5       0.5
1976           Sociedad Agricola e Indus-
trial San Carlos, S.A.    Sugar Mill   5.0         -         5.0
1978, 1980,
1982, 1983,
1984          Cemento Nacional (CEM)        Cement       12.0      1.0      13.0
1980          Adamas Andina. S.A. 11       Pulp and
Paper        3.3      1.0       4.3
1981           Compania Minera Toachi,
S.A.                       Mining         1.0      0.3       1.3
Total gross commitments                   25,0      3.0      28.0
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                     22.7      1.6      24.3
Total commitments now held by IFC          2.3       1.4      3.7
Total undisbursed                          -          _
1/ Cancelled by letter of April 26, 1982



I1-      V: i
0~ z
p.4
C,.' ~Ee
ci)



- 11 -
TECHNICAL ANNEX
ECUADOR
EM EGENCY PETROLEUM RRECONSTRUCTIO PROJECT
A. TUE               ANRT   aD THEIR AFTERM
Earthquake Impact
1.       Two major earthquakes, each registering about 7 (as) on the Richter
Scale, struck the remote oil-producing north-eastern part of Ecuador on
March 5, 1987. A third earthquake, rating 5.5 (ms) on the Richter Scale,
hit on March 6, 1987. The epicenters of the earthquakes were close to the
volcano E1 Reventador, on the eastern slopes of the Andes, overlooking the
Amazonian Basin about 80 km northeast of Quito (Map IBRD 20415). Unstable
slopes and riverbeds, rugged terrain and sparse populations characterize the
affected region, which is populated by a mixture of indigenous peoples and
settlers. Most of the damage was caused by massive landslides and mud flows
triggered by the earthquakes, following a period of unusually heavy rain.
In all, the earthquake and attendant landslides left about 1,000 people dead
and 16,000 homeless, mostly located in the mountainous areas north-west of
the epicenter; of these, about 2,000 will need to be resettled in other
areas (para. 7). In addition, about 10,000 persons (both indigenous people
and recent settlers) living in river basin areas of the eastern slopes have
been affected. Given the severity of the earthquakes, it is fortunate that
they hit an area of relatively low population densities. On the other hand,
from an economic perspective, the consequences of the earthquake are severe
since the lifeline of Ecuador's energy economy, the Trans-Ecuadorian oil
pipeline and its related facilities were seriously damaged. All of
Ecuador's crude oil flows through this system, and the destruction of this
vital infrastructure resulted in a cessation of petroleum production and
exports. This is a calamity for an economy in which petroleum accounts for
15 percent of GDP and about half of exports.
Physical Dmage
2.       The petroleum sector was the most severely affected, with the
direct cost of reinitiating oil production tentatively estimated at about
US$117 million (see para. 22; estimates contain an unusually high level of
contingencies). Damage to the transport sector has also been important,
resulting in a cut-off of communIcation to the Amazonian province of Napo.
The only existing land connection between Quito and the Amazonian oil
fields--the 160 km Baeza-Lago Agrio road-was heavily damaged by the
landslides and flooding. The 30 km between the Salado and Reventador rivers
suffered the most severe damage, with 16 km completely washed out or covered
by mudt and 14 km seriously damaged. The two adjacent 15 km sections to the
north and south suffered major interruptions due to local slides.
Two major bridges, each 150 m long, and 6 minor bridges collapsed.



- 12 -
The reconstruction cost of this road has been estimated at US$7.4 million.
To provide an additional land connection to the oil region, a missing 25 km
section of the Hollin-Loreto-Coca road is expected to be built with
Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) and United States assistance.  The
cost to complete this road connection, including 12 bridges, is estimated at
US$4.3 million. In addition, many rural roads in the mountainous regions
affected by the earthquakes are reported to have suffered heavy damage, and
will be reconstructed, again with IDB support as well as self-help.
3.       Total damage to housing is tentatively estimated at US$13
million. About 2,000 urban houses were destroyed or damaged, and about
8,700 houses in rural areas were affected.  Health service infrastructure,
schools, historical and religious buildings, and water supply and sewerage
systems were also damaged. In stmmary, current estimates of total direct
physical damage (excluding pipelines) from the earthquake are in the order
of US$250 million. This does not include physical damage to forestry and
agriculture, but that is not considered to be large given the limited value
of physical assets in, and the low productivity of, the area. On the other
hand, agricultural and forestry activities have been severely disrupted by
the disaster, not only due to the human toll but also by the lack of trans-
portation, which has restricted shipment of naranjilla, cocoa, coffee, palm
oil and wood products, as well as traditional crops. Pump-priming
activities at the grass-roots level (including emergency credit
arrangements), temporary bridges, and rehabilitation assistance are the
focus of government actions. Private and international emergency assistance
is also being deployed to revive the regional economy.
Impact on the Petroleum Sector and the Sconomy
4.       While the direct physical damage is substantial, the indirect
impact of the earthquakes on the economy and society is potentially much
more severe. Total oil production in 1987 is expected to reach only
66 million barrels, 49 million barrels less than Ecuador's production
capacity and 36 million barrels less than its 1986 production. The
reduction in oil output, as compared to its 1986 level, is valued at US$600
million at current world prices (5 percent of GDP). These figures assume
that Ecuador would be able to resume partial oil production on May 8, 1987
thanks to the planned construction of a pipeline link to the Colombian
network (para. 9).
5.       This 30 percent decline in oil sector output coupled with indirect
repercussions from reduced public expenditures, oil rationing and transport
disruptions, is expected to be a severe blow to the economy. On the other
hand, the non-oil sectors of the economy are expected to retain their
buoyancy. On balance, despite the mitigating income generation impact of
the reconstruction efforts, it is likely that GDP will decline somewhat
during 1987. The challenge facing the Government is to maintain the direc-
tion of its economic policy, combining adjustment with growth and diversi-
fication. The direct damage, together aith the loss in foreign exchange
revenues from reduced oil exports, and the multiplier effects of reduced oil
production and public expenditures, is expected to exceed US$1 billion
(8 percent of GDP).



- 13 -
tavirosmental and Social Impact
6.       Some 140,000 barrels (i.e. about 17,000 tons) of crude oil were
released into the Coca rivtr as a result of the destruction of the
Trans-Ecuadorian pipeline. / In addition, about 5,000 barrels of crude oil
were spilled from a damaged storage tank in the Salado pumping station, into
the river and the area immediately adjacent to the station. It appears that
the force of the wave of water and mud carried by the river was sj powerful
that most of the oil quickly moved downstream into the Rio Napo.-   As a
result only small and localized oil spills can be observed in the area of
the damage, essentially in stagnant waters on the river banks, with tree
trunks serving as natural boom systems. Clean up of oil spills in river
banks and near the Salado station will be undertaken as part of the pipeline
reconstruction work (see para. 21), in accordance with acceptable
environmental standards (i.e. through disposal of polluted soils and waters
in landforms), and is not expected to pose any problem. Monitoring of river
and well water quality in the area would also be carried out by the Ministry
of Energy and Mines. Secondary effects of the oil spills are, however, not
yet known, and would be researched as part of an environmental impact
assessment of the disaster which a local environmental group, Fundacion
Natura, is carrying out under USAID funding. Under the project, the
Government has agreed to prepare and agree with the Bank by June 30, 1987,
on an action plan, based on the recommendations of that study as appropriate
to address the environmental impact of the disaster. In addition appropri-
ate construction techniques and soil stabilization safeguards would be used
so as to minimize soil erosion in the area of the reconstructed pipeline.
7.       Three types of populations groups, each with their own distinct
needs, were affected by the earthquakes. In the highlands north-west of the
epicenter, indigenous and mestizo communities, who derive their income from
agriculture, will mainly require housing reconstruction assistance.
Bilateral assistance as well as assistance from private voluntary groups is
being mobilized in this area. The Bank is also considering reformulation of
an ongoing housing loan (2135-EC) to assist in housing needs. The situation
in the sparsely populated Amazonian river basins east of the epicenter is
more complex, with two groups affected, indigenous pnnulations and recent
settlers. The number of indigenous people affected and the impact of the
earthquake on them is not well known, due to the lack of census.
Preliminary indications are that they have been affected by the river
siltation and some oil pollution which has affected water quality and
fishstock in some rivers, and by loss of canoes and out-board motors, the
mainstays of their river-based economies. A number of private voluntary
organizations are assisting in programs to ensure that these communities are
protected, with suitable assistance strategies adopted to protect their
natural habitat. In this case, assistance in-situ rather than resettlement
is indicated. The third group of about 300 families of recent settlers who
1/ The protection system for loss of pressure was activated by the breakage
and only the oil contained in the pipe between block valves was spilled.
2/ It is estimated that the wall of mud and water, about 7 meters high, moved
at about 20-30 km/h and carried about 40 million tons of debris.



- 14 -
were displaced by the landslidest will also require special assistance
program. This group lost, through the effects of the flooding on the river
banks, their arable land and means of livelihood, and will require
resettlement to less risky areas without abridging local indigenous
communities. During negotiations, the Government has agreed to prepare by
June 30, 1987, and carry out an acceptable plan for assistance to displaced
persons (including resettlement), which would minimize the impact of the
settlers on the fragile Amazonian environment while providing sustainable
economic opportunities for them.
Government-Response
8.   -   After concentrating its initial efforts on post-disaster rescue and
relief operations, the Government is now preparing plans to resettle
refugees and to reconstruct urban and rural housing and basic infrastruc-
ture. A high-level (Cabinet rank) Inter-institutional Coordinator has been
appointed to oversee and coordinate external aid (para. 12). On March 17,
the Government established the Center for National Emergency operations
(COEN) to oversee emergency reconstruction implementation. Implementation
responsibility wilt remain with the line agencies and public entities under
whose jurisdiction the affected sectors normally fall. To facilitate quick
and effective implementation of the reconstruction program, a Presidential
Decree was issued which allows for greater flexibility in procurement and
contracting procedures. In this context, top priority is being given to the
Ministry of Energy and Mines' program of petroleum infrastructure
reconstruction aimed at prompt resumption and acceleration of oil production
and exports.
9.       The Government has taken a number of steps to mitigate the impact
of the earthquake on the energy sector. First, an oil-swap agreement has
been reached with Venezuela whereby Venezuela provides Ecuador, starting
mid-March, with 5 million barrels of crude oil for utilization in Ecuadorian
refineries (at a rate of about 65,000 B/D) and 7.5 million barrels of oil
for exports to Ecuador's main customers (at a rate of about 50,000 B/D).
These quantities would be reimbursed in kind by Ecuador as soon as oil
production is reinstated, in 6 and 7 months respectively. More recently a
similar swap agreement was reached with Nigeria for 1.5 million barrels to
be delivered at the rate of 10,000 BD starting April 1, and to be repaid in
4 months. Second, Ecuador and Colombia have agreed to connect the Oriente
fields with the Trans-Andean (Colombian) pipeline system through the
construction of 37 km of 10"/12" pipeline (31 km in Ecuador to be financed
under Mexican export credits, and 6 km in Colombia to be financed by
ECOPETROL, the Colombian national oil company); this will enable Ecuador to
transfer 50,000 B/D of crude oil to the Esmeraldas refinery by sea, starting
May 8, 1987. Third, CEPE is accelerating the development of its oil fields
so as to allow for an increase in the country's total production to about
320,000 B/D to make up for lost production. Fourth, the Government raised
domestic petroLeum prices, by 56 percent on average, raising these from
about 50 percent to 75 percent of opportunity cost (international price plus
domestic transportation and distribution). Gasoline prices are now slightly
above international prices. This will help dampen domestic demand, cut down
on smuggling and raise about US$120 million in additional public revenues in
1987. In addition to the price increases, fuel is being rationed. In all,



- 15 -
the Government expects that domestic consumption will be reduced oy
30 percent.
10.      Complementary macro-economic measures have also been initiated.
A 5 percent decline in public expenditures has been set as a target, to be
achieved through freezing government salaries and by reducing investment
expenditures, and by restricting imports by public sector agencies.
Continued restraint in monetary policy, maintenance of a floating exchange
rate and continued liberalization of financial sector policies are expected.
11.      In the aftermath of the disaster, the need to evaluate the response
of Ministries and institutions with overlapping jurisdictions became
evident. Even though there is a National Security Law which provides the
outline for emergency response, regulations for implementation of the Law
have not been promulgated. Under the project, a study of the Government's
response to the disaster, and recommendations for improving emergency
preparedness, would be carried out by the National Security Council
(para. 21). The Government has agreed to hire coiisultants for that purpose
by July 1, 1987.
Mobilization of External Resources and Aid Coordination
12.      The Government has initiated a series of meetings with potential
donors to mobilize external assistance. Besides supplies and food received
to assist in immediate relief efforts, firm commitments to date total US$4
million, destined mainly for housing and rural infrastructure reconstruc-
tion. In addition to the proposed Bank loan, other assistance under
consideration includes reallocation of funds under an existing Bank housing
loan (para. 7); reallocation of IDB Loans for road reconstruction and
education (US$20 million); Corporacion Andina de Fomento loans for pipeline
reconstruction (US$11.7 million); and U.S. provision of temporary bridges.
Bank Response
13.      A Bank damage assessment mission, which included experts in
pipeline construction, geology, and the environment, visited Ecuador five
days after the earthquake. The mission appraised the proposed project.
A housing mission visited Ecuador April 7 to 14 to determine the necessity
and scope of reallocation of Loan 2135-EC, and to assist in development of a
coherent plan of assistance to displaced persons (para. 7). The Bank is
also reviewing its country assistance strategy, and is assessing whether
other projects could be reformulated in light of changing Government
priorities.
14.      Soon after the earthquake, informal meetings between Bank staff,
USAID, IDB and the United Nations Development Program were held in
Washington at the Bank's initiative to coordinate reconstruction
assistance. It was decided at that time, and later ratified by the
Government, that IDB would take the lead in road reconstruction efforts and
the Bank in pipeline reconstruction works. The Bank is continuing to
closely coordinate its efforts with other donors.



- 16 -
B. THE PROJECT
Sectoral Background
15.      Since oil production started on a major scale in 1972, the economy
of Ecuador has depended to a large extent on its oil industry, which in 1986
contributed about 15 percent of GDP and 45 percent of total merchandise
exports. Oil reserves are currently estimated at about 1.8 billion barrels,
mostly concentrated in the eastern part of the country (Oriente). Fields
operated by the national oil company (CEPE) produced about 15 million
barrels in 1985, i,e., 14 percent of the country's produy ion whereas fields
owned by the CEPE-Texaco Consortium (operated by Texaco) , produced 86
million barrels (84 percent). Total production was averaging about
280,000 BD in early 1987. The Government has been successfully promoting
exploration by foreign oil companies: 12 exploration/production contracts
have been signed since 1984, and exploration drilling has already started on
several blocks, with encouraging results. The petroleum sector is thus
expected to maintain a predominant role in Ecuador's economy for the
foreseeable future.
The Pipelines
16.      The Trans-Ecuadorian 26" pipeline (total length of 502 km), was
built in 1972 by Texaco-Gulf to transport crude oil from newly discovered
oil fields in the Oriente (Lago Agrio) to the port of Esmeraldas. Its
capacity was recently expanded to 300,000 BD in 1985. The Shushufindi-Quito
6" LPG pipeline, which follows the same route, was built by CEPE in 1981 to
transport the LPG produced in its Shushufindi gas plant. The Trans-
Ecuadorian crude line was owned jointly (50/50) by CEPE and Texaco, and
operated by Texaco, until March 1986 when it became sole property of CEPE
under the terms of the original contract. Texaco, however, remained
entrusted with the operation and maintenance of the line under a special
agreement with CEPE. In 1985, 102 million barrels of oil, or 99.6 percent
of the country's production, was transported via the Trans-Ecuadorian
pipeline.
Earthquake Damage to Petroleum Infrastructure
17.      The unusually heavy rains that were experienced in the region of
Rio Coca (see map) during February 1987 affected soil stability and had
already caused some damage to a pipeline bridge when the earthquake struck
on March 5, 1987 causing enormous landslides and floods which (i) wiped out
or heavily damaged a 33 km section of the crude line and approximately 45 km
of the LPG line between Salado and Lumbaqui (where the lines were laid on
very steep mountain slopes), (ii) destroyed five bridges and 30 km of the
road running alongside the pipeline, and (iii) damaged the Salado pumping
station and storage tanks. As a result, oil production in the Oriente was
brought to a halt and land communication with the Eastern Region rendered
impossible.
1/ Owned 62.5 percent by CEPE and 37.5 percent by TEXACO.



- 17 -
Reconstruction Design Alternatives
18.      Because of the area's unfavorable geology and seismicity, and the
rough and unstable terrain conditions along the damaged stretches of the
pipelines, Texaco carried out a detailed analysis of four possible
alignments for the reconstruction of the lines, one following substantially
the original route close to the Coca river bed, two others following the
upper mountain ridges on either side of the valley, and the last one
involving a substantial detour to the South through flatter terrain.
The three alternate routes would require the building of additional pumping
capacity, meaning increases not only in construction cost but, above all, in
completion time (and therefore in lost oil production). Only one of these
(the latter) would significantly reduce seismic and geological risk, but
would increase costs by as much as US$70 million and completion time by at
least 13 months. Texaco therefore recommended that, in view of the urgent
need to reinstate oil production, immediate reconstruction of the lines
follow the original alignment, but that concurrently a study be undertaken
to assess in detail the technical/economic feasibility of building another
line along the fourth route as a long-term back-up option. The scope of the
forthcoming Trans-Ecuadorian pipeline expansion study, to be financed under
an ongoing Project Preparation Facility advance would be revised
accordingly. It would also include an analysis of the causes of, and
circumstances surrounding, the damage to the pipeline, and of measures that
can be taken to avoid a recurrence. In order to minimize the risk of future
damage from landslides and flooding, the reconstructed lines will also be
buried one to two meters deep and river crossings will be rebuilt
underground. A pipeline construction expert hired by the Bank concurred
with this approach.
Project Objectives
19.      The objectives of the proposed Project are:  (i)  to reinstate
crude oil production and exports in the shortest possible time so as to
minimize the cost of interrupted oil production to the economy (ii) to avoid
potential long-term damage to the oil fields due to the expected 4-5 month
interruption in production by undertaking necessary oil field maintenance
and reaccivation requirements; (iii) to enable the country to boost oil
extraction to a level of about 320,000 BD as soon as possible after the
pipeline is back in operation in order to make up for lost production;
(iv) to minimize the environmental impact of the disaster; and (v) to
enhance the Government's capability to deal with future emergencies.
Project Scope
20.      The project would consist of four main components:  (i) investments
directly related to the reconstruction of the Trans-Ecuadorian pipeline and
related installations; (ii) investments required to maintain oil field
facilities; (iii) investments in oil field development necessary to increase
oil extraction; and (iv) technical assistance.



- 18 -
Detailed Features
21.      The detailed features of the project are as follows:
(a) The Trans-Ecuadorian Pipeline Component would include:
(i)     replacement/repair of 33 km of the 26" crude line
between Salado and Lumbaqui;
(ii)    replacement of a 44 km stretch of the 6" LPG line;
(iii)   replacement of a 1.5 km stretch of the production line
between Bermejo and Lwmbaqui;
(iv)    reconstruction of two major bridges and three minor
ones;
(v)     repair of the Salado pumping station;
(vi)    repair of pipeline telecommunications facilities;
(vii)   reconditioning of the Balao maritime terminal; and
(viii)  clean-up of remaining oil spills.
(b) The Maintenance and Rehabilitation of the CEPE-Texaco
Consortium Fields would include:
(i)     drilling of 8 wells in the Shushufindi, Sacha, and
Guanta fields;
(ii)    workover1qf 68 wells and pump replacement and
repairs;  and
(iii)   related well-services, tubulars and well-site
preparation.
(c) The Accelerated Development of CEPE's Fields would include:
(i)     drilling and completion of  20 wells in the
Libertador, Bernejo, Tetete-Tapi, and Tiguino
fields;
(ii)    rehabilitation of 12 wells;1/
(iii)   completion of 4 production stations (Pichincha,
Bermejo, Tiguino and Tetete-Tapi) and related
surface facilities; and
(iv)    related infrastructure and logistics (including
purchase of vehicles).
(d) Technical Assistance would include:
(i)     engineering and management (provided by Texaco)
and services of monitoring consultants, related to
the Pipeline Reconstruction component;
1/ The crude produced from these fields is parafinic. Before resuming
production, pumps and some wells will have to be cleaned and serviced and/or
eventually replaced to ensure uninterrupted flow of oil.



- 19 -
(ii)    studies to be mtndertaken by CEPE regarding the
expansion and/or reputing of the Trans-Ecuadorian
pipeline (para. 18)_ and possible follow-up to
the environmental impact study; and
(iii) an emergency preparedness study to be carried out
the National Security Council (para. 11) to
recommend institutional arrangements necessary to
ensure proper coordination among concerned
institutions during future emergencies, and assist
in their implementation.
Project Cost
22.      The total cost of the proposed project is estimated at US$101.9
million, with a foreign component of US$57.0 million (56 percent) (see
Schedule A of the Memorandum of the President). Base cost estimates for the
pipeline reconstruction component were reviewed by the Bank. The recon-
struction base cost estimates correspond to 1.75 times US costs to take into
account the particularly difficult terrain conditions in the affected area,
the extra earth work involved due to recent landslides, and the need for two
underground river crossings. Cost estimates for the field rehabilitation and
development components are in line with recent costs in Ecuador for similar
work.  Physical contingencies of 35 percent have been included in the cost for
the pipeline civil work due to the lack of detailed engineering and the
significant risk of construction delays due to challenging terrain conditions
(para. 18). Physical contingicies of 25 percent have been used for the other
pipeline reconstruction items   and technical assistance components, and
10 percent for the oil field rehabilitation and development components. Costs
do not include price contingencies due to the short project implementation
period (four to nine months depending on the component).
Financing Plan
23.      The project financing plan is summarized in Schedule A of the
Memorandum of the President. Corporacion Andina de Pomento (CAF) has agreed
to reassign to the proposed project an undisbursed loan to CEPE of US$11.7
million which was to finance the next expansion of the Trans-Ecuadorian
pipeline (13 years maturity with 3 years of grace, and variable interest
1/ Funds under that category would complement the remaining funds under the
PPF advance (US$350,000), to cover the additional cost resulting from the
expansion of the scope of the study.
2/ Except for the cost of the 26" pipe which has already been ordered from
Italy (following Limited International Bidding).



- 20 -
rate).1/ CAF's contribution would cover the purchase of pipe (26" and 10")
i.e. about US$4.4 million, as well as about 23 percent of the main pipeline
construction contract in co-financing with the Bank. Cross-effectiveness with
the CAF loan is provided under the Bank's Loan Agreement. The proposed Bank
loan of US$80 million would cover 70 percent of the main pipeline construction
contract, most other materials required for pipeline reconstruction,
engineering/management and control services, as well ae 87 percent of CEPE's
oil field developmeut expenditures and the technical assistance component.
CEPE's contribution of US$10.2 million (10 percent of total project cost)
would cover the remaining cost of pipeline reconstruction, oil field
rehabilitation and development investments.
24.      The proposed Bank loan would be m V e at standard IBRD terms to the
Government and passed on to CEPE as equity_ so as not to burden its already
weak finances. CEPE, which suffered a net loss of US$35 million in 1986, is
expected to lose revenues of about US$60 million (after tax) between March and
July 1987. The full impact of the pipeline damage on CEPE's finances remains
to be determined, however, as many factors which are not yet fully clear are
involved (forward sale of Venezuelan and Nigerian crude, decreased refining
activity and domestic sales of products, increased production following
completion of repair etc.). The Government has therefore agreed to analyze
this impact in detail, together with CEPE, and to prepare and agree with the
Bank by September 30, 1987 on a plan of action to put back CEPE on a sound
financial footing, and review with the Bank its implementation by November 30,
1987.
Project Justificatiov and Risks
25.      Economic benefits under the project are the value added from oil
production which, without the reconstruction, could not be exported or
consumed locally. At current oil market prices and considering marginal
extraction costs of less than US$2 per barrel, the reconstruction project is
expected to pay for itself in less than a month, leaving no doubt as to its
economic justification.
26.      Although the risk of occasional and localized landslides will persist
during pipeline reconstruction and the next few years, potential damage is
unlikely to be major as the reconstructed lines will now be buried (see
para. 18).WY Landslides, together with soil instability, may however cause
construction delays, which in turn would translate in to cost overruns.
Cost overruns may also result from a lack of appropriate schedule and cost
monitoring. Texaco's experience in operating the pipeline, combined with
special project monitoring and inspection assistance to be provided to CEPE
(see para. 29) are expected to minimize these risks.
1/ Currently 8.25 percent per annum.
2/ Except for US$0.3 million assigned to the emergency preparedness study.
3/ 13 line breaks due to landslides were experienced in the first seven
years of the pipeline life, usually requiring one or two days repair.



21
C.  PROJECT DIPLEMNTATION AND INSTITUTIONAL ABRANGENTS
Project Organization
27.      CEPE has designal7d Texaco as project manager for the Pipeline
Reconstruction component.-   A project organization chart has been agreed upon
and is included in Attachment 1. Texaco will staff the project with
expatriat3s from its Houston headquarters as well as pipeline operations
personnel from the Consortium (currently idle due to the interruption of
pipeline operations). CEPE would draw selected staff from its own Pipeline
Department to act as counterparts to Texaco's staff. In addition, CEPE has
agreed to hire specialized pipeline consultants (three experts) to assist in
monitoring of project scheduling and costs, and works inspection, under terms
of reference agreed with the Bank. Hiring of these experts is expected by
April 24. In order to ensure smooth project execution, a clear division of
responsibilities would be agreed between CEPE/Texaco and the Ministry of
Public Works (MOP) whereby CEPE/Texaco would be in charge of the pipeline
reconstruction until it is completed, whereas MOP would subsequently be in
charge of the construction of the road (which is expected to use the same
alignment as the pipeline). An Agreement to this effect was signed on
April 22.
28.      The oil field maintera-se and rehabilitation component would be
carried out under the responsibility of Texaco as the operator of the
Consortium fields. The Oil Field accelerated development component would be
carried under the responsibility of CEPE's Department of Production, which is
qualified. The Government has designated the National Security Council to
oversee the emergency preparedness study.
Implementation Schedule
29.      A schedule for the pipeline reconstruction component is shown in
Attachment 2. It provides for mobilization of the main civil works contractor
by April 24, delivery of the 26" pipe on Mav 8, completion of the crude line
by August 15 and completion of the LPG line by September 1, 1987. Delays may
occur, however, as a result of unforeseen construction difficulties due to
soil unstability and the normal onset of heavy rains in July. The Oil Field
Maintenance and Development components would be carried out between March and
December 1987. The Emergency Preparedness study would be carried out from
June to November 1987.
1/ Texaco's ultimate parent company, Texaco Inc., entered into chapter 11
proceedings under the US Bankruptcy Code on April 12, 1987. The Bank has been
informed by CEPE and Texaco that, as of this date, none of Texaco's
subsidiaries involved in Ecuat.or are directly affected by the proceedings.
In order to guard against possible negative implications concerning project
implementation, CEPE agreed during negotiations to a number of contingency
measures should circumstances require them in order to protect its ability to
carry out the Project. The legal documentation for the loan also includes
pertinent safeguards.



- 22 -
Procurement and Coutracting
30.      A summary of procurement procedures to be used for main project items
is shown in Schedule B of the Memorandum of the President. The Government and
CEPE have decided that Texaco would be the general contractor for the Pipeline
Reconstruction component, passing on all sobcontractors invoices at cost to
CEPE. Texaco will thus act as both project engineer and procurement agent.
The contract between CEPE and Texaco stipulates that Texaco: (i) will get at
least three quotations from suitable contractors/suppliers for all works and
goods to be procured under the project; and (ii) CEPE will participate in all
bid evaluations and approve all subcontracts. Given the urgency of the
project and Texaco's unique qualifications to take quick anA' effective actions
required, this arrangement is appropriate. A large portion of the Bank loan
(28 percent) would be disbursed against the main civil works contract for the
pipeline reconstruction component, for which bids were requested on March 14
from six qualified contractors. Five of these contractors had responded by
the March 19 deadline and following review by the Bank of the bid evaluation
report on March 30, negotiations were started with the lowest evaluated bidder
(Willbros, USA). Contract signature is scheduled by April 30. All Bank-
financed items would be procured in accordance with Bank Guidelines, mostly
through (i) LCB, LIB and international shopping for the pipeline
reconstruction component; and (ii) LIB and LCB for oil field rehabilitation
and development. Bank guidelines would also be used for the selection oi
consultants for engineering, management and monitoring services, and studies.
Prior review by the Bank of contracts for goods and works of more than US$0.5
and US$2.0 million, respectively, is provided for undcr the Loan Agreement.
Disbursements
31.      The bulk of the loan amount is expected to be disbursed in the fourth
quarter of FY87 and the first quarter of FY88 (28 percent and 60 percent
respectively). Assuming loan signature in mid-May 1987, it is expected that
up to US$20 million (25 percent of the loan amount) would correspond to
retroactive financing. In order for CEPE to be able to repay Texaco within
the 10 days following presentation of the invoices provided for under the
contract; the Bank would set up a Special Account of US$40 million in the
Central Bank corresponding to the peak 3-month average of estimated loan
disbursements (i.e., 50 percent of the total loan amount). Disbursements
under the loan would be fully documented.
External Audit
32.      The Contraloria General de la Nacion (Auditor General) has, on
February 16, 1987 invited 8 private external auditing firms to make proposals
for the audit of CEPE's annual financial statements for 1985 and 1986.
Hiring of a firm is expected by April 30 and completion of the audit report by
October 15, 1987. The selected firm would be requested to carry out, as part
of its work, a specific audit of the accounts of the pipeline reconstruction
component; that report would be sent to the Bank within four months of
completion of that component. CEPE has also agreed to have its future annual
financial statements audited by independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank,
and send their report to the Bank within four months of the end of each fiscal
year.



- 23 -
Insurance
33.      Even after the Trans-Ecuadorian pipeline became the sole property of
CEPE on March 1, 1986, insurance policies in force on the assets operated by
the Consortium continued to be carried in the name of Texaco, with CEPE as the
bereficiary. An initial expert review of these policies requested by CEPE and
providod to the Bank reveals that (i) the Salado pumping station was covered
and (ii) the LPG and Bernmejo lines, which have always belonged to CEPE, were
not insured. The coverage status of the main crude line is less clear, and
CEPE has recently presented a claim for US$32 million. The likelihood of this
claim being settled any time soon and for the amount requested is, however,
considered remote. While the non-insurance of pipelines is not unusual in the
oil industry, CEPE has agreed under the proposed loan to have specialized
consultants carry out by November 30, 1987 a review CEPE's future insurance
needs in relation to the Trans-Ecuadorian pipeline and related installations.
Reporting Requirements
34.      Monthly reports as well as bimonthly telexes would be sent to the
Bank by CEPE on the progress of the pipeline reconstruction component; they
would be prepared with the assistance of the special monitoring consultants
(para. 27). Monthly progress reports would be sent for the other components
by CEPE. Formats for these reports were agreed during negotiations.
D. AGRFFSENTS REACHED
35.      Under the Loan and Project Agreements, the Government/CEPE have
agreed to the following actions:
(a) The Government to prepare and agree with Bank by June 30,
1987 on an action plan addressing the environmental impact
of the disaster, carry it out, and review its
implementation with the Bank by November 30, 1987
(para. 6);
(b) the Government to prepare by June 30, 1987, and carry out
a plan for assistance to displaced people (para. 7);
(c) the Government to hire, by July 1, 1987, consultants to
carry out the emergency preparedness study (para. 11);
(d) CEPE and the Government to take appropriate actions to
clean up oil spills and monitor water quality in the
affected areas (para. 6);
(e) CEPE and the Government to carry out jointly, a detailed
study to assess the impact of the disaster on CEPE's
finances; prepare, and agree with the Bank, by September
30, 1987, a plan of action to strengthen them (para. 24)
and review with the Bank its implementation by November
30, 1987;



- 24 -
(f) CEPE to have specialized consultants carry out by November
30, 1987 a study of its future insurance needs related to
the Trans-Ecuadorian pipeline and connected infrastructure
(para. 33); and
(g) CEPE to provide monthly project progress reports to the
Bank, in accordance with formats agreed with the Bank
(para. 34).



ECJADOR
Emnergency Petroleum Reconstruction Project
Project Organization Chart
TMM                                                                                  c~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~eneoi
POW* ft.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P6ll
r . ~~~~~~~~~~0,                                 ,    oo                             seIrvc                     ck1a
Prc                                                                                                                              asrio  1  
Enginee
(tCEPE)     SU"WK                .               !        -       O#
-
RoWd&K                                                         &4*Bidesan P
Cosrufio                   River CrG  s
k"Wtof                                             keinspecto r  inspectorC
hiqaecior" ue                                                                                                              q2cw
Roaco                   R _  x_         ig _I. & _IFI*.              hCh
Wod bank 31t53



ECUADOR
Emergency Petroleum Reconstruction Project
SCHEDULE TO RkUILD & RESTORE FIPELINE & SALADO STATION
March    I April        I hay             June           1 July
Task                 16 330  16 13 ,OZ7 7    4 11t 18        I I  8 15  2 29  16 13 20 27
Road to Salado 8ridge            I       XXXXXXXXXX         I              I
Salado Bridge                                I              I              I                 I
US Army survey                s    XXXXXXXt              S 
Order, make, ship bridge    SXXXXXXXXXXXXXSXXXXXXXXXXXXXS
US Army construct abutomnt  I             SXXXXXXXXXXXXXSXXXXXXXXXXXXXSXXXXXXXXX
US Army construct bridge    I                            I              S      XXXXXX    I
Aguarico bridge                  I           s              S
US Army survey                I    XXXXXXXS              I
Order, make, ship bridge    I             SXXXXXXXXXXXXXSXXXXXXXXXXXXXS 
US Army construct abutment  I             SXXXXXXXXXXXXXSXXXXXXXXXXXIXXxXXXXX            Sa
US Army construct bridge    1                            I              I      XXXXXX    t
Clear mud from Salado Station  I    XXX                      I                               t
Clear mud from around Station            XXXXSXXXXXX                       S I               I
Clear road east of KM 98                                    S 
Aguarico-Lago Agrio           I    XXXXXXXS                                               s
l:M 96-Aguarico, KM 51        1       XXXXXXXXKXXXXXXKXXXXKXXX          S                 :
Pipe repairs, n" 96-Aguarico   I             tNeed on-the-  ground insps Iction              S
Order, manufacture, *hip pipe  S                            I S            t
Receive pipe at Easmraldas  I                            S
Clear F/L ROW; build tewp road I                            I
Woriing east from sM III    S             S      XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXSXXX                I
WarLing West from KM 96                   1   XXXXXXXXXxXXXXXXXXxxxxt              .
Pipeline Construction                                                      I                 I
Worlning east fro   M 111    :            :                             I  XXXXXXXXXXXXx: XXX
Worl.ina West from IiM 96                                I              1      xxxxxxxxxx:xxxxxx
I    S              a ~ ~                  ~ ~~~ I                          >
Salado Station                                              I              I
Site cleaning, danage burvei  XXXXXXXXXX:XXXXXXXXX    I
Geotechnical study            :       XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXI S              S
Mechanical repairs            I xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Foundation repars             I           I      xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx        s
Pump 8. OAtv,l House repairs              I       xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx:*
Camp repairs                 I    XXXXXXXXXXX,XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXEXXXXXXXXXXXXX I
Inst ft Elec repairs         S XXKXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX        :
Site protectwOn  or$                      ixxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
:           a              a              :                a



ECUADOR                                ,
EMERGENCY PETROLEUM
RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
, i        Tob*cundo S
Z~~~
6.~~~~~~~~~~~~. _1 87 79- 'N         k-          77.be
I    S                                                                              /~~~~~~~~~~~~~
w*   S > W D w d n *" w _r" w    /   XtX  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   jS /  ~
_,~~~~~~~~ ~                                                           ~ ~~~~~~~~~ ocg A    -
.                   804710             LL \                           .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
AREA OF MiAP                                   \         7:
oG-yquil                                        2-
os                                                          T
KILOMETERS              _1
0  0  40 0  80 12 0 0160
MILESL                                          
82e     8l~~1.  PER  80        79'         78.         77         716.    7,8- 



IBRD 20415
COLOMBIA
El Cone Jo4 0
Logo Agri         ParOhuccu
f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ At IE ocap
00-
vononoco        Aguovic
I, \
Shushufindi
..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nx de                                                                     h Nn
Vuca
N A| O ft                                                           -DAMAGE TO ROAD AND PIPEUNES
|      DESTROYED
w                   t--~~~~ 1 ~ SEVERE DAMAGE
UNDER
EXCISTING   CONSTRUCTION    PROJECT
- ~~~~~~~~TRANS-ECUADORIAN CRUDE OIL AND 'LPG PIPELINES-
*                                         ~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~MAIN BRIDGES
*                       e~~~~~~~ PUMPING STATIONS.
A    BALAO OIL TERMINAL
-OIL PRoDucTo N LINES
KILOMETERS                          -                                                "ASELECTED ROADS
25  50                                                      RIVERS
,,    %                I              ~       -~INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
1                                       25~~MLE                                                                          'tPG pipeineh freon Shushufindi
|  MltES7p                                                                to Quho only.
|                                                                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~APRIL 1i



