             Document of
          The World Bank




                                        Report No: 26153

IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
    (SCL-42310; SCL-42311; TF-29103)

                 ON A

                 LOAN

  IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 70 MILLION

                TO THE

       KINDGOM OF MOROCCO

                FOR A

 SECOND MUNICIPAL FINANCE PROJECT




             June 26, 2003

                              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                            (Exchange Rate Effective : see below)

                                Currency Unit = Moroccan Dirham (DH)
          At closing (December, 2002) DH 1 = US$ 0.11
                                        US$ 1 = 9.3 DH
                        At appraisal (August 1997) US$ 1 = 9.5 DH


                                      FISCAL YEAR
                                    July 1  -    June 30

                          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ALM      Assets-Liabilities Management
ALS      Assets-Liabilities System
BM       Banque Al-Magrib (Central Bank)
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CD       Certificate of Deposit
CDG      Caisse de Dépôts et de Gestion
DGCL     Direction générale des collectivités locales
DH       Moroccan Dirham
DO       Development Objectives
DRF/DFL  Direction des ressources financières/ Département des finances locales
ERR      Economic Rate of Return
FEC      Fonds d'Equipment Communal
ICR      Implementation Completion Report
GM       General Manager
GoM      Government of Morocco
ICB      International Competitive Bidding
LLO      Law on Local Organization (Charte communale)
MIS      Management Information System
MoF      Ministry of Finance
MoI      Ministry of Interior
NCB      National Competitive Bidding
NPV      Net Present Value
O&M      Operations and Maintenance
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PDES     Plan de développement économique et social
PNER     Program national d'electrification rurale
PPI      Private Provision of Infrastructure
SONADAC  Société Nationale d'Aménagement Communal
QAG      Quality Assurance Group
VAT      Value Added Tax

                              Vice President:      Jean-Louis Sarbib
                  Country Manager/Director:        Theodore Ahlers
                    Sector Manager/Director:       Emmanuel Forestier
          Task Team Leader/Task Manager:           Charles Malécot

                                          MOROCCO
                                 MUNICIPAL FINANCE II


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              9
6. Sustainability                                                                10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 11
8. Lessons Learned                                                               13
9. Partner Comments                                                              13
10. Additional Information                                                       14
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             15
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             16
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             17
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             18
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             20
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                21
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            22
Annex 8. Indicators of FEC performance (1997-2002)                               23

Project ID: P005523                                                      Project Name: MUNICIPAL FINANCE II
Team Leader: Charles Henri Malecot                                       TL Unit: MNSIF
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: June 26, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: MUNICIPAL FINANCE II                                     L/C/TF Number: SCL-42310; SCL-42311;
                                                                                                     TF-29103
   Country/Department: MOROCCO                                                            Region: Middle East and North
                                                                                                     Africa Region

        Sector/subsector: General water, sanitation and flood protection sector (25%); Power
                            (25%); Roads and highways (25%); Other social services (25%)
                  Theme: Municipal finance (P); Access to urban services for the poor (P);
                            Rural services and infrastructure (P); Other urban development (S)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    09/06/1994                                        Effective: 11/01/1997              02/24/1998
   Appraisal:    12/12/1996                                            MTR: 03/31/1999                11/08/1999
    Approval:    09/11/1997                                         Closing: 12/31/2001               12/31/2002

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          FEC/FEC
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Jean-Louis Sarbib                              Kemal Dervis
Country Director:               Theodore O. Ahlers                             Christian Delvoie
Sector Manager:                 Emmanuel Forestier                             Nemat Shafik
Team Leader at ICR:             Charles Malécot                                Emmanuel Forestier
ICR Primary Author:             Ekaterina Massey


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:S

                     Sustainability:L

Institutional Development Impact:M

               Bank Performance:S

           Borrower Performance:U


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                   S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
As stated in the PAD, the project objectives were to:

(a) increase the provision of basic infrastructure services in small and medium-size cities;

(b) strengthen Fonds d'Equipement Communal (FEC) as a commercially viable, autonomous financial institution
specialized in providing financial services to the municipal sector.

The development objectives were clear, realistic and of high relevancy to Morocco's development
priorities.

Facing rapid urbanization, growing disparities in access to basic services, and increasing budgetary
constraints, Morocco has undertaken reforms in support of decentralization. As a result, responsibilities for
service provision at municipal level are increasing, however, many municipalities are not able to effectively
deliver services due to a lack of autonomy and management capacity, and the fact that they are often not able
to take advantage of economies of scale in service provision.

With a relatively well-developed credit market, Morocco has the potential to rise long-term funding for
municipal investments. In spite of no legal barriers to competition, other financial institutions have showed
limited interest in financing local governments and their operating companies. As such, FEC continues to be
the only efficient channel of long-term credit for municipal infrastructure investments.             Introducing
improved governance and operating practices at the local level would have contributed to greater
participation of domestic financial institutions in funding local infrastructure, and hence, more competition
for FEC.

The objective of strengthening FEC as a commercially viable, autonomous financial institution builds on the
achievements of the First Municipal Project Loan (FEC I), implemented between 1993 and 1999. FEC I
supported the transformation of the FEC from a government agency into a publicly-owned, specialized
financial institution in 1992, and into a full-fledged bank monitored by the Moroccan Central Bank in 1996.

Project design mitigated project complexity and risk by: (a) channeling funds for infrastructure services to
the most needy, but creditworthy municipalities; and (b) concentrating efforts on strengthening the capacity of a
single specialized financial institution (FEC).

3.2 Revised Objective:
Not Applicable

3.3 Original Components:
Based on the project's stated development objectives, two components were designed:

Component 1: Municipal Infrastructure (US$110.0 million). FEC was provided a US$70.0 million line of
credit, which was on-lent to eligible municipalities to finance municipal infrastructure projects. The project
was expected to finance about 100 investment projects, with the proceeds from the Bank Loan financing up
to 70 percent of investment costs and the balance provided by participating municipalities.

Component 2:     Institutional Development (US$0.3 million).           FEC was to implement an institutional
development plan based on the results of a strategic study, cofinanced by FEC and the French Government.
This Plan sought to transform the FEC into a more commercially viable and autonomous financial institution
by reorganizing FEC's Credit Division, reforming its accounting and management information systems, and
establishing an ALM and municipal credit rating systems.



                                                         - 2 -

Assessment of the design of components:

The design of Component 1 adequately supports the fulfillment of the first project objective of increasing the
provision of basic infrastructure services in small and medium-sized cities. It sought to raise living standards
by earmarking funds to finance basic infrastructure services and community facilities, such as water supply
and sewerage, solid waste, wholesale markets and urban roads.

The Bank Loan enabled credit with maturities of up to fifteen years to be issued, something which is
necessary to finance municipal infrastructure projects and which remains scarce on Moroccan capital
markets.   In order to benefit the smaller and most disadvantaged municipalities, selection criteria of
sub-projects for creditworthy municipalities was set so that 90 percent of sub-projects and 75 percent of the
total investment financed by the Bank Loan would directly benefit rural and urban communities with
populations below 150,000. However, the expected number of sub-projects (100) was underestimated, due
to the small size of the target municipalities and lower costs of eligible sub-projects.

The on-lending and eligibility assessments were carefully prepared and documented, and a final list of
sub-projects was completed during project implementation. On the one hand, the demand-driven approach
chosen for this component's design ensured that the submission of sub-project proposals for Bank
refinancing represented the priorities and needs of local governments. However, it also precluded Bank
involvement in the preparation of sub-project proposals despite Bank concerns about weak municipal
capacity to prepare quality investment projects.

Component 1 also supported the project's second development objective of strengthening FEC's commercial
viability. By providing funds that were on-lent, FEC was able to maintain continuous interaction with
municipal clients, thereby strengthening its understanding of local needs and capabilities.

Relative to the challenges of the second development objective, design of Component 2 was limited in
substance and in allocated resources.

To be undertaken early in project implementation, Component 2 involved an institutional development study
to identify strategic options to institutionally strengthen FEC so that it could better respond to increasingly
complex municipal credit markets. A shortcoming of Component 2's design was the lack of capacity
building activities for the municipalities themselves, and/or for the Direction Générale des Collectivités Locales of
the Ministry of Interior, which acted as FEC's direct supervising authority.

To achieve the second development objective, specific actions were agreed that would facilitate FEC's
integration into a market-based financial system, broaden its base, and lower the cost of its resources,
including: (a) FEC's transformation into a joint stock company; and (b) compliance with selected financial
performance indicators regarding capital adequacy, earnings performance, and administrative expenses.

The need to have an additional development objective and corresponding project component that would
have sought to improve municipal management skills, including investment planning, budgeting and project
implementation, was raised by the Bank team at appraisal. However, the Borrower did not accept this
component, and the technical assistance retained was limited to FEC operation and management.
Institutional strengthening of FEC has proven to be heavily dependent on the pace of the Government's
decentralization reforms, while the need to build capacity at the municipal level remains a critical issue.

3.4 Revised Components:
As a result of unsatisfactory progress in achieving institutional objectives, the project's closing date was
extended by one year on June 28, 2001 to December 31, 2002. Measures taken to improve implementation



                                                       - 3 -

included agreement from the Government to: (a) transform FEC into a joint stock company; (b) adopt a
number of reforms on decentralization; and (c) define a program to strengthen FEC's management,
operations and financial performance. The original objectives were maintained, but with a more realistic time
horizon than the one anticipated in the original legal documents.         No other revisions were made to the
project's components.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry at ICR stage is rated as satisfactory.

The project's design was consistent with the main objectives identified in the January 30, 1997 CAS for
Morocco, namely: (a) improving access to basic infrastructure services including near-universal access to
potable water by 2010; and to a lesser extent (b) modernizing the public sector through public enterprise
reform and opening infrastructure to private participation.

The project's design was equally consistent with government priorities, particularly, the need to urgently
address the backlog of priority local infrastructure and service provision projects, which were estimated at the
time to cost US $3.3 billion. The project, which was launched while the FEC I project was still under
implementation, was sought by the Government in order to continue carrying out physical municipal
investments, and to maintain momentum for decentralization reforms that were being prepared.

While the project was well-prepared and had sufficient documentation, a shortcoming at launch was the lack
of a component to strengthen the capacity of local governments. As finally negotiated, FEC II missed an
opportunity to have a higher developmental impact on local government capacity, and hence, the quality of
local service delivery in target municipalities.       A more balanced and consistent approach would have
simultaneously aimed at improving financing services to the municipal sector and the municipal capacity to
make the most of these services, that is to build capacity on both the supply and demand sides, for a viable
municipal finance market. However, in spite of continuous efforts by the Bank team to add capacity
strengthening as a third component, the Government was not willing to consider this due to the political
climate prevailing at the time and the reluctance to borrow for technical assistance. Nonetheless, the Bank
decided to go forward with the project in order to remain engaged in policy dialogue, and to continue efforts
to reform the sector.

The Bank team correctly identified that furthering FEC's transition into a commercially viable, autonomous
and financially regulated institution represented a major political challenge.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The development objectives have been met satisfactorily.

The rating is motivated by the fact that the project achieved its expected physical development objectives,
and some of its institutional objectives. Shortcomings, mostly of a temporary political nature, are related to
the slow pace of decentralization reforms, which were identified as a political risk at appraisal.

The physical objectives of the project were largely achieved, and the quality of life undoubtedly improved for
many, as a result of the numerous subprojects. It is also likely that many small municipalities, which were
able to access credit for the first time under the project, learned a great deal from preparing and
implementing the subprojects, and thus, realized some improvement in their capacity levels. The institutional
objective of strengthening FEC as a commercially viable and autonomous financial entity was partially
achieved, as reflected in its improved financial position, stronger accounting and management information
systems, and installed municipal rating and scoring systems. However, the non-transformation of FEC into a
joint stock company, which was the final step of the reform process and a politically sensitive matter, was not



                                                        - 4 -

achieved and is a shortcoming.

The project was rated unsatisfactory from June 2000 to February 2002, as a result of noncompliance with
dated covenants. As a condition for extending the project's closing date, due dates for submission of project
progress reports and decentralization reform plans, FEC's transformation into a joint stock company, and
related adoption of an institutional development plan were required. As anticipated in the PAD and despite
continued assurances by the borrower, FEC was not transformed into a joint stock company by the end of
the project.

Nevertheless, by-laws to transform FEC into a joint-stock company were adopted by FEC's Board and
submitted to the Cabinet for final approval. A law on decentralization was also passed by Parliament in 2002
and is currently being implemented.                This law provides municipalities with more financial and fiscal
autonomy, and reduces central oversight of local government decisions.

The provision of basic infrastructure services in small and medium-size cities exceeded expectations.

The backlog of priority basic infrastructure projects at the time of project appraisal in 1997 was estimated at
US$3.3 billion, which amounted to about fifteen times the average annual investments by municipalities.
The Five-Year Plan for Economic and Social Development 2000-04 (PDES) further estimated that needed
investments for this period would amount to US$6.6 billion, of which municipalities were expected to
contribute about US$2.1 billion. The Line of Credit extended to FEC under the project ultimately financed
US$150.1 million worth of communal investments, which was a fraction of the amount needed to satisfy the
most urgent needs. Nevertheless, it made much needed long-term capital available to finance 210 priority
projects in disadvantaged rural and urban areas, which was more than double projections at appraisal. In
relative terms, 77 percent of investments benefited municipalities with populations under 150,000, against the
target of 90 percent, while in absolute terms, the project financed 161 sub-projects in small municipalities,
against the target of at least ninety. The 68.5 percent share of basic infrastructure projects nearly reached the
target of 70 percent of total investment with a total of 120 projects. Targeting basic infrastructure services
was important, as before the project, the majority of local investments tended to go to urban development
with a heavy emphasis on real estate development, such as opening up land for new development and in
revenue generating infrastructure, rather than basic services.

The application of operational policies as part of FEC's risk management strategy has also begun to improve
the quality of project appraisal and implementation. New operational practices, such as economic analysis
and environmental assessments, are now applied to all sub-loans, and this has helped increase the quality of
preparation and sustainability of basic infrastructure projects. FEC provides free assistance in preparing
sub-project feasibility studies, and carries out post-evaluation missions.

Partial progress was made in transforming FEC into a commercially viable, autonomous financial institution.

Until 1991, FEC acted as a cash window for municipal development. It did not face competitive pressures,
was not financially autonomous, and offered a limited menu of services. In 1992, it was reorganized into a
separate state-owned financial institution with its own lending policies, and by 1996, had become a
full-fledged municipal bank regulated by the Central Bank.

Although FEC was not transformed into a joint-stock company, the project served to further FEC's
evolution as a commercially autonomous financial institution, made improvements in its management
practices, and raised its level of performance through:

·    Attaining a higher level of capital adequacy (61 percent of capital to risk-weighted assets against the
     minimum of 8 percent);



                                                              - 5 -

·   Lowering the level of arrears, and improving management and more consistent control (7.2 percent of
    annual outstanding loans);
·   Achieving higher growth and increased profitability (net intermediation margin of 2.6 percentage points
    against the target of 1.9; annual return, measured as a percentage of average current net value of total
    assets of 2.1 percent by the end of the project against the minimum of 1.2 percent; administrative
    expenses at 0.72 percent of assets against target of 0.9 percent);
·   Elevating their reputation on the local capital markets and increasing capacity to mobilize resources.

However, while significant progress was achieved in transforming FEC into a more vibrant provider of
financial services to the municipal sector, several challenges remain.

·   Lack of leadership. FEC survived long periods without a General Manager who could have strengthened
FEC's strategic positioning on the credit markets.

·   Liquidity risk. FEC borrows on the domestic market by floating bonds and purchasing certificates of
deposit (CD). It borrows at maturities of five to seven years, or even at one and three years and provides
loans with ten to fifteen year maturities.

·   Foreign exchange risk. For the funds that FEC mobilizes on external markets, including the Bank Loan, the
important issue is managing the exchange risk. Guarantees were accorded by the Treasury during the life of
the current project, but are no longer available. FEC must identify an appropriate option for borrowing
externally without Treasury guarantees.

·   The non-transformation of FEC into a joint-stock company. The transformation was originally due to be
effective by December 31, 1998. However, the transformation was postponed to the end of 2002, but has
yet to occur.

FEC has also been slow to implement its strategic development plan. The planned informatization of FEC
involving its assets and liabilities, scoring, and workflow systems have yet to be completed and are not fully
operational. In addition, the regional presence of FEC is still quite limited with just one regional office in
Agadir.

Annex 8 provides a summary of indicators of performance for FEC from 1997 to 2002.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Component 1. Municipal Infrastructure

The project component was supposed to finance about 100 municipal infrastructure projects worth a total
estimated cost of US$110.0 million. The total number of projects financed by the closing date was 210 (out
of appraised list of 217), with a total loan amount to FEC of US$118.8 million.             The total cost of
sub-projects as estimated by FEC at appraisal was US$157.7 million. However, the actual cost of the
sub-projects was slightly lower at US$150.1 million. The Bank Loan was fully disbursed, and re-financed
46.6 percent of the total sub-project cost.




                                                       - 6 -

                            Total sub-       Total         Total
      Classification         projects     sub-projects sub-projects
                               (210)          (%)        cost (%)
Type of Borrower
Urban municipality              92            44           71.1
Rural municipality             106            50.3         13.1
Urban agglomeration             6             2.9          6.1
Province                        4              2           2.1
Régie                           1             0.3          0.9
SONADAC                         1             0.3          6.7

Size of Municipality
< 150, 000 residents           161            77           50

Type of Service
Urban improvements              58            28           47
Sewage                          4              2           3.2
Solid waste                     71            33.8         10.5
Potable water                   7             3.3          1.6
Electrification                 8             3.7          3.4
Commercial facilities           45            21.4         16.1
Specialized facilities          6             2.8          0.7
Sport & Tourism facilities      5             2.3          3.6
Urban transport                 6             2.7          14.1


The total cost of sub-projects for basic infrastructure was US$104 million, 68.5 percent of the total amount
of sub-project costs (75.6 percent of total FEC sub-loans, or 74.5 percent of Bank Loan disbursements).
This was only slightly below the target of 70 percent.          The total number of sub-projects in basic
infrastructure was 120, higher than the expected number of sub-projects at appraisal. The majority of
projects were in solid waste provision.

161 sub-projects, or 77 percent of the total, and 50 percent of total investment benefited population living in
municipalities with less than 150,000 inhabitants. This was below the target of 90 percent of sub-projects
and 75 percent of investment. Of these 161 sub-projects (66 percent) were in rural municipalities where
projects are generally smaller in size.

FEC complied with the directive on Environmental Impact Assessments (EIAs) for sub-projects. Projects
are classified as C1, C2, and C3, and for sub-projects classified C2 and C3, environmental action plans have
been prepared and are being implemented.

Component 2. Institutional Development

This component, estimated to cost US$0.3 million at appraisal, consisted of preparing a strategic study and
an institutional development plan for the FEC. The study was started by Booz-Allen and Hamilton in June
1997, prior to the Board Date, and completed on September 30, 1997, along with an institutional
development plan.

The following institutional development measures, recommended by the study, have been partially or fully
implemented:

·    FEC's Credit Division was reorganized, and a new "client services" unit created to ensure better
     interaction with clients and their needs;


                                                      - 7 -

·    Reform of the accounting system, which allowed FEC to begin following accounting norms of credit
     institutions and complying with the requirements of prudential reporting;
·    Reform of the management information system was initiated, and implementation of its components is at
     various degrees of advancement;
·    An operational manual was designed to reflect FEC's new structure and operating practices; and
·    Risk management activities will shortly take advantage of ALM and municipal credit rating systems.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
FEC applied economic appraisal procedures to all projects, as agreed at appraisal. The least-cost solution
was applied to all eligible projects, and a 10 percent minimum economic rate of return was required from
projects with quantifiable benefits. Allocations for operation and maintenance activities were also required
for projects to be approved. All sub-projects financed by FEC under the project met these criteria.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not Applicable

4.5 Institutional development impact:
Institutional Development Impact rating is modest.

The institutional development impact rating reflects the: (1) modest impact of the project on improving the
capacity of FEC's municipal clients to access the long-term credit in the process of delivering on their
responsibilities; (2) lower than planned impact of the project on the development of FEC itself as a
market-based local government financial intermediary; and (3) significant impact on the municipal sector
reform dialogue, which resulted in the adoption of a more empowering decentralization law and
implementation of a technical assistance program for local governments by the end of the project.

The project made a modest contribution to increasing the municipal sector's capacity to borrow, but missed an opportunity to
strengthen weak municipal management capacity.

Municipal management capacity in Morocco is generally weak, especially in smaller rural municipalities. The
Law on Local Organization currently in force at project closing, dates back to 1976. Local autonomy is
severely constrained by both the legislative framework and the administrative processes of ex-ante central
oversight. Municipalities have limited capacity and resources to program investment, and to prepare and
implement bankable projects.

Since 1991, little has been done to assist local governments to enhance their creditworthiness by improving
local resources, budgeting, auditing, and disclosure standards, and to create better investment management
capacity. An exception is the 1996 reform of the value added tax (VAT) transfer, which improved the level
and predictability of local resources. However, the multiplication of municipalities in 1992 diluted their
technical and financial capacities and, hence, increased their credit risk. The project originally included a
municipal capacity building component, but the Borrower rejected this.

The project also missed an opportunity to help streamline the administrative process of borrowing from
FEC, which is bureaucratic and lengthy.            FEC's lending process is laden with reviews and necessary
approvals from various entities. The institutional study concluded that based on a sample of loans, the
average length of FEC loan cycle, from the time an application is received to first disbursement, reached 437
days.

This lengthy process severely constrains local autonomy, prevents the ability to act and execute planned
development projects in a timely fashion, and dilutes accountability of local officials for their financial and
budgetary decisions without attributing accountability to the authorizing ministries. During implementation,



                                                          - 8 -

the Bank attempted to address these constraints, but failed to sway the Government, which wanted to retain
control over municipal spending and could not agree on measures to reform the process. The Bank did,
however, succeed in reforming the investment and expenditure authority through the passage of a new
decentralization law, adopted in October 2002.

There was limited evolution of FEC into a market-based local government financial intermediary.

Under the project, FEC continued to develop appropriate policies and mechanisms for lending to viable
revenue generating investments, as well as to priority public good investment. Through these activities and
its efforts to create a scoring, ALS, and data management system, FEC made the first step towards turning
itself into a repository of knowledge, data and indicators on local governance and finance.

FEC continues developing its ability to offer additional lending (short-term credit, support to seasonal
expenditure/revenue mismatches, guarantees, etc) and non-lending (advisory and technical assistance, as it
already does with the feasibility studies) services to local governments.

Although the project furthered the development of FEC as a specialized municipal bank and a repository of
sector knowledge, it must still learn to manage market, credit and foreign exchange risk better. Additionally,
since FEC has not been transformed into a joint-stock company, its current status does not allow it to act on
three critical institution-building decisions in its strategy: (a) offering lending instruments within a framework
of concessions; (b) defining its future management entities; and (c) partnering with a strategic local
shareholder.

The project had significant impact on maintaining the dialogue for sector reforms, which resulted in a new decentralization law
and the adoption of a technical assistance program.

The project offered an opportunity to engage authorities in a fruitful dialogue aimed at policy reforms that
could have helped local governments become more viable and vibrant institutions. The dialogue, which
resulted in major reforms, focused on supporting local communities to improve municipal management and
generate fiscal resources, thus increasing borrowing capacity and creditworthiness. Such traits are critical to
securing resources to deliver local services and contribute to the Government's overall objective of reducing
poverty.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The most important factor outside of Government control were the delays caused by the transitional period
following King Mohammed VI's accession to power, who initiated a series of institutional and political
reforms.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
While some of the project's limited achievements on the institutional side can be explained by the complexity
of the decision making process in Morocco, much of the limited impact was due to factors that were within
government control. The biggest shortcoming was that the FEC was not corporatized, and with proper
government support, this could have been achieved. The Government also could have encouraged and
provided more support for streamlining FEC's lending and approval process.

Improving the monitoring and evaluation of sub-projects during implementation and after sub-loans had
been disbursed, an activity that was flagged in the ICR for FEC I, was also within the Government's control.
Finally, despite voicing concerns about institutional and financial weakness of smaller and poorer
municipalities, GoM was not supportive of including capacity building activities to enhance local government
capacity. The appointment of a General Manager for FEC was also within the Government's control, and



                                                            - 9 -

would have strengthened FEC's capacity, as well as the project's impact.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The project sought to address the challenges of rapid urbanization by assisting the government to accelerate
the decentralization process, and pursuing reforms in the context of the drastic increase in demand for basic
services in formerly rural and rapidly growing peri-urban areas. However, the outcome was negatively
affected by the lag in approving decentralization reforms, and by the limited capacity of small communities.
This was outside the control of FEC. FEC also could have done more to increase its credit risk management
capacity, particularly through a more timely launch of its scoring system and knowledge database of
creditworthy clients, and been proactive in seeking government support for streamlining its lending process.

5.4 Costs and financing:
At appraisal, project costs were estimated at US$110.0 million. This figure was based on the financing plans
for sub-projects implemented under FEC I Project, the nature of which remained the same. Actual project
costs reached US$150.1 million. This was due to the fact that more sub-projects were implemented than
were anticipated, which resulted from rising demand and higher financing capacity of local governments.

The average cost of each sub-project was US$0.71 million, as compared to the appraisal estimate of US$1.1
million. Due to the implementation of a larger number of smaller sub-projects, the Bank Loan leveraged
more local financing than anticipated at appraisal - the Bank Loan was only 46.6 percent of total project cost,
against an estimate of 63.6 percent at appraisal. This is a result of higher municipal financing resources, and
to increased governmental transfers.

While the project disbursed slower than estimated at appraisal, due to a slow start, lengthy sub-project
approval procedures, and lower than expected demand in 2001, the Loan was fully disbursed by the project's
revised closing date.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability of the project is rated as likely.

Even while the quality of municipal investment improved, more attention was paid to the importance of maintaining municipal
assets.

At project completion, the prospects are good that the achievements of the first development objective,
increased provision of basic infrastructure services in small and medium-size cities, will be maintained. The
quality of municipal investments improved as a result of FEC's assistance in preparing feasibility studies and
implementing economic analysis and environmental assessment tools. As local revenues and financial
discipline increase maintenance of municipal assets, a requirement for loan approval, they will become an
integral part of most local government's management practices.

Another factor contributing to this sustainability rating is that, even though FEC's evolution has been slower than expected, it
is a solid municipal financial institution.

FEC's efficiency increased dramatically as a result of the FEC I project, which closed 16 months into the
implementation of the FEC II project. FEC was able to access the local capital markets without the
Government guaranteeing its bond issues. However, prospects for short-term and long-term sustainability of
FEC should be highlighted.

·          The short- and medium-term sustainability of FEC appears highly likely, given its financial and
operational performance, as well as the level of appreciation by the Government of its critical role as a


                                                              - 10 -

banker to municipalities, particularly the most resource-poor ones. By the end of 2002, FEC had achieved a
net intermediation margin of 2.6 percentage points, against a target of 1.9. After tax annual return on assets
steadily increased, and in 2002, reached 1.3 percent, compared to the target of 1.2 percent. In 2002,
administrative expenses were contained and remained under the appraisal ceiling of 0.9 percent, and
capital-to-risk weighted assets are projected to remain at a level of 30 percent over the next five years, relative
to the minimum required of 8 percent. Information systems for local government scoring, ALM and
workflow systems, though not completed by the closing date, are expected to be fully operational shortly.

·        The long-term sustainability of FEC is likely, but depends on the Government's political will to act
on its commitments. A clear menu of available technical solutions for FEC "modernization" has been
defined and reflected in the 2001 Government report on proposed decentralization and deconcentration
reforms. These include: (a) appointing a GM for FEC, maintaining a strong reputation in the financial
markets, and attributing a credit rating to FEC; (b) creation of a guaranteed treasury line of credit
administered through a local financial institution, that FEC could resort to at any time to avoid liquidity
problems; and (c) helping FEC offer more financial services to municipalities as a means of increasing its
transaction volume and sustainability. In addition, legislative changes would be needed to allow FEC finance
concessions, provide municipal budget support loans, or to make advances for cash flow management.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
All investments have been implemented and are operated and maintained by local governments.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance at identification, preparation and appraisal is rated satisfactory.

The Bank assisted the Borrower in designing the critical aspects of the project by: (i) establishing target
criteria for sub-loans; (ii) introducing new techniques to appraise projects; (iii) determining selected financial
performance indicators; (iv) building in controls for municipal procurement practices; and (v) obtaining GoM
commitments to maintain a foreign exchange risk coverage scheme, and to corporatize FEC.

Critical risks were candidly identified and mitigation measures outlined during preparation. The risk of
political opposition to FEC's transformation was explicitly stated as a "possible controversial aspect" of the
project. The Bank team, however, appears to have been overly optimistic regarding institutional change in
FEC and securing government's commitment, despite extensive consultations held prior to negotiations. At
the time FEC, had a dynamic General Manager, "the driving force behind FEC's change process," which was
not the case during most of implementation.

Staff mix and continuity at preparation and appraisal were adequate.               Financial arrangements were
appropriate and similar to the ones tested in FEC I project. The Loan amount was well estimated, but the
project execution period, initially under four years, was too short, especially given expectations for the sector.

7.2 Supervision:
Overall supervision performance is rated satisfactory.

Supervision missions were regular and well staffed, and produced adequate reporting of project
implementation. A mid-term review took place in November 1999. Bank teams reacted proactively to
address problems throughout implementation, and adjusted performance ratings accordingly.

During implementation, the Bank was responsive to evolving needs, and proposed assistance to FEC in the
most urgent matters, namely, offering (a) a partial credit risk guarantee to manage the liquidity (market) risk;



                                                      - 11 -

(b) assistance in developing a database of viable creditworthy municipalities to diversify its portfolio, along
with the continuing pressure on the government to corporatize FEC in order to better manage the credit risk;
(c) a number of options to manage foreign exchange risk (swap option with local counterparts, creation of a
guarantee fund, or a change in FEC's internal provisions for exchange risk).

Noncompliance with critical institutional covenants on the part of the Government caused the supervision to
give the project unsatisfactory Development Objective (DO) ratings from June 2000 to February 2002. The
supervision missions, including Bank managers and critical staff in the field, persistently sought the
resolution of slipping dates for FEC's corporatization, and went so far as to threaten suspending
disbursements. The corporatization of FEC remained a valid objective to be achieved by the end of the
project.

After the project's closing date was extended, the Bank maintained a high level of engagement and
maintained a substantive policy dialogue with authorities to ensure compliance with reforms. The Bank
offered to provide technical assistance to improve municipal management and financial planning, which were
eventually launched at the end of the project.

While a good working relationship with the implementing agency was maintained throughout project
implementation, supervision missions experienced difficulties maintaining a productive dialogue with the
MoI and the MoF on finding early solutions to institutional problems. The teams, however, resorted to all
possible mechanisms to break the institutional gridlock, including presenting to GoM and launching
additional sector work regarding municipal management and decentralization.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The rating of Borrower's performance at preparation is satisfactory.

During preparation, the Borrower's contributions were significant and consistent with project objectives. At
the time of preparation, FEC's manager was fully committed to implementing needed structural reforms,
including transforming FEC into a joint stock company.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The rating for Government Implementation Performance is unsatisfactory.

The project was launched and started implementation in a favorable environment. However, as the second
objective of the project called for significant political support to increase the capacity of the implementing
agency, timely Government support was not forthcoming.             This is most notable with regards to the
transformation of FEC into a joint-stock company, and the appointment of a General Manager.

The project was rated unsatisfactory between June 2000 and February 2002, due primarily to lack of progress
on the second objective. The Bank threatened to stop disbursements, but opted to extend the project's
closing date to allow the implementation of agreed actions at a slower pace.

The Government recognized that corporatization would allow FEC to build equity without Government
budgetary resources and to enter in viable partnerships with other financial institutions, thus integrating in a
sustainable way into the financial markets and reinforcing risk analysis and project finance. However, MoI
resistance to corporatize FEC was motivated by its commitment to guaranteeing that FEC continued to
fulfill its public interest mission within the broader government strategy of sustainable development and
poverty reduction. MoF, being supportive of the transformation and playing the role of FEC guarantor, was


                                                      - 12 -

not able to influence timely passage of the law.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The rating for Implementing Agency Performance is satisfactory.

Despite the uncertainty of its status and sector development policies of the Government, as well as the long
overdue appointment of a general manager following the departure of the previous one, FEC generally
performed well, and complied with financial performance indicators, including requirements for audits and
other reports.

Overall, FEC displayed a consistent commitment to delivering what was under its direct control, and to
steadily improving its structure and procedures. However, launching of the scoring system, the ALM and the
data management systems, experienced some unjustifiable delays, and monitoring and post-evaluation of
projects continue to remain insufficient.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall performance and participation of the Borrower were unsatisfactory, due mostly to the unsatisfactory
implementation performance of the Government.

8. Lessons Learned

The following four lessons can be drawn from this project:

Lesson 1. Issues of municipal finance are better addressed within the context of municipal management
projects that assume a balanced approach to simultaneous development of a local finance framework,
municipal capacity and matching capacity with a specialized lending intermediary. Decentralization reforms
can be slow to implement, and projects should provide sufficient capacity building assistance to
municipalities to increase their creditworthiness and support continual development of bankable investments.

Lesson 2. Successful performance of municipal finance markets and financial intermediaries depend to a
large extent on the "enabling controls" of the regulating authorities. Therefore, a project seeking to increase
municipal investment through access to long-term credit should explicitly address the rationalization of
administrative control procedures between the: (a) local governments and other public agencies; (b) central
government; and (c) financial intermediary.       The project highlighted the negative effect on municipal
investment efficiency of excessive ex-ante controls over the activities of local authorities and long approval
delays they face when borrowing from FEC.

Lesson 3. There is a need to include financing for monitoring and evaluation activities to adequately assess
the impact sub-projects have on local communities.         Local governments in cooperation with central
governments should perform such activities.

Lesson 4. Municipalities differ both in terms of financial resource levels and management capacity. The
Government expressed a legitimate concern that in order to achieve the country's poverty reduction goals,
small and/or poor municipalities should receive special treatment and targeted funding that cannot be
offered by the market. Guidance should be provided on a case-by-case basis, and funding tailored to meet
specific poverty and equity objectives of small- and medium-sized local governments.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Despite several requests, no comments were received from the Borrower/implementing agency.

(b) Cofinanciers:



                                                     - 13 -

Not applicable

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable

10. Additional Information

Not applicable




                                             - 14 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


            Indicator/Matrix               Projected in the last          Actual/Latest Estimate
                                                    PSR
1. 90% of the number of projects and      1. 90% and 75%          1. 77% of projects benefited
75% of the total investment benefit                               communities with populations below
communes with population below                                    150,00 and 50% of total investment. In
150,000.                                                          absolute numbers, 120 projects
                                                                  benefited targeted communities.

2. 70% of investments in basic            2. 70%                  2. 68.5% of investments were in basic
infrastructure services (water supply and                         infrastructure services.
sewerage, solid waste, wholesale markets
and urban roads).

3. Corporatization of FEC.                3. To be achieved by    3. FEC not corporatized, and
Implementation of an institutional        closing. Institutional  Institutional Development Plan not fully
development plan. Monitoring of           Development Plan        implemented. Financial performance
financial performance indicators under    under implementation.   indicators of FEC are on or
the project.                                                      outperforming targets.

4. Loan portfolio affected by arrears is                          4. Arrears represent 7.2 % of
less than 10% of total loan portfolio.                            outstanding loans and is declining.

Output Indicators:

            Indicator/Matrix                  Projected in the last PSR          Actual/Latest Estimate
1. About 100 municipal projects           1. Loan totally committed, 87%       Loan fully disbursed and
   financed.                                 disbursed.                        financed 210 projects.
2. Institutional Development Plan.        2. Under implementation.             Under implementation.




                                                   - 15 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)

                                                            Appraisal         Actual/Latest      Percentage of
              Project Cost by Component                      Estimate           Estimate           Appraisal
1. Line of Credit for Municipal Infrastructure Projects       110.0               150.1              136%
2. FEC's Institutional Development                              0.3                0.3               100%
Total Baseline Cost                                           110.3               150.4              136%
Total Project Cost                                            110.3               150.4              136%
Total Financing Required                                      110.3               150.4              136%


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements ( Appraisal estimate)

Table stays empty as no sub-projects were appraised at appraisal, there were only guidelines available.

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) US$ million

Expenditure       ICB                 NCB               Other              NBF                Total Cost
Category
1. Works                    0 (0.0)       112.4 (52.4)          0.4 (0.1)            0 (0.0)       112.8 (52.5)
2. Goods                    0 (0.0)          32 (15.2)          4.8 (2.3)            0 (0.0)        36.8 (17.5)
3. Services                 0 (0.0)            0 (0.0)            0 (0.0)          0.4 (0.0)           0.4 (0.0)
Total                       0 (0.0)       144.4 (67.6)          5.2 (2.4)          0.4 (0.0)         150 (70.0)

1)      Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan. All costs include
contingencies.
2)      Includes civil works and goods procured through national shopping and lowest price quotation.
3)      US$ 1 = DH 9.4

Project Financing by Component


      Component                 Appraisal Estimate           Actual/Latest Estimate         Percentage of Appraisal
                         Bank         Govt.         CoF.       Bank       Govt     CoF.        Bank     Govt.   Cof.
 1. Municipal              70       40 (local         0          70        80                  100%     200%
     Projects                        Govt.)

 2. FEC Institutional               0.1 (FEC)        0.2                   0.1     0.2                  100%    100%
     Development                                  (France)




                                                    - 16 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not applicable




                                      - 17 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              04/05/95                  2    URBAN SPECIALISTS
              10/16/95                  4    URBAN SPECIALISTS (2),
                                             MUN. FIN. SPEC (1), SOLID
                                             WASTE SPEC. (1)
              01/18/1996                2    URBAN SPECIALISTS
              05/27/1996                4    URBAN SPECIALISTS (4)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              02/1997


 Supervision
              10/13/1997                2    URBAN SPECIALISTS
              03/25/1998                2    URBAN SPECIALIST (1); SR.        S               S
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)
              05/21/1999                3    TEAM LEADER (1);                 S               S
                                             ECONOMIST (1); MUNICIPAL
                                             ENGINEER (1)
              06/23/2000                5    SECTOR LEADER (1); TEAM          S               U
                                             LEADER (1); FINANCIAL
                                             ADVISER (1); CIVIL
                                             ENGINEER (1); FINANCIAL
                                             OFFICER (1)
              12/19/2000                4    SR OP. OFFICER/TTL (1);          S               U
                                             ECONOMIST (1); FINANCIAL
                                             ADVISER (1); SR PUBLIC
                                             SECTOR SPEC. (1)
              05/26/2001                4    SECTOR LEADER (1);               S               U
                                             ECONOMIST/TTL (1);
                                             FINANCIAL ADVISER (1);
                                             PUBLIC SECTOR SPECIALI
                                             (1)
              10/19/2001                4    FINANCIAL ANALYST/TTL            S               S
                                             (1); FINANCIAL ANALYST
                                             (1); FINANCIAL ADVISER (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1)
              10/19/2001                4    FINANCIAL ANALYST/TTL            S               U
                                             (1); FINANCIAL ANALYST
                                             (2); PROCUREMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
              03/22/2002                2    FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);           S               S
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST/TTL
                                             (1)
              10/18/2002                3    FINANCIAL ANALYST/TTL            S               S
                                             (1); FINANCIAL ANALYST



                                              - 18 -

                                                       (YP) (1); PROCUREMENT
                                                       ANALYST (1)


 ICR
                05/17/2003                        2     FINANCIAL ANALYSTS
                                                        (2)



(b) Staff:

        Stage of Project Cycle                           Actual/Latest Estimate
                                             No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                                                       193
  Appraisal/Negotiation                                                            163
  Supervision                                                          394 (for SPN and
                                                                                  ICR)
  ICR
  Total                                                                           750*
* : includes both direct and indirect costs




                                                        - 19 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA




                                                    - 20 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU




                                                    - 21 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

The ICR is based on the documents in the project file and the relevant sector work.




                                                  - 22 -

Additional Annex 8. Indicators of FEC performance (1997-2002)

Capital to risk-weighted assets (%)

                         1997           1998               1999     2000     2001     2002
 Target (min)             8               8                  8       8        8         8
     Actual            24.28            34.88              39.88    41.87    50.19    60.29


Intermediation Margin (percentage points)

                         1997           1998               1999     2000     2001     2002
Profitability (net       1.53           2.29               3.51     3.27     2.44     2.59
margin)
  Profitability          1.9             1.9                1.9      1.9      1.9     1.9
     target
Annual return and administrative expenses (% of total assets)

                         1997            1998               1999    2000     2001     2002
 Annual return           0.58            0.71               0.79    0.89     1.30     2.1
      (net)
 Administrative           0.90           0.90               0.90    0.90     0.90     0.90
 expenses ceiling
      Actual             0.56            0.63               0.66    0.62     0.68     0.72
 Administrative
    expenses




                                                        - 23 -

- 24 -

