Report No. PIC1328
Project Name                   Morocco-Second Municipal Finance Project (@+)
Region                         Middle East and North Africa
Sector                         Finance
Project ID                     MAPE5523
Borrower                       Fonds d'Equipement Communal (FEC)
Lead Implementing Agency       Fonds d'Equipement Communal
1, rue Oued Beht
Rabat, Morocco
Contacts:
Mr. Mohamed Oudor
Director, Credit Department, FEC
Tel. 212.7.77.05.74/34
Fax. 212.7.76.38.49
Mr. A. Guezzar
Director, Finance Department, FEC
Tel. 011.212.7.77.80.91
Fax. 011.212.7.77.69.41
Date this update prepared      February 1997
Date initial PID               December 1994
Project Appraisal date         December 1996
Project Board date             May 1997
Background
1.   The municipal sector in Morocco generates about 5 percent of GDP
and accounts for about percent of total public sector investments. It
is composed of 1,600 municipalities which form citywide administrations
(communautes) in major cities, and municipal enterprises (Regies)
responsible for providing water and sewerage, power and transportation
services in those cities. Municipalities are responsible for providing
solid waste collection, local road maintenance and lighting,
slaughterhouses and market services, while communautes are responsible
for solid waste disposal and maintenance of major roads. The Ministry
of Interior (MoI) oversees the municipal sector and, with clearance from
the Ministry of Finance, approves municipal budgets which include
revenues from allocations out of the national value added tax, centrally
managed local taxes, municipally managed local taxes and fees, and loans
(mostly from FEC).
2.   The first major step towards decentralization took place in 1996,
under the First Municipal Finance Project, when Morocco replaced an ad
hoc system for distributing the local share of the VAT, with one based
on objective criteria (mainly the size of the population and of the tax
base for centrally managed local taxes). The Government recently
transferred responsibility for approving large-city expenditures from
the Governor to the communautes.



Project Objectives
3.   The overall development objectives of the project are to: (i)
increase the provision of basic infrastructure services in small and
medium-size municipalities; (ii) strengthen the Fond d'Equipement
Communal (FEC) as a viable, autonomous financial institution, and
establish a market-based municipal finance system; and (iii) support
decentralization, in particular improving financial discipline at the
municipal level and simplifying the tax system managed by local
governments.
Project Description
4.   The project is made up of the following three components:
(a) Municipal Infrastructure: The proposed loan will finance municipal
infrastructure investment subprojects. All beneficiaries will have to
comply with FEC's lending policies and environment guidelines which are
detailed in FEC's Policy Statement and found satisfactory to the Bank.
FEC will on-lend Bank funds to eligible beneficiaries through subloans
at domestic, market-determined interest rates with a maturity of not
more than 15 years, including a grace period. As in the previous loan
(Municipal Finance I), the Moroccan Treasury will operate a foreign
exchange risk coverage system which can be expected to be self-
financing. For its participation in this coverage system, FEC will pay
the Treasury an insurance premium which equates the cost of Bank funds
with that of domestic resources of comparable maturities.
Free limit and sub-loan approval. As in the first Municipal Finance
loan, the Bank will continue to review a selected number of sub-projects
(above US$2 million per subloan) as a means of strengthening FEC's
internal capabilities.
(b) Institutional Development: FEC will implement an institutional
development plan based on the results of a strategy study, to be carried
out with the assistance of international consultants to be financed by
a grant from the French Government.
(c) Training Program for local Governments:. Likely to focus on: (i)
municipal accounting and budget preparation; (ii) municipal budget
control; (iii) environmental awareness; and (iv) basic economic analysis
of the project. Component funded by the central Government budget.
Project Cost and Financing
5.   The estimated total cost of the proposed project is US$114 million,
with a Bank loan estimated at US$70 million. The project has been
prepared in close consultation with the German Kreditanstalt fhr
Wiederaufbau (KfW) which is expected to provide a parallel loan to FEC
which will complement the Bank loan.
Project Implementation
6.   The project will be implemented over a period of 4 years
principally by FEC, together with the ministries of Interior and
- 2-



Finance, and local governments. FEC (the borrower) will be responsible
for the line of credit component and the implementation of the
institutional development plan. It will on-lend Bank funds to eligible
beneficiaries at domestic, market-determined interest rates. The
Government will maintain the same foreign exchange coverage system which
has been operating satisfactorily under the previous Municipal Finance
I loan. The training program for local governments will be implemented
by the Ministry of the Interior (MOI).
Sustainability
7.   The project includes several measures to help ensure its
sustainability. At the municipal level, a training program for local
governments' staff will be implemented and a comprehensive assessment of
the functioning of the new VAT allocation will take place during the
course of the project. In addition, a set of complementary
institutional and financial measures will facilitate FEC's integration
in the banking system while strengthening its position as the Moroccan
leader in the municipal credit market.
Benefits and Target Population
8.   The main direct and indirect benefits of the project will be: (i)
improved living standards of about 4 million people living in some 90
small and medium rural and urban communes, and integration of these
communes, which account for a large portion of Morocco's least developed
areas, into the modern economy; (ii) the borrower, Fond d'Equipement
Communal (FEC), will be strengthened through a set of financial and
institutional measures, including its new statute of bank which implies
full compliance with Central Bank regulations on capital adequacy and
loan loss provisioning and the possibility given to FEC to finance
private concessions of municipal services; and (iii) sustainable
decentralization. A national training program will benefit elected
councils and municipal staff. It will aim, in particular, at improving
preparation and implementation standards of municipal budgets.
9.   The target population is local communities, especially small and
medium-size cities (under 150,000), which are expected to account for
the vast majority of municipal infrastructure projects financed by the
Bank loan.
Risks
10. The experience gained under the first Municipal Finance project and
the set of financial and institutional measures to be introduced should
enable FEC to implement the project without delays and to improve its
own performance. However, FEC's transition to a more autonomous and
financially regulated institution in a more competitive municipal
finance environment, represents a major challenge for its management and
staff. Bank monitoring of the timely implementation of these measures
will therefore be essential to ensure that the project meets its
development objectives and that FEC maintains a sound financial
performance.
Lessons Learned
-3-



11. The on-going Municipal Finance I project has demonstrated the need
for rigorous economic analysis of sub-projects. The need for a
comprehensive training program which was identified under Municipal
Finance I remains and the proposed project has included it in its scope.
Environmental Assessment
12. The project is ranked as a Category B project. Please see attached
Annex.
Contact Point:       Mr. E. Forestier, Task Manager
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-4765
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending Feb.28, 1997
- 4 -



Annex
Environmental Annex
The proposed project has been reviewed and classified as Category
B. Most operations financed by FEC are geared towards the delivery of
municipal infrastructure services and are expected to contribute to the
enhancement of the living conditions of the population in the
beneficiary municipalities. Some of these municipal infrastructure
investments could possibly raise environmental concern, if not addressed
properly, especially in the case of large size operations in areas such
as: construction of slaughterhouses, market facilities, solid waste
disposal, sewerage and waste water treatment, major road construction
and neighborhood rehabilitation. To this effect a new procedure is
being established in the proposed project.
In coordination with the Ministry of Environment, the Bank's
project team will assist FEC in the design and implementation of an
Environmental Impact Assessment or Environmental Analysis Procedure.
This new procedure will be made part of the appraisal process of the
sub-projects and their selection for financing will take into account
compliance with environmental criteria. EIAs will be carried out by the
borrowing municipalities as part of the feasibility studies of the
proposed sub-projects. (Terms of reference for the EIA will be approved
either by FEC or the Ministry of Environment depending on the level of
environmental assessment required.) The Bank, through its regular
supervision of the project, will also assist FEC (and the
municipalities) in building adequate environmental capacity in order to
undertake the proposed Environmental Review.
- 5 -



