Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4231-MOR
Loan Agreement
(Second Municipal Finance Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
COMMUNAL INFRASTRUCTURE FUND
Dated October 7, 1997
LOAN NUMBER 4231-MOR 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated October 7, 1997, between the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and the COMMUNAL INFRASTRUCTURE FUND (the 
Borrower). 
WHEREAS (A) Kingdom of Morocco (the Guarantor) and the Borrower, having been 
satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B) by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date herewith between the 
Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obligations of the 
Borrower in respect of the Loan and to undertake such other obligations as set forth 
in the Guarantee Agreement; 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 with the 
modification set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of 
Page  2
this Agreement:
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
“Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Bank.  If (a) the right of the 
Borrower to make 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been suspended with 
respect to any amount of 
the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b) at 
any time, the Bank determines, 
after consultation with the Borrower, that an amount 
of the Loan will not be required to 
finance the Project’s costs to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (c) at any 
time, the Bank determines, 
with respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan, that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or the execution of 
such 
contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to 
the Bank to remedy the situation, and establishes the amount of 
expenditures in respect of 
such contract which would otherwise have been 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of  the Loan, or (d) at any time, the Bank 
determines that the procurement of any contract to be 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or 
referred to 
in the Loan Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of 
such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of 
the Loan, or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of the Loan shall remain 
unwithdrawn from 
the Loan Account, or (f) the Bank shall have received notice from 
the Guarantor pursuant to  Section 6.07 with respect to an amount of the Loan, or (g) 
by the date specified in 
paragraph 4 (c) of Schedule 3 to the Loan Agreement, 
the Bank shall, in respect of any 
portion of the Loan: (i) have received 
no applications or requests under subparagraphs (a) 
or (b) of said paragraph 4; or 
(ii) have denied any such applications or requests, the Bank 
may, by notice to 
the Borrower and the Guarantor, terminate the right of the Borrower to 
make 
withdrawals with respect to such amount.  Upon the giving of such notice, such amount 
of the Loan shall be canceled.” 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings: 
(a)
“Beneficiary” means a provincial, prefectural or municipal administration 
of the Guarantor, an association of such administrations, or a public or private 
enterprise operating within any such administrations to which the Borrower proposes to 
make or has made a Subloan (as hereinafter defined); 
(b)
“Charter” means, collectively, the Guarantor’s Dahir No. 1-92-5 dated 
August 5, 1992 promulgating Law 31-90 pertaining to the establishment and operations 
of the Borrower, its implementing Decree No. 2-90-351 dated December 14, 1992, the 
Guarantor’s Dahir No. 1-96-100 dated August 2, 1996, promulgating Law 11-96 pertaining 
to the reorganization of the Borrower; 
(c)
“Dollar Tranche Loan” means the amount specified in Section 2.01 (a) of 
this Agreement; 
(d)
“First Category Subproject” means a Subproject with an important negative 
environmental impact;
(e)
“Fiscal Year” means the twelve (12) month period corresponding to any of 
the Borrower’s fiscal years, which period starts on January 1 and ends on December 31 
in each calendar year; 
(f)
“Foreign Exchange Risk Coverage Scheme” means the scheme established 
pursuant to the letter No. 3-6816 dated July 11, 1997 from the Guarantor’s Ministry of 
Finance to the Borrower, for the protection of the Borrower against the risk of 
foreign exchange losses in respect of the proceeds of the Loan; 
(g)
“free-limit Sub-loan” means a Sub-loan which qualifies as a free-limit 
Sub-loan pursuant to the provisions of  paragraph 2 (b) of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement; 
(h)
“French Franc” and “FRF” each means the lawful currency of the Republic 
Page  3
of France; 
(i)
“French Franc Loan Tranche” means the amount specified in Section 2.01 
(b) of this Agreement; 
(j)
“Loan Tranche” means either of the Dollar Loan Tranche or the French 
Franc Loan Tranche; 
(k)
“Performance Indicators” means the agreed Performance Indicators set 
forth in a letter of even date herewith to be utilized under the Project to measure 
the degree to which the Project objectives are being achieved;
(l)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (d) of 
this Agreement; 
(m)
“Statement of Policy” means the statement of lending and investment 
policy number 4668 approved by the Directors of the Borrower on August 4, 1997, as 
amended to the date of this Agreement; 
(n)
“Subloan” means a loan made or proposed to be made by the Borrower out of 
the proceeds of the Loan to a Beneficiary for a Subproject (as hereinafter defined); 
(o)
“Subproject” means a specific development project to be carried out under 
Part A of the Project by a Beneficiary utilizing the proceeds of a Subloan; and 
(p)
“Technical Instruction” means the Borrower’s internal instruction  number 
4669 dated August 4, 1997, setting forth the methodology and procedures of economic 
and environmental analysis applicable to appraisal of Subprojects, as hereinafter 
defined, by the Borrower, under Part A of the Project. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement: (a)
an amount equal to 
thirty five million Dollars ($35,000,000); (b) an amount equal to two hundred and five 
million French Francs (FRF205,000,000) 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
for amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be paid) by the Borrower on 
account of withdrawals made by a Beneficiary under a Subloan to meet the reasonable 
cost of goods and works required for the Subproject in respect of which the withdrawal 
from the Loan Account is requested. No withdrawals shall be made in respect to 
payments made for expenditures under Part B of the Project.
(b)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) above, no withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed seven million 
Dollars ($7,000,000), may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before 
that date but after January 1, 1997. 
(c)
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower, for expenditures for payments made by the Borrower 
of Subloans.
(d) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dirhams a special deposit account in a financial institution on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the 
Guarantor of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Page  4
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable in arrears on April 15 
and October 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project; 
Management and Operations of the Borrower 
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project and conduct its operations and affairs in accordance with sound 
financial standards and practices, with qualified management and personnel, and in 
accordance with the Charter and the Statement of Policy, and shall provide, promptly 
as needed, all the funds, facilities and other resources required for the Project.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower undertakes that, unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, Subloans shall be made in accordance with the procedures and on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(b)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights in relation to each Subproject in 
such manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the Bank and the Borrower; (ii) comply 
with its obligations under this Agreement; and (iii) achieve the purposes of the 
Project. 
Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and works required for each Subproject under Part A of the Project, and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of\0bSchedule 4 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.04. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor 
and evaluate 
on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Performance 
Indicators, the 
carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof;
(ii)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and 
furnish to the 
Bank, on or about December 31, 1998, a report 
integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities 
performed pursuant to subparagraph (i) of 
this paragraph, on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period 
preceding the date of said report, including in particular 
the 
Guarantor’s assessment of the ongoing reforms in local finances, and 
setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of 
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the 
period 
following such date; and
(iii)
review with the Bank, by March 31, 1999, or such later date as the 
Bank shall 
request, the report referred to in subparagraph (ii) of this 
paragraph, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the 
efficient completion of 
the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations 
of the said report and the Bank views on the 
matter.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
Page  5
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the 
Bank, not later than six (6) months after the Closing 
Date or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose between the 
Bank and the Borrower, a plan 
designed to ensure the continued 
achievement of the Project’s objectives; and
(ii)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower 
on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial and Other Covenants 
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain procedures and records adequate to 
monitor and record the progress of the Project and of each Subproject (including its 
cost and the benefits to be derived from it) and to reflect in accordance with 
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations and financial 
condition of the Borrower.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records referred to in Section 4.01 of this Agreement, 
its accounts 
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of 
income and expenses 
and related statements) and records and 
accounts for the Special Account for 
each Fiscal Year audited in 
accordance with sound auditing principles 
consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank, as soon as available but in any case not 
later than six 
(6) months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of said 
financial statements for such year as so 
audited; and (B) the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
have reasonably 
requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts 
and financial statements and the audit thereof as the 
Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
(b)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain, in accordance with Section 4.01 of this Agreement, 
records and 
accounts reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such Fiscal 
Year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take all steps satisfactory to the Bank, 
including its participation in the Foreign Exchange Risk Coverage Scheme, as shall be 
necessary to protect itself against risk of loss resulting from changes in the rates 
of exchange between the currencies (including the currency of the Guarantor) used in 
its operations.
Page  6
Section 4.04.  The provisions of Sections 4.05, 4.06 and 4.07 of the Loan 
Agreement between the Bank and the Borrower dated June 14, 1993 (Loan No. 3617 MOR - 
First Municipal Finance Project - Communal Infrastructure Fund) are hereby amended to 
read, respectively, as set forth in Sections 4.05, 4.06 and 4.07 of this Agreement. 
Section 4.05. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
earn an annual net intermediation margin of not less than 1.90% for each Fiscal Year. 
(b)
Before June 30 in each Fiscal Year, the Borrower shall, on the basis of 
forecasts prepared by the Borrower and satisfactory to the Bank, review whether it 
would meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) of this Section in respect of 
such Year and the next following Year and shall furnish to the Bank the results of 
such review upon its completion. 
(c)
If any such review shows that the Borrower would not meet the 
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) of this Section for the Fiscal Years covered 
by such review, the Borrower shall promptly take all necessary measures (including, 
without limitation, adjustments of the structure or levels of its interest rates and 
other financial charges) in order to meet such requirements.
(d)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
The “annual net intermediation margin” shall be calculated as the 
difference 
between: (i) the quotient of interest and fee income of the 
Fiscal Year 
divided by the average value of loans at the 
beginning and at the end of the 
said Fiscal Year; and (ii) the quotient 
of interest and fee expenses of the 
Fiscal Year divided by the 
average value of borrowed funds including deposit 
liabilities at the 
beginning and at the end of the said Fiscal Year.
(ii)
The term “interest income” means interest on loans and other 
financial assets 
reduced by the full provisioning of interest income 
on loans in arrears for 
more that ninety (90) days.
(iii)
The term “fee income” means the Borrower’s non-interest income 
from lending 
excluding fees from off-balance sheet financing facilities.
(iv)
The term “value of loans” means the gross accounting value of 
loans less the 
amount allocated for loan losses in accordance with 
sound methods of 
evaluation acceptable to the Bank.
(v)
The term “fee expenses” means non-interest charges on the bonds 
and other 
contractual liabilities issued by the borrower.
(vi)
The term “value of borrowed funds” means  the outstanding 
principal amount of 
borrowed funds.
(vii)
The term “deposit liabilities” means Bank deposits as defined  in 
the banking 
law. 
Section 4.06. (a)  Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
maintain, for each Fiscal Year after its Fiscal Year ending on December 31, a ratio of 
total administrative expenses to average net value of total assets not higher than 
0.90%. 
(b)
Before June 30 in each Fiscal Year, the Borrower shall, on the basis of 
forecasts prepared by the Borrower and satisfactory to the Bank, review whether it 
would meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) of this Section in respect of 
such Year and the next following Year and shall furnish to the Bank the results of 
such review upon its completion. 
(c)
If any such review shows that the Borrower would not meet the 
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) of this Section for the Fiscal Years covered 
by such review, the Borrower shall promptly take all necessary measures in order to 
meet such requirements.
(d)
For the purposes of this Section:
Page  7
(i)
The “ratio of total administrative expenses to average net value 
of total 
assets” shall be calculated as the quotient of 
administrative expenses of the 
Fiscal Year divided by the average 
accounting value of assets at the beginning 
and at the end of the said 
Fiscal Year.
(ii)
The term “total administrative expenses” means all expenses 
related to the 
Borrower’s personnel and other non-interest 
expenses and fees including 
depreciation and taxes paid by 
the Borrower other than income taxes.
(iii)
The term “accounting value of assets” means the accounting value 
of total 
assets, including cash and the Borrower’s account 
balances, outstanding loan 
balances, fixed assets, and intangible 
and other miscellaneous balance sheet 
assets calculated on a basis 
acceptable to the Bank.
Section 4.07. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
maintain for each of its Fiscal Years after its Fiscal Year ending on December 31, 
1997, a capital to risk-weighted assets (capital adequacy) ratio of not less than 8% 
calculated in accordance with the Guarantor’s Central Bank prudential rules, including 
the Central Bank’s letter No. 25/G/97 dated February 27, 1997.
Section 4.08. The Borrower shall: 
(a)
by December 31, 1997, carry out, with the assistance of consultants with 
qualifications and under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, for its review and comments, a study to identify the measures required to 
strengthen its management, operations and financial performance in order to develop a 
sustained competitive advantage in a competitive municipal-finance environment; and 
(b)
by September 30, 1998, adopt a development program designed to further 
the objectives of said program, and thereafter carry out the same, taking into 
consideration the conclusions and recommendations of the study referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the Bank’s views on the matter.  
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
The Charter or the Statement of Policy shall have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the 
operations or the financial condition of the Borrower or its ability to carry out the 
Project or to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement;
(b)
The transformation of the Borrower into a Joint Stock Company shall not 
have taken place by December 31, 1998.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, any event 
specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur. 
ARTICLE VI 
Termination 
Section 6.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Chief Executive Officer of the Borrower is designated as 
Page  8
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For the Borrower:
Fonds d’Equipement Communal
1 rue Oued Beht
Angle avenue Omar Ibn Al Khattab
Agdal Rabat
Kingdom of Morocco
Telex:
36581 - FEC
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Kemal Dervis
Regional Vice President          
Middle East and North Africa
COMMUNAL INFRASTRUCTURE FUND
By /s/ El Mostafa Sahel
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1 
Description of the Project  
The objectives of the Project are to increase the provision of basic municipal 
infrastructure services and to strengthen the Borrower’s operations in a municipal 
finance system based on market mechanisms.
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Bank and the Borrower may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Page  9
Part A:
Municipal Infrastructure
The financing of municipal infrastructure projects through the provision of 
Subloans to Beneficiaries.
Part B:
Institutional Development
The carrying out of a program to strengthen the organization, management and 
operations of the Borrower, including the provision therefor of staff training, 
technical assistance and equipment. 
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2001.
SCHEDULE 2 
Interest and Principal Repayment Provisions 
A.
General Definitions
For the purposes of this Schedule, the following terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
“Disbursed Amount” means, in respect of each Interest Period, the 
aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account in such 
Interest Period. 
(b)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the date of 
this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period from and including an Interest 
Payment date to, but excluding, the next following Interest Payment Date. 
(c)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement. 
(d)
“Rate Fixing Date” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the first day of the 
Interest Period next following the Interest Period in which such Disbursed Amount is 
withdrawn. 
B.
Interest 
1.
The principal amount of the Loan shall be divided into Disbursed Amounts. 
Interest shall accrue on each Disbursed Amount outstanding from time to time at a rate 
based on a floating rate index prior to its Rate Fixing Date and at a fixed rate from 
its Rate Fixing Date, as described in paragraph 2 of this Part B.
2.
(a)
From the date of withdrawal of each amount of each Disbursed Amount of 
the Dollar Loan Tranche withdrawn and outstanding, to but not including the Rate 
Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount, interest on each such amount shall accrue, at a 
rate equal to the applicable:
(i)
LIBOR Base Rate; plus
(ii)
LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
From the Rate Fixing Date for each Disbursed Amount until final repayment 
thereof, interest on such Disbursed Amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the 
applicable:
(i)
Dollar Fixed Base Rate; plus
(ii)
Dollar Fixed Total Spread.
(c)
From the date of withdrawal of each amount of each Disbursed Amount from 
the French Franc Loan Tranche withdrawn and outstanding, to but not including the Rate 
Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount, interest on each such amount shall accrue, at a 
Page  10
rate equal to the applicable:
(i)
PIBOR Base Rate; plus
(ii)
PIBOR Total Spread.
(d)
From the Rate Fixing Date for each Disbursed Amount until final repayment 
thereof, interest on such Disbursed Amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the 
applicable:
(i)
French Franc Fixed Base Rate; plus
(ii)
French Franc Fixed Total Spread.
3.
For the purposes of paragraph 2 of this Part B, the following terms have the 
following meanings: 
(a)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for the Interest Period in which a Disbursed 
Amount is withdrawn, the London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in 
Dollars for value the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the day occurring on the Interest Payment Date 
preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank 
and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(b)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for the Interest Period in which each 
Disbursed Amount of the Dollar Loan Tranche is withdrawn:
(i)
one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
(ii)
minus (or plus) the weighted average margin, for such Interest 
Period, below 
(or above) the London interbank offered rates, or 
other reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the 
Bank's outstanding borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the 
Bank to fund single currency loans or 
portions thereof made by 
it that include such Disbursed Amount for such 
Interest 
Period; as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum. 
(c)
“Dollar Fixed Base Rate” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the equivalent 
of the London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in single currency for 
value on the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount, expressed as a single fixed 
interest rate based on the fixed interest rates corresponding to the repayment 
installments of such Disbursed Amount, as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum.
(d)
“Dollar Fixed Total Spread” means, for each Disbursed Amount: 
(i)
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%); 
(ii)
minus (or plus) the cost margin, applicable on the Rate Fixing 
Date for such 
Disbursed Amount, below (or above) the London 
interbank offered rates, or 
other reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank's 
outstanding 
borrowings or portions thereof allocated to fund single currency 
loans 
or portions thereof made by it that include such Disbursed Amount; plus 
(iii)
the Bank's risk spread applicable on the Rate Fixing Date for such 
Disbursed 
Amount; as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed 
as a percentage per 
annum.
(e) 
“PIBOR Base Rate” means, for the Interest Period in which a Disbursed 
Amount is withdrawn, the Paris interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in French 
Francs for value the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial 
Interest Period, for value the day occurring on the Interest Payment Date preceding 
the first day of such Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum.
Page  11
(f)
“PIBOR Total Spread” means, for the Interest Period in which each 
Disbursed Amount of the French Franc Loan Tranche is withdrawn:
(i)
one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
(ii)
minus (or plus) the weighted average margin, for such Interest 
Period, below 
(or above) the Paris interbank offered rates, or 
other reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the 
Bank's outstanding borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the 
Bank to fund single currency loans or 
portions thereof made by 
it that include such Disbursed Amount for such 
Interest 
Period; as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum. 
(g)
“French Franc Fixed Base Rate” means, for each Disbursed Amount of the 
French Franc Loan Tranche, the equivalent of the Paris interbank offered rate for 
six-month deposits in single currency for value on the Rate Fixing Date for such 
Disbursed Amount, expressed as a single fixed interest rate based on the fixed 
interest rates corresponding to the repayment installments of such Disbursed Amount, 
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(h)
“French Franc Fixed Total Spread” means, for each Disbursed Amount of the 
French Franc Loan Tranche: 
(i)
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%); 
(ii)
minus (or plus) the cost margin, applicable on the Rate Fixing 
Date for such 
Disbursed Amount, below (or above) the Paris 
interbank offered rates, or other 
reference rates, for six-month 
deposits, in respect of the Bank's outstanding 
borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated to fund single currency loans or 
portions thereof made by it that include such Disbursed Amount; plus 
(iii)
the Bank's risk spread applicable on the Rate Fixing Date for such 
Disbursed 
Amount; as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed 
as a percentage per 
annum. 
4.
The Bank shall notify the Guarantor and the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate, LIBOR 
Total Spread, Fixed Base Rate and Fixed Total Spread applicable to each Disbursed 
Amount of the Dollar Loan Tranche, and of PIBOR Base Rate, PIBOR Total Spread, PIBOR 
Fixed Base rate and PIBOR Fixed Total Spread applicable to each Disbursed Amount of 
the French Franc Tranche, promptly upon the determination thereof.
5.
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the determination of 
the interest rates referred to in this Schedule, the Bank determines that it is in the 
interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining 
the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in this Schedule, the 
Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to amounts of 
the Loan not yet withdrawn upon not less than six (6) months' notice to the Guarantor 
and the Borrower of the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry 
of the notice period unless the Guarantor or the Borrower notifies the Bank during 
said period of its objection thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply 
to the Loan. 
C.
Repayment 
1.
Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Part C, the Borrower shall 
repay each Disbursed Amount of the Loan in semiannual installments payable on each 
April 15 and October 15, the first such installment to be payable on the seventh (7th) 
Interest Payment Date following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount and the 
last such installment to be payable on the twenty-fourth (24th) Interest Payment Date 
following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount. Each installment shall be 
one-eighteenth (1/18) of such Disbursed Amount.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part C, if any installment 
of principal of each Disbursed Amount would, pursuant to the provisions of said 
paragraph 1, be payable after October 15, 2012, the Borrower shall also pay on said 
Page  12
date the aggregate amount of all such installments. 
3.
After each Disbursed Amount shall have been withdrawn, the Bank shall promptly 
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the amortization schedule for such Disbursed 
Amount.
SCHEDULE 3
Procedures for and Terms and Conditions of Subloans 
1.
(a)
Subloans shall be made in accordance with the requirements and other 
details, including those relating to Subproject criteria and appraisal and 
environmental assessment procedures and terms and conditions of Subloans, set forth or 
referred to in the Technical Instruction, as such Instructions shall be updated from 
time to time with the agreement of the Bank to ensure the continued achievement of the 
objectives of the Project.
(b)
The individual amount of each Subloan made by the Borrower for any one 
Subproject shall not exceed 70% of the total cost of  the Subproject.
(c)
Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the aggregate amount of the 
Subloans made available by the Borrower for any one Beneficiary shall not exceed the 
equivalent of $5,000,000.
2.
No expenditures for goods or works required for a Subproject shall be eligible 
for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan unless:
(a)
the Subloan for such Subproject shall have been approved by the Bank and 
such expenditures shall have been made not earlier than ninety (90) days prior to the 
date on which the Bank shall have received the application and information required 
under paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule in respect of such Subloan; or
(b)
the Subloan for such Subproject shall have been a free-limit Subloan for 
which the Bank has authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account and such expenditures 
shall have been made not earlier than ninety (90) days prior to the date on which the 
Bank shall have received the request and information required under paragraph 3 (b) of 
this Schedule in respect of such free-limit Subloan. For the purposes of this 
Agreement, a free-limit Subloan shall be a Subloan for a Subproject: (A) in an amount 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan which shall not exceed the sum of 
$2,000,000 equivalent, when added to any other outstanding amounts financed or 
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan which have been or are being 
used for financing goods, works and services directly and materially related to such 
Subproject; or (B) which, pursuant to the Technical Instruction and as otherwise 
agreed with the Bank, does not require the preparation of an environmental impact 
assessment study of First Cate
gory before the carrying out thereof. 
3.
The ninety day limitation referred to in sub-paragraph 2 (a) of this paragraph 
shall not apply to expenditures to be financed under sub-loans in respect of which the 
applications and information required under paragraph 4 (a) and (b) of this Schedule, 
as the case may be, are received by the Bank not later than September 30, 1997.
4.
(a)
When presenting a Subloan (other than a free-limit Subloan) to the Bank 
for approval, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank an application, in form 
satisfactory to the Bank, together with: (i) a description of the Beneficiary and an 
appraisal of the Subproject, including a description of the expenditures proposed to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; (ii) the proposed terms and conditions of 
the Subloan, including, when available, the schedule of amortization of the Subloan; 
and (iii) such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b)
Each request by the Borrower for authorization to make withdrawals from 
the Loan Account in respect of a free-limit Subloan shall contain (i) a summary 
description of  the Subproject, including a description of the expenditures proposed 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and (ii) the terms and conditions of 
the Subloan, including the schedule of amortization therefor.
(c)
Applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions of 
Page  13
subparagraphs (a) and (b) of this paragraph shall be presented to the Bank on or 
before  June 30, 2000.
5.
Subloans shall be made on terms whereby the Borrower shall obtain rights 
adequate to protect the interests of the Bank and the Borrower, including the right 
to:
(a)
require the Beneficiary to carry out and operate the Subproject with due 
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, financial, managerial 
and environmental standards and practices, and to maintain adequate records;
(b)
require that: (i) the goods and works to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement; and (ii) such goods and works shall be used exclusively in the carrying out 
of the Subproject;
(c)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Bank if the 
Bank shall so request, such goods and the sites, works, plants and construction 
included in the Subproject, the operation thereof, and any relevant records and 
documents;
(d)
require that:  (i) the Beneficiary shall take out and maintain with 
responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall 
be consistent with sound practice and the relevant regulations of the Guarantor; and 
(ii) without any limitation upon the foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards 
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan to the place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to 
be made payable in a currency freely usable by the Beneficiary to replace or repair 
such goods;
(e)
obtain all such information as the Bank or the Borrower shall reasonably 
request relating to the foregoing and to the administration, operations and financial 
condition of the Beneficiary and to the benefits to be derived from the Subproject; 
(f)
require the Beneficiary to comply with any requirements and conditions 
for the protection of the environment as shall have been determined by the Borrower; 
and
(g)
suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary to the use of the 
proceeds of the Loan upon failure by such Beneficiary to perform its obligations under 
its contract with the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B: 
namely that for preference for domestically manufactured goods the provisions of 
paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods 
manufactured in the territory of the Guarantor.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
Page  14
1.
National Competitive Bidding 
(a) Goods estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract, and (b) 
works, estimated to cost less than $3,000,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of 
the Guidelines. 
2.
National/International Shopping 
Goods estimated to cost less than $150,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Procurement of Small Works 
Works estimated to cost less than $150,000 equivalent per contract, may be   
awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic 
contractors in response to a written invitation.  The invitation shall include a 
detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant 
drawings, where applicable.  The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the 
lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources 
to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for: (a) goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$500,000 or more; (b) works estimated to cost the equivalent of $1,500,000 or more; 
and (c) sole source contracts, as well as the first two contracts under each of the 
works and goods categories, irrespective of the values, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
2.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of 
payments required under Subloans, and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, provided, however, 
that notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 2 (b) of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement, payments under free-limit Subloans may be made out of the Special Account 
before the Bank shall have authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect 
thereof. Such expenditures, however, shall qualify as eligible expenditures only if 
the Bank shall subsequently authorize such withdrawals; and 
(b)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $5,800,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$2,900,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent 
of $20,000,000. 
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
Page  15
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in 
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan, minus the total amount of 
all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of 
twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan 
Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the 
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for 
eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
Page  16
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be. 
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
