Document of
THE WORLD BANK
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 19496
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
NIGER
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
(Credit 2122 NIR)
June 28, 1999
Rural Development It
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not not be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENTS UNITS
Currency Unit         CFA Franc (CFAF)
1990: US$ = CFAF 285
1991: US$ = CFAF 283
1992: US$ = CFAF 265
1994: US$ = CFAF 555
1995: US$ = CFAF 520
1996: US$ = CFAF 520
1997: US$ = CFAF 540
1998: US$ = CFAF 550
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January I to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AMRT            Atelier Mensuel de Revue de Technologie
(Monthly Technology Review Meeting)
CORRA           Comites Regionaux de la Recherche Agronomique
(Regional Agricultural Research-Development Committees)
DCA             Development Credit Agreement
DEPSEF          Division des Etudes, Programmes, Suivi-Evaluation et Formation
FSR             Fanning Systems Research
FSTT            Farming System Technology Transfer
GDP             Gross Domestic Product
ICRISAT         International Crop Research Institute for the Semi Arid Tropics
INTSORMIL    International Sorghum and Millet Collaborative Research Program
ISNAR           Institute for Support to National Agricultural Research
IITA            International Institute of Tropical Agriculture
INRAN           Institut National de la Recherche Agronomique
(National Agricultural Research Institute)
M&E             Monitoring and Evaluation
NRM             Natural Resource Management
PRAN            Projet de Recherche Agronomique du Niger
SAR             Staff Appraisal Report
TDT             Technology Development and Transfer
UNDP            United Nations Development Program
USAID           United States Agency for International Development
WARDA           West Africa Rice Development Association
Vice President        :  Jean-Louis Sarbib
Director                 Theodore Ahlers
Sector Manager           Joseph Baah-Dwomoh
Task Managers         :  Daniel Moreau (Aug 90 - June 92)
Chandra Pattanayak (June 92 -March 94)
Madicke Niang (March 94 - May 95)
Shiv Singh (May 95 - September 97)
Yves-Coffi Prudencio (Sept 97 - Dec 98)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
(Cr. 2122-NIR)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
Preface
Evaluation  Summary .................................................                           ...................i
Part 1. Project Implementation Assessment .I
A.    Introduction ..................................................................I 
B.  Project Objectives .                        .....................1...........................................   I
Description of Objectives .                 ..................................................................   I
Evaluation of Objectives and Risks ...................................................................                               2
C.    Achievement of Objectives ..........................                              ........................................    3
D.    Project Cost and Financing  ................................                            ...................................               9
E.    Major Factors Affecting the Project ......................................                            ............................ 10
F.      Project Sustainabilitv .................................................................. 10
G.    Bank Performance ..................................................................                                                     10
H.    Borrower Performance ...................                         ........................               ........................ 11
I.  Implementation Agencv .                           .................................................................. 11
J.     Assessment of Outcome ..................................................................                                               12
K.    Future Operations ...................................................................  12
L.  Key Lessons Leamed .                            .........................   ................................... 12
Part II. Statistical Tables ...........................                                                                                       15
Table 1.   Summary of Assessments ...................................... 15
Table 2.   Related Bank Credits ......................................                                                                        17
Table 3.  Project Timetable ......................................                                                                             18
Table 4.        Audit Disbursement: Cumulative  Estimated and Actual ......................................     18
Table 5.        Key Indicators for Project tnplementation                                            ...................................... 18
Table 6.   Key Indicators for Project Operation ......................................                                                         18
Table 7.   Studies Included in the Project ......................................                                                             19
Table 8A. Project Costs ........................... 21
Table 8B. Project Financing ...........................                                                                                       21
Table 9.  Economic Costs and Benefits ........................... 21
Table 10. Status of Legal Covenants ...........................                                                                               22
Table 11. Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ...........................   26
Table 12. Bank Resources: Missions ........................... 27
Attachments:
A. Aide-Memoire of the ICR Mission
B. Borrower Contribution
C. Map IBRD No. 21774
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
(Cr. 2122-NIR)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report for the National Agricultural Research
Project (PNRA) for which Credit 2122-NIR in the amount of SDR 15 million (equivalent to
about US$20 million) was approved on July 18, 1990, and made effective in July 1991. The
credit was closed on December 31, 1998. The last disbursement took place on June 17, 1999.
About 99 percent of the credit was disbursed.
The completion report was prepared by Yves-Coffi Prudencio, AFTR3, with assistance of
Soulemane Fofana and Salifou Mahaman, AFTR2. It was reviewed by Joseph Baah-Dwomoh,
Sector Manager, AFTR2, and by Irene Xenakis, Implementation Specialist, AFTS2. Preparation
of this report began during an ICR mission in Niger in April 1999. The implementation report is
based on the results of the ICR mission, on the project documents, correspondence, supervision
reports, appraisal reports, and Credit Agreement. The Borrower's comments have been received
and have been incorporated in the ICR. The Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR
by preparing its own evaluation of the project, which is attached to this report.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
(Cr. 2122-NIR)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.   This Implementation Completion Report evaluates the National Agricultural Research
Project in Niger, which was executed by the National Agricultural Research Institute (INRAN),
under the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock.
Project Objectives
2.   The basic objective of the first five-year phase of the project was to strengthen the national
capacity for agricultural research planning and implementation by: (a) improving priority-setting
and resource allocation methodology, taking into account farmers' needs and resource
conservation; (b) improving coordination in the formulation and execution of national and
international agricultural research programs; (c) improving research programming, budgeting
and financial management; (d) improving staff planning, training, recruitment and career
development in research; (e) strengthening linkages between research, extension services and
farmers with on-farm adaptive research and participatory research programs.
3.  For the last two years of the actual project implementation period (which lasted eight
years) the objective was adjusted during supervision, with the focus instead on development and
transfer of improved technologies to raise farm productivity and incomes.
Implementation Experience and Results
4.   The project partially achieved the objective of improving priority-setting and resource
allocation methodology by revising the statutes of INRAN to establish governance bodies to
carry out the objective. These included the board of INRAN, which had one farmer
representative out of six members. Other governance bodies included the Scientific Council,
which advises the board, and the National Council for Agricultural Research, which designs
national agricultural research policy. These were established but never functioned effectively.
Regional research development councils (CORRAs) were set up to meet once every year in each
province to listen to farmers and take their needs into account, but they only functioned for one
year (1992-1993). A natural resource management (NRM) program was set up with diagnostic
teams to take into account resource conservation needs in the priority setting process.



ii
5.   The project substantially achieved the objective of improving coordination in the
formulation and execution of national and international research programs by appointing a
Scientific Director to coordinate all research activities, creating five multidisciplinary research
programs to encourage coordination and cooperation between thematic research departments,
holding program review and planning meetings with participation of external partners, and by
decentralizing the scientific directorate across the regional research centers.
6.   The project partially achieved the objective of improving research planning, budgeting and
financial management. Long- and medium-term strategic plans were designed and revised,
research planning services were provided by ISNAR, and an administrative and fmancial
directorate was created and decentralized across the research centers with adequate accounting
and financial management tools and personnel. A financial controller was appointed by the
government and a special procurement commission was put in place during the final year of the
project to speed up procurement. However, mechanisms for donor coordination and for
associated programs with the university were not established as planned. Furthermore, full
achievement of the objective was constrained by a lack of adequate budget lines for research
projects and sub-projects.
7.   The objective of improving staff planning, training, recruitment and career development in
research was also partially achieved, through the creation within INRAN of a human resource
management unit to plan staff recruitment, and the creation of a human resource development
unit to plan and monitor staff training. Both units used staff recruitment and training needs
identified in the strategic plans. The training program resulted in a substantial increase in the
proportion of scientists with advanced degrees (at least M.Sc equivalent) from 40 percent in
1993 to 76 percent in 1998.  USAID and collaborative research programs significantly
contributed to the implementation of the training plan. The main impediment to the full
achievement of the objective was the non-adoption by the government of the autonomous statute
of the personnel of the Institute which would have allowed the Institute to manage its staff more
efficiently. It was in fact a condition of effectiveness of the project which was seemingly
fulfilled with an inadequate legal text which could not be implemented. More adequate personnel
statutes were proposed during project implementation but were never adopted by the
government.
8.   The objective of strengthening linkages between research, extension services, and farmers
was substantially achieved with the creation and adequate staffing of a farming systems and
technology transfer program with two regional multidisciplinary teams. Other mechanisms
established to complete the objective included the CORRAs, the monthly technology reviews
workshops (AMRTs), and the on-farm tests in collaboration with extension services. In addition
to farmers reached through extension services, individual research programs also had their own
contact farmers for on-farm research and seed production activities.
9.   The research output objectives set by supervision since 1997 were overall substantially
achieved. The Institute developed in collaboration with INTSORMIL the first hybrid sorghum
for the Sahel (NAD1). The latter was adopted by research contact farmers who spread it to a
total of 600 farmers in 1998. Forty-three of these were trained in 1998 by the Institute to
produce and sell the hybrid seeds, 13,000 kg of which was produced in that year. Improved
varieties were also developed or screened for rice, millet, maize, and cassava. Improved breeds
of sheep were also developed as well as improved nutrition technologies for animal production.



iii
However, soil and water management technology development for improved dry land farming
was limited.
10. The rate of completion of civil works and of procurement of equipment to support the
above objectives was over 80 percent, in terms of projected costs.
11. Overall, the project had modest to substantial achievements in the areas of research
planning, research coordination, financial management, staff training, research-extension
linkage, and civil works, but the project failed to clearly define and establish an efficient
agricultural research institution with autonomous management of its staff, as well as of its funds,
with effective statutes/bylaws and well functioning governance and funding bodies.
12. The Agricultural Research Institution established by the project is unlikely to be
financially sustainable. The government was unable to pay more than one fourth of the
counterpart funds during project implementation and is therefore most unlikely to be able to
support recurrent costs which have increased as a result of the project. No truly sustainable
funding mechanism was built in to the project design. However, elements of institutional
sustainability were introduced through institutional reforms and training
13. Bank performance was unsatisfactory. The Bank during preparation failed to clearly
indicate what type of research institution was to be built by the project, specified no minimum
research output, provided no monitoring and evaluation component, no sets of performance
indicators, and implemented the project without one of its conditions of effectiveness (personnel
statute) being fulfilled. The Bank failed to get the government to comply during implementation,
made no formal threat of suspension, yet extended the project implementation period by three
years. Supervision was insufficient and inconsistent with five task managers in eight years. The
mid-term review occurred late during the initially planned project completion year (1995).
14. Borrower performance was unsatisfactory, with a thirteen month delay between board
approval and effectiveness, failure to adopt and implement adequate statutes for the research
Institute, including activation of the governance bodies of the institution, failure to disburse
counterpart funds, procurement delays due to bureaucratic bottlenecks in the national
procurement system, and inappropriate political interventions in procurement.  Project
management was inconsistent, inadequate at times and insufficiently pro-active.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations and key Lessons Learned
15.  Overall, the project outcome is rated marginally unsatisfactory.
16. As a result of the difficulties encountered by the project and the longer time it took to
achieve its objectives, no follow-up operation was prepared, yet this is badly needed to preserve
the positive achievements of the project. Follow-up is expected to occur in future following a
careful assessment of the lessons learned and following the design of an adequate rural
development strategy.
17.  The positive and negative experiences of similar first-generation type of agricultural
research project confirm most of the lessons learned from such type of projects in the past and
that are being applied in the new generation type of agricultural services projects funded by the



iv
Bank, that is: the need to have integrated research and extension projects, the need to establish
mechanisms for real farmers' participation in the development of the research agenda and in the
allocation of research funds; the need to use lending instruments such as the adaptable program
lending (APL) instrument to pursue capacity building in a short early phase of the project and
research output objectives in the following phases, the need to introduce cost sharing or cost-
recovery mechanisms, etc.  Additional specific lessons that one may draw  from  the
implementation of this project include the following:
(a)  It is essential to include legal advisers in the design of projects whose success depends
heavily on legal texts or statutes that are to be adopted before or during project
implementation. This will help to ensure proper identification, proper design and effective
implementation of such legal texts.
(b) A special procurement commission, as experienced in the last year of this project, chaired
by the chairman of the board of the research Institute implementing the research project,
can help speed up procurement and disbursement, and can thereby improve project
implementation, provided that the research Institute has a sufficiently efficient
administrative and financial management system.
(c)  Conditions for effectiveness, if not properly fulfilled before project implementation are
unlikely to be during project implementation.
(d)  Farmers participation in the research process, significantly improves the relevance of
research to farmers' needs as well as the quantity and quality of research results.
(e)  Adequate bylaws for autonomous management of research staff by research institutions
and sustainable financing mechanisms are necessary to provide minimum incentives and
an enabling environment for fruitful research.
(f) Collaboration with research institutions and research networks at regional and international
levels significantly improves the quantity and quality of research output and should ideally
be built into research projects or be facilitated by them.
(g)  It is necessary to include in the design of projects a mechanism to insure across time and
across project managers within the Bank and within the borrowing country, a common
understanding of project objectives and performance indicators, including project
sustainability indicators.
(h)  Recruitment systems, results agreements and incentive systems that attract and maintain
good project management capability, at the Bank level and at the Borrower's level, are
essential for good and consistent project management.
(i)  Decentralization of research by providing more autonomy to the regional research centers,
and by allowing them to have their own governance and funding bodies, with the
involvement of farmers organizations, non-governmental organizations and the private
sector in such bodies, is likely to be more effective than the establishment of governance
bodies at the national level.



v
(j) Project supervision tends to be less holistic than the mid-term review and the ICR in
reviewing the accomplishments of projects against their development objectives and
components, as identified in the SAR and follow-up amendments. Supervision tends to
focus on eliminating major project weaknesses at a given time through action plans. As a
result supervision ratings of a project may significantly differ from the ICR rating as in the
present case. In order to insure consistency, there is a need to emphasize the SAR (or
PAD) as a major supervision instrument, especially when there are frequent changes in
project managers on the Bank side as well as on the Borrower's side.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
(Cr. 2122-NIR)
PART I: Project Implementation Assessment
A. INTRODUCTION
1.   At the time of project preparation (1988/90) Niger was and remains one of the poorest
countries in the world with a per capita GNP of US$280 in 1987 and an average population
growth rate of about 3.2 percent per year. It was estimated that 80 to 90 percent of the population
was dependent on the agricultural sector for its livelihood and that agriculture was feasible
mostly on 10 percent of the land which received an average rainfall of 300-600 mm per year.
Agriculture in Niger was also known to be highly vulnerable to drought and it was felt that its
long-term development would depend largely on technological improvements that could make
the country's limited resource base more productive.
2.  It was also felt that while prospects for a significant technological breakthrough were not
bright, progress could nevertheless be achieved in improving farming systems by cautiously
adapting some modem techniques to local systems, by making inexpensive improvements in
traditional agricultural techniques, and by focussing adaptive research on the technical and
economic constraints to the intensification and integration of crop/forest/livestock production
systems. The national agricultural research project was designed and launched in 1990 to provide
Niger with the necessary institutional and human resource capacity to develop relevant
agricultural technologies. A complementary agricultural services support project (Cr.2355-NIR)
was also planned and launched later in 1993 to transfer the relevant technologies to farmers.
B. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
Description of Objectives
3.   The basic objective of the project, expected to be a first five-year phase, was to strengthen
the national capacity for agricultural research planning and implementation by:
(a)  improving priority-setting and resource allocation methodology, taking into account
farmers' needs and resource conservation;
(b) improving coordination in the formulation and execution of national and international
agricultural research programs;
(c)  improving research programming, budgeting and financial management;



2
(d)  improving staff planning, training, recruitment and career development in research;
(e)  strengthening linkages between research, extension services and farmers with on-farm
adaptive research and participatory research programs.
Evaluation of Objectives and Risks
4.   Given the economic situation of Niger at the time of project preparation, an operation to
support the national agricultural research system to develop improved agricultural technologies
was fully justified. The focus of the project on institutional capacity building objectives during
this first phase was appropriate, particularly with respect to capacity building for adequate
research planning and management, financial management, human resources development and
strengthening of research-extension-farmers linkages. However, given the emphasis on capacity
building, the design failed to consider alternative types of research institutions and to indicate
clearly, as part of the objectives, what type of research institution was expected out of the
project. Furthermore, given the relatively long five year duration of the first phase, a minimum
level of achievements in technology development and transfer should have been targeted during
the first phase, potential research areas were discussed in the SAR but no target was set. The
development objective as stated failed to link capacity building and research output to economic
development. No sets of performance indicators were specified for capacity building nor for
research output.
5.   These deficiencies were somewhat corrected later in 1997 during supervision. The basic
development objective was then re-stated as:
To strengthen INRAN's capacity for the development of improved technologies that would raise
farm productivity and increase the income offarmers on a sustainable basis.
Performance indicators (for the entire project period) were then proposed and included: (a) an
increase in the number of crop varieties developed by the regional research centers; (b) a 50
percent increase in the number of on-farm adaptive trials by the regional research centers and
research stations; (c) a 5 percent increase in productivity in dry land farming and 50 percent
increase in productivity in irrigated farning systems; (d) rehabilitation of research centers and
research stations to support priority research and breeder seed production; (e) increased
collaboration with CGIAR centers and national programs in the region; (f) at least 60 percent of
the research staff trained in advance degrees. Consequently, from 1997 to 1998 the project
development objectives switched their emphasis to research output, rather than capacity
building.
6.   The greatest project risk identified during preparation, as mentioned in the Staff Appraisal
Report (SAR), was the potential difficulty of developing feasible economic solutions to the
degradation of the environment and technical recommendations for increased crop and livestock
productivity in the context of the particularly difficult agricultural conditions in Niger. Soil
fertility degradation was viewed as a major non-project risk to be controlled by research on soil
fertility maintenance. Another risk envisaged was the relevance of priority research programs in
taking into account the needs of farmers and resource conservation. The reorganization of



3
INRAN with new statutes, the involvement of extension agents and the various research-
extension-farmer linkage mechanisms were expected to help control such a risk. The risks
assessed were, however, mainly related to the research problem and overlooked procurement,
administrative, managerial, economic and political instability risks which in retrospect were the
main risks that affected the project.
C. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
7.   Overall, the project capacity building objectives were partially achieved.
Improvement of priority setting and resource allocation methodology, taking into account
farmers' needs and resource conservation
8.   This objective was partially achieved. The revision of INRAN's statutes, which was a
condition of effectiveness, was undertaken in 1991 and established several governance bodies to
ensure adequate priority setting and resource allocation, taking into account farmers' needs and
resource conservation.
9. However, most of the governance bodies established by the statutes did not function
effectively for various reasons: (a) farmers representation on the management council or board of
INRAN was relatively weak (one out of six) and was not seriously considered during
preparation; (b) the Scientific Council, whose role was to advise the board on relevance and
quality of research proposals, never had a meeting despite a clear definition of its modus
operandi and nomination of its twelve members. One reason was the absence of evaluation and
classification of the research staff which would have enabled the council to do its job properly;
(c) the National Council for Agricultural Research, mostly made up of Ministers, whose role was
to provide research policy guidance, also never met because its chairman, the Minister of
Agriculture, changed ten times during the eight-year project period, as a result of political
instability.
10. Nevertheless, the Regional Research/Development Councils or Comits Regionaux de la
Recherche Agronomique (CORRAs) were established as one of the conditions of effectiveness,
but functioned effectively only for a short period from 1992 to 1993. The CORRA was a forum
for meeting and consultation between research extension and farmers in each region
(Departement) to discuss each year the production constraints and their solutions. The regional
research centers were in charge of organizing the CORRA meetings in collaboration with the
local government representations (Prefectures), but the latter tended to have a non-transparent
management of the funds made available to them for organizing the meetings. As a result,
INRAN stopped funding the CORRAs since 1995, following an unsuccessful attempt to resume
their activities in that year.
11. To include resource conservation needs in priority setting, a natural resource management
(NRM) program was effectively established as planned with two multidisciplinary diagnostic
teams, one for the Niger river basin region and the other for the eastern plains along the border
with Nigeria. In addition a farming systems research (FSR) program was also set up and
intervened in on-farm testing of technologies, in collaboration with extension services.



4
Improvement of coordination in the formulation and execution of national and
international research programs
12. This objective was substantially achieved through the following actions: (a) a Scientific
Directorate was created within INRAN to coordinate the formulation and implementation of
research programs and was headed by a Scientific Director democratically elected by the
research scientists; (b) five multidisciplinary research programs (rain-fed systems, irrigated
systems, livestock systems, farming systems and technology transfers, natural resources
management) were created by pooling staff from the existing five thematic departments so as to
ensure interdisciplinary team-work and better coordination of research programs across
departments; (c) program committees were set up each year within each multidisciplinary
research program to formulate the annual research proposals; (d) annual program review and
planning meetings were organized with the participation of external partners such as
international research Institutes and development agencies, to discuss the results of the past year
and proposals for the coming year; (e) research activities within programs and departments were
coordinated by the Scientific Director; (f) the Scientific Directorate was decentralized across the
regional research centers with the deputy director of the regional centers playing the role of
Scientific Director at that level. The Scientific Directorate was also in charge of contracting and
managing collaborative research program conventions with national and international research
institutions and research networks.
Improvement of research planning, budgeting and financial management
13.  This objective was partially achieved as follows: (a) the long term strategic plan (1988 -
2003) was revised and one medium-term strategic plan was designed and updated; (b) technical
assistance was provided as planned by a consultant from ISNAR to improve research planning
within the Institute; (c) an administrative and financial directorate was established and its
director was given necessary training; (d) a private enterprise type of accounting and financial
management system was put in place with all necessary manuals of procedure, computer
software and hardware; (e) accountants were recruited and accounting consultants were hired to
make good use of the accounting system; (f) administrative and financial management was
decentralized toward the regional research centers with creation in each center of a management
committee headed by the director of the regional center assisted by a chief of administrative and
fmancial services who managed a secondary bank account of the Institute; (g) the appointment
by the Ministry of Finance, following a Bank supervision mission in 1994, of a Financial
Controller also in charge of monitoring the budgeting process; (h) the creation of a special
procurement commission headed by the chairman of the board of the Institute to speed up
procurement during the last year of project implementation.
14.  However, not all institutional arrangements planned for achieving the objective were
completed. The consultative group of donors planned for discussing budgetary and financial
management issues yearly was not set up because only IDA and the government ended up
financing the project, as other potential donors declined their direct participation in the project.
Nevertheless, some of them such as USAID and other donors assisted the Institute through
bilateral projects. No forum was set up to coordinate such donor interventions as proposed in the
SAR. The "protocole d'accordc' for associated programs with the university was not signed



S
because of weak administrative and financial management capability at the university, and no
action was taken to correct the situation. No special fund was set up as planned for research-
extension linkage interventions, because they were funded satisfactorily from the overall
research fund of the Institute.
15. Proper achievement of the above objective was constrained by a lack of budget line per
research project and sub-project, which would have enabled scientists to better monitor resource
use within their projects and to improve their budgeting and financial management skills. Long
delays for procurement through the ministerial channels due to the slow reactions of government
services seriously challenged the ability of the administrative and financial service of the
Institute to efficiently complete its work program and maintain good working relationships with
suppliers and contractors.
Improvement of staff planning, training, recruitment and career development in research
16. This objective was partially achieved as follows: (a) a human resource management unit
headed by a personnel manager was created under the Administrative and Financial Directorate,
which was in charge of staff planning, recruitment and evaluation, staff transfers, management of
contracts, salaries and benefits; (b) a human resource development (training) unit was also
created under the Scientific Directorate and was in charge of planning and monitoring staff
training programs; (c) staff recruitment and training needs were identified in the long- and
medium-term strategic plans.
17. The training program resulted in an increase in the number of scientists with at least a
DEA (Diplome d'Etude Approfondie) or a Masters degree-- from 29 in 1993 to 60 in 1998--
thereby raising the proportion of scientists with advanced degrees from 40 percent to 76 percent.
However, the number of technicians per scientist did not reach 2 as planned but instead declined
below 1, its previous level, because many of the technicians went on training to become
scientists and because civil service recruitment was halted as part of structural adjustment
measures. Long term training was funded at 63 percent by the project, at 18 percent by
collaborative research programs, 10 percent by USAID, and 9 percent by the government. Short-
term training was funded at 33 percent by the project, 58 percent by collaborative research
programs and 9 percent by USAID.
18. The main constraint to the full achievement of the objective was the non-adoption by the
government of the autonomous statute of the staff of the Institute which would have allowed
INRAN to hire, reward and fire its staff independently, and no longer have to depend on the
public civil service staff management system.
19.  Adoption of this personnel statute within the statutes of INRAN was a condition of
effectiveness of the project (SAR, paragraphs 3.06a and 6.2a; DCA section 6.01a.). To satisfy
the condition, a statute for the staff of INRAN with a career plan was adopted in 1991 by the
government but did not allow the Institute to undertake autonomous management of its staff. For
this to happen an adhoc commission was to carry out the evaluation of the staff, but this was not
done. In addition, the adopted statute could not be implemented because it was adopted by a
ministerial decision or "arrete" and not by a decree of the council of ministers which would have



6
allowed the implementation of its financial implications. Fears that many staff of the Institute
would lose their jobs (because not qualified to be scientists) if the staff evaluation was carried
out before completion of the training plan, were most likely the origin of resistance to adopt the
statute. The project thus became effective with the government seemingly but not really
fulfilling one of its conditions of effectiveness.
20. Despite several reminders by INRAN and by supervision missions, but with no formal
threat of suspension, the government resisted the adoption of an adequate statute for INIRAN's
personnel. New and corrected versions of the statute, one for scientists and one for technicians,
were drafted and were commented upon by all relevant ministries. They were submitted to the
council of ministers in 1996, but were still not adopted at the end of the project despite the
extension of project completion date by three years.
Strengthening linkages between research, extension services and farmers
21. This objective was substantially achieved with: (a) a farming systems and technology
transfer (FSTT) program established in 1994; (b) the strengthening of the FSTT program's
human resources with the appointment of an international consultant and seven high level staff
from the Ministry of Agriculture in 1996; (c) the establishment of two multidisciplinary teams,
including research scientists and extension staff, for diagnostic and technology transfer, with
one team for the western river basin (based at the Niamey and Kollo centers), and the other team
for the south eastern plains (based at the Maradi center); (d) a positive evaluation of the
multidisciplinary team experiment which led to further decentralization of the approach with
creation of diagnostic and technology transfer teams at the district ("arrondissemenf') level in
collaboration with the agricultural services project (Cr. 235 5-NIR).
22. Mechanisms for strengthening linkages between research, extension services, and farmers
were formally established and included the CORRAs, the monthly technology review workshops
(AMRTs), and on-farm tests of technologies. As previously mentioned, the CORRAS were
effective during a short part (1992-93) of the project implementation period, and did not operate
in the last five years as funding by the Institute was stopped. However, INRAN made a proposal
that would allow the CORRAs to resume their activities by being held in a cyclical manner in
fewer provinces per year so as to reduce the burden on scientists. The government failed to react
to the suggestion in the name of the local governments involved in the CORRA process and the
Institute also failed to pursue the matter. The AMRTs allowed contacts between scientists and
subject matter specialists of the extension services. A total of 252 AMRTs were organized
across the country between 1993 and 1997. Several on-farm and farmer-managed tests were also
carried out jointly with extension services since 1993. The research staff participated in 338 of
such on-farm tests in 1997 out of 863 planned, and in 357 of such tests in 1998, out of 618
planned.
23.  In addition to the on-farm tests in collaboration with extension services, each research
program of INRAN had contact farmers for conducting on-farm researcher-managed and farmer-
managed trials. The rain-fed crops program had in 1997 and 1998 about 500 contact farmers for
the production of seeds (sorghum, millet cowpea), covering over 219 hectares. During the same
period the irrigated crops program worked with farmers in 12 irrigation schemes and on one



7
modem farm. The animal production program worked with 200 livestock herds. The natural
resources management program intervened in 11 villages for soil fertility management research
and in 8 villages for forest and fisheries management research. The farming systems and
technology transfer program had on-farm trials in 28 villages.
Civil works and equipment
24. The project also included the rehabilitation and construction of INRAN's research
infrastructure to support the above mentioned objectives. Eighty percent of the civil works
planned at appraisal, in terms of expected costs, were completed. These included the
rehabilitation of the research centers of Niamey, Kollo, Maradi; the construction of the research
center of Tahoua; the construction of the research stations of Konni, Bengou, and Agadez; the
rehabilitation of the research stations of Tillabery, Ouallam, Magaria, Diffa, Kalapate; and the
rehabilitation of the building of the department of rural economics at Niamey. Works not
completed include the construction of the research center of Zinder, the INRAN/University
collaborative laboratories, and the training and conference center of INRAN at Niamey. About
ninety percent of the equipment and vehicles planned under the project, in terms of expected
total costs, were also acquired.
Technology Development and Transfer (TDT)
25.  The research output objectives were substantially achieved.
26. The most striking achievement of INRAN was the development in collaboration with
INTSORMIL of NADI, the first high yielding hybrid sorghum for the Sahel, with a potential
yield of 3 to 4 tonnes per hectare under an average annual rainfall of 400 mm. The variety was
widely adopted by contact farmers, with the number of farmers growing the hybrid increasing
from 40 in 1996 to 600 in 1998. Some contact farmers (mostly vegetable gardeners) were
actively involved in the production of the hybrid seed under the guidance of the Institute. The
number of contact seed growers increased from 2 in 1995 with a production of 750 kg of seeds to
43 in 1998 with a production of 13,000 kg of seeds. An intemational INTSORMIL workshop
was held in Niamey in 1998 to recognize INRAN's achievement in the development and
production of hybrid sorghum seeds and to share its experience with other countries in the
region.
27.  In addition to the hybrid sorghum, three irrigated rice varieties (high yielding and yellow
molt virus disease resistant) and two improved rain-fed rice varieties were also developed by
INRAN in collaboration with WARDA, and were extended to farmers. Other improved crop
varieties, mostly high yielding and drought tolerant varieties, developed by INRAN under the
project and which were subject to pre-extension or extension to farmers included: one millet
variety, two wheat varieties, four maize varieties, two green pepper varieties, two tomato
varieties, and five cassava varieties. A germplasm bank was also set up for fruit crops. Natural
resource management techniques, in particular for the management of soil fertility, water, forest
and fisheries were also developed and extended through the contact farmers of the Institute.
With respect to animal production, three highly productive breeds of sheep were screened for



8
their high meat and wool quality, epidemic maps of ruminants in Niger were also established,
and a mechanical hay/forage grinder was also developed to increase livestock feed digestibility.
28. However, soil and water management technology development within the NRM program
was very limited and quite inconsistent with the fact that poor soil and water management are
the major biophysical constraints to agricultural productivity growth in Niger. Unlike other
program, the project failed to acquire the necessary international expertise to develop the NRM
program as needed with sufficient emphasis on dry land farming.
29.  With respect to other TDT performance indicators proposed by the 1997 supervision, there
was a significant increase in on-farm adaptive trials in all areas of research through the contact
farmers. The technologies that were developed, in particular the improved varieties, allow for
over a 5 percent increase in the productivity of dry land farming and for a 50 to 100 percent
increase in the productivity of irrigated farming as suggested by on-farm research results.
Nationwide, during the project period, less than one fourth of technologies proposed by
extension services were significantly adopted by 8 to 30 percent of contact farmers. More details
are provided in the ICR of the agricultural services project (Cr. 2355-NIR).
30. International collaboration in TDT was significant through the project period as
demonstrated by the development of the sorghum hybrid NAD I in collaboration with
INTSORMIL, the screening of cassava varieties in collaboration with IITA, the development of
millet and sorghum varieties in collaboration with ICRISAT, rice with WARDA, and other
examples.  As previously mentioned, international institutions and research networks also
contributed significantly to the training of INRAN's scientists.
Monitoring and Evaluation
31.  Monitoring and evaluation of the project was poorly planned and poorly implemented.
There was no external monitoring and evaluation system planned and put in place at the
ministerial level or at the board level to regularly assess and guide project implementation. With
respect to internal M&E, a division for study, program monitoring and evaluation and training
(DEPSEF) was planned under the Scientific Directorate but was not established as expected.
The Scientific Director was directly in charge of monitoring and evaluation of research activities
and had a training division under his authority. M&E of civil works was done by the civil
engineering unit under the Director of Administration and Finance. M&E by the above-
mentioned entities was rather informal with no tracking records or M&E data, mainly as a result
of the lack of clearly specified performance indicators in the initial design of the project.
Financial and administrative management
32.  The project administrative and financial management was often rated as satisfactory by
supervision missions, but was in fact questionable due to poor procurement performance.
Management was relatively stable with a single head of administrative and financial affairs
present throughout the life of the project, compared with three Directors General during the
lifetime of the project. Audit reports were generally not seriously qualified. However, some



9
management errors, mostly related to stocks management, were pointed out by the audits and
were subsequently corrected. There were no serious ineligible expenses to be reimbursed by the
government. The appointment of a Financial Controller helped improve financial management.
Procurement was generally slow and unsatisfactory, particularly during the first three years of
the project, and led to the three-year extension of the project. Procurement speed improved, but
not without some errors, during the last year of the project, with the creation of a special project
procurement commission headed by the chairman of the board of the Institute.
D. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
33. Total project cost for the initial five year implementation period (1990-1995) was
expected, according to the appraisal report, to be US$ 28 million. Thle government was expected
to contribute US$3.5 million, bilateral donors US$4.6 million and IDA US$19.9 million.
However, only the government's and IDA's contributions materialized, but with the Government
providing only about US$1.7 million. IDA finally contributed US$20.4 million, given exchange
rate fluctuations. The project actual total cost was about US$22 million. USAID contributed to
the project by funding the training component through a separate US$1.37 million bilateral
project (PRAN).
E. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
34.  MIvanageniewt (Cap)ahi/ily Can1d Isitahi/lit. Overall management of the project by INRAN
was weak during the first four years. By the end of 1994, less than 20 percent of the credit was
disbursed. The nomination of a more visionary and capable Director in 1995 speeded up project
implementation and resulted in about 60 percent of the credit being disbursed by the end of 1997
after a two-year extension of the completion date. The nomination of a new Director General in
1998 and the temporary suspension of the Director of administration and finance together with a
temporary suspension of the civil engineering staff by a new Minister of Agriculture slowed
down the momentum  in project implementation for a while before recovery to normal
implementation speed occurred by mid 1998. However, overall stability in the staffing of the
administrative and financial directorate helped to minimize disruptions to the project.
35.  Procuiremenit Delays. Delays in procurement through ministerial and national procurement
commissions, particularly for the procurement of civil works, vehicles and equipment, slowed
down project implementation during the first seven years of project irnplementation. Such delays
were sometimes due to resistance by INRAN to political pressures to compromise on the
procurement process.  The creation of a special procurement commission headed by the
chairman of the board of INRAN helped speed up procurement and project implementation
during the last year.
36.  Trainintg antd Int.ertnation7al Co7nsul/tanv. The massive training of scientists since the early
years (1993) from funds provided by the project, by international collaborative research
programs and by USAID enabled INRAN to upgrade the quality, the coordination and the
achievements of the research programs. The appointment of three international consultants
(irrigation, technology transfer, and livestock specialists) to help INRAN plan its activities,
shape up the research programs and mentor the incoming junior scientists was a major



10
determinant of the success of the research activities. The consultants were particularly useful in
connecting INRAN with the international research community.
37.  Counterpart Funclds Waiver. Difficulties in getting counterpart funds from the government
slowed down the implementation of the training program and the recruitment of consultants. The
amendment of the credit agreement in 1995 following the mid-term review, to waive the 14
percent of counterpart fund initially required for training and consultant expenses improved the
implementation of the training and Consultants component, and consequently also improved
disbursement.
38.  Stfatutes/hy-/aivs.  The non-adoption of the statutes or bylaws related to autonomous
management of the staff of the Institute prevented the implementation of an adequate incentive
system to keep trained scientists within the Institute and increase their productivity. Many of the
trained scientists, particularly the Scientific Directors, left the Institute to get more secure and
more rewarding jobs in international institutions in Niger and in the West African region, partly
because of the absence of an incentive system. Political instability resulting in constant change of
the ministers with whom the statutes were discussed and negotiated was also an important factor
that explains the non-adoption of the statutes.
39.  Instability in Research Coordination. The Scientific Director changed seven times during
the eight years of project implementation, with consequent instability in research coordination
approach and capability.
40.  Initernationial Research CLollahoration. The intervention of regional and international
scientists in the research activities of INRAN, through collaborative research programs and
networks was a major determinant of the improvement in the quantity and quality of research
output.
F. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
41.  Financial sustainability of the project was and remains unlikely for the following reasons:
(a) The Government was unable to pay the counterpart funds of the project, out of a total of
about 400 million CFA only one fourth was disbursed over the project period; (b) the
procurement of new buildings, vehicles and equipment increased the recurrent costs of INRAN,
and the government was not even paying basic salaries on a regular basis; (c) the donor
coordination mechanism which was to help mitigate the shortfalls of government funds, was not
established; (d) there was no sustainable funding mechanism included in the project design that
would have enabled the Institute to generate revenues and to recover at least part of its costs.
Attempt to identify opportunities for partial cost recovery began too late, with a feasibility study
in 1998. The institutional reforms and the human resources development achievements did,
however, positively contribute to the institutional sustainability of the project.
G. BANK PERFORMANCE
42.  Although tne Bank satisfactorily identified investment in agricultural research as a means
for promoting rural development in Niger, its overall performance was unsatisfactory for various



11
reasons.  At preparation, attention was focussed only on reinforcing the existing public
institutional capacity, and particularly on inputs and processes, with no clear definition of the
type of research institution expected out of the project, and with no mention of expected
minimum  research output.  The monitoring and evaluation component and performance
indicators were neglected. There was no attempt to initiate a sustainable funding or cost
recovery mechanism. The statutes or bylaws expected as a condition for effectiveness were not
properly defined, and this led to inadequate statutes being adopted with the projectsbecoming
effective with one of its condition for effectiveness (INRAN statutes) unfulfilled.
43.  Bank formal supervision was insufficient; it occurred only nine times during the eight
years of project implementation. The mid-termn review was done late, in the initial year of project
completion (1995) and failed to correct the initial deficiencies in project design. Supervision
from headquarters was unstable with five task managers over the eight years of project
implementation. Local supervision from the Resident Mission was, however, stable. Although
supervision led to a greater emphasis on research output and to related performance indicators in
1997, these were insufficiently discussed and documented within INRAN. The Bank failed to get
the government to adopt effective statutes/by-laws for INRAN and to disburse the bulk of
counterpart funds. There was no formal threat of suspension and the project completion date was
extended twice--first for two years in 1995 and then for one year in 1997 with no significant
progress in compliance with conditions. Bank supervision was, however, instrumental in
improving the research content and research output of the project, and in speeding procurement
and disbursement at times. The Bank helped the Borrower by increasing the fund level of the
special account from 200 million CFAF to 350 million CFAF, following the 1994 CFAF
devaluation, but failed often to provide timely response to requests for non-objection
(procurement) and for disbursement. Delays were however also often due to the poor quality of
bidding documents.
H. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
44.  The Borrower's performance was unsatisfactory, particularly as the result of a thirteen-
month delay from Board approval to effectiveness, the failure to adopt and implement adequate
and effective statutes for INRAN, and the failure to disburse the counterpart funds. Delays in
project implementation were also caused by the bureaucratic bottlenecks in the national
procurement system.  Several ministerial decisions on procurement and staff suspension
disrupted project implementation. The government failed to comply with most agreements
reached prior to extension of project completion date and has had a general tendency not to hold
promises mainly because of the frequent changes of Minister of Agriculture.
1. IMPLEMENTING AGENCY
45.  Project management was overall unsatisfactory. It was weak during the first four years,
then improved and declined again afterwards. Financial management was relatively acceptable
up to the credit closing date, as suggested by the absence of serious audit issues. However, the
project management was insufficiently pro-active in getting the governance bodies of the
Institute to hold meetings and to function as planned. Procurement was globally unsatisfactory. It
was slow with some errors that resulted in conflicts with suppliers and contractors.



12
J. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
46. With respect to the initial capacity building objective, the project outcome was
unsatisfactory. There were modest to substantial achievements in the areas of research planning,
research coordination, financial management, staff training, research-extension linkage, and civil
works, but the project failed to establish an efficient agricultural research institution with
autonomous management of its staff, as well as of its funds, with effective statutes/bylaws and
well functioning governance bodies. As a consequence, the Institute has been losing part of its
(expensively) trained staff. The project took eight years to accomplish what was planned for five
years and could have been accomplished in five years if adequate management capabilities and
procurement systems were put in place on time. The research institution resulting from the
project is also unsustainable and most of the positive capacity building accomplishments of the
project are likely to fall apart in absence of adequate statutes, well-functioning governance
bodies and a sustainable financing system.
47.  Prior to 1997, supervision rated the project unsatisfactory or satisfactory with respect to
development objectives mainly on the basis of implementation progress with respect to civil
works, procurement of vehicles and equipment, rather than with respect to the fundamental
institution building elements (statutes, governance, etc.). Following the shift of emphasis from
capacity building to research output by supervision in 1997, the development objective rating of
the project became mostly satisfactory more under the influence of the quality and quantity of
the research output. The latter was satisfactory but was mainly due to international collaborative
research programs and may not be sustained within an unsustainable research institution.
48. Overall the project outcome was marginally unsatisfactory.
K. FUTURE OPERATIONS
49. As a result of difficulties in completing the first phase of the project, no future operation
was prepared. However studies were undertaken during project implementation to feed into the
design of a rural development strategy which will serve as a basis for future operations. A
proposal for an integrated agricultural research and extension program has been drafted by the
government and will be discussed along with the government's rural development strategy when
completed. Meanwhile, the Bank is planning to undertake, in collaboration with the Borrower,
feasibility studies of alternative agricultural research and extension services in Niger, such as
decentralized agricultural services.
L. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
50. The positive and negative experiences of similar first-generation type of agricultural
research project confirm most of the lessons learned from such type of projects in the past and
that are being applied in the new generation type of agricultural services projects funded by the
Bank, that is: the need to have integrated research and extension projects, the need to establish
mechanisms for real farmers' participation in the development of the research agenda and in the
allocation of research funds; the need to use lending instruments such as the adaptable program
lending (APL) instrument to pursue capacity building in a short early phase of the project and



13
research output objectives in the following phases, the need to introduce cost sharing or cost-
recovery mechanisms, etc.   Additional specific lessons that one may draw  from  the
implementation of this project include the following:
(a)  It is essential to include legal advisers in the design of projects whose success depends
heavily on legal texts or statutes that are to be adopted before or during project
implementation. This will help to ensure proper identification, proper designi and effective
implementation of such legal texts.
(b)  A special procurement commission, as experienced in the last year of this project, chaired
by the chairman of the board of the research Institute implementing the research project,
can help speed up procurement and disbursement, and can thereby improve project
implementation,   provided that the research  Institute has a sufficiently  efficient
administrative and financial management system.
(c)  Conditions for effectiveness, if not properly fulfilled before project implementation are
unlikely to be during project implementation.
(d)  Farmers participation in the research process, significantly improves the relevance of
research to farmers' needs as well as the quantity and quality of research results.
(e)  Adequate bylaws for autonomous management of research staff by research institutions
and sustainable financin- mechanisms are necessary to provide minimum incentives and
an enabling environment for fruitful research..
(f)   Collaboration with research institutions and research networks at regional and international
levels significantly improves the quantity and quality of research output and should ideally
be built into research projects or be facilitated by them.
(g)  It is necessary to include in the design of projects a mechanism to insure across time and
across project managers within the Bank and within the borrowing country, a common
understanding of project objectives and performance indicators, including project
sustainability indicators.
(h)  Recruitment systems, results agreements and incentive systems that attract and maintain
good project management capability, at the Bank level and at the Borrower's level, are
essential for good and consistent project management.
(i)   Decentralization of research by providing more autonomy to the regional research centers,
and by allowing them to have their own governance and funding bodies, with the
involvement of farmers organizations, non-governmental organizations and the private
sector in such bodies, is likely to be more effective than the establishment of governance
bodies at the national level.
(j)   Project supervision tends to be less holistic than the mid-term review and the ICR in
reviewing the accomplishments of projects against their development objectives and



14
components, as identified in the SAR and follow-up amendments. Supervision tends to
focus on eliminating major project weaknesses at a given time through action plans. As a
result supervision ratings of a project may significantly differ from the ICR rating as in the
present case. In order to insure consistency, there is a need to emphasize the SAR (or
PAD) as a major supervision instrument, especially when there are frequent changes in
project managers on the Bank side as well as on the Borrower's side.



15
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
(Cr. 2122-NIR)
PART II: Statistical Tables
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
Substantial    Partial   Negligible    Not applicable
A. Achievement of objectives        (X)         (X)         (X)            (X)
Macroeconomic policies                                                   X
Sector policies                                           Xl
Financial objectives                                      X
Institutional development                     X
Physical objectives               X
Poverty reduction                                         X
Gender issues                                            X
Other social objectives                                                  X
Environmental objectives                                  X
Public sector management                      X
Private sector development                               X                        l
Other (specify)                                                          X
Likely          Unlikely       Uncertain
B. Project sustainability                  (X)               (X)             (X)
Highly
Satisfactory     Satisfactory    Deficient
C. Bank performance                         (X)              (X)             (X)
Identification                    _-x
Preparation assistance                                                    X
Appraisal                          L_______X
Supervision                                                               X



16
Highly
Satisfactory    Satisfactory    Deficient
D. Borrower performance                   (X)              (X)            (X)
Preparation                                                            X
Implementation                                                         X X
Covenant compliance              __    __                              x
Operation (if applicable)                 .                            X
Highly                                     Highly
E. Assessment of outcome   satisfactorv   Satisfactorv   Unsatisfactorv   Unsatisfactorv
(X)          (X)           (X)             (X)
x



17
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/ IDA Credits
Credit title                          Purpose                        Year of     Status
approval
Preceding operation
Dosso RDP             The project aimed to increase agricultural production    1979  Completed
(Cr. 0967)            and reinforce capacity building at a local level. The
Projcct Completion Report concluded that the impact
of Dosso project on production increase was marginial
and that the adoption of insufficiently proven technical
messages by famers w.as limited. The project closed in
June 1985 witih only' 16% of fund disbursed out of the
total credit of US$20 million
Maradi RDP 11         The proiect aimed to: (a) encourage famier's initiative   1980  Completed
(Cr. 1026)            and participation and to make them more responsible
for development activities: (b) develop village-based
extension system: and (c) gradually reduce techniical
assistance and cut operating cost. The project was
confronted with impleimentation problems auid failed to
achieve the expected increase in crop production and a
real responsabilisation of farmers in development
activities.
Small Rural           The project aimed at helping the Government to      1988      Completed
Operations            develop institutional capability in preparation and
(Cr. 1890)            execution of small rural operations by (a) providing
support to provincial anid district techniical services.
(b) improving extension services, and (c) training
beneficiary groups in literacy and management.
In addition, the project financed investments in grant
fomi for (a) bottomland improvements. (b)
development of small-irrigated perimcters. (c)
establishment of fruit tree nurseries. and (d) various
operations in natural resource management.
Foliowing operations
Agr. Services         The project aimed at strengthening agricultural.    1992      Completed
Support Project (Cr.  livestock and environmental protection extension with
2355)                 a view to generate increased production and sustained
growth of farm incomes.
Pilot Private         The project assesses and applies irrigation technologies  1995  Active
Irrigation            adapted to small-scale agriculture as practiced by
(Cr. 2707)            individual farmers.
Natural Resources     The project is intended to slow and arrest          1995      Active
Mgt.                  environmental deterioration. and eventually improve
(Cr. 2796)            environmental conditions. It is the first part of a long-
term project aimed at improving agricultural
productivity.



18
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle                     Date Planned          Date Actual
Identification                             October 1987          October 1987
Preparation                                June 1988             June 1988
Appraisal                                  February 1990         Februarv 1990
Negotiations                               Februarv 1990         Febnlanr 1990
Board Presentation                         March 1990            March 1990
Signing                                    __                    July 1990
Effectiveness                             __July 1991
Mid-term review                                                  March 1995
Project Completion                        _         _            December 1995
Credit Closing                                                   December 1998
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
FY90  FY91  FY92  FY93  FY94  FY95  FY96  FY97  FY98   FY99
Appraisal Estimate           -     5.0    7.9   11.3   15.2   17.4   18.6   19.3   19.7   19.9
Actual                       -      0     1.0    1.8   4.1    5.3  j 7.9   11.5   16.3   20.4
Actual as % of Estimate      -      0    12.65  15.92  26.97  30.45  42.47  59.58  82.74  102.51
Date of Final Disbursement                              June 17. 1999
Table 5 : Key Indicators for project Implementation
Not available
Table 6: Key Indicators for project Operation
Not available



19
Table 7: Studies proposed and carried out during project implementation.
Study         Objective as defined at      Status       Study's impact
appraisal
I . Socio-economic   An effective and realistic Implemented     Adequate types of
study of Agricultural   research program is set                 research programs have
Research in Niger    up                                         been established
2. Study on INRAN    A training plan for staff  Implemented     Researchers trained
training plan        with skill gap analysis is                 according to identified
established                               needs
3.Study on INRAN     Preparation of          Implemented        Statute not yet adopted
autonomous statute    autonomous                                by the Government and
statute/bylaws for                        not yet implemented
researchers
4. Initial evaluation of  To plan human resources TORs developed but None
INRAN researchers    develoment and          Not Implemented
adequately staff research
programs.
5. Medium and long    Medium and long term   Implemented        Improvement of
term plans for        programming of                            coordination and
agronomic research in  research activities                      implementation of
Niger                                                           agricultural research
activities
6.Study for           To computerize the     Implemented        Improvement of the
computerization of    financial managementof                    management system of
INRAN activities      INRAN                                     iNRAN with a new
management software
7. Market survey and   Increase 1NRAN's     Implemented         No impact for the
analysis of the demand  capacity to generate its                moment,
for INRAN's services  own income                                recommendations are
and products         (sustainability)                           being examinined
8. Inventory of main   Improve knowledge on   Implemented       Insects known. Adequate
insects harmful to fruit insects that are harmful               research program are
trees in Niger       to fruit trees                             being designed to find
ways of protecting fruit
trees against insects
attacks
9. Inventory of main   Improve knowledge on   Implemented       Insects known and
insects harmful to   main insects harmful to e                  Research programs being
tuber and root crops in  tuber and root crops                   designed to protect tiber
Niger                                                           and root crops.
10. Inventory of main  Improve knowledge of  Implemented        Better knowledge of
diseases of tuber and   tuber and root crop                    tuber and root crop
root cropst in Niger    diseases                                diseases and design of
relevant research
programs



20
11. Analysis of      To develop tilapia     Implemented        Feeding strategies for
methods and feeding   feeding systems                          Tilapia have been
strategies of tilapia                                          developed.
fishes in Niger
12. Diagnosis study on  Study of sesame seeds  Implemented     Better knowledge of
sesame seeds in Niger  production in Tillabery,                sesame farming in Niger
Maradi et Gaya area                       for the design of a
sesame research program
13. Study of improved  Identification of    Implemented        Identification and
seed multiplication and institutions, technologies             Training of seeds
distribution systems    and policy framework                   growers. Increased
(fili&res) in Niger  needed to develop a                       production of improved
private seeds industry                   seeds. Regional seeds
workshop in Niger in
1998.
14. Baseline study of   Identification of soilo    Implemented  National and regional
the Soil fertility   fertility management                      soil fertility management
initiative in Niger  problems and related                      action plans are under
technical solutions on the                preparation
shelf in Niger
15. Study of the     Improvement of the     Implemented        Recommendations for
administrative and   administrative and                        improving INRAN's
financial management  financial management                     Financial and
of the project.      system                                    administrative
Management
16. Preparation of <<   To develop a proposal   Implemented    Proposal completed and
avantprojef natrionacl  for an integrated                      distributed.
inogre de recherche-  research-extension
vulgarisation        follow-up operation.
(PNIRV) >>



21
Table 8-A: Allocation and Disbursement of IDA Credit
(in US$M)
Project Components                       Appraisal Estimate            Actual
1. Civil Works                                 4.24                      3.8
2. Vehicles and Equipment                       5.00                     5.8
3. Operating Costs                              3.57                     4.5
4. Consultants' Services Training               2.13                      2.6
5. Reserve Research Fund                        2.30                     3.2
6. Refunding of Project Preparation             0.75                     0.5
Advance
7. Unallocated                                  2.00                     (0.0
Total                                          19.99                     20.4
Table 8-B: Project Financing
Source                      Appraisal Estimate (US$M)    Actual/Latest Estimate (US$M)
Govemment                          3.5                          1.68
Bilateral Donors                   4.6                         (.00
IDA                                19.9                        20.4
TOTAL                              28.0                        22.08
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Not Applicable



22
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Credit Agreement     Covenant  Present                      Description of Covenant                              Comments
Section            Type     Status
Text Reference: 3.01 (a)   05       c        As we set forth in schedule 2 to DCA, the borrower shall carry out Complied with.
the project through INRAN with due diligence and efficiency.                               l
Text Reference: 3.01 (b)   03                The borrower shall make the proceeds of the credit available to Complied with
INRAN under a financing agreement between the Borrower and
INRAN.
Text Reference: 3.02 (c)   05       C        Under the financing agreement, the Borrower shall exercise its Complied with.
rights to protect its interests and IDAJ[s and to accomplish the
purposes of the Credit.                                                                    l
Text Reference: 3.03     10         C        Pursuant to section 2.03 of the Project Agreement. INRAN shall Complied wvith
carry out sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, and 9.08 of the
General Conditions (Insurance, use of goods & services, plans &
schedules, records & reports, maintenance & land acquisitions).
Text Reference: 3.04 (a)   05       CP       The borrower shall ensure that any increase in their research and Complicd with indirectly through
administrative staff of INRAN shall be: (i) justified in terms of a the strategic plans
Manpower Development Plan which shall be prepared during the
first year of project implementation: (u) entirely funded from the
Borrower's national budget.
Text Reference: 3.04 (b)   05       C        The Borrower shall insure that there shall be no increase in the Complied with
number of research programs of INRAN unless such increase is A new research strategy has been
deemed to be appropriate and requires no additional staff.  adopted with emphasis on On-Farm
Adaptive Research.
Text Reference: 3.04 (c)   05       C        The Borrower shall insure that not later than 4 months after date of Complied with
DCA: (i) IDA shall have received written confirmation that all key
positions provided for in the revised Statuses of INRAN have been  Scientific Director, Project
duIy filled  (ii) INRAN has taken steps to recruit a Research  Admninistrator and Chief Accountant
Management Consultant satisfactory to IDA.                  have been appointed.
Text Reference: 3.04 (d)   09       CD       The Borrower shall insure that no later than nine months after date Not complied with
of DCA, the national Committee (see section 6.01(b) of DCA) has
held its first meeting.                                     Committee formed in August 1995.
Fist meeting held in November
1995.



23
Text Reference: 3.05    09          NC       The Borrower shall, not later than December 31, 1990, submit to Not complied with,
IDA for review a livestock production research program, giving
details of its investment and recurrent cost proposals.     but, the Livestock improvement is
one of the research priorities in the
new strategy.
A long-term consultant was
appointed and a livestock research
agenda w as developed .
Text Reference: 3.06    05          NC       Throughout implementation, the Borrower shall convene IDA &  Not complied with
other major donors involved to regular consultative meetings, not
later than May 31 in each year. to review the results of research
programs carried out by INRAN during the previous vear and to
discuss w ork plans. research programs and related costs and
financing plans for the following year.
Text Reference: 3.07    05          NC       In conjunction with the Donors consultative meeting to be held  Not complied with
not later than May 31. 1993. the Borrower shall organize a mid-
term review of NARP. Its findings and recommendations shall be MTR held hi March 1995: findings
transmitted to the National Committee. and then to IDA for its and recommendations transmitted to
review and comments.                                        National Comnmittee.
Text Reference: 4.0 1(a)(i)  01     C        For all expenditures made on the basis of SOEs. the Borrower shall Complied wiidi
maintain and account of such expenditures.                 Records were maintained: financial
management system was set up in
June 1995.
Text Reference:          01         C        Ensure that all records evidencing such expendituSs are kept at Complied with
4.01(a)(ii)                                  least I year after IDA has received the audit for the FY in * hich the
last withdrawal was made.                                   Records were maintained.
Text Reference:         05          C        Enable IDA to examine such records.                          Complied with.
4.01(a)(iii)
Text Reference: 4.02(b)(i)  01      C        The borrower shall: furnish the records and accounts referred to the Complied with
in Section 4.01 (a) (i) and those Jor the Special Account for each  Since 1992. accounts were audited,
FY audited bv independent auditors.                         for every FY. reports are transmitted
l ______________                                                                                          to   the  Bank.
Text Reference:         01          C        Furnish to IDA, not later than 6 months after the end of each FY. Complied with.
4.02(b)(ii)                                  the said audit report. including a separate opinion on reliability of
SOEs.
Text Reference:         05          C        Furnish to IDA other information concerning records, accounts and  Complied w ith.
4.02(b)(iii)                                 the audit at IDA's request.                                                            .



24
Text Reference:2.01(a)    09         C        As set forth in Schedule 2 of DCA. INRAN shall carry out the Complied with.
project with due diligence and efficiencv.
Text Reference: 2.02(b)    09        CP       Without limitation upon the provisions of (a) above. INRAN shall Partly complied with the project
carry out the project in accordance with the Implementation  implementation was slow during the
Program set forth in Schedule 2 to Project Agreement.        first four years. However, since
March 1995. continued good
progrcss has accelerated pro,ect
implementation. To achieve the
development objcctives. the project
was extended by two yvears and
additional one ycar. up to the end of
Dcember 1998..
Text Reference: 2.02     i()         C        Procurement of the goods. works aund consultants' services shall be Complied with.
governed by Schedulc I of Project Agreement
Text Reference: 2.03     09          C         INRAN shall cam. out Sections 9.03.9.04. 9.05. 9.06. 9.07 & 9.08 Complied with.
of the General Conditions (insurnance. usc of goods & services.
plans & schedules. records & reports. maintenance & land
acquisition)
Text Reference: 2.05 (a)   (9        C         INRAN shall. at IDA's rcquest. exchange views witih IDA with  In compliancc.
regards to the progress of the project. under this agreemcnt and the
Financing Agreement.
Text Reference: 2.05 (b)   09        C         INRAN  shall promptly inform  IDA  of any condition which  In compliance.
intcrferes with the progress of the project. the accomplishment of
the purposes of thc Credit. or the performance by INRAN of its
obligations under this Agreement and the Financing Agreement
Text Reference: 3.01 (a)   (9        CP       INRAN shall carry on its operations under the supervision of Partly complied with
qualified and expericnced management assisted by competent staff Management was weak during first
in adequate numbers.                                         four years
Text Reference: 3.01 (b)   09        C        INRAN shall take necessary measures. not later than 9 months after Complied with Late.
date to DCA. to implement all organizational and staffing proposals
under the project. and to consult IDA on any further change in There was 13 month delay from
INRAN.                                                       board approval to effectiveness



25
Text Reference: 3.02    09          C        INRAN shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, machinery, In compliance.
equipment and other property, all in accordance with sound
engineering, financial and scientific practices.
Text Reference: 3.03    09          C        INRAN shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers In compliance.
against such risks and in such amounts consistent with appropriate
_practice.                                                                                   l
Text Reference: 4.01 (a)   01       C        INRAN shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect its Complied with.
operations and financial condition.
Text Reference: 4.01 (b)   01       C        INRAN shall have its records, accounts and financial statements for Complied with.
(i)                                          each FY audited by independent auditors.                                                     l
Text Reference:         01          C        INRAN shall furnish to IDA. not later than 6 months after the end Complied with.
4.01(b)(ii)                                  of each FY: (a) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year; and (b) the audit report.
Text Reference:         01          C        INRAN shall furnish to IDA other information concening said  Complied w ith.
4.01(b)(iii)                                 record, accounts & financial statements as well as the audit at IDA
s request.
Status:                                               Covenant Class:
C: Complied with                                      I: Accounts/audit
CD: Complied after delay                              2: Financial performance/gencrate revenue from beneficiaries
NC: Not Complied with                                 3: Flow and utilization of Project funds
Soon: Compliance expected in Reasonably Short Time    4: Counterpart funding
CP: Complied with Partially,                          5: Management aspects of the Pro3ect or of its executing agency
NYD: Not Yet Due                                      6: Environmental covenants
7: Involuntary resettlement
8: Indigenous people
9: Monitoring, review and reporting
10: Implementation
I1: Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetarv or other resource allocation
12: Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatory/institutional action
13: Other



26
Table 11: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of                                       Actual
Project Cycle
Weeks                               US$
______     _________________________             ($000)
Through Appraisal                    103.7                              250.8
Negotiation-Board                    13.3                                37.0
Supervision                         223.9                               588.6
Completion                           21.0                               42.1
TOTAL                              361.9                               918.5



27
Table 12: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Project phase     Month/Year      Number of Persons    Days in Field    Specialized Staff  Implementation Status   Development Objectivc,            Types of problens
ills Represented
Identification   October 1987
Preparation      June 1988 8
Appraisal        February 1990      3                                  A;G EC, AR. 
Supervision I     March 1991        1                  12              AG                   U                      I                          M. l
Supervision 11    December 1991     1                  12              AG                   S                      S
Supervision Ill   May 1993         2                   12              A(;. AE              LJU                                               N. I'
Supervision IV   October 1995      3                   12              AG. A(G. 00          S
Supervision V    March 1996         4                  12              EX. EC. (X). AG      S                       S
Supervision VI   Septemhber 1996   3                   12              EX. 00. A(i          S 
Supetvision VIl    March 1997       2                  3               AR. EX               S                      S
Supervision VIII   October 1997    2                   15              AG. (X)              S                      S
Supervision IX    October 1998                         15              AG. (X)              S                       S
(ICR mission)     April 1999        2                  15              AG. (X)              U
N.B. The above refers only to supcrvision by headquarters
staff. Local staff supervision is not included
Types of problems:                                                  Subject specialty:
AG: Agronomist                                 MS: Management Specialist
D: Slow Disbursement                                                AE: Agricultural Economist                      TR: Training Specialist
F: Availability of counterpart funds                                AS: Agricultural Services Specialist            00: Operations Officer
FP: Financial problems                                              EC: Economist                                   OA: Operations Analyst
L: Adherence to legal clauses                                       EX: Extension Specialist                        NRM: Natural Resources Mgt. Specialist
M: Project management                                               FA: Financial Analyst                           RR: Resident Representative
P: Progress with procurement                                        LS: Livestock Specialist                        NGO: NGO Specialist
TA: Progress with technical assistance                              PS: Procurement Specialist
TR: Training                                                        SE: Social Economist
RF: Rural Finance Specialist



28
REPUBLIQUE DU NIGER
BANQUE MONDIALE
MISSION D'ACHEVEMENT DU PROJET NATIONAL DE LA RECHERCHE
AGRICOLE (PNRA) DU 7 AU 16 AVRIL 1999
AIDE MEMOIRE
Deroulement de la Mission
1.    Une mission de la Banque mondiale conduite par M. Yves-Coffi Prudencio, Task
Manager du PNRA a sejourne au Niger du 7 au 16 Avril 1999 pour collecter les
informations necessaires A la redaction du rapport d'achevement du  PNRA. M.
Prudencio etait accompagn6 de M. Mahaman Salifou, charge du projet A la mission
residente de la Banque A Niamey et M. le Secretaire General Adjoint du Ministere de
l'Agriculture et de l'Elevage. La mission a travaille avec les cadres de l'Institut National
de la Recherche Agricole (INRAN) au cours d'un atelier tenu les 9 et 12 Avril 1999 a
Niamey pour discuter des realisations du projet comparativement aux previsions du
rapport d'evaluation initiale du projet. Cet atelier a ete precde et suivi d'autres reunions
entre la mission et l'administration de l'INRAN pour obtenir les informations necessaires
a la redaction du rapport. Le premier draft du rapport national d'achevement deja pr8t a
la date de la mission a egalement servi de base aux discussions.
RKsultats de la Mission
2.    Les discussions ont ete focalisbes sur la r6alisation des cinq principaux objectifs
du projet tel que figurant dans le rapport d'evaluation initial et la rehabilitation des
infrastructures et equipements de l'INRAN, A savoir:
1.    L'amelioration de la methodologie pour la definition des priorites et de
l'allocation des ressources, prenant en compte les besoins des agriculteurs et la
conservation des ressources naturelles.
2.    l'arnelioration de la coordination dans la formulation et l'execution des
programmes de recherche nationaux et internationaux.
3.    I'amelioration de la programmation de la recherche, de sa budgetisation et
de sa gestion financiere.
4.    l'amelioration de la gestion du personnel, programmation, formation.
Recrutement et plan de carriere dans la recherche.



29
5.    le renforcement des liens entre la recherche, les services de vulgarisation
et les producteurs par des programmes de recherche participative et adaptative en
milieu paysan.
6.    Rehabilitation des infrastructures et equipement de l'INRAN.
Les constats principaux suivants ont et faits par rapport a ces objectifs
Premier Objectif
3.    Cet objectif a ete partiellement atteint. Le statut de l'INRAN requis comme
condition de mise en vigueur et qui cree les organes de programmation necessaires pour
atteindre cet objectif a ete adopte en 1991, mais la plupart des organes crees n'ont pas
fonctionne comme prevu. Les constats suivants ont ete faits:
*  La representation des producteurs est minoritaire dans le conseil d'administration (un
sur six) et n'est pas mentionne dans le rapport d'evaluation initiale du projet.
-  Le Conseil Scientifique (CS) aupres du Conseil d'Administration  (CA). Sa
composition et ses modalites de fonctionnement ont ete definis tardivement en 1996.
Les 12 membres avaient ete nommes mais le conseil ne s'est jamais reuni. La
Direction Generale de I INRAN ayant estime qu'un tel exercice serait caduque parce
que le statut des chercheurs n'avait pas ete adopte, que les chercheurs n'avaient pas
Wtd evalues et positionnes dans leur qualite de chercheur.
*  Le Conseil National de la Recherche Agronomique (CNRA) charge de definir la
politique nationale en matiere de recherche agronomique a 6te cree par decret le 26
juin 1991, et se compose essentiellement de Ministres. II n'a jamais ete fonctionnel
parce que le Ministre de l'Agriculture qui en est le President ne l'a pas convoque.
- Les Comites Regionaux de la Recherche Agronomique (CORRA) oii se rencontraient
chercheurs, producteurs et vulgarisateurs ont ete effectivement fonctionnels jusqu'en
1996. Leur arret est dui au fait que la frequence annuelle de ces CORRA qui devaient
se tenir dans sept departements par an prenait trop le temps des chercheurs et les
detournait de leur activites de recherche. L'autorite administrative ne se serait pas
prononcee sur la proposition de l'INRAN visant a reduire cette frequence a une fois
tous les trois ans par departement. D'autre part, pour ce qui concerne la tenue des
CORRA prevus dans les autres departements (Zinder et Diffa), malgre les fonds mis a
la disposition des presidents, ceux-ci n'ont pas et realise a raison de la lourdeur
administrative.
*  Un programme de gestion des ressources naturelles (GRN) a effectivement et mis en
place avec deux equipes pluridisciplinaires de caracterisation, une pour la region du
fleuve, et une pour les plaines de l'est.
* II a ete egalement mis en place un programme de systemes de production et de
transfert de technologies qui effectue des tests en milieu paysan.



30
Deuxieme Objectif
4.    Cet objectif a et6  atteint de maniere substantielle, grace aux dispositions
suivantes:
* La creation de la Direction Scientifique avec nomination d'un Directeur Scientifique
apres election par ses pairs.
*  La creation de programmes multidisciplinaires, en plus des cinq (05) d6partements
thematiques preexistants, et la nomination de chefs de programmes.
*  La formulation des programmes A travers les comites de programme qui sont des
reunions intemes de programmation au sein des programmes.
  L'organisation de reunions annuelles de programmation, evaluation et budgetisation
avec la participation active de partenaires techniques et financiers venant de
l'ext6rieur tels que les instituts internationaux et les bailleurs de fonds.
* La coordination des activit6s des programmes et des departements par la Direction
scientifique.
* La decentralisation de la direction scientifique au niveau des centres regionaux de
recherche ou le Directeur Adjoint du centre est le correspondant direct du Directeur
Scientifique.
5.    ll n'y a toutefois pas eu de suivi centralise par la creation de la DEPSEF comme
prevu du fait que la Direction Scientifique joue ce r6le.
Troisieme Objectif
6.    Cet objectif a ete substantiellement atteint A travers les actions suivantes:
*  La revision du plan strategique A long terme (PLT) et la confection d'un plan a moyen
terme (PMT).
* L'usage des services d'un consultant de l'ISNAR comme prevu pour ameliorer la
programmation.
* La mise en place d'une Direction Administrative et Financiere avec nomination et
formation d'une responsable.
* La mise en place d'un plan comptable de type prive, d'un manuel de procedures et
d'un logiciel de gestion.
* Le recrutement de comptables et l'utilisation de services de consultants comptables.
* La decentralisation de la gestion fmanciere au niveau des centres, avec mise en place
de comites de gestion au niveau de ces centres, sous la presidence du directeur de
centre assiste par un chef de service administratif et financier, avec des comptes
secondaires.
* La mise en place d'un contr6le de gestion au niveau central en 1994 (suite A une
supervision de la Banque) avec nomination d'un contr6leur de gestion nomme par le
ministere des finances et charge du suivi du processus budgetaire;
* La creation d'une commission sp6ciale de passation des marches aupres du conseil
d'administration pour accelerer les procedures de passation de marche dans la
derniere annee du projet.



31
7.    Toutefois certaines actions n'ont pu se realiser comme prevu pour les raisons
suivantes:
*  It avait et6 prevu pour la budgetisation un groupe consultatif des bailleurs de fonds.
Ce groupe n'a janais fonctionne du fait que la plupart des bailleurs de fonds
initialement pressentis se sont retires, laissant le financement du projet au
gouvernement et a l'IDA.
* I1 avait ete prevu un protocole d'accord entre l'INRAN et l'Universite pour le
financement, la gestion et l'utilisation de laboratoires associes. Ce protocole d' accord
a ete elabore, bien que tardivement en 1994 mais n'a pas ete signe, ni par 1'INRAN ni
par l'Universite. La faible capacite de gestion administrative et financiere de
l'universite a ete evoquee comme une raison probable, l'universite ayant eu du mal a
consommer une premiere tranche de cinq millions de FCFA qui avait ete mise a sa
disposition par le projet. Autres raisons incluent les problemes d'information et de
comprehension du principe de laboratoires associes.
* I1 n'y a pas eu un fonds specifique pour la liaison recherche-vulgarisation, le fonds de
recherche de l'institut a finance les activit6s de recherche-vulgarisation du
programme systemes de production et transfert de technologies, tout comme les
travaux des autres programmes. Tous les besoins financiers de la recherche
vulgarisation ont ete satisfaits par ce fonds
8.    Parmi les contraintes a une bonne gestion, il a e  mentionn6
*  L'absence de suivi budgetaire adequat par operation de recherche qui ne permet pas
aux chercheurs de connaitre a temps les niveaux de disponibilite et de consommation
de leurs budgets. Ceci serait du a un probleme de codification a resoudre. 1t a ete
suggere la necessite de produire mensuellement un suivi budgetaire par operation de
recherche.
*  La lourdeur administrative au niveau ministeriel et national. La passation des marches
ayant e  faite au cours des sept premieres annees du projet a travers les commissions
primaires et nationales, il y a eu beaucoup de retard dans l'octroi des marches et la
livraison des equipements et infrastructures, dont la plupart n'ont en fait pu 8tre
utilises pour executer le projet a cause de livraison tardive.
Quatrieme Objectif
9.    Cet objectif a ete partiellement atteint a travers les actions suivantes:
La mise en place d'un service du personnel avec un chef de service personnel sous la
Direction Administrative et Financiere. Ce service etant charge du recrutement, de
I'avancement, de la notation, des affectations, de la gestion des contrats et de la paye
salariale;



32
*  La mise en place d'un service de formation avec un chef de service formation sous la
Direction Scientifique, charge de la planification et du suivi de l'execution de la
formation du personnel;
* La defmition dans les plans strategiques, PLT (1988-98) et PMT (1988-93) devenu
plan quinquennal (1994-98), d'elements de sch6mas directeurs de ressources
humaines, permettant d'identifier les besoins en matiere de recrutement et de
formation du personnel.
* La formation a permis de doubler le nombre de chercheurs d6tenteurs de DEA, MSc
et Ph.D de 29 en 1993 A 60 en 1998.
* Le ratio techniciens/chercheurs n'a pu atteindre le chiffre 2 comme pr6vu et est
descendu en dessous de 1 (58 techniciens pour 79 chercheurs). Ceci etant surtout dfi A
la promotion de techniciens devenus chercheurs par le biais de la formation, et du fait
de 1'absence de recrutement par la fonction publique.
10.   La contrainte principale ayant limite la pleine realisation de cet objectif a ete la
non-adoption d'un statut autonome du personnel de l'INRAN qui aurait decroche les
chercheurs et techniciens de la fonction publique et aurait permis leur evaluation, leur
classement par grade, et leur gestion autonome par l'INRAN.
11.   En vue de satisfaire les conditions de mise en vigueur du projet un statut du
personnel de 1'INRAN, avec plan de carriere,  avait ete adopte en 1991 par le
gouvernement, mais ne permettait pas une gestion autonome des chercheurs parce que la
commission ad-hoc qui devait proceder a l'evaluation et au d6crochage du personnel de
la fonction publique ne s'etait jamais reunie. Une autre raison etait le fait que le dit statut
6tait pris par arrete ministeriel et non par decret gouvernemental (conseil des ministres)
afin de permettre la pleine application de ses incidences financieres. Cependant, ce statut
a permis d'ameliorer les conditions de vie du personnel par l'octroie d'indemnites et de
primes forfaitaires, mais celles ci ne sont pas incitatives du fait qu'elles sont accordees A
tous par categorie et ne dependent pas de la productivite.
12.   Un statut autonome des chercheurs et un statut autonome des techniciens de
l'INRAN corrigeant les insuffisances du precedent statut, avec plans de carriere, ont ete
proposes au conseil des ministres en novembre 1996. Ils ont ete revus et amendes suite
aux observations de differents ministeres mais n'ont toujours pas et adoptes par decret
par le Gouvernement malgre plusieurs rappels par l'INRAN  et les missions de
supervision de la Banque. La principale raison est la restructuration de l'INRAN prevue
dans le cadre du programme de relance economique (PRE); toutefois en attendant cette
restructuration, le Secr6taire General du Gouvemement a demande au MAG/EL de faire
adopter ce statut par arrete ministeriel conjoint. Ce qui n'a pas rencontr6 l'agrement des
chercheurs. Les discussions se poursuivent entre les parties pour debloquer cette
situation.



33
Cinquibme Objectif
13.   Cet objectif a et substantiellement atteint a travers les actions suivantes:
* Un programme de systemes de production et de transfert de technologies (PSPTT) a
et mis en place depuis 1994.
* Les ressources humaines de ce programme ont et renforcees par un consultant et par
sept cadres affectes par le ministere de l'Agriculture en 1996, pour appuyer le volet
liaison-recherche-vulgarisation et transfert de technologies;
* La constitution de deux 6quipes pluridisciplinaires de diagnostic et de transfert de
technologie, une pour les centres de Kollo et Niamey et une pour le centre de Maradi.
Chaque equipe comprenant des chercheurs et des vulgarisateurs. Ces equipes sont
fonctionnelles depuis 1996. Chaque equipe intervenant dans 14 villages d'ancrage,
soit un total de 28 villages pour les deux equipes.
. Une evaluation positive des interventions de ces equipes en 1998 a permis une
g6neralisation de ce mode d'intervention par la creation en collaboration avec le
projet des services agricoles (PRSAA) d'equipes de diagnostic d'arrondissements.
o Des journees portes ouvertes ont et organisees pour les producteurs avec des visites
commentees au niveau es stations de recherche.
o Les relations entre la recherche et la vulgarisation ont ete systematisees et regies par
une convention. Les instruments de collaborations 6tant les comites regionaux de la
recherche agronomique (CORRA), les ateliers mensuels de revue de technologie
(AMRT), les tests en milieu paysans, et les equipes pluridisciplinaires.
o  Des AMRT permettant aux chercheurs de 'INRAN d'informer et de former les
Techniciens Specialises (TS) de la vulgarisation sur les technologies disponibles ont
ete regulierement organises. On compte un total de 252 AMRTs de 1993 A 1997 sur
1'ensemble du territoire nigerien;
* 338 tests en milieu paysan on et realises en 1997 sur une prevision de 863. En 1998,
357 tests ont ete realises sur une prevision de 618 tests.
*  Chaque test en milieu paysan etant realise en trois repetitions, avec trois paysans, le
total de parcelles de tests et donc de paysans de contact pour ces tests avec la
vulgarisation etait de 1014 en 1997 et de 1171 en 1998. Des details pour les autres
annees figurent dans le rapport d'achevement du PRSAA.
* Les programmes de recherche disposent en outre de paysans de contact direct avec
qui ils entreprennent des activites de recherche en milieu paysan et des activites de
production de semences. Le programme de cultures irriguees (PCI) intervient sur 12
amenagements agricoles et une ferme privee; le programme des cultures pluviales
(PCP) est intervenu en 1997 et en 1998 chez 490 producteurs de contact par an pour
la multiplication de semences de sorgho, de mil et de niebe sur un total de 219
hectares par an; Le PCP est en outre intervenu dans le milieu paysan A travers des
programmes collaboratifs (reseaux) avec les instituts internationaux de recherche
agronomique, tel que le reseau de protection ecologiquement durable du niebe de
l'IITA, qui a implique 72 paysans en 1997 et 36 paysans en 1998; le programme
d'amelioration de la production animale (PAPA) travaille directement avec 200
eleveurs, donc sur 200 troupeaux; le programme de gestion des ressources naturelles
)PGRN) intervient directement dans 11 villages pour des tests de gestion de la fertilit6



34
des sols et dans 8 villages pour des tests de gestion de for& et de pisciculture; le
PSPTT intervient directement dans 28 villages comme precedemment mentionne.
Sixieme Objectif
14.   Cet objectif a ete atteint de maniere substantielle a travers les actions suivantes
* Environ 80 pour-cent des travaux de genie civil prevus (en termes de depenses
prevues) ont ete realises. I1 s'agit notamment de la rehabilitation des centres de Kollo,
Niamney et Maradi, de la construction du centre de Tahoua, de la construction des
stations de Konni, de Bengou et d'Agadez, de la rehabilitation des stations de
Tillabery, Oualam, Magaria, Diffa, Kalapate, et la rehabilitation des locaux du
departement d'Economie Rurale. Les travaux suivants n'ont pu 8tre realises: la
construction du Centre de Zinder, les laboratoires associ6s INRAN/Universite, et le
centre de formation et de conference.
* Les equipements ont 6t6 acquis a 90 %.
Facteurs Determinants
15.   Parmi les principaux facteurs qui ont influe sur la realisation des objectifs du
projet on peut noter:
. L'instabilit6 politique qui s'est traduite par des changements d'interlocuteurs au
niveau du gouvernement dans les negociations relatives aux statuts.
* L'instabilite dans I'appareil administratif de 1'INRAN qui a connu trois Directeurs
G6n6raux et sept Directeurs Scientifiques pendant la p6riode d'ex6cution du projet;
*L7instabilite dans la supervision du PNRA qui a connu quatre (4) task managers
pendant la periode d'execution du projet;
* Le renforcement et la stabilite de la direction financiere et administrative
* Le dynamisme et les initiatives de la direction generale a partir de 1994 qui a permis
une accel6ration du rythme de consommation du credit.
. La mise en place d'une commission speciale de passation de marche aupres du
conseil d'administration qui a permis de passer la plupart des marches pour le
renforcement institutionnel au cours de la derniere annee du proj et.
* La liberte laissee aux chercheurs d'elire democratiquement le Directeur scientifique et
les chefs de programme;
*   Le renforcement de la liaison recherche - vulgarisation et l'integration active des
producteurs aux travaux de recherche.
* L'existence de rapports scientifiques et financiers avec des partenaires exterieurs, tels
que les reseaux de recherche et les instituts internationaux.



35
Les Principales Levons
Les principales le,ons retenues au cours des discussions sont les suivantes:
*  La necessite d'associer des juristes aux travaux de preparation de projets lorsque des
textes de loi font partie des produits et/ou conditions de mise en vigueur des projets
de maniere a s'assurer des le depart d'une bonne et claire definition de la nature et de
la forme des textes de loi a adopter.
  La participation active des producteurs a la recherche a travers les diagnostic et tests
en milieu paysan est un facteur tres important pour le succes des activite de
recherche.
*  La maitrise d'une partie au moins des passations de marches par l'agence d'execution
plut6t que par la structure administrative centrales, peut contribuer positivement a
accelerer la vitesse d'execution du projet.
*  Une bonne organisation et une bonne decentralisation de la gestion administrative et
financiere sont des conditions prealables et indispensables pour la reussite de la
recherche agricole.
*  Un statut autonome des chercheurs et techniciens est un element indispensable pour
une bonne constitution, formation et motivation des ressources humaines de la
recherche agricole.
*  La collaboration internationale ameliore la qualite de la recherche et ameliore a
travers le financement consolide la durabilite des institutions de recherche.
Acquis
Plusieurs acquis scientifiques et technologiques de 'INRAN ont vu le jour A travers le
projet et ont et mentionnes au cours des discussions. Les details etant donnes dans le
rapport national d'achevement. Le sorgho hybride NAD 1 figure en tee parmi ces acquis.
Recommandations
La mission recommande que le rapport d'achevement national soit acheve le plus tot
possible et soit communique A la Banque avant la fin du mois d'avril 1999.
Fait a Niamey le 16 Avril 1999



36
Republic of NIGER
Ministry of Agriculture and Animal Husbandry
National Institute for Agronomic Research (INRAN)
(Unofficial Translation from French)
SUMMARY OF THE IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT OF
THE NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT (NARP)
1. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
Because of its main components, the national agricultural research project in Niger is an
institutional support project. It represents the first five-year phase of a long-term
development program (LTP) for national agricultural research. The main objectives of
this phase are as follows:
* Strengthening national planning capacity in agricultural research;
* Strengthening the national implementation capacity of research programs.
Those general objectives can be separated into specific objectives as follows:
-  Improving priority-setting and resource allocation methodology, taking into account
farmers' needs and natural resources conservation;
-  Improving coordination in the formulation and implementation of national and
international research programs;
-  Improving programming, budget and financial management in research;
-  Improving management, programming, training, recruitment and career profile for
research personnel;
-  Strengthening Research-Extension-Producers linkages through participative and
adaptive research in rural areas.
2. PROJECT RESULTS
a. Research Administration and Organization
A Scientific Directorate in charge of research technical management, led by a Scientific
Director (1991), and an Administrative and Financial Affairs Directorate (Oct. 91)
mainly responsible for related activities and led by a Director. The two directors report to
the General Director of the Institute and assist him in their respective areas of
competencies.
The Scientific Directorate supports Five (5) already existing thematic research
departments (DRE, DRF, DRVZ, DRA and DECOR) and five (5) multidisciplinary
research programs (PCI, PCP, PAPA, PGRN and PSP/TT) created under the NARP.
Although Department Heads nominate the National Program Coordinator under the
project in order to ensure the internal consistency of the programs and their integration in
a multidisciplinary approach, there is no hierarchy between Programs and Departments.
In fact, the above approach has not been put into effect and during the implementation of
the NARP, the role of the Departments has been overshadowed by those of the research



37
programs. This has been a major handicap for scientific activities as well as for the
training of young researchers.
b. Research Personnel Management
The number of researchers has slightly increased since it went from 66 at the onset of the
project to 77 today. However, it has not reached the level of 84 researchers in five (5)
years anticipated by the project. This discrepancy can be explained by the insufficient
level of recruitment because of the stagnation (10% per year) of State subsidies. The
only recruitment performed was done on the basis of budgetary openings from
researchers who left INRAN. A total of 11 researchers have been recruited. The eleven
(11) new researchers are spread through the programs as follows: PGNR: 2, PCP: 2, PCI:
3, PSP/TT: 2, PAPA: 2.
The problem of non-disbursement of government's contribution also affected the
recruitment of Technical personnel. Of the 34 Senior and 68 Mid-level Technicians
anticipated by the project, none has been recruited. The ratio of two technicians per
researcher advocated by the project is far from being reached, and is currently at 0.5
technicians per researcher. Moreover, Nine (9) administrative staff have been recruited;
four (4) financial assistants , four (4) accountants in the regional research centers
(CERRA) and in the Financial and Administrative Directorate (DAAF) at the central
level were contracted by the project. They were finally permanently recruited by INRAN
using funds from State subsidies.
However, research personnel management (recruitment, appointment, redeployment) has
not been done as anticipated by the strategic plans, PMT and PLT 88.
c. Research Structures and Decentralization
The NARP has facilitated the improvement of the research infrastructure through the
creation and/or rehabilitation of research centers, stations and support points at Kollo,
Tahoua, Maradi, Niamey, Konni, Bengou, Agadez, Diffa, Ouallam, Tillaberi, Magaria
and Kalapate.
d. Collaboration within the National Agricultural Research System (NARS)
The associated laboratories INRA1N/University Abdou Moumouni of Niamey have not
been operational because of the difficulties associated with the training of mixed teams,
the identification of priority activities in research and the poor coordination in funds
management.
e. Institutional Aspects
An already existing Board of Directors supervises and controls the General Director on
the orientation and management of the Institute by providing the main administrative and
financial guidelines and ensuring that the research programs planned by INRAN each
year match national orientations and priorities.
During the implementation of the NARP, the following have been created:
- A Scientific Advisory Board attached to the Board of Directors



38
- A consultative committee in charge of researchers evaluation
- A national advisory board for agronomic research;
- Regional Committees for Agronomic Research (CORRA) in charge of the definition
of regional research policies;
-  Regional agronomic research centers (CERRA);
- Since 1991, the Institute has been endowed with a personnel and internal regulation
statute. An autonomous statute for the researchers and an application decree have
been submitted for ratification by the Govemment.
In spite of the decrees confirming their creation, all those bodies have hardly been
operational. As far as the CORRAs are concerned, only four of them (Maradi, Tillaberi,
Dosso and Tahoua) held meetings, and only once.
f. Support to Research Programs
All research programs have benefited from important financial, technical, material and
organizational support from the NARP.
g. Main Results of Research
The NARP generated important results in the areas of perennial and irrigated crops,
natural resources management, animal production, and knowledge of various production
systems and agricultural sub-sectors. Efforts have also been made in the area of transfer
of the technologies developed by the research programs.
h. Impact of INRAN-led Research
The main impact of research at the level of extension agents and producers are as
follows: For extension agents, the strengthening of the linkages between research and
extension allowed the increased participation of researchers as trainers to the monthly
technology review workshops (AMRT) in all the regions of the country. A total of 252
AMRTs were held between 1993 and 1997.
Moreover, the strengthening of those linkages resulted into the creation of joint
multidisciplinary teams (EMD) in the departments of Dosso and Maradi, followed by the
District Diagnostic teams (EDA) and the Regional research-extension Teams (ERV)
which are collaborative structures.  They facilitated a better identification of the
constraints faced by producers, elaboration of research programs and transfer of
sustainable technologies.
In the area of technologies developed by research, one must stress:
- The production and dissemination in collaboration with ICRISAT of 500 copies of
technical package files and 1000 copies of technical package sheets;
- The preparation of 14 technical package files after the workshop on technologies
generated or adopted by development projects;
- The production of 500 copies of cooking recipes.
These data confirmed the results of a survey commissioned by the extension project,
PRSAA, which revealed that the best adoption rates are obtained with technologies



39
relative to animal production and environmental protection (30% for urea blocks and
25% for improved stoves).
i. Training
In order to improve the qualitative development of its human resources while trying to
reduce the imbalance observed on research efforts, INRAN launched in 1995, in the
context of NARP, a training program for its researchers. As a result, approximately 58
agents have benefited or are still benefiting from a training scholarship.
Long-term training
58 researchers and technicians have been trained since the start of the NARP (48
researchers and 10 technicians).  One can conclude that the human resources
development process of INRAN has been strongly supported by the NARP (63% of
financing), collaborative research projects and international cooperation (18%), USAID
(10%) and the Government (9%).
Short term training
Five (5) researchers obtained the DEA (DiplMme d 'Etude Approfondie) and many other
personnel categories  received short-term training under this project component.
Consequently, three hundred and eighty five (385) researchers, technicians and support
staff have taken short tenn training courses over a total of 782 weeks between 1993 and
1998. The NARP financed 33% of short term training costs on IDA funds, and
collaborative projects (ICRAF, INTSORMIL, IITA, PEDUNE, ROCARS etc.) have
contributed up to 58%.
j. Studies, Consultancies and Technical Assistance
The main objective of this component is to support and facilitate the implementation of
activities matching NARP objectives.
Studies
Twenty four (24) studies financed by INRAN have been carried out..
Consultancies
As planned in the evaluation report and in the context of its program restructuring and
reorientation and the mid-term review of the NARP, ISNAR has provided international
specialists to support research planning and project review missions.
Technical Assistance
The project planned to recruit six technical assistants to support various research
programs in the long-term but only the following three positions were filled during the
implementation of the NARP:
A specialist in animal production
* A specialist in irrigated systems agronomy
A specialist in research-extension linkages



40
j. Administrative and Financial Management
Accounting and Financial Management
The DAAF of INRAN which suffered from sluggish administrative procedures has been
improved by setting up a new computerized management system and recruiting qualified
accountants. This new accounting system has been formalized through:
* The preparation of a new procedure manual;
* The adoption of a private type of accounting plan;
* The installment of a management software.
Administrative Management
The Administrative and Financial Directorate is organized as follows:
* A personnel and Administrative unit
* A Purchase and Acquisition unit
* A Management and Material maintenance unit
* An Accounting unit
During the first two years (1992 and 1993) of project implementation, INRAN always
had to prepare a consolidated budget for each program and financing source under the
guidance of the DAAF and the various CAF in each research center in accordance with
the recommendations of the evaluation report. Only during a Bank supervision mission
in the first semester of 1994, was a recommendation made for the creation of a financial
management comptroller position.
Procurement
A total of 78 vehicles out of the 90 planned, including new ones, have been purchased, as
well as 8 tractors and 4 trucks. Ninety five (95) motorcycles out of sixty four (64)
planned have been acquired for researchers field missions. Major scientific, laboratory,
computer, irrigation and station equipment have been purchased, but with a lot of delay in
most cases. All scheduled works have been completed except the conference and training
center which were to be constructed at INRAN's headquarters in Niamey and CERRA's
headquarters in Zinder.
3. PERFORMANCE OF NARP'S MAIN PLAYERS
a. INRAN- Strengths
* Institutional strengthening:
Although INRAN did not have direct authority to adopt the regulatory statutes in that
area, it managed to have them adopted at various levels. These are the Statutes on the
creation of consultative and reflective bodies, the Statutes for the personnel and for the
institute, and statutes for decentralized structures.
* Research planning and programming
With the NARP, INRAN has redefined its research program and developed a five year
plan (1994-1998) based on multidisciplinary teams supported by a consultative system
between Research, Extension and Producers through the CORRAs, AMRTs and TMPs.



41
Moreover, the institute has significantly increased its number of collaborative projects
and Agreement/contracts with development projects and international research centers.
* Financial and Administrative Management:
INRAN must be credited for the creation of the financial and administrative Directorate,
DAAF, the preparation of a procedure manual and the set up of a computerized
accounting and financial management system, the preparation of a consolidated budget
approved by the Board and monitored on a daily basis by an managerial comptroller
(internal) and annually by an auditor (external), and the increase of national Funds and
own revenues.
b. INRAN- Weaknesses
* Institutional strengthening
The partial or non application of regulatory texts and the absence of a critical mass of
researchers for some programs, projects, CERRA and stations represent a major handicap
for the proper growth of the institute.
* Research planning and programming
The main weaknesses at this level reside in the neglect of CORRAs meetings (since
1993), the fact that the consultative system with extension and producers is linked to the
existence of the NARP and the PRSAA which are unsustainable structures, and the lack
of integration of research at the level of the National Agricultural Research System
(including the associate laboratories).
- Administrative and financial management
The weakness at this level is mainly characterized by a low involvement of researchers in
the management of the budget of their research activities and the absence of a periodical
information and monitoring system for budget implementation. This is now done by
allocating financial resources without taking into consideration the needs of research
programs and projects. There are also difficulties in mobilizing counterpart funds and
national subsidies (financial crisis at the national level).
*  Conditionalities
All the initial conditionalities of the NARP have only been turned into adoption of legal
texts.
c. Government - Strengths
* Financing
The creation of a special commission to speed the procurement process under the NARP
has been a judicious move on the part of the Government and has sensibly increased the
operating budget of the institute in accordance with the evolution. of the personnel.



42
* Institutional reform
The responsible ministry has worked for the adoption of 1NRAN's personnel statute (by
decree) and other statutes (Institute Statute, Board, CNRA, Scientific Board, CERRA,
and CORRA).
* Capacity building
The responsible ministry made scientific and administrative personnel available and
provided land and infrastructure to 1NRAN.
d. Government - Weaknesses
a Financing
The government failed to put in place the consultative group for INRAN's donors, to
cover additional budgetary needs and to disburse counterpart funds.
* Institutional reform
The main impediments to institutional stability are the non-adoption of the autonomous
statute for researchers and the frequent replacement of INRAN's general director which
is also the director of the NARP.
e. World Bank - Strengths
* Financing
The greatest accomplishments of the donor in that area are the increase of the level of the
special account (150 to 350 millions CFAF) and the 100% financing of expenditure
categories which were initially covered at 86% and 87%.
a Supervision
Regular supervision missions and the availability of managers at the resident mission
have ensured a good project monitoring.
* Monitoring
The institutionalization of annual external audits in order to ensure good project
management.
f. World Bank - Weaknesses
* Financing
The donor is essentially to blame for the delays in the requests for fund reimbursement
and disbursement.
a Supervision
The instability of task managers (frequent changes) has negatively affected the NARP.



43
4. LESSONS LEARNED
> In relation to objective 1
Improvement of priority-setting and resource allocation methodology, taking into
account producers' needs and resource conservation:
- The involvement of producers in priority-setting for research, technology
development and transfer and resource allocation through participatory diagnostic,
on-farm testing and CORRAs has been a determining factor for the success of
research activities.
- Any research activity must comply with sustainable natural resources management.
> In relation to objective 2
Improvement of coordination in the formulation and execution of national and
international agricultural research program:
The coordination method initiated by the NARP and used to formulate and execute
research programs has provided satisfactory results.  The participatory, adaptive,
decentralized approach involving international partners is currently being adopted by
INRAN while strengthening the monitoring-evaluation aspect of research in rural areas.
A good coordination in the formulation and execution of research programs is key to
success in agricultural research.
)  In relation to objective 3
Improvement of research programming, budgeting andfinancial management
A good research programming, and an appropriate budgeting and financial management
(autonomous and decentralized) are necessary conditions for success of research
activities.
> In relation to objective 4
Improvement of research staffplanning, training, recruitment and career development
- The expansion of research personnel cannot take place without independent human
resources management through an autonomous statute for research personnel.
- It is necessary to include legal advisers in the design of projects in order to prevent
any obstruction to the preparation of legal components and ensure their effective
applicability.
> In relation to objective 5



44
The strengthening of linkages between research, extension services and farmers
with on-farm adaptive research and participatory research programs
It is essential to link the activities of those three categories of players in any rural
development program. The strengthening of those relations is finally one of the most
sustainable achievements of the NARP and the PRSAA.
6. PROSPECTS
In the context of the NARP, INRAN has started to reorganize its structure and reorient its
activities. As a result, regionalization and reorientation of research have become and
remain the foundation of INRAN's operations. In fact, in light of our free economy, the
high incidence of rural and urban poverty, the growing urbanization and the unavoidable
globalization, the agricultural sector needs other ambitions. Our productivity must
increase in the future, this in a context where the upstream and downstream of
agricultural sub-sectors are regarded as one. To achieve that goal, objective conditions
must be created in order to guarantee for each sub-sector interaction and dynamics
between upstream and downstream in order to reduce the gap between the demand and
supply of new technologies.
A sustainable agricultural research requires a long term strategy, stable and substantial
financial resources and securing researchers.  Those are the main perspectives of
INRAN's new philosophy.
Securing researchers
The research capacity built through the NARP ought to be sustained with the adoption of
an autonomous statute for the researchers which will prevent the loss of trained
personnel. In addition, it is absolutely necessary to have for various personnel categories
the appropriate, demanding but motivating, statutes. Those statutes will also allow more
selective recruitment and ensure a proper career path for the beneficiaries.
Long and medium term strategy
INRAN must:
-  Enhance the material and human resources acquired in the context of the NARP;
-  Keep the new management system;
-  Open the board of director to the participation of private operators;
-  Implement the orientations of the new long and medium term plans which involve:
* A better regional spread of research efforts;
* A better sectorial spread of research efforts;
* A greater importance given to productive (cash) crops.
-  Find appropriate means to ensure the sustainability in the long and medium term of its
future activities and products. This will only be possible by enhancing its product
and services, and by receiving financial support from the State and other technical
and financial partners. Otherwise, the risk to loose all the capacity already built will
prevail.



IBRD 21774
NIGER
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT                                                                                                                                LlYA
PROJET NATIONAL DE RECHERCHE AGRONOMIQUE
AGRO - ECOLOGICAL ZONES:
ZONES AGROECOLOGIQUES:                                            A   L    _ E  R  I A
I  Desert
* Desert
Rainy season pastoral zones
Zone pastorale d'hivernage  
Permanent pastoral zones
Zone pastorale permanante
,   Transitional zones
Zone de transition
Zones with low agricultural potential
Zone a' k/b/es potentia/ites agrico/es
iero - pastoral zones
|     / j ,    one agro - ptasorale
Z., ggMarginal agricultural zones                           ~<S                                                                                          
:   0   Znatc/eciiu                                                                                                         50 c0:ao                    40 
I" Valley an  gl  zone                      _            I                              AGADEZ
des : 0 t:_
0       Centers                                                0       55       0        5
Tahoua    SStawti>onns                                                            _                                                    50
Develo=mn  upport points                          t_,_                                                    iPt
Poinits     d       apiudeleoppenets bP  
C  go Dar&= su &iode & droissNince dCs   A R100
3   eartnmentdcapitPals                           __                          11Sl_             .a "i
50 I         ,sohyetts in mm*    /9/=o
-16'                         mearent boundaries                                                          /                                                               _ :_DIFFA     /             16'
I^ntOerntaetional tboruandariae/s ST-  0i
.x;.,Of            C = 1352 BENflrLIN                                                           5'6                                             12' 
August 1989



