l
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repot No. 8007-NIR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
NIGER
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
FEBRUARY 23, 1990
l
Agriculture Division
Sahel Department
Africa Region
his doment has a reshicted dItributon and may be used by recipins ony In the perfonnme of
thefr offichi dudes. Its conents may not othewse be dbdosed wthu Wodd Bank autborzatio



CURRENCY EQUIVALENS
Currency urit - CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1.0 - CFAF 320 (July 1989)
1 SDR - US$ 1.33
hEIGHTS AND HEASURES
Metric System
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIUL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AGRHYMET       Agro-Meteorological-Hydrology Data
Colleccion and Forecasting Center in the
Sahel, Niger
CCCE           Caisse Centrale de Coopdration Economique
(French Aid Loan Association)
DECOR          Departement de Recherches en Economie Rurale
DRA            DWpartement de Recherches Agricoles
DRE            Ddpartement de Recherches Ecologiques
DRF            Departement de Recherches Forestiares
DRVZ           Departement de Recherches Vetdrinaires et
Zootechniques
DSI            D6partement des Statistiques et de
ll'Informatique
FAC            Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation
(French Ministry of Cooperation)
FAO/CP         Food and Agriculture
Organization/Cooperation Program
(Organisation pour l'Alimentation et
l'Agriculture/Programme de Coop4ration)
ICRISAT        International Crops Research Institute for
the Semi-Arid Tropics (Centre International
pour la Recherche dans les Zones Tropicales
Semi-arides)
IITA           International Institute for Tropical
Agriculture (Institut International pour
l'Agriculture Tropicale)
ILCA           International Livestock Center for Africa
(Centre International pour l'Elevage en
Afrique)
INRAN          Institut National de Recherches Agronomiques
du Niger
ISNAR          International Service for National
Agricultural Research (Service International
pour la Recherche Agronomique)
PAD            Points d'Appui au D6veloppement
(Development Field Support Points)
SP             Syst&me de Production
(Farming Systems Research)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



NIGER
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY iYi
DOCUMENTS CONTAINED IN THE PROJECT FILE                            vi
CHAPTER I: BACKGROUND        ................... .................. 1
A.  Introduction .............................. . ...............   1
B. The Agricultural Sector.     ...... ... ................. ...  2
C. Agricultural Institutions and Services............... ........ 4
Ministry of Agriculture and Environment .................... 4
Ministry of Animal and Water Resources      ....     .     4
Ministry of National Education and Scientific Research ..... 4
Local Government . ...   ....................................... 5
D. Sector Issues and Bank Strategy ......................       5
Production Potential. ........... ............. ......... S .  5
Experience with Past Lending and Lessons Learned ...........   6
Bank Agricultural Strategy....   . ................... ...   7
CHAPTER IIs AGRICULTURAL, LIVESTOCK AND FORESTRY RESEARCH ......... a
A. Background  . ... .0. ..     ....... ...............a
B. The Organization of Agricultural Research ....8................. a
C. Research Priorities and Programs                   ...... 10
D. Research Facilities ............. .     .. . .........    11
E. Research-Extension Linkages ......... ...... ........... .    12
F. Research Funding    ........... ....................... . 13
G. Accounting and Financial Management .............. ........  13
H. Planning and Management of Research ......................... 14
CHAPTER III: THE PROJE^T ........   ..      ...... ................... . 14
A. Objectives ......................................................... i4
B. Sumiary Description .. ..     ......................... ...... 15
This report is based on findings of an IDA mission which visited Niger in June
1989 comprising Messrs. Daniel Moreau (Mission Leader), Sidi Jammeh (Economist),
and Andrew Spurling (Research Specialist). Mmes. Jann Masterson and JoAnne
Nickerson aided in its processing.



- ii -
C. Detailed Features ....................                           16
(a) Organizational Strengthening........................... 16
(b) Support to Research Programs........................... 19
(c) TreJiing and technical assistance..................... 22
(d) Civll works, vehicles, equipment ond supplies.......... 24
D. Project Costs and Financingc................................ 26
E.  Procurement  ..............................  ............... ...   28
F. Disbursements ........................ 28
G. Environmental Impactm......................................... 30
CHAPTER IV:  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ..............                     30
A. Organization and Management ......................................... . 30
Administrative and Financial Jperations .................... 32
B. Project Coordination ........................................ . 34
C. Implementation Schedule ..................................... . 34
D. Financial Control, Audit and Reporting ....................... 35
CHAPTER V:  BENEFITS AND RISKS...# ..............................      36
A.  General ..........................................    36
B. Main Benefits ....................................... 37
C.  Project  Risks .......................................   37
CHAPTER VI: AGREEMENTS AND RZCOOENDATIONS......................... 38
ANNEXES
Annex ls  11RAN Organizational Chart (1986)
Annex 2:  Results of Agricultural Research (1983-1987)
Annex 3: Agricultural Development Projects
Annex 4s  INRANIS Proposed Research Program
Annex 5:  Consultant Services and Technical Assistance
Annex 6: Natural Resources Management Research Program
Annex 7: INRAN Budget from 1976 to 1986
Annex 8: Proposed INRAN Organizational Chart
Annex 9:  Training of INRAN Staff (Category Al and A2)
Annex 10: Amounts and Methods of Procurement
Annex 11: Estimated Schedule of Disbursements of IDA Credit
Annex 12: Summary Accounts Cost Summary
Annex 13: Technical Assistant Posts (Research Scientists) - Draft Terms of
Reference
Annex 14: Phasing of Incremental INRAN resep-chers
MAP
IBRD 21774    Niger. National Agricultural Research Project
Research Station Network.



- iii -
NIGER
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL tESEARCI PROJECT
Credit and Proiect Summary
Borrowers         Republic of Niger
Beneficiary:      Institut National de Recherche Agronomique du Niger (INRAN)
Credit Amounts    SDR 15.0 million (US$ 19.9 million equivalent)
Termss            Standard IDA, with 40 years maturity
On-lending
Term:            Proceeds of the Credit would be passed on by Government in
grTat form to INRAN.
Financing Plan
Government        US8  3.5 million
Bilateral Donors  US$  4.6 million
IDA               US$ 19.9 million
TOTAL             USS 28.0 million
Proiect
Description:      The project represents a first five-year tranche of a
long-term national program. The main objectives of thi project
vould be to strengthen national agricultural research
planning and implementation capacity, while ensuring that
research is responaive to farmers' needs and constraints, and
takes into account research conducted elsewhere. The project
would consist of:
(a)  support to on-going priority applied research programs
with the accent on improving research quality and
adaptability;
(b) development of an applied research program on natural
resources management;
(c)  development of adaptive research involving the testing,
within the farming comuznity, of existing technologies;
(d)  strengthening of the linkages between research, extension
and the farming communl6y;
(e)  strengthening of administrative and financial management
of INRAN;
(f)  human resources development, education and training for
the different levels of research staff;
(g)  a program of construction, rehabilitation and equipment
for the agricultural research network;



- iv _
(h) coordination of external assistance amongst all donors
funding agricult.ural research ln Niger.
Benefits sand
Risks:            A wide spectrum of farmers and livestock owners stands to
benefit from the development and dissemination of new
technologies. The project is designed to address the country's
increasingly serious problems of environmental degradation and
decreasing productivity. The closer integration of research
on crops. livestock and forestry will contribute to the
development of sustainable farming systems that will assist
with the restoration and conservation of soil fertility and
so with crop productivity. An increased emphasis on adaptive
research. with the extension service and the farming community
participating in the research process, will assist with the
adaptation of existing technologies to the needs of the
farming community. This will be further strengthened through
the close collaboration of this project with that proposed for
agricultural extension. Both the long-term needs of the
environment and the most immediate technical problems of
farmers will thus receive high priority.
The greatest risk faced by the project is the potential
difficulty of developing feasible economic solutions to the
degradation of the environment and economic technical
recommendations for Increased crop and livestock productivity
in the context of the particularly difficult condition of
agriculture in Niger. However, the non-project risk in the
decline of fertility, soil degradation and over exploitation
is considerable and research is essential to combat this.
Potential risks also reside in the relevance of priority
research programs in taking into account farmer's needs and
resource conservation, and in the adequacy of the linkages
between research and extension. The representation oi
extension staff and of farming community representatives on
regional and national Management Councils, the direct
participation of research staff in the training of extension
workers, and the reorganization of INRAN with new statutes
would all help lessen those risks. Other risks are inherent
in all research projects, namely difficulties in obtaining
adequate staff and funds for the development of a long-term
national research program. These risks could be considered to
be relatively small, however, because the Government and
donors have already shown a strong couditment to research.
Maos                IBRD 21774



NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Estimated Costs and Finmacing Plan
Estimated Costs  l/                              Local    Forelia    Total
---- US  illion------
Civil Vorks                                      1.78       2.46      4.24
Equipment                                        0.82       2.34      3.16
Vehicles                                         0.28       1.57      1.85
Salaries                                         2.36         -       2.36
Operating Costt Research                         2.33       1.24      3.57
Operating Costs Overhead                         0.52       0.10      0.62
Tecbnical Assistance                             0.26       2.34      2.60
Training                                          -         2.48      2.48
Base Cost                                     8.35      12.53     20.88
Reserve Research Fund                            1.84      0.46       2.30
Physical Contingencies                           0.47       1.68      2.15
Price Contingencies                              1.21       1.48      2.69
Total Project Cost                           11.87      16.15     26.02
Financing Plan
ClAP billion             Us $ million
Government                       1.100                     3.5
Bilateral Donors                 1,472                     4.6
IDA                              6.368                    19.9
TOTAL                            8.940                    28.0
1/ exclusive of taxes and duties



- vI -
DOCUMENTS CONTAINED IN THE PROJECT FILE
1. Republique du Niger, Ministbre du Plan DEPP, International
Service  for  National  Agricultural  Research  (ISNAR).
Prosramne de D4velopiement de la Recherche Agronomipue au
Niger: Tome I - Analyse du Systmne National de Recherche
Agronomique, dtcembre 1987.
2. Republique du Niger, Ninistire du Plan DEPP, International
Service  for  Natiaoal  Agricultural  Research  (ISNAR).
Programe de DWveloppement de la Recherche Aaronomi ue au
Nigers   Tome II - Proposition dun Plan & Long-Terme,
decembre 1987.
3. Organisation des Nations Unies pour lVAlimentation et
l'Agriculture (FAO). Rapport du Programme de Cooperation
FAO/Bangue Mondiales: Niger Proiet National de Recherche
Agronomipue - Rapport Provisoire de Preparation.   Texte
principal et annexes 1 & 8. Rome, le 28 septembre 1988.
4. Republique du Niger, Ninistare du Plan DEPP, International
Service  for  National  Agricultural  Research  (ISNAR).
Proposition d'un Plan National A Moyen-Terme do Recherche
AgronomiQues    MNthode  d'Elaboration  et  Principales
Caracteristipues. avril 1989 (draft)
5. Tnstitut National de la Recherche Agronomique du Niger. Plan a
Moyen-Terme  de  la Recherche Agronomigue   Rapport des
diffirents Grouper ie Travail. Niamey, avril 1989.
6. R6publique du Niger, Minist&re de l'Agriculture et de
l'Environnement,    Institut   National   de   Recherches
Agronomiques du Niger (INRAN). Table Ronde de bailleurs de
Fonds Secteur Rural.  Note de Synthese sur la Recherche
Agronomique - Programe A long-terme. (P4riode 1988-91).
janvier 1988.
7.  Republique  du  Niger,  Ministlre  de  l'Agriculture  et  de
i'Environnement,    Institut   National   de   Recherches
Agronomiques du Niger (INRAN). Etst Nominatif du Personnel
de l'Institut National de Recherches Agronomiaues du Niger
Gestion 1988-1989.
8. USAIDINIGER. Niger - Cereals Research Project (No. 683-0225).
March 18, 1982.
9. USAID/NIGER. Niger Applied Agricultural Research Project (No.
683-0256). May 28, 1987.



- vil -
Working Paers
10. Liaison Recherche Vulparisation Proposition de Renforcement da.
Points d'AyouL. B. Esteulle, Niamey, June 1989.
11. Working Paper No. 1s Research Prioritisation and Programing.
A Spurling. Abidjan. July 1989.
12. Working Paper No. 2: Agricultural Research Prtgramme. Institut
National de Recherche Agronomique du Niger (INRAN). A.
Spurling, Abidjan, July 1989.
13. Working Paper No. 3. INRANM'. Research Infrastructure.
A. Spurling, Abidjan, July 1989.
14. Natural Resources Management Research Programe. A. Spurling,
Abidjan, July 1989.
15. Technical Assistant Posts (Research Scientists). Draft Terms
of Reference. A. Spurling, Abidjan, July 1989.
16. Responsibilities of INRAN's Senior Management (High Level)
Staff. S. Jaumeh, Washington, 1989.



EIGER
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
STAF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. BACKGROUND
A.   Introduction
1.01      Niger is a vast landlocked country with a population of more than
seven million (1987) and is among the pooresL countries in the world, with
a per capita GNP of US$280 in 1987. The current estimated average annual
growth rate of the population is 3.2Z. A major concern is the intensification
of population in the small restricted area that is suitable for cultivation.
This area is being slowly reduced by the southward creep of the 400 mm
isohyet. Per capita availability of arable land with at least 600 mm
precipitation and of irrigable land is only one third of the average for the
Sahelian countries. About 10t of the land receives an average of 350-600 mm
of rainfall, and about 12 of the land receives 600-800 mm of rainfall; no
area receives more than 800 vm. Soils are generally poor with little organic
matter and therefore have poor moisture and nutrient retention. Rainfall is
not only scant but also irregular, making Niger vulnerable to drought.
Rainfall during the last decade has frequently been below average.
1.02      Improved performance in the agricultural sector will be crucial for
future growth, since an estimated 80-90Z of the population depends on this
sector for its livelihood. In the long-term, development of Nigerien
agriculture will depend largely on technological improvements which could
make the country's limited resource base more productive at a reasonable cost
and in a sustainable way.   The standard technical package for rainfed
agriculture based on chemical fertilizers, single cropping and animal
traction does not respond to farmers' constraints and priorities, and has
not been widely adopted. Variations in micro-climates and soil conditions
make it difficult to apply a standard technical package to large areas.
1.03      While the prospects for a significant technological breakthrough
are not bright, progress can nevertheless be achieved in improving farming
systems by cautiously adapting some modern techniques to local systems, by
making inexpensive improvements in traditional agricultural techniques, and
by focusing adaptive research on the technical and economic const:aints to
the intensification and integration of crop/forest/livestock production
systems.
1.04      The national agricultural research agency (INRAN) was created in
1975. It amalgamated the groups drawn from the following French research



- 2 -
institutions: IRAT (Research Institute for Tropical Agriculture), IEMVT
(Animal Production and Health Research Institute for Tropical Countries),
IRHO (Research Institute for Oleaginous Plants), and CTPT (Tropical Forest
Research Center). In parallel, th. University of Niamey has developed a
research capability through the creation of the departments of Agronomy and
Biology and small research units specialized in human sciences (IRSH), solar
energy (ONERSOL) and radio-isotopes. However, due to a lack of resources and
inexperience, these young national institutions cannot provide efficient
support to rural development. In order to fill the gap, decentralized
research activities have been executed by numerous rural development projects
largely with external financing. Although these dispersed research endeavors
may have responded to the clear needs of the projects, they have suffered
from comparatively high costs, lack of continuity and limited dissemination
of results outside the projects. The performance of the national agricultural
research agency (INRAN) has also been disappointing. Its bias towards plant
breeding research neglected urgently needed adaptive and farming systems
research. Recognizing the need to redefine research priorities, the
Government initiated a review, with assistance from ISNAR, of the current
system of agricultural research. ISNAR then aessisted INRAN to establish a
long-term national agricultural research plan.
1.05      The first phase of the review involved two missions by an ISNAR
team (preliminary mission May 1986 and main mission September/October 1986).
Then six working groups were formed with Nigerien staff from INRAN, the
University, and the relevant Ministries as well as a selectad number of
expatriate researchers to work with ISNAR on the preparation of a long-term
research program. The long-term plan was preseuted to  several donors
including IDA, CCCE. PAC. and USAID in October 1987. In June 1988, a joint
preparation mission (FAO/CP and ISNAR) visited Niger to assist the Government
to identify a national, five-year research project as an operational first
tranche of the long-term research program for possible IDA financing. The
proposed project was rather ambitious given the initial time needed for
strengthening and improving the management capability of INRAN; thus the
proposed project has been rejised to conform with research priorities and
existing absorptive capacity.
B.   The Agricultural Sector
1.06      Although agriculture remains the most important economic activity
and the principal livelihood of the population, accounting for about 45Z of
the GNP and about 202 of the country's exports, Niger is constrained by poor
natural  resources.  Nigerien  agriculture  is  largely  subsistence-based,
producing low-value crops such as millet (supplying about 75Z of the total
cereals production) and sorghum (providing about 202). The most important
export commodity is livestock (cattle on the hoof), followed by cowpeas. With
irrigated lands representing only about two percent of the total cultivated
area, the contribution of the irrigation subsector to national agricultural
production is limited.
1.07      Despite its meager resource base, Niger has traditionally been
self-sufficient in food production except during severe drought periods.
However, production has been increased to keep up with population growth by
shortening fallow periods and cultivating more marginal lands. The areas
under cultivation doubled in 25 years from 186 million ha in 1960 to 386



million ha in 1985. The overexploitation of the vegetative cover caused by
human and animal population pressure has led to a decline in soil fertility
and soil degradation. Consequently, traditional farming systems, based on
long fallow periods to regenerate soil fertility, are breaking down. This
degradation of the environment has been further compounded by repeated
droughts. Per capita agricultural GNP declined by 2.5Y per year in the past
20 years.
1.08      Cereals production, consisting of millet, sorghum, rice and maize,
increased at an annual average rate of 1.62 in the past 20 years to 1.6
million tons (1981-85 average). This increase was made possible solely by
an increase in cultivated area. Cereals production has been dominated by
millet and sorghum with the contribution of millet increasing slightly from
742 in 1960165 to 77S in 1981185.
1.09      Total leguminous production (groundnuts and cowpeas) has been
increasing but at a much slower pace (0.6?) to about 280,000 tons (1981-85
average).   The 'elative importance of groundouts and cowpeas has changed
drastically since the 1973/74 drought.  Cowpeas replaced groundnuts in a
remarkably short period of time without Government intervention. Groundnut
production surpassed 400,000 tons in 1972, whereas cowpea production amounted
to only 144,000 tons. In 1976, a few years after the drought, the relative
importance was reversed (164,000 tons of groundLuts versus 216,000 out of
cowpeas), and cowpeas remained the more important crop throughout the
eighties. This switch illustrates the dynamism of Nigerien farmers who
appropriately responded to the changing economic and climatic environment.
1.10      While  yields  have  been  declining  for  millet,  sorghum  and
groundnuts, they have been stagnant for cowpeas and maize. Yields for cotton
and rice have improved mainly due to the introduction of modern irrigation
schemes. The relative productivity of Nigerien agriculture is declining,
except for rice and cotton. Yields (during the period 1980-1985) for millet-
sorghum and groundnuts in Niger have been about half those of other West
African countries.
1.11      Livestoe  production is one of the single most important activities
in the economy, and crop and livestock production are greatly dependent on
one another. The livestock subsector is estimated to contribute about 302 of
the agricultural GDP and around 152 of all exports in 1986. The national herd
was estimated in 1983 at 3.5 million head of cattle, nearly 3.4 million sheep
and 7.5 million goats. Drastic drops in the size of the national herd were
recorded in 1985 when severe drought occurred.   Production loss due to
drought is considerable since it takes about seven to ten years for a herd
to reconstitute itself to its previous level. The significant change in the
composition of herds since 1968, has been in favor of a higher proportion of
small ruminants and camels, induced by different mortality rates under
drought conditions and by the deliberate choices made by certain livestock
owners. Production systems are mostly agro-pastoral and nomadic and are
characterized by poor husbandry practices, year-round low nutritional levels
and deteriorating grazing resources.
1.12      Average annual production of wood is estimated at 4.2 million m3,
of which only 1.4 million m3 is available for consumption. Annual consumption
of wood is increasing at 4.22, faster than population growth rates. It is



-4-
estimated that natural regeneration will not be able to satisfy the fuelvood
needs of the cities of Niamey and Zinder within ten yeare, of Maradi within
20 years, and of Tahoua within 25-30 years. In the densely populated areas,
fuelvood consumption probably will have to be met in part by cutting wood on
forest land. Fuelvood extraction thus presents a serious danger to the
environment around the major cities.
C.  Agricultural Institutions and Services
1.13      The main Government agencies providing support and technical
services to rural producers aret the Ministry of Agriculture and Environment
(MA|E), and the Ministry of Animal and Water Resources (NRA/H). These two
ministries represent the outcome of two major reorganizations. In 1985, the
Ministry of Rural Development (MDR) was split into the Ministry of Animal
Resources (NRA) and the Ministry of Agriculture (MA). Then in September 1987,
the Ministry of Water Resources and Environment (NHE) was abolished, and its
resoonsibilities were divided between the NRA (hereafter MRA/H) and the MA
(hereafter MA/E). All the ministries have various technical departments
covering the entire nation. The ministries have administrative and technical
links with the provincial and district, technical and supporting services
offices. Hierarchically, these services are coordinated under the provincial
Governor who reports directly to the President.
Ministry of Agriculture and Environment
1.14      The MAlE is responsible for agricultural production, forestry,
fishery, and research and extension. At the central level it has seven
Directorates: the Directorate of Extension and Cooperatives; of Plant
Protection; of Studies, Programming and Agricultural Statistics; of Rural
Engineering; of Forestry; of Fisheries; and of Administration and Finance.
These Directorates are also represented at the provincial level, but only
agricultural services are provided at the district level.
Ministry of Animal and Water Resources
1.15      The MRA/i is responsible for livestock production, water resources
and hydrzulic works. At the central level it has six Directoratess the
Directorate of Animal Production and Industry; of Animal Health; of Water
Resources; of Hydraulic Infrastructure; of Studies and Programming; and of
Administration and Finance. At the provincial level, the ministry is
represented by two directorates: the DDRA (Direction Departementale des
Ressources Animales) and the DDH (Direction Departementale de l'Hydraulique).
Animal services are also provided at the district level.
Ministry of National Education and Scientific Research
1.16      The Ministry of National Education and Scientific Research (MEN/RS)
is the ministry de tutelle' for the University of Niamey and its Faculty of
Agronomy; the Faculty of Sciences with a Department of Biology; and for
specialized research institutes such as the Human Sciences Research Institute
(IRSH), the Solar Energy Organization (ONERSOL) and the Institute of Radio-
Isotopes (IRI).



-5-
Local Government
1.17      The village (some 10,000 in total) is the basic territorial and
social entity in Niger. Several villages make up a *cantong (of which there
are =re than 200), each governed by a chief vho is elected by the chiefs of
the villages concerned and who receives a Government allowance. The 35
districts (earrondissements ) are legal entities and have autonomous budgets
funded from local fees and taxes, and the Governmaet transfers payments and
loans from the Caisse des prOts auz collectivit6s territoriales'. The
districts are governed by district Governors ('sous-pr6fets"), who report to
the Ministry of the Interior. The district and provincial Governors
coordinate government services in their area through technical comittees
respectively COTEAR (CCOmitOs TEchniques d'ARrondissements)), and COTEDEP
(OCOmit4s TEchniques de Dgpartements). This structure is gradually being
complemented by the Development Society (*Soci6tt de D6veloppemente- SD),
which is a hierarchical structure of development councils at village
(Conseil Villageois de Developpement- - CVD), canton (Conseil Local de
Developpement3 - CLD), district ("Conseil Sous-Regional de DWveloppement -
CSRD), provincial ('Conseil R6gional de D6veloppement' - CRD), and national
levels ("Conseil National de Developpement - CND).
1.18      The  Development  Society  thuw  calls  for  decentralization  in
decision-making and management of development activities from central
ministrie- to the provincial and district authorities.
D.   Sector Issues and Bank Strategy
Production Potential
1.19      Prospects for productivity gains in crop production are grim. High
yielding varieties have had little impact on sorghum and millet production.
and it is believed that no major variety-led production breakthrough can be
reasonably expected in the near future. Application of fertilizer is not
likely to increase yields unless soil moisture is higher and more assured.
Yield-stabilizing varieties have better adoption rates but although they can
reduce risks during drought, their impact on production is likely to be
limited. In the longer term, wide adoption of yield-stabilizing varieties may
accelerate the degra4ation of the resource base, since they permit farmers
to expand cultivation into marginal areas.
1.20      Similarly,  the prospects for productivity gains in livestock
production are extremely limited. The introduction of improved genetic stock
is unlikely to increase production potential because of the limitations
imposed by poor nutrition. The scope for better nutrition is limited because
feed resources such as crop residues and foliages are already put to
effective use, and improvement in rangeland productivity is difficult to
achieve. There is some scope for improving animal health, particularly that
of small ruminants and camels, and thus the production of these animals could
be augmented.
1.21      Forests are managed by the state through the administration of use
permits and the enforcement of regulations. Forestry service agents often
acted as police rather than as extension agents, although due to a lack of
personnel and means, forests are in reality open access resources. Population



pressure increased demand for fuelwood, and the resulting overexploitation
of forestry resources has led to deforestation. However, potentially
effective systems of forest cover management by villagers are being tested.
The Forest Service have established technically acceptable harvest rates and
supervise tree planting and forest management activities.
1.22      Although  no  panacea  exists  to  increase  crop  and  livestock
productivity substantially, a modest possibility of improvement through
erosion control, integration of agriculture and livestock and better
management of natural resources does exist. Erosion-control bunds and water
harvesting systems can reduce run-off loss of top soil, organic matter and
fertilizer while increasing soil moisture. More Integrated mixed farming
using manureslcompost and legume fallow. can increase the organic matter in
the soil and thus improve soil fertility. While the physical potential for
a productivity gain is limited, there is still scope for increasing
production by reducing losses caused by disease, insects, birds and post-
harvest wastage.
Experience with Past Lending and Lessons Learned
1.23      Development efforts in the past decade or so have proven inadequate
to increase the productivity of the agricultural resource base, or to even
prevent further deterioration. The Bank has so far financed three projects
in rainfed agriculture (Dosso, Maradi I and II); two in irrigation
(Namarigoungou and Irrigation Rehabilitation); two in forestry (Forestry I
and II); and one in Livestock.
1.24      In rainfed agriculture, both Dosso and Maradi II experienced
implementation problems and failed to increase crop production as expected,
mainly because of inadequate technical packages. In irrigation, priority was
given to rehabilitating the existing systems and establishing effective
operational and maintenance systems. The Livestock project aimed at
establishing a participative approach to management of animal, water and
pastures resources. The Forestry II project was reoriented to concentrate on
the maintenance and rehabilitation of the plantation already in place and on
pilot rural resource management schemes. In addition to project lending, IDA
financed two adjustment operations (Structural Adjustment Lending and Public
Enterprise Sector Adjustment Program) which included important components for
agricultural policy reforms, namelyt grain marketing and pricing policy;
agricultural input subsidies; agricultural credit; and agricultural research.
1.25      The major lessons learned from past experience are thats
(i) due to heterogeneous soils and localized rainfall patterns, a single
technical package is not widely applicable; (ii) areas with good production
potential exist but are quite localized and of limited size; (iii) to avoid
further deterioration of natural resources, it is necessary to establish more
integrated mixed farming systems; (iv) participation of the rural population
in decision making, execution and maintenance irs crucial, and self-help
endeavours and decentralization should be encouraged; (v) services and advice
provided to farmers by the public administration have to be upgraded.



-7-
Bank Agricultural Strategy
1.26      Niger's principal objective in its development strategy is to
achieve sustained and sustainable per capita income growth with equity. The
five-year plan for 1987-1991 states four principles of rural development
strategy as follows*
(a) food self-sufficiency;
(b) preservation and restoration of productive potential;
(c) diversification of production and increase of value-added in order
to improve rural incomes and living standardst and
(d)  participation of the rural population in their own development
activities and a transfer of responsibility to them.
1.27      The achievement of sustained and sustainable per capita income
growth with equity is a formidable challenge in Niger and requires not only
profound institutional reforms, but also significant human resource
development. The stracegy for the Nigerien agricultural sector should accent
the following principal elementz:  (a, natural resource management; (b)
improvement in rural sector institutions; (c) human resource development;
and (d) technology generation and dissemination.
1.28      Future lending will emphasize natural resource management and
reinforcement of agricultural services. The preparation of natural resource
management projects, because of their innovative and site-specific nature,
requires the execution of pilot operations to test approaches and identify
the types of activities to be promoted. This preparation phase will be
executed in the framework of the on-going Small Rural Operations (SRO)
project. The sRo project aims at establishing the institutional capability
to prepare, appraise, execute and evaluate small rural operations, which
include long-term environment protection works as well as short-term
productive investments. Decentralization of investment decisions and
financial management is envisaged, and district staff are expected to work
in a multidisciplinary team.
1.29      The  strengthening  of  agricultural  services  will  focus  on
agricultural research and agricultural extension. Agricultural research is
a long-term endeavor requiring institution-building and continuous commitment
by Government and donors. The national agricultural research structure should
be strengthened to improve research priority-setting, research programming,
budgeting and financial management, as well as research staff planning and
training. The link between research and extension services must be
significantly improved for timely dissemination of research recommendations.
The research programs should place greater effort on production systems,
multidisciplinary research and on-farm trials. The initiative for improving
extension services under PPF financing will be continued in the framework of
the SRO project and during this pilot phase the viability of a national
extension program would be tested.



-8-
II. AGRICULTURAL. LIVESTOCK AND FORESTRY RESEARCH
A. Background
2.01      Prior to independence in 1960, the planning and administration of
agricultural research was performed by French researchers and research
administrators with the results being analysed and retained in France.
Research programs tended to be cocmodity-oriented, dealing largely with the
genetic improvement of export crops. Two of the stations belonging to the
former regional research network were established in Niger (namely at Kolo
and Tarna). In 1975, the Government of Niger created the National
Agricultural Research institute (INRAN) as the single successor to several
branches of Prench research institutes: IRAT, the Institute of Tropical
Agronomic Research; IENVT, the Institute of Animal Husbandry and Veterinary
Medicine; IRMO, the Institute of Oil Plant Research; CTFT, the Center for
Tropical Forestry, etc. IMRAN's overall mandate is to provide technical and
scientific solutions to rural development problems by conducting research in
ecology, agriculture, forestry, animal husbandry and rural economics. INRAN
is also charged with coordinating applied agronomic research activities in
Niger.
2.02      Several bilateral and multilateral donors have been interested in
helping the country solve the most immediate and pressing problems in the
agricultural sector. Relatively little attention was paid, however, to
developing a national agricultural research capacity. In addition, most of
the research programs were supported by a multiplicity of institutions and
donor-funded projects, each planning its progrma in relative isolation, and
usually on a regional rather than national basis. National and international
programs overlapped, leading to duplication of efforts, geographic and sub-
sectoral imbalance in research programs, and neglect of the essential links
between research and extension. To date, research has failed to deal
adequately with the constraints faced by most subsistence farmers, 4t has
insufficiently worked on the fundamental issue of environmental degradation,
and has largely ignored the need to improve farming systems through a closer
integration of crops, livestock and trees.
B.   The Organization of Agricultural Research
2.03      Research in agriculture and natural resources is carried out by
many organizations in Niger. The National Agricultural Research Institute
(INRAN) manages research programs on rainfed and irrigated crops, livestock,
forestry and farming systems with a concentration on rainfed cereal and
legume crops. Many development projects (22) in the natural resources sector
include a research component of adaptive on-farmlon-project research (cf.
Annex 3). The teaching staff of the faculties of Agronomy and Science in the
University of Niamey carry out research in natural resources in addition to
their teaching duties. The distribution of nigerien professional research
personnel is: INRAN 42Z, development projects 481, and the University of
Niamey 102. In addition ICRISAT's Sahelian Center located in south-western
Niger, directs a regional research program covering pearl millet, groundnuts,
and management of natural resources.



- 9 -
2.04      As an administrative public enterprise, INRAN is under the tutelle
of the Ministry of Agriculture and Environment, and is managed by a Director
General ap.-inted by the President upon the recommendation of the Minister
of Agriculture and Environment. INRAN's operations are supervised by a Board
of Governors (Conseil d'Administration) chaired by the Rector of the
University of Niamey and composed of nine representatives of MAE, MESR, MRAE,
and Ministry of Finance, etc. There is currently no Scientific and Technical
Committee to assist the Director General with the planning and implementation
of the national research program. Each year, research programs are presented
for review and discussion to the different ministries or projects concerned
with research. The annual budget is submitted for approval to the Ministry
of Agriculture and Environment and esecuted under the responsibility of the
Director General.
2.05      The  Institute  is  composed  of  a  General  Directorate,  three
administrative/planning units (Administration and Finance; Studies and
Programmingt  Teaching  and  Training),  a  Research-Extension  Unit,  a
Documentation Center, a Statistics Unit, and five research departments
(Agriculture, Ecology, Rural Economics, Forestry, and Veterinary and Animal
Sciences). These departments are divided into 36 sections corresponding to
disciplines or research themes (plant breeding, agronomy, pest and disease
control etc.). A national research center (Tarna), a laboratory center
(Niamey), five research stations, and several field support points complement
the structure of the Institute. Research centers and stations are placed
under the authority of the General Directorate and researchers are linked by
programs to the different research departments. (cf. INRAN organizational
chart, Annex 1).
2.06      In addition, a full description of INRAN activities should also
include all research trials associate6 with each of the major Development
Projects in the country. In May 1989, there were 22 agricultural development
projects (Annex 3) under the responsibility of the ministry of Agriculture
and the Environment with agricultural or natural resources research
components. Many of the professional staff on the development projects have
been expatriates on comparatively short contracts. The technologies developed
have not been widely disseminated and have therefore usually remained
restricted to the zone in which they were developed. Linkages between the
adaptive research units on development projects and INRAN have always been
weak.
2.07      Besides INRAN, the University of Niamey constitutes the second
scientific pole of the national agricultural research system. Most of the
research programs are technically and financially supported by bilateral
contributions. Research projects recently completed or still underway by the
University of Niamey include basically studies on soils, soil-vegetation
relationships, plant diseases, livestock fertility, rural economy and
marketing. Although the Rector of the University is the Chairman of the Board
of Governors of INRAN and university staff are key members of INRAN's
technical Working Groups, research work programs have not been inter-linked
and research output from the university has been prinicipally confined to
personal publications.
2.08      The  Sahelian  Center  of  ICRISAT  is based at  Sadore  in  the
southwestern corner of Niger and is concerned with basic and applied research



- 10 -
on millet, groundnuts and the management of natural resources. In Niger,
ICRISAT conducts its field trials both on its own research farm and on
certain INRAN research stations. Also working within the ICRISAT center, both
on individual and joint research programs, are representatives of ILCA, IFDC,
IITA, IBPGR, ORSTOM, and ICRAW. Scientific staff from ICRISAT and its
cooperating international research institutes regularly participate in
technical meetings within INRAN's research programs.  INRAN research staff
have benefitted from in-service training at Sadore. ICRISAT also operates
cooperative research programs with AGREYMET, CILSS, SAFGRAD, IRAT and IRHO.
C.   Research Priorities and Programs
2.09      INRAN's research program is developed, supervised and monitored by
five technical working groups (rainfed crops, irrigated crops, livestock,
environment, and farming systemsirural economy). The five working groups were
instrumental in the development of the technical base for the PLT (Long-Term
Research Plan). The process followed was:
(a)  identification of the priorities for agricultural development
(government agricultural policy), the potentials and problems for
their realization and identification of the role for research;
followed by;
(b)  evaluation and improvement of the scientific capacity of INRAN and
cooperating international research institutions to provide
solutions to the principal technical probl ins constraining
agricultural development; and
(c)  evaluation  of  the  potential  impact  of  new  technologies  on
agricultural production and the environment.
2.10      INRAN's proposed Research Program.        Within the context of the
PLT, INRAN has identified the following major research programs (Annex 4)
for their Plan Quinquennal (1990 - 1994):
(a) continuation of existing programs
(i)     food self-sufficiency - millet, rice, maize, sorghum,
cowpea and groundnuts;
(ii)     environmental conservation - forestry, soils and erosion
control;
(iii)     health and breeding for small ruminants
(b) new programs
Ci)     dry season cropping under irrigation - vegetables, fruit
trees and water management in small schemes.
(ii)     fish breeding
2.11      INRAN intends to adopt a multidisciplinary approach in order to
minimize the dispersion and duplication of effort. Initially this would
involve cooperative programs between the rainfed and irrigated crops,
livestock and farming systems research groups. Collaboration with the
international research institutes (ICRISAT particularly) will assist with the
technical reinforcement of programs, with the training of research staff and
with the development of improved crop varieties. In order to strengthen its



- 11 -
scientific linkages with the University. INRAN proposes to assist with the
establishment of associated laboratories to enable joint programs to be
undertaken. Also certain programs, for which the University has a comparative
advantage, will be delegated directly to the University.
D.  Research Facilities
2.12     INRAN has its headquarters at Niaey with a complex of four
dispersed locations: Direction of INRAN and its DRA and DRF departments at
Yantala-Bas; DECOR on the *plateau'; the Soils Laboratory, the Biometry
Laboratory, Library and Documentation, DRE and DSI in the industrial zone;
and the Animal Health Laboratories hosted by the Central Labor3tory for
Livestock (LABOCEL). liRAN's facilities are cramped. not always functional,
often inadequate and comparatively ineffective because of their dispersion.
2.13     INRAN is in charge of:
(a) the National Research Center at Tarna-Maradi and the Research
Station at Kollo. Both include several departments, and are
relatively well equiped and staffed with professional research
staff.
(b) 27 research stations, substations and field support points, often
with inadequate facilities and managed by research technicians.
Table 1. Locations of INRAN Research Sites
--------------------------------------------------------------__---------
Type of                 Principal Research Area
Infrastructure      -----------------________________________________
Agriculture    Ecology    Forestry       Veterinary
(DRA)         (DRE)       (DRi)          (DRVZ)
----------------------------------------------------------------__--------
-Research Center        Tarna (CNRA)*
Research Station
Tarna, Kolo    Tarna,      N'Dounga      Tarna, zZolo
Agadez, Konni  N'Dounga,   Niamey-       Kirkissoye,
Tillabery,     Chical,      Aviation    Ekrefane,
Gabougoura     Bengou                    Bengou
Research Substation
Bengou,
Ouallam,
Bonkoukou
Field Support Points
Kawara,                    Lossa, Karma,
Kalapate,                  Saaga, Goudel,
Lossa,                     Ekrafane, Bengou,
Magaria                    Sakoira
* Centre National de Recherches Agronomiques



- 12 -
2.14      Staffing and Technical Assistance.       INRANs Nigerien research
staff (Including researchers and associated technicians) consists of 127
persons, distributed within seven grades based mn qualifications and the
classification scheme of the government's civil seriice system. There are 51
qualified research scientists (Al and A2 grade) and 76 technicians (A3 to D
grade). At present, there is a heavy concentration of research staff at
Niamey, Rollo and Tarna.
Table 2
Present Distribution of Research Staff over Programs and Activities
Number of Research Staff
Program/Activity                        National  Expatriate      Total
Crop Production DEA                        23        14             37
Animal Production DRVZ                      8         1               9
FSR/Rural Economics DECOR                   6         2              8
EcolVgy DUE                                 7,5       1               8.5
Forestry DRP                                3,S       -               3,5
General Directorate                         2         1               3
Others                                      1         4               5
-------------------------------------
TOTAL                           51        23              74
2.15      The small number of Al and A2 level Nigerien research staff at
INRAN are reinforced by decreasing number of expatriate technical assistants
(36 in 1986 decreased to 23 by 1989), drawn from more than a half-dozen
countries, with qualifications ranging from a B.S. degree to a Ph.D.
2.16      INPiAN's Nigerien Auziliary Staff consists of a&-at 424 auxiliary
personnel including a wide range of skills (mechanics, typists, illustrators,
carpenters, unskilled laborers, drivers, and laboratory aides).
E.   Research-Extension Linkages
2.17      One of the GoverAment's maJor objectives for the agricultural
sector is to increase agricultural output and its share in GDP by providing
improved and better-coordinated agricultural support services to as many crop
farmers and pastoralists as possible. As far as research is concerned,
technical messages have been developed (Annex 2), but they have often proved
to be applicable only on a limited scale, as they have not been geared to
farmers' needs, constraints and socio-economic characteristics  As far as
agricultural extension is concerned, the Zield extension worker and his
supervisor are often inadequately informed of the latest research findings
as well a8 inadequately trained. The Government is well aware of the need to
further strengthen and improve the organization of the extension services,
to train extension agents and to improve the functional linkages between
research and ectension at the central and field levels. This is part of the
on-going initiative to improve extension services (pars. 1.29).



- 13 -
F.   Research Fundina
2.18      nIARN's operations and investments are financed from the following
sources :
(a)  the national budget (CFAP 534 millcc per year). This has remained
unchanged since 1983. (Annex 7). Government's contribution to
INRAN's budget in 1986 amounted to CFAF 11 million for capital
expenditures, CFWA 131 million for recurrent expenditures, and CFAF
392 million for personnel (salaries);
(b)  bi-lateral and international financing agreements (e.g., USAID,
FAC, CCCE, IDA). In 1985, this was CFAP 800-900 million
for technical assistance, and CPAF 300-350 million for capital
expenditures;
(c) national agreements with regional development agencies or other
governmental or non-governmental organizations.
G.  Accounting and Financial Manaxement
2.19      INRAN's accounting and financial management system is seriously
impaired by cumbersome procurement procedures. The accounting unit is
inadequately staffed, having only one accountant and two assistants. Major
purchases require the signature of the Director General. The Directors of
INRAN's research departments do not have expenditure authority. Moreover,
individual researchers have no control over resources, and consequently must
follow lengthy procurement procedures whenever an unanticipated expenditure
arises. This impedes the efficient execution of research, and wastes
inordinate amounts of the researchers' time as they personally take charge
of the procurement process in an effort to expedite purchases. Moreover, the
plethora of purchases which the Director General must supervise, takes time
away from his more important duties of strategic planning, research
management, and institutional development responsibilities.
2.20      Decentralizing expenditure authority at INRAN may be difficult
under its existing legal status. As an Etablissement Fublic de caract&re
administratif,  it is not clear if the D.G. will be able to delegate
accountability for expenditures along with the authority for making those
expenditures. It is proposed that under the project, the structure of INRAN
is modified to enable the D.G. to delegate certain financial responsibilities
(up to a certain level of expenditure) to department heads, station and sub-
station directors. The project will assist with the introduction of this
modification.
2.21      There is as yet no uniformity with respect to the administration
of external research funding. Some donors insist upon using their own
accounting systems, while others accept the Government system. In addition,
some of them refuse to reimburse bills containing a charge for the value
added tax and a surcharge for utilities. This has led to intergovernmental
disputes and thus induced more constraining steps and delays in the
expenditure process. There is no systematic and effective monitoring of
spending and program implementation by INRAN. The project would address this
problem through tne introduction of an improved computerized financial



- 14 -
management and accounting system and the appointment of qualified accounting
staff.
2.22      INRAN currently lacks legal autonomy. Modifications to its present
statute would provide budgetary and administrative autonomy and enable the
Director General to delegate responsibility to selected staff. This will
enable INRAN to flexibly operate and execute its research program.
H.   Planning and Management of Research
2.23       At present INRAN has limited experience in research planning and
management. Its personnel management and staff development programs remain
to be effectively established. Its internal organizatiou is characterized by
a very centralized line of comnand, whereby all managers (Program
Coordinators, Station Managers, etc.) report directly to the Director General
of INRAN. Functional relationships among individual research programs and
between research and extension need to be clarified and strengthened. In
several instances, program content and priorities also need to be defined
more precisely. Government and donors are  well aware of the need for
improvements in staffing and training as a component of overall institutional
development. The proposed project would address the above problems, in line
with Government's plans and efforts to support the agricultural sector.
_II. THE PROJECT
A.   Obiectives
3.01      The project would represent the first five-year phase of a long-
term development orogram for agricultural research. One of the principal
limiting factors for its design, is that it should be financially and
administratively manageable by INRAN. The long-term plan aims at developing
a national agricstltural research institute dealing with crop, livestock,
forestry production, and the management of natural resources, while catering
to the needs of the different categories of primary producers in the various
agro-ecoiogical zones of the country. Such an organization would be staffed
by trained Nigerien research specialists and a few short-term outside
consultants. Accordingly, the basic objectives of this five-year phase would
be to strengthen the national capacity for agricultural research planning and
implementation bys
(a) improving priority-setting and resource allocation methodology,
taking into account farmers' needs and resource conservation;
(b) improving coordination in the formulation and execution of national
and international agricultural research programs;
(c) improving research programning, budgeting and financial management;
(d) improving staff planning, training, recruitment and career
development in research;



- 15 -
(t)  strengthening linkages between research, extension services and
farmer vith on-farm adaptive research and participatory research
program.
3.02      The project is in line with the Bank's agricultural strategy for
Niger (as well as for all of Sub-Saharkan Africa), wbich gives high priority
to supporting research ane4 extension services for mallholder crop farmers
and livestock owners. It would directly complement ongoing Bank-assisted
agricultural projects in Niger by helping to halt resource degradarion and
desertification and by developing improved techniques for the integration of
crops, livestock and forestry.
D.   Summary Description
3.03      The major thrusts of the proposed project would bet
(a)  the establishment of a rultidisciplinazy research team to establish
an applied research program on management of natural resources;
(b) within the thematic research programs, increased focus on on-farm
research to test the technologies that have already been developed
on station;
(cl  support for the decentralization of professional staff from the two
main stations (Kollo and Tarna) to the regionallzonal research
stations;
(d)  strengthening of the external research linkages, upstream to the
University and ICRISAT, and downstream to the extension services
and farming comunnity.
3.04      The proposed project would seek to achieve the above objectives by
financings
(a)  improvements to INRAN's basic network of research centers, with
emphasis on existing facilities, and on the physical infrastructure
at INRAN headquarters 'including transfering some departments to
Kollo in the facilities freed at the former IPDRIECE Training
Center);
(b)  short-term and long-term technical assistance and staff training
needed to strengthen the local technical and administrative
capacity to plan, implement, monitor and evaluate the national
reeearch program;
(c)  equipment, vehicles and supplies, and the operating and maintenance
costs associated with the lmplementation of the priority research
programs;
(d) equipment and operating costs (travel allowance and vehicle
operating costs) needed by research staff for the periodic training
of extension staff (subject matter specialists) and for the
Implementation of the off-station adaptive research program, mainly



- 16 -
at the newly designed 'Development Support Points" (Points d'Appui
au Developpement OPADO).
3.05      In order to concentrate the limLted resources and skills, and to
allow a critical mass of research staff to work effectively, the emphasis.
during the first years of the project, would be ons (a) consolidating
existing research programs; (b) rehabilitating and equipping existing
research infrastructure and facilities at Nimsy, Rollo, Tarna, Konni,
Bengou, and Agades, and selected OPADs; (c) financing the operating expenses
of priority research programs and activities. In addition starting FY3, the
project would finance new construction and required equipment for Tahoua and
Zinder research stations.
3.06      These components would be accompanied by the following reforms:
(a) change in the statute of INRAN defining its relationship with the
Government  and  making  adequate  provisions   for  personvel
recruitment, training and career development;
(b) reorganization of IRRAN, redefining technical and financial
responsibilities for multidisciplinary programs, research ststions
and research departments as well as reorganization of the
Management Council, Technical Committee and Financial Committee
(including representatives from relevant ministries, extension
services and the farming community).
C.   Detailed Features
(a)   Organizational Strengthening
3.07      The project would support the further strengthening of the capacity
of INRAN's management to implement its national research program.
Administrat is responsibilities and technical research management would be
separated within the institution (Annex 0). The five Technical Departments,
instead of reporting directly to the Director General, would report to the
Read of the Scientific Directorate. Similarly, the Station Managers would
report to the Head of the Administration and Finance Directorate. Under the
project, the Director General of INRAN would be assistel  by a Administration
and Finance Director (DAF) and one Scientific Director. The DAF would be
asssisted by a Personnel Officer and a Material Resource Officer. The
Scientific Directorate would be assisted by a Study, Programs, Monitoring-
Evaluation and Training Division (Division des Etudes, Programmes, Suivi-
Evaluation et Formation *DEPSEPF) and a Dissemination and Documentation
Division (Division de Valorisation et Documentation *DIVAD') for internal and
external dissemination of information and for managing relations with
extension services. The Department of Statistics and Computer Systems will
be transformed into a Unit and attached to the Office of the Scientific
Director. For each research program, the research departments chiefs would
nominate a National Research Program Coordinator, to ensure the internal
coherence of the programs and the adherence to a multi-disciplinary team
approach. During the project, an internationally recruited Research
Management Consultant would assist the Director of INRAN and the Scientific
Directorate during short-term missions, in establishing a management and
monitoring system for the research program. and in preparing work programs



- 17 -
and budgets based on submissions from Research Program Coordinators and
Station Managers.   The project will set up a Personnel Unit under the
Administration and Finance Directorate to strengthen capability in personnel
management, and a Material Resources Unit under the same Directorate that
will be responsible for procurement and maintenance of the material resources
of the institute. The financial management and accounting system of INRAN
would be strengthened through a regular consultancy contract providing short-
term support missions (Annex 5) and the recruitment of local accountants,
thereby improving INRAN's capacity to operate and manage a comprehensive
computerized accounting system for expenditures under the project. A
Management Council (Conseil d'Administration; para 4.01) would supervise and
control INRAN, approve its budget, provide policy guidance and ensure that
INRAN's proposed annual research programs are in line with national goals and
priorities.
3.08      Presently  there  are  only  66  research  (field)  assistants
(Itechniciens") in INRAN for its 51 researchers (excluding expatriates). With
the proposed project, the number of researchers during the five-year period
would increase to a total of 84. The project would also redress the imbalance
between researchers and research assistants, by hiring a total of 34 new
*techniciens superieurs' and 68 Itechniciens moyens, to give a ratio of about
2 research assistants per researcher. About 9 administrative staff would also
be recruited.
3.09      The project would support improvements to INRAN's basic network of
research centers. At the Niamey center, this will include the existing soils
laboratories responsible for cartography and chemical and physical soil
analyses; a laboratory of microbiology (to be created under the project), to
work on microrrhizal inoculation of leguminous trees and forage plants for
improvement of soil fertility; and a laboratory of food technology
(incorporating the existing oil-seed and cereal quality laboratory) to
improve the quality of agricultural products and by-products.
3.10      Associated Laboratories INRAN/University of Niamey.   The project
will support additional equipment, operating expenses, and support staff to
enable the University of Niamey to better support INRAN and the national
agricultural research program. These labs will include: (i) laboratories of
animal physiology and animal nutrition; (ii) a general economics unit charged
with economic and policy research at the level of production and marketing
channels and which would develop a method for analyzing the impact of
research on agricultural production; (iii) a production systems unit which
would support the program in this sector at the national level, while at the
same time conducting specific research on production systems in the regions
of Niamey and Dosso.
3.11      The Centers at Kollo and Tarna will implement, in the agricultural
zones of the regions of Niamey and Maradi, respectively, research on: rainfed
and irrigated crops (improvement, plant protection and agronomy); livestock
(fodder crops, feeding, animal health and management); forestry (collection
and conservation of germplasm of native species, sustainable exploitation of
natural forests, reforestation); agro-forestry/soil conservation (windbreaks,
dune stabilization, planting of soil-improving species, etc); and production
systems.



- 16 -
3.12      The Tahoua Research Station. The project will finance (FY3) the
establishment of a small research station near the town of Tahoua, to conduct
research on the pastoral and transitional zones of the northern part of the
region, on natural resources (soils, forests), on livestock (pastoralism,
herding, animal health) and on the agro-sylvo-pastoral production systems of
these zones. The research methodology developed by a multidisciplinary
research team should enable the NRM research program to be progressively
expanded country-wide.
3.13      The Konni Research Station, located in the agricultural zone in the
southern part of Tahoua region. Its research programs on irrigation and
agricultural mechant -tion (animal traction, agricultural implements) will
be further develop6a under the project and expanded to include adaptive
research trials on farmer's land. It will be administratively attached to
the Tarna Center.
3.14      The Bengou Research Station would provide a base for applied and
adaptive research program within the agricultural zone of highest potential
and from which a program of adaptive and participative research on the PADs
and in farmers gardens will be supervised. It will be administratively
responsible to the Kollo Center.
3.15      The ARade: Resarch Station will carry out research on the agronomy
of oases, limiting itself at first to date palms and water management. In
addition, because of existing laboratories for Biological Control against
palmtree  pests,  Integrated Pest Management  research  programs will  be
undertaken in connection with the Tarna Center and the University of Niamey.
3.16      The Station at Zinder will conduct research on the charting and
conservation of very degraded soils in the agricultural and agro-pastoral
zone of the Southeastern part of the country. The multidisciplinary research
team would also supervise a program of adaptive research with the extension
services and farmers in the region.
3.17      Each Research Center or Station will manage some Development
SupRort Points (Points d'Appui au Developpment 'PAD'). The old Support Points
will be upgraded to PADs with a multi-role functions (i) they would form the
base for the adaptive research program for a specific area; (ii) they would
serve as a training ground for extension staff and farmers; (iii) they would
assist with seed multiplication to provide farmers with easy access to seed
of inproved varieties for testing in their own demonstration plots; and (iv)
they would provide technical advice. The PAD would be staffed with technical
staff who would supervise both the on-PAD trials and also those in farmers'
gardens (it could be expected that a technician would be able to participate
in the implementation of 25 On-Farm-Research simple trials/tests per year).
Work from the PAD would include as much participative research and evaluation
with the extension service and farmers as possible.



- 19 -
(b) Support to Research Programs
3.18      Applied and Adaptive Research Programs.   INRAN's commodity and
systems teams would collaborate with the extension service to carry out
jointly an adaptive research program. Adaptive research programs (farm
trials) would be designed to test and, if necessary, adapt technical
recomuendations derived from applied research (tested in the country or
borrowed from outside) for different farm situations: (a) various cropping
sequences; (b) level of farmers' skills; 4nd (c) farmers' resources and risk
situation. Farm trials would be simple. They would be planned by research and
extension together; executed either by research staff on the PADs or by
farmers on their own fields under the supervision of extension staff with
technical support from the PAD and regional research staff. They would
initially be analysed by research and then be jointly evaluated by research
and extension, as well as by the regional researchidevelopment council (para.
4.08).
3.19      Farming Systems Research (SP).      Witb the steady changes in the
traditional farming patterns and systems, it is important for INRAN to
intensify its efforts in farming systems research during the Plan
Quinquennal. Thematic scientists will support the SP research team in
deepening the program. The proposed project will assist INRAN to undertake
three reetearch sub-programs within this SP programs
(a) economics of maior agricultural conmmodities (rice, millet, sorghum,
cowpea, small ruminants and onions) involving studies (with costs
and returns) of the production and marketing chains;
(b) analysis of farming systems in the Niger River valley, agro-
pastoral zone (Maradi area), and pastoral zone (Tahoua, Agadez,
Diffa and Tillaberi); the project would detail the different
principal farming systems with identification and diagnoses of
their benefits and constraints;
(c) evaluation of improved technology at farm level. The farming
syz-tems team would work with thematic scientists to establish and
implement an effective participative OFn program with the farming
comunnity.
3.20      The SP program will be headquartered at Kollo to cover the western
regions (Tillabery and Dosso). A secondary unit will be based at Tahoua for
the central regions, and an another secondary unit at Tarna for the eastern
regions. M4ultidisciplinary teams will, in close cooperation with staff of the
commodity programs and the extension services, study and describe existing
farming systems, including livestock production and agroforestry systems. The
information generated by the SP team would enable the thematic researchers
to better prioritise and focus their applied research program. In addition,
technology developed in the applied research program would be tested
immediately within the SP program to identify the appropriateness to
smallholders' needs. This would be undertaken in farmers' fields. Constant
feedback and close collaboration between farming systems research and
coumodity-oriented research programs will be essential and rotational
assignment of staff between SP and comuodity oriented research would be
encouraged. Similarly, closer cooperation between research, extension anid the



- 20 -
fanming community would ensure that research findings are passed on to
farmers as quickly as possible, and that the farmers' feedback reaches the
appropriate branch of research. Procedures for this cooperation would be
included in the re3earch protocols, starting with the diagnostic surveys,
discussion of ^solutions to be tested with farmers and extension staff, and
involvement of extension staff in on-farm testing. The project vill
strengthen the SP program as the major link between research and extension.
SP will play a leading role in the dissemination of research results to
extension and will assist with the training of extension subject matter
specialists (SS).
3.21      The project would support this priority program by providing funds
for establishing small multidisciplinary teams at Niamey-University, Tahoua
and Tarna. This would involve ten researchers (four at Niamey-University,
three at Tahoua, and three at Tarna) with two internationally recruited staff
in support.
3.22      In addition, in order to assist the SP Program Coordinator in
defining the overall program orientation and content, as well as its
organization (including the functional relationships with commodity research
programs and with extension) and in the training of team members in SP
methodology, an internationally recruited Agricultural Economist thoroughly
familiar with farming system research methodology, would be funded for the
first four years of the project (Terms of Reference are in Annex 13). Also,
the project will provide financial support to the University for the support
costs of a sociologist to work part-time with the program. In addition, the
project would provide funds for vehicles and incremental operating costs,
includiag funding for 20 additional technicians.
3.23      Animal Production.  There are eight research themes identified
within the Plan Quinquennal program covering cattle and sheep improvement,
livestock nutrition, livestock pathology and agrostology. The proposed
project would assist with the financing required for the animal nutrition,
agrostology and small ruminants management programs. Livestock research staff
would also contribute to the Natural Resources Management research program.
The University would assist INRAN with the microbiological/nitrogen fixation
research work required vithin the agrostology project. In addition, an
internationally recruited Livestock Production Research Scientist (Annex 13)
would be hired during the first four years of the project to assist the
program's staff in drawing up and initiating a coherent research program. In
the meantime, staff would carry out a critical review and summary of past
research. To better understand the various livestock production systems and
constraints faced by producers the team's specialist would, in collaboration
with SP staff, describe existing livestock farming systems. The project would
finance vehicles, equipment and operating costs and five additional
researchers and ten technicians. Assurances were obtained at negotiations
that INRAN would prepare and furnish to IDA for review a livestock production
research program with detailed investment proposals, by December 31, 1990
(para. 6.01).
3.24      Rainfed Crops (millet, sorghum, cowpeas, groundnuts).  The rainfed
crops research program is already adequately supported by the USAID, and it
seems that only small productivity improvements wlll be possible through
further variety and husbandry improvements. The proposed project would



. 21 -
therefore limit its assistance to this sub-sector to the financing required
to launch a crop diversification research program. This work would be
initiated by INRAN and undertaken with the collaboration of the University
(fourth year studenta and lecturers from the Agronomy Faculty); it would
involve the establiabment of observation plots of different crops across the
agricultural zones following a desk-research, Inter-University/ Institution
contact and exchange of plant material.  The proposed project would further
strengthen the program by financing two New nigerien researchers, four
technicians, vehicles, equipment and operating costs.
3.25      Natural Resources Management.       It  is  crucial  that  Niger
initiate a multi-disciplinary research program on natural resources
management as early in their Plan Quinquennal as possible and the proposed
project will provide the finance necessary for the first phase of this
program. The work would be designed so as to be complementary to the natural
resources management program now started by ICRISAT and a technical committee
(representatives of INRAN, the University and ICRISAT) would advise on the
technical  content  of  the  program.   It  would  involve  the  field
development/testing  of  farming  systems  for  both  the  transitional
agrolpastoral zone and the southern agricultural zones. The objective of
these systems would be the restoration and maintenance of soil fertility, the
control of erosion and the stabilization of output of crop, forestry and
livestocks  products.  The  INRAN  research  disciplines  involved  in  the
implementation of the program would be agroforestry, agronomy, agrostology,
animal production, pedology and rural economics. (The outline of the proposed
Natural Resources Management Research Program is described in Annex 6).
Appropriate Nigerien scientists would be seconded from thematic research
programs for this work. The program would be managed by one of the
specialists, selected on the basis of technical competence, width of
scientific vision and management ability, supported by an international
expert in agro-forestry/resource management (Annex 13).
3.26      The department for the Natural Resources Management (NRM) research
program would combine research projects for erosion control, soil and water
conservation, and fertilizer trials with particular emphasis on the
interactions between moisture availability and the type, timing and
economically profitable levels of fertilizer (including rock-phosphates) for
different crops and cropping systems. Research on tillage and agricultural
mechanization (including appropriate hand tools and animal-drawn equipment)
would promote more productive farming techniques. Research on animal traction
as a means to integrate livestock into agriculture would be undertaken, with
motorized mechanization receiving low priority. The goal of the agroforestry
research project would be to develop effective systems of agroforestry
(association of trees with crops and livestock) through testing arrangements
of different species. Research themes supported under the agroforestry
research project would includes inventory, protection and improvement of
forestry genetic resources; sylvicultural management of naturally occurring
forest formationsa sylvicultural practices applicable to plantations;
entomology and pathology of woody species; and use of forestry products.
3.27      The proposed project would provide funds for stengthening the
program as followss during four years of the project, the NRM Department
Director would be assisted by an internationally recruited Agroforester, who
would assess ongoing programs and help the team in further defining research



- 22 -
priorities and objectives (Anner 13). In terms of Nigerien research
specialists, one agroeconomist and one agricultural mechanization specialist
(animal traction) would be appointed to be stationed at Konni; one animal
production specialist, one forestry and three DRS/CES specialists would join
the program to be stationed at  ollo, Tahou  and Zinder.  One agrostology
specialist and four researchers for general pedological activities (soil
cartography, soil physics and soil chemistry), would be based at Niamey.
Accordingly, Nigerien staff would be increased over the five-year period by
seven new researchers and 14 technicians.   The projec,. would finance
incremental salaries, vehicles, equipment and incremental operating costs.
3.28      Irri8ated Crops.    INR1 N proposes  to implement four research
projects within the irrigated crop research program. The proposed project
would complement the finance already available for the rice and soil/water
management research programs (USAID) with financial support for the vegetable
crops, fruit tree and date palm projects. The proposed project would finance
technical assistance support for the marxet gardening and fruit production
research projects. The research programs would establish varietal and
cultural recomendations for vegetable and fruit crops that would botb spread
the season of harvesting and enable reliable production without recourse to
complex plant protection or irrigation regimes. The project would fund five
new Nigerien research staff positions. These new recruits would be stationed
at Kollo to work with senior researchers and receive on-the-job training.
Also ten technicians would be hired for the program. The project wvould also
finance equipment, vehicles and incremental operating costs.
(c) Training and Technical Assistance
3.29      Training.       INRAN would recruit a qualified Personnel Officer
to prepare a Human Resources Development Master Plan. The staff of the
University of Niamey and of the IPDR/ECE training center would provide advice
and assistance in this task. The plan would contain detailed function
descriptions according to the new INRAN organization, including a description
of responsibilities and accountability. Profiles wvould be prepared,
describing education, training, experience and other specific skills,
required to fulfill these functions. Staff would be evaluated, followed by
a skills gap analysis through the matching of profiles and evaluations. The
end of the exercise would be a training program for existing staff; some
dismissals; clear career paths; procedures for growth promotion, including
annual evaluation procedures and criteria for all categories of staff; and
clear recruitement for new staff. Laboratory technicians, tractor drivers,
equipment operators and workshop staff would be tested to determine on-the-
job training needs. Assurances were obtained at negotiations (para. 6.01)
that the Human Resources Development Master Plan would be prepared during the
first year of the project.
3.30      Funds for overseas training are already available from various
sources but they are often restricted In their applicability and,  for
example, do not allow research staff to fazailiarize themselves with work at
international or regional research centers or in neighboring countries.
Moreover, such training is often inappropriate since it does not reflect the
specific needs of the country and the research establishment. Therefore, to
upgrade the technical and management skills of INRAN staff at all levels, the
project would provide funds for: (a) training in research management for the



- 23 -
Director General of INRAN and the Heads of the Scientific Directorate and of
the Administration and Finance Directorate; (b) formal degrees and on-the-
job training of INRAN researcher staffs and (c) other forms of training
(workshops, special courses, study tours and exchange viits). The IDA Credit
would finance training In Niger while overseas training would be financed by
the bi-lateral donors (USAID and France). It is anticipated that within ten
years, national agricultural research will have settled into its final
organizational structure; that it will, by then, be fully linked to regional
and international research institutes; and that it will be staffed mainly
with local researchers assisted by short-term international consultancies.
3.31      In view of the limited experience in research management of the
INRAN staff, training in that subject is essential. The Director General of
INRAN and the Heads of the Scientific Directorate and of the Finance and
Administration Directorate will each be provided with three months training
in research management; funds would be provided to allow them to participate
in international meetings on agricultural research (e.g., CGIAR meetings or
visits to ISNAR, CIRAD), and to allow for regular contact with regional
research organizations. These activities add up to a total of 15 manweeks for
each of the three officials during the project period. Funds would also be
provided for the Head of the DEPSEP and DIVAD divisions to become acquainted
with international and regional agricultural research organizations. For
these activities a total of 30 mmnweeks would be provided.
3.32      Under the project funds are provided to enable a total of 48 1NRAM
research staff to receive higher degree trainings ODiplome d'Etudes
Approfondies' (DEA); Master of Science (MS degree); 'Doctorat de 3e cycle';
Ph.D.; or *Doctorat d'Etat' degree. This program would provide a total of 96
trainee-years (Annex 9). Criteria for participation in this training program
would be a demonstrated ability and aptitude for scientific research, and
seniority within the research organization. The training program would,
moreover, be in line with the special requirements of the INRAN research
program. Accordingly, the above figures about types of training are only
indicative at this stage.
3.33      Training opportunities would also be provided for research staff
not involved in higher degree training. A total of 177 manmonths would be
provided under the project for medium-term (3 months) training courses; 120
manweeks are provided under the project for Nigerien researchers to
participate in international conferences, workshops, symposia and short
courses; 40 manweeks are provided for consultancies from international
experts on specific topics or problems arising during project implementation.
Finally, funds would be provided (160 manmontha) for short and medium-term
training of support staff, e.g. research assistants ('techniciensw and
'observateurs') to be identified during project implementation.
3.34      Technical AssLstance.  Technical Assistance would provide in-
service training (Annex 5), while assisting 1n31M management and staff with
proJect implementation, especially during the initial stages of the project
when new tasks need to be undertaken. They would also assist with carrying
out of special studies. In subsequent years they would provide backstopping.
This involves six long-term positions for a total of 21 manyears (Annex 13,
Draft Terms of Reference) for the new programs; eight manweeks for In-depth
review of lIIAN's organization, research programs and results in year PY3;



- 24 -
and 11 manweeks of annual missions in support of INRAN's computerized
financial management and accounting system funded under the project. Also
included are 16 manweeks during the first years of the project to prepare an
inventory of the major types and makes of scientific and laboratory equipment
and their state of repair, and then to ms!e specific recommendations based
on INRAN's needs (para. 3.35) and for giving on-the-job training in all
aspects of goods, works and services procurement. The Personnel Officer would
be responsible, inter alia, with the assistance of the Scientific
Directorate, for the preparation of detailed terms of reference for technical
assistance specialists and consultancies funded under the project.
(d) Civil Works, Vehicles, Equipment and Supplies
3.35      The project will finance the rehabilitation of the existing
research infrastructure; new construction and facilities; furniture; office,
laboratory and agricultural equipment and supplies: and vehicles. A total of
seven new staff houses would be constructed in remote areas and INRAN
headquarters would partly be transfered to reconverted freed facilities at
the IPDRJECE Kollo training center. New construction would be funded to
accomodate the incremental local staff at the new or expanded INRAN centers
and stations. INRAN's requirements for scientific and laboratory equipment
and supplies would be estimated by a specialist.. A Senior Project Engineer
Consultant and a local Architect will be hired under a second PPF for drawing
up detailed civil works and equipment schedules and requirements, including
specifications, cost estimates and bidding documents. The reports prepared
by the consultant and by the architect with detailed costs would be submitted
to IDA. The project would finance short-term missions for the Senior Project
Engineer Consultant, for a total of 16 manweeks to follow up the
implementation schedule and to assist in the setting-up of the Material
Resources Unit. In addition the project will finance a total of 85 new
vehicles (including replacements every fourth year, except for trucks which
will not be replaced within the five-year project period); 64 motocyclesl
mobylettes (replaced every third year); and eight tractors plus equipment.
3.36      INRAN Headquarters and Rollo Research Center.            C e rt a irf
departments of INRAN's present cramped headquarters in Niamey will be moved
to the freed IPDRIECE facilities of Kollo Training Center, leaving in Niamey
increased office space for the General Directorate and for the Finance and
Administration Directorate. At Kollo, the buildings released will offer
enough office space for the Scientific Directorate, DSPECOR, DRN, SSI, and
up to three visiting specialists, as well as conference and documentation
rooms, and space for support staff. Civil works for the rehabilitation and
construction of additional laloratories, offices and storage facilities would
start in PY1. New office furniture, including computer equipment for the
accounting department, copy and telex facilities, and vehicles would be
provided.   The project would moreover provide funds for 29 vehicles, 30
mobylettes, and two tractors with their implements.
3.37      Associated Laboratories INRAN/University of Niamey and Niamey-
INRAN.     Starting the second year of the project, the civil works program
would consist of the rehabilitation of laboratories, construction of meeting
and office space for 12 researchers and their support staff. The project
would moreover provide funds for the purchase of office and laboratory
furniture and equipment, 18 vehicles and 13 mobylettes.



- 25 -
3.38      Tahoua Research Station.       Project-funded construction would
begin in PY3 and would provide housing for the director, one guesthouse, work
space for seven researchers and their support staff, laboratories, and
storage facilities in order to open up this location as a future regional
research center. In addition, project funds would be provided for the
purchase of office and laboratory equipment, 31 vehicles, and five
mobylettes.
3.39      Bengou Research Station.       Here also, the civil works program
would start in PY3, vith the construction of the house of the director, and
one guesthouse. Storage and workspace would be built and equiped. Project
funds would be provided for the purchase of one tractor with implements. one
vehicle and one mobylette.
3.40      Konni Research Station.        The civil works program would start
in PY2, with the construction of the house of the director, one guesthouse,
office and storage facilities for four researchers and their support staff.
Project funds would be provided for the purchase of office and workshop
equipment, four vehicles and three mobylettes.
3.41     AMade: Research Station.    Civil works construction, beginning
during PY3, would consist of one house for the director, one guesthouse, and
additional laboratory for entomology, storage and office space. Additional
equipment would consist of three vehicles, two mobylettes, furniture and
laboratory equipment.
3.42      Tarna Research Center.   The project would finance starting in PYI,
the rehabilitation and construction of additional office and storage
facilities, the purchase of additional equipment for laboratories and
offices, 23 vehicles (including replacements), three tractors with their
implements, eight mobylettes.
3.43      Zinder Research Station.       The civil works would start in PY3,
with the construction of one house for the director, one guesthouse, soil
laboratories, storage and office space In order to open up this location as
a future regional research center. Project funds would be provided for the
purchase in FY4 of one tractor and its implements, two vehicles, two
mobylettes, furniture and equipment for laboratory and offices.
3.44      Development Support Points. (PAD)  (Ouallam,  Kalapate,  Magaria,
Diffa, and two new sites to be determined in the regions of Tahoua and
Maradi). The project would finance the rehabilitation or the construction
of office, meeting. and storage facilities, as well as equipment for
conducting under the supervision of the research station, adaptive research
trials, training of extension staff, and seed control and multiplication.
3.45      The project would finance all operating and maintenance costs
incurred by INRAN in connection with the investments made under the project,
incremental salaries and travel expenses for local and internationally-
recruited staff, as well as expenses (inputs, material) associated with tests
and trials. Maintenance includes all expenses required to keep buildings,
vehicles and equipment in working condition.



- 26 -
D.  Project Coste and Financing
3.46      Total project costs, net of tazes and import duties, but including
contingencies, for the five-year implementation period (1990-1996), are
estimated at CFAF 8.7 billion (or US$ 28 mlllion equivalent), with a foreign
exchange component of 61X. Base cost estimates reflect end 1988 prices.
Physical contingencies amounting to US$ 2.15 million are estimated to be 15l
on all investment costs and their total mounts to 102 of base cost. Price
contingencies amounting to USS 2.69 million representing 132 of base cost and
10 of total cost are based on forecasts of international inflation for
foreign supplied goods (4.42), and on estimated annual inflation in Niger for
local costs (52), and on an implementation period of 5 years. Project costs
are sunnarized below.
Summarv Proiect Costs
Estimated Costs  1/                           Local    Foreign    Total
--------USS million-------
Civil Works                                    1.78      2.46       4.24
Equipment                                      0.82      2.34       3.16
Vehicles                                       0.28      1.57       1.85
Salaries                                      2.36         -       2.36
Operating cost Research                        2.33      1.24       3.57
Operating cost Overhead                        0.52      0.10       0.62
Technical Assistance                           0.26      2.34      2.60
Training                                        -        2.48      2.48
Base Cost                                8.35      12.53     20.88
Reserve Research Fund                         1.84       0.46      2.30
Physical Contingencies                         0.47      1.68      2.15
Price Contingencies                            1.21      1.48      2.69
Total Project Cost                      11.87      16.15     28.02
3.47      The project will finance a significant part of the Government's
overall research programs in crops, livestock and forestry. Since research
is a long-term endeavor requiring continuous coimitment and, hence funding,
even after external donors have left, the recurrent cost implications must
be fully understood, and must be at levels affordable to Government.
International experience and statistics show that 0.82 of the agricultural
GDP is a good* average spending level throughout the developing world. At
an average annual base cost over the first five years of about CFA? 1.6
billion, the total costs on research represent about 0.442 of the projected
1989 agricultural GDP for Niger (ClAP 360 billion).
3.48      The recent USAID project  liger Applied Agricultural Research
Project (US$ 20 million over 10 years) will contribute in financing on a
grant basis Technical Assistance (US$ 7 million), Training (USS 2.4 million),
1/ exclusive of taxes and duties



- 27 -
and Operating Costs (US$ S million) in rainfed and vegetable crops programs.
French cofinancing (FAC) on a grant basis would cover training and long-term
Technical Assistance for research program in forestry, fruit crops and
farming system programs. Other international, bilataral and national research
contracts specifically earmarked for certain research programs included in
the five-year Plan would contribute to the financing of the five-year Plan.
3.49      The Government would continue to finance the non-incremental
recurrent costs at the same level as in 1989 and its contribution would be
increased over the project period, to cover all INRbN salaries and all
headquarters overhead costs. Assurances were obtained at negotiations (para.
6.01) that Government would increase its allocation to INRAN as follows:
Government Contribution
(CFAP million)
Contribution               Project                  Total
1NRAM  1989      PYl   PY2   PY3   PY4   PY5       5-year
Non incremental
recurrent costs
Salaries* & Operating
Costs                      500         500    500   500   500   500       2500
Project incremental recurrent costs
Incremental Salaries s
Government contribution              69   110   168   253   278         880
(Total incremental salaries*)       (69) (110) (168) (253) (278)      (880)
Incremental Operat. Costs s
Government contribution              39    43    45    47    49         223
(=incr. Admin. overhead costs)
(Total incr. ope:. costs)         (106) (184) (330) (445) (481)    (1547)
Total Prolect Govt. financing:        108   153   213   300   327        1100
TOTAL Project incr. rec. costss       (175) (294) (498) (698) (759)
TOTAL INRAN Govt.
financing t             500          608    653   713   800   827
(*) Salaries including direct financing and transfer budgeted positions from
different ministries.
3.50      IDA's Credit of US$ 19.9 million (SDR 15,0 million) would finance
agreed upon investments and project incremental recurrent costs not financed
by the Government or by other donors, reserve research fund (US$ 2.3
equivalent), and the refinancing of the PPF (US$ 0.75 million equivalent).
The financing plan of the project would be as follows:



- 28 -
Pinancl A Plan
CPA? billion             US $ million
Government                         1,100                     3.5
Bilateral Donors                   1,472                     4.6
IDA                                6.6                      19.9
TOTAL                              8.940                    28.0
E.   Procurement
3.51      Procurement arrangements are sumarixed in the Procurement Method
Table (Annex 10).
3.52      Civil Works to be financed for approximately US$ 4.24 million
equivalent would be procurod under ICB procedures in accordance with Bank
guidelines.
3.53      Goods     Goods estimated to cost US$ 100,000 or more would be
procured under ICB procedures in accordance with Bank guidelines. Inputs and
equipment to be financed under ICB would be grouped to the extent possible
in packages of at least USS 100,000 equivalent. Packages of less than US$
100,000 aud totalling US$ 1.0 M would be awarded on the basis of local
competitive bidding in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the
Association. Contracts for goods estimated to cost less than US$ 30.000
aggregating to US$ 100,000 may be procured on the basis of price quotations
of at least three suppliers.
3.54      Short-term  Consultants    with  qualifications  and  experience
acc*pjtaole to IDA would be selected for the various forms of technical
assistance under the project in accordance with the Bank's 'Guidelines for
the Use of Consultants".
3.55      Contract Review.    Bidding documents for contracts estimated to
cost US$ 100,000 or more would be subject to review prior to tendering and
recommendations for contracts award would be submitted to IDA for comments
prior to award.
F.  Disbursements
3.56      A schedule of disbursements is at Annex 11. On the basis of the
standard disbursement profile for agricultural projects in West Africa, it
is projected that it would take 8 112 years to disburse the proceeds of the
credit. The proceeds of the IDA Credit will be distributed to categories on
the basis of the annual work programs and budgets approved by IDA. Hence, the
allocation by disbursement categories is indicative only. All categories will
finance 1002 of expenditures presented, excluding duties aud taxes, except
for operating costs, and consultants's services and training costs, where
respectively 871 and 861 will be financed. Operating costs are the items IDA
will accept to finance in the context of the review of the annual work



- 29 -
program of INRAN (para. 4.31). the ID credit woald be disbursed over 8 112
years as followst
Disburseent Categories
Proposed
mount          Disbursement
Category                   US $ million       Percentage
(1)  Civil works                    4.24                100?
(2)  Vehicles and Equipment         5.00                100Z
(3)  Operating costs                3.57                871 21
(excluding salaries)
(4)  Consultants'services and
training costs                 2.13                862
(5)  Reserve Research Fund          2.30               100?
(6)  PPF repayment                  0.75               100Z
(7) tnallocated                     2.00
3.57      Disbursements of the IDA Credit will be fully documented except for
contracts valued at less than US$ 20,000 equivalent which will be against
Statements of Expenditure (SOEs) which will be certified by the Director
General and the Director of Finance of INRAN. Documentation covering SOEs
would be retained by INRAN and made available for inspection by IDA during
supervision missions.
3.58      In order to expedite disbursements and to ensure that funds for the
project would be made available then needed, the Government will open a
special account (revolving fund) in a conmercial bank in the name of INRAN
with an authorized allocation of CFAF 150 million (US$500,000 equivalent)
representing about 4 months' expenditures. The account will be used to
finance the local and foreign costs for eligible expenditures financed by
IDA. No direct payment requests under the equivalent of US$ 20,000 will be
accepted by IDA.
G.   Environmental Impact
3.59      The project, through its emphasis on multidisciplinary research and
development of integrated farming systems, natural resources management would
be expected to have a beneficial effect on the environment. The overall
objectives of the project are to support research programs that improve
21 0X of overhead operating costs; 100? of research programs operating
costs



- 30 -
resource use and crop and livestock productivity by testing and developing
improved land, water, crop, livestock and forestry management practices. The
more efficient exchange of information with :egional and international
research centers and improved access to up-to-Jate Information by research
and extension services as well as by producers, would all contribute to a
better appreciation of environmental constraints and potentials, and to more
informed use of physical and human resources.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.  Organization and Management
(cf. INRAN Organizational Chart. Annex 8)
4.01      General.  The  Director  General  of  INRAN vould  have  overall
responsibility for project implementation. He woulds (a) report to the
Management  Council  (Conseil  d'Administration)  on  the  orientation  and
management of the Institute (including policy, administration and finance);
and (b) be advised by the Scientific Committee (Conseil Scientifiaue  on the
major scientific orientation of INRAN, as well as the development of the
institution, the external scientific linkages and the training of
researchers. Two ad-hoc advisory groups, namely the Donor Consultative Group
(GCBF) and th- National Committee on Research Programs, will also advise the
Director General on research strategy, evaluation of results, and resource
allocation. The office of the Director General would be frtrther strengthened
by two Directorates:
(a) the Administration and Finance Directorate (Direction
Administrative et Financibre) at Niamey; and
(b) the Scientific Directorate (Direction Scientifique) at Kollo.
4.02      The Administration and Finance Director would be responsible for
the administration, the setting-up and the implementation of the financial
management system and the day-to-day financial management, including the
preparation of the annual draft budget and regular financial reports: he will
be assisted by (i) a Personnel Officer, and (ii) a Material Resource Officer
responsible for acquisition and maintenance of all material resources of the
Institute, including those of the research stations. The Material Resource
Officer, for the first four years of the project, would work under the
periodical guidance of the internationally recruited Senior Project Engineer
Consultant (para. 3.35) and receive on-the-job training in all aspects of
goods, works and services procurement. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations (para 6.01) thats (i) not later than four months after the Date
of the Credit Agreement, NRAM has taken steps to recruit a Research
Management Consultant; (ii) any increase in research and administrative staff
would have to be justified by a Manpower Development Plan (to be prepared
during the first year of the project) and funding of any new position would
have to be provided by the government budget and; (iii) INRAN would not
increase the number of its agreed upon research programs unless complete
financing was available and that program did not require additional staff and
that that program was deemed to be of high priority.
4.03      The Scientific Director would be assisted by a Study, Programs,
Monitoring and Evaluation, and Training Division (DEPSEF) and a Valorization



- 31 -
and Documentation Division (DIVAD) with Ci) contacts with the extension
service and the farming community; (ii) publication and transfer of research
results; (iii, contacts with the national, regional and international
research community; (iv) staff training and manpower development; and (v)
library services and documentation systems.
4.04      The Scientific Directorate will be composed of (i) four technical
departments which constitute the basic scientific ane technical units cf
INRAN, and which are responsible for conducting sectoral and theme-oriented
research programs. It includes four sectoral departments; rainfed crops,
irrigated crops, natural resources management, animal production and health.
These departments would each contain instead of sections, product-specific
research programs, linked to each other by research work on themes of common
interest; (ii) one theme-research department in the areas of production
systems, rural economics and agricultural policy analysis; and (iii) one unit
for statistics and computerized systems.
4.05      The national research program would be carried out by two Regional
Centers, the University of Niamey, the INRAN-Associated Laboratories, and
four Research Stations.   Each of the centers would be led by a center
director whose main functions would be, on the one hand, to represent the
General Directorate of INRAN to the regional authorities, especially to those
involved with rural development, and on the other hand to ensure the proper
overall scientific, administrative, financial and material functioning of the
center. The dire_.tor would be advised by two consultative bodies s the
regional research/development council and the scientific and management
council of the center.
4.06      The regional research/development council would, at least once a
year, bring together researchers and the main regional authorities in charge
of rural development including representatives of the farming community.
This would be a forum for exchanging informatio-& on research work and
development concerns, as well as proposals -- to be submitted to the
scientific council and management council -- concerning the orientation (and
eventual financing) of the center's research activities. The regional council
would particularly:   (a) review results of applied and adaptive research
programs; (b) review the adoption rates of technical recommendations in the
previous season; (c) agree on the next year's adaptive research program to
be carried out by research; and (d) prepare and agree on the contractual
arrangements defining respective operational responsibilities of INRAN and
the extension service for the training program and for on-PAD and on-farm
research/development program. Regular field days for extension staff and for
farmers would be held at the research stations and PADs.
4.07      The Center Council, over which the center director would preside,
would aim at (i) animating scientific exchanges between center researchers,
preparing meetings of the regional research/development council and producing
reports on center activies; and (ii) examining administrative, financial, or
material problems concerning the life of the center, especially those having
to do with the management of resources shared by all of its research units.
4.08      The director of the center would not need to intervene in the
functioning of research units or in the evaluation of their personnel; these
tasks would remain the ultimate responsibility of the unit heads and



- 32 -
department directors concerned. He would be directly responsible for the
management of the center's common resources.
4.09       Assurances were obtained at negotiations (para. 6.01) thats (i)
Government would create a Donor Consultative Group (GCBF) for agricultural
research programming and financing, with rules of operation acceptable to
IDA, to which it would invite all donors funding agricultural research in
Niger to participate and which would be chaired by a Government
representative nominated by the Minister of Agriculture and Environment; (ii)
not later than four months after the date of the Credit Agreement, all key
positions in INRAN would be fulfilled, including the Director for
Administration and Finance, the Scientific Director, the Personnel Officer,
and Chief for Administration and Finance for each research center, as well
as Coordinators for each Research Program; (iii) not later than nine months
after the Date of the Credit Agreement, the National Committee has held its
first meeting. It would be conditions of effectiveness, that the revised
statutes of INRAN would be approved and adopted, and that the National
Committee on Research Programs and the Regional Research/Development Councils
would be established (para. 6.02).
4.10      Research Propramming.
To ensure adequate and timely research programming (enabling field
preparations to be made sufficiently in advance of sowing), the research
programming process and timing would be as follows :
(a) January - February. The INRAN commodity groups would L 3et to learn
of the results of each scientist's program of the past season and
discuss his proposed program for the following season (including
experimental designs and geographic spread). Then the group
Coordinator would be responsible for assembling the program and for
pruning it with INRAN management to fit the resources available.
This stage to be completed by the end of February;
(b) March (early). The plenary Working Groups meetings would gather
INRAN management, scientists and outside invitees from the
international research community, university and the extension
service. Comuodity Coordinators would present a summary of the past
season's results and a broad outline of the proposed program under
their supervision. The participants would concentrate on the major
findings of the ptst program and focus on the new program in the
context of past results, feedback from farmers and government
priorities;
(c) March. The coordinators would discuss the results of the Working
Groups meeting with their scientists and finalize the programs. The
scientists would then complete their individual trials protocols
and preparation of supporting material (seeds, plot fertilizers,
etc.);
(d) April.  The technical staff/junior  scientists  responsible  for
implementing the trials in the field, would assemble in their
respective centers (Kollo or Tarna) for seven to ten days to
discuss the objectives, design, treatments, observations, and



- 33 -
records of their trials with the supervising scientists. During
this period, the Commodity Coordinators would also be responsible
for organizing any special in-service training.
The timing for the planning of the irrigated crop program would follow
a different schedule, adjusted to sowing times under irrigation.
4.11       Assurances were obtained at negotiations (para. 6.01) that INRAN's
internal procedures for research programuing would stipulate: (a) detailed
description of coordination and approval procedures with local extension
staff for all on-farm research and farm surveys in the annual research
programs and protocols; (b) the establishment of national and regional
research management and technical committees which would be set-up not later
than December 31, 1990; (c) the obligation for researchers to set aside a
portion of their time for training of extension staff.
Administrative and Financial Operations
4.12      During the project, INRAN would prepare a budget by program for
which the department directors, program heads, and also, the center directors
would be responsible. It would be supported and monitored by the Directorate
for Administration and Finance.
4.13      At the regional level, administrative and financial management will
be carried out by the Chief for Administration and Finance (CAF) of each
research center. The CAw would be the regional representative of INRAN*s
administrative  and  financial  director;  he  would  support,  for  all
corresponding tasks, the director of relevant centers.
4.14      Internal and external budgets.   INRAN will have to distinguish
between the internal tidget, intended for management control, and the
external budget, used for negotiations with the Ministry of Finance and for
a priori control.
4.15      The internal budget will maintain the current general budgetary
outline which allocates expenses by type. The budget will be broken down by
research programs and regional centers. A systematic analytical codification
system will have to be put in place and adhered to by all managers.
4.16      The external budget will be a simplified version of the internal
budget. The budget paragraphs corresponding to operations might include at
most 4 or 5 lines -- for personnel expenses: salaries, bonuses, overhead,
travel expenses, miscellaneous; and for operationst fuel, tools, goods
consumed and services, unskilled labor, and miscellaneous.
4.17      For more flexibility in INRAN's financial managements (i) funds
would be allocated (by tranches) to the research teams into regional bank
accounts belonging to each center, managed under the dual administrative
responsibility of the team's leader and of the CAF who will verify that
procedures and budgetary allocations have been adhered to. Monthly accounts
will be sent to headquarters for consolidation; (ii) the regional
administrative and accounting services should be kept continually informed
of the avalibility of funds; Ciii) the basic budgetary units (research
programs, centers) should receive the monthly accounting statements



- 34 -
concerning them; (iv) the General Directorate of INRAN would have the
authority to effect budget transfers between categories as needed; tv)
authorization for treasury advances per purchase up to 300.000 FCFA would be
delegated to Directors of Research Centers.
4.18      For its associated program, INRAN will enter into a protocole
d'accord with the University defining each institution's participation in
project implementation in terms of scientific, administrative and financial
responsiblity, as well as the shared responsibility for personnel and
infrastructures. The management of the associated laboratories would be
assigned  to  the  University,  and  the  administrative  and  financial
responsibility to INRAN.
4.19      To ensure that both extension services and farming communities
would participate actively in the preparation, execution and review of
farmer-oriented programs, and that they would benefit from the research
results, the project would provide an on-farm reserve research fund for a
total amount of US$ 2.3 million, for annual on-farm adaptive research
programs to be defined and agreed between INRAN, producer groups and
extension services. INRAN would develop medium-term 'program contracts for
the agreed adaptive research program. These contracts would specify, in broad
terms (a) the agreed-upon themes for farm trials; (b) the respective
operational and financial responsibilities of the different parties; and (c),
the program's review and planning arrangements.
B.   Proiect Coordin&tion.
4.20      The Director General of INRAN would have overall responsibility for
liaison between the ministries and agencies involved in the project. He would
administer and monitor on a permanent basis the planning and implementation
of agricultural research programs and ensure that research programs are in
line with the country's policy for agricultural and scientific research.
4.21      Because the emphasis during the five-year program will be on
integrated farming systems research and on adaptive research, a senior
scientist from each of the regional Farming Systems teams would be
responsible for the planning and coordination of research in each region
(Program Coordinator). His task would be to prepare and present, in
cooperation with his colleagues in the region, the annual research program,
the program budget for the following year, and the annual report for the past
year.
4.22      Research-extension linkages would be strengthened, particularly at
the working level, by (i) periodic training of extension subject matter
specialists (otecbniciens specialises') by researchers, especially though not
exclusively, by staff of the SP research programs; and (ii) participation of
extension staff in the annual review and planning meetings (para 4.10).
4.23      To  ensure  closer  coordination  among  all  those  involved  in
agricultural research, assurances were obtained at negotiations (para. 6.01)
that, in addition to the Donor Consultative Group (GCBF) created for
agricultural research programming and financing (para. 4.09), Government
would call not later than May 31 each year on all donors interested in



- 35 -
agricultural research in Niger to attend the meetings of the Donor
Consultative Group to discuss and agree on INRAN's proposed research
programs, annual budgets and fliancing plans. The organization of the
meetings would be the responsibility of the Head of Study, Programs.
Monitoring and Evaluation, and Training Division assisted by the Valorization
Uni. The participation of extension staff and farming community
rt ,resentatives In these annual meetings and in the implementation of the
research program would assist vith its reorientation to priority field
problems.
C.   Implementation Schedule
4.24      During the first 6 months of the project,  organizational and
staffing arrangements proposed under the project would be put into effect;
technical assistance staff, including those required for short-term
consultancies (e.g. laboratory and scientific equipment inventory, accounting
and financial management), whose terms of reference would have been approved
by IDA, would be hired and a detailed first-year staff training program would
be prepared by INRAN's Personnel Officer (para. 3.29) assisted, if necessary,
by a short-term consultant. Also, with the assistance of the Senior Project
Engineer Consultant and a local Architect (para. 3.35), designs of civil
works would be completed and upon their approval by IDA, the construction
program would be initiated during the first year of the project. Vehicle and
equipment purchase program would be planndd and expedited in the same manner.
During the first years of the project, emphasis would be on staff training -
- both in-service and formal -- and on upgrading and rehabilitating existing
facilities and infrastructure at Niamey. Kollo, Tarna, Konni, Bengou, Agades.
Initial development of new locations (Tahoua, Zinder) would take place during
the second half of the project implementation period.
4.25      Annual review and research planning meetings (para. 4.10) would
play an important ro)l  in the monitoring and evaluation if research programs
and would provide an excellent opportunity for research and extension staff,
farming community representatives and the donors to exchange views and
coordinate activitias and workprograms, including those of the national
research system, with those of international research institutes. Assurances
were obtained at negotiations (para. 6.01) that not later than May 31, 1993
together with the Donor Consultative Group, a mid-term review of the National
Agricultural Research Program would be held. This would be an external review
conducted with the assistance of international research specialists invited
to make specific observations and recommendations on Niger's agricultural
(including livestock and forestry) research programs in the light of the
project's objectives and targets as well as long-term goals. This WA5d-term
review would also examine organizational and institutional arrangemenzs for
agricultural,   livestock  and  forestry  research,   comment  upon  the
appropriateness of the existing arrangements and prepare specific alternative
proposals if necessary.
D.   Financial Control, Audit and Reporting
4.26      In  order  to  better  equip  INRAN  to  handle  its  increased
responsibility, the project would strengthen INRAN's Administration and



- 36 -
Finance Directorate bys (a) developing a new financial management and
information system suited for computerizationg and (b) financing a chief
accountant and other support staff. The new accounting system will enable
INRAN to monitor and control ezecution of research programs by research
station, by program, by operation and by source of financing. Computerization
would further facilitate implementation of such a system. In addition, the
system would be utilized for personnel management (including monitoring the
staff training program) and inventory control. Consultants would be employed
to develop the management system and its software, installation of materials,
and training of local staff.
4.27      INRAN's accounts will be audited by Independent auditors acceptable
to IDA and their report which would Include a separate opinion on the
reliability of SOEs submitted as justification for disbursements will be
submitted to IDA within six months of the end of INRAN's fiscal year (para.
4.27). Assurances on the above were obtained at negotiations (para. 6.01).
4.28      INRAN would ensure adequate overall  technical  and  financial
supervision of project works and procurement. It would prepare the annual
work program and budget with details on individual research programs,
training, coordination of research and extension activities and of the
national and other research programs, procurement and cJvil works
construction planned for the coming year.
4.29      The Director General of INRAN would be responsible for issuing
annual progress reports, showing budgeted and actual expenditures, progress
achieved in construction, procurement, staff training -- including the
training of extension staff by researchers -- and details on research
programs and results. He would also issue a report containing the conclusions
and recommendations of the annual research program review and planning
meetings (para. 4.10). This would be accompanied by INRAN's draft work plan,
budget and financing plan for the next fiscal year, with details on staff
deployment, training plans, civil works construction and procurement planned
for the following year. Approval by IDA of work plan, budget and financing
plan for the next fiscal year would be a condition of disbursement for
operating costs for the following year (para. 6.03).
V.   BENEFITS AND RISKS
A.   General
5.01      The project would contribute to the development of the research and
the research management capacity of INEAN, and to the development of new and
improved techniques for the integration of crops, livestock and forestry into
self-sustaining farming systems. It would give particular attention to
adapting this technology to farmers' needs and means, and to the speedy
transfer of research findings to them. The project would improve the
technical skills of scientists and technicians engaged in agricultural
research, and would also, through the proposed training programs, accelerate
the replacement of internationally recruited researchers by Nigerien
nationals. Finally, through joint work program review and planning, the
project would help improve linkages with AIRCs, strengthen linkages with the



- 37 -
agricultural extension service, and improve the quality and relevance of the
training provided by research staff to eztension and of technical advice to
the farvmig community.
D.   Main Benefits
5.02      A wide spectrum of farmers and livestock owners stands to benefit
from the development and dissemination of new technologies. The project is
designed to address the country's increasingly serious problems of
environmental degradation and decreasing productivity. The closer integration
of research on crops, livestock and forestry will contribute to the
development of sustainable farming systems that will assi.st with the
restoration and conservation of soil fertility and so with crop productivity.
An increased emphasis on adaptive research, with the extension service and
the farming community participating in the research process, will assist with
the adaptation of existing technologies to the needs of the farming
commmnity. This will be further strengthened through the close collaboration
of this project with that proposed for agricultural extension. Both the long-
term needs of the environment and the most immediate technical problems of
farmers will thus receive high priority.
5.03      Planning and coordination of the national research programs in
collaboration with international research institutions, and improved linkages
between research and extension are expected to lead to more efficient use of
scarce human and financial resources and to increase the impact of other
investments in the agriculture and rural sectors. Through the funding of
technical asaistance, consultancy contracts and training programs, it would
address the key problems of lack of research planning and management capacity
and the shortage of technical skills and experience among local research
staff.
C.  Proiect Risks
5.04      The greatest risk faced by the project is the potential difficulty
of developing feasible economic solutions to the degradation of the
environment and economic technical recommendations for increased crop and
livestock productivity in the context of the particularly difficult condition
of agriculture in Niger. However, the non-project risk in the decline of
fertility, soil degradation and over exploitation is considerable and
research is essential to combat this. Potential risks also reside in the
relevance of priority research programs in taking into account farmer's needs
and resource conservation,  and in the adequacy of the linkages between
research and extension. The representation of extension staff and of farming
community representatives on regional and national Management Councils, the
direct participation of research staff in the training of extension workers,
and the reorganization of INRAN with new statutes would all help lessen those
risks. Other risks are inherent in all research projects, namely difficulties
in obtaining adequate staff and funds for the development of a long-term
national research program. These risks could be considered to be relatively
small, however, because the Government and danors have already shown a strong
commitment to research.



- 38 _
VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDAUIONS
6.01      Assurances were obtained from Government at negotiations thats
(a) It would contribute to finance INRAN budget at the level of CFAP
608 million in PYI, 653 million in PY2, 713 million in PY3, 800
million in PY4, and 827 million in PY5 (para. 3.49);
(b) Not later than four months after the date of the Credit Agreement,
all key positions in INRAN would be filled, including the Director
for Administration and Finance, the Scientific Director, the
Personnel Officer, and Chief for Administration and Finance for
each research center, as well as Coordinators for each Research
Program (para 4.09);
(c) Not later than four months after the date of the Credit Agreement,
INRAN has taken steps to recruit a Research Management Consultant
(para. 4.02);
-d) Not later than nine months after the Date of the Credit Agreement,
the National Coumittee has held its first meeting (para. 4.09);
(e)  INRAN'r  internal  procedures  for  research  programming  would
stipulitet (a) detailed description of coordination and approval
procedi es with local extension staff for all on-farm research and
farm su.reys in the annual research programs and protocols; (b) the
establisament of national and regional research management and
technical committees which would be set-up not later than December
31, 1990; (c) the obligation for researchers to set aside a portion
of their time for training of extension staff (para. 4.11);
(f) Any increase in research and administrative staff would have to be
justified by a Manpower Development Plan (to be prepared during the
first year of the project) and funding of any new position would
have to be provided by the government budget; and INRAN would not
increase the number of its agreed upon research programs unless
complete financing was available and that program did not require
additional staff and that that program was deemed to be of high
priority (para. 4.02);
(g) INRAN would prepare and furnish to IDA for review a livestock
production research program with detailed investment proposals, by
December 31, 1990 (para. 3.23);
(h)  INRAN's accounts will be audited by independent auditors acceptable
to IDA and their report which would include a separate opinion on
the  reliability  of  SOEs  submitted  as  justification  for
disbursements will be submitted to IDA within six months of the end
of INRAN's fiscal year (para. 4.27);



- 39 -
(i) the Director of INRAN will issue annually progress reports in scope
and content acceptable to the Association as specified in para.
4.29;
(j) Government would create a Donor Consultative Group (CCBF) for
agricultural research progremming and financing. with rules of
operation acceptable to IDA, to which it would invite all donors
funding agricultural research in Niger to participate and which
would be chaired by a Government representative nominated by the
Minister of Agriculture and Environment (para. 4.09);
(k) Government would call not later than May 31 each year on all donors
interested in agricultural research in Niger to attend the meetings
of the Donor Consultative Group to discuss and agree on INRAN's
proposed research programs, annual budgets and financing plans
(para 4.23);
(1) Government would organize not later than May 31, 1993 together
with the Donor Consultative Group, a mid-term review of the
National Agricultural Research Program (para. 4.25)). Scientists
of international repute with qualifications acceptable to IDA would
be invited to participate in the group deliberations (para. 3.34).
This review would coincide with the 1994 program and budget review
process;
6.02      Conditions of Effectiveness
(a) Approval and adoption of the revised statutes of INRAN (para.
4.09);
(b) Establishment of the National Committee on Research Programs and
of the Regional Research/Development Councils (para. 4.09);
6.03      Conditions of Disbursements
(a) INRAN will review its organization and its research programs each
year and will submit to the Association prior the beginning of the
fiscal year, a detailed work plan, budget and financing plan for
the next fiscal year. Approval by IDA of these three documents
will be a condition of disbursement for operating costs for the
following year (para. 4.29).
6.04      With the above assurances and conditions the project would be
suitable for an IDA credit of SDR 15.0 million (USS 19.9 million equivalent).



Annex I
J~~~~~~~~~~~*h ii i ___  I j 
ga;  Ir~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
44~~~~~4M
di~~~~~~~~~~~~~  
I   U   _ _in_ r_ _ r_ I



9ESLL&S OF AaCcTICtLAL RESEACt (IOs)-121)
tht tJlattm^t   
-------- ------------------ - -------------------------- - -------PRODUCTS *AZALASA  Fait tSA eV Fh8W*S
I         *--c------ti I--.                                                                    r                - ------j ------r-----I-----;----e
i } jtty  # Wt SOSIOC  I Cindl^^*                 |                            &@"it  It' ae for  alu melee  I       Tecba.lgy
I         I           I*  ttx, 414_ s e ld l eafer Fe  l 01--
i         I           I't pse0N diseses                                                                                                                   go . (*tri  m   t* !o *  ..
Cal                                                                              I t                                 Sesd of a..t.CV. a -  wic a   csuo..  o "epsplq   I
t I                   I1ue      p  If    .   lA                                                                          *c                    I  4t    i m.   r tle         a
ISTSAffOf OiDfoPt postsdA adi roeu.5t.lclo  afedfecCMI4/ol"1goto                                                 God0rmn.v Adm                   o
Ilduat104f  f  m.vefrfilsA  *;%.I                                  I"Vc  se*Jpdf*%CAtes$edf...O"wrols                       MC.S ohert111e.vDi NgoP       forSUS O4 
to Pete". diseases &                                                              Iol                                 I_t           V  (   dope) lc                 I
(Iooea"t  ofp M%  t                                                                                                   c1 "Ps  ofrmage   oSI
isLao     utr.. ofl _se eve         l *fnee tietlt  (alle                                  lIs I                                                  a c_1 als ltr _     ll  g
t~ ~~RC i49 CcU    il_t           v fo t yields t a   eci                                                                                 Mte"beclts ev lt8 _w   n e drWptl    ttC
tl.asuOf PastA 6 disessme            1                                                                           refat cycle  Wev  the 4S") IN a-55-
Co"pe"    (tdmetif.   of    lap.eve for  diffoeamt    *fo.s  "vic     ONeV   far  41ff.   go ss.lee  of   rocinm dsd  omeletIs"  celafat   e ee so"  4Cu     g1-1 .    TN 824
I !I                 2lt*||8-"l442"c4*lFo*~!t- ,,,",i.,." ............................. I_o                                                  I'*"                                         1
I   I Orosdoute (isatif. of lop.cv" for diff objectives  ledvico as ueV(oa  o  rec.eve                                                Icv for procitjpI
eV  I  I  I  ru for maplield 185251 -MS der)
I   I           ~~~~I I-OfP%A  iso                          pe  IeeLo   o#04a for d0rougt resist. ?luemaS JA.- I5 ZCOS-SIl
I   I           ~~~~I                                      I                                       Itwlpe66                            
IFUEIWY    I.sal ip   "P. per*foMece A  ethO habit.        (sel      memsag. Of Astral forests  104a
I    (Scsi  eseogmet       me". ebl e
iLi~IToCF    Shee    'Geetic  eteales o4tamswesteb eed    (adviceAlbI61Wmdwht
P0.41                        (advice~~~~~O em vevlo for nle. loa*  aelIOki
I  I                                   I-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
(Agrestologs. Ilvoal. of#sadleg Volvo of elllot. Mrose .rsiadteu                               mtItere.fota.um-                  IdIc
I                                                       I                                       liuteuslue poisw  ewliveteteG  gssement    I
I   I PetoloOp  IdestIf. Of pothegemb Complox              (peat adigeso. eomtrot roea.            (v.ciuee productS..               (veterlmerp advieory a treet. em.vlcs



a.      -                      -  5    St  7   b.'a
: i     i i i            * i-    Ev  t1a
I    LIP    I;   LI    i   !*P    i,   
'      | s; |       'I I:              't 
.     s s     s ^          s      ^    .0   
. s  s  s  S  ~~I!    i                     Is  s       
8  i  -  j  lZt  '  l   t  S'-0i t 
* i         b              <  l         tx *g
a                                               a  a t       
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ *                        a           
I  ,f  [  S ?l 4  f,  i  0 i,,,  ji ...
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t                        034



' jiJ  13'     ~2I       2
X    'I I   jP     3' 5 P   r I  t
. i     | l~U    B  *     6 i   .6.
| S  i         .      ji   , j    .
13~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
16 ~  ~     1 
,~~~~~~~~~~~
w  w ~  ~  ~   C  C
10 z            --~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ --- 0 -0------.-------
c x'        I  I a      T I
Z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i  Z          Ua l__  U_,_______________________



ANNEX 4
P. 1 of 4
NIGER
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
INRA'NS PROPOSED RESEARCH PROGRAM
(Plan Quinquennal 1990-1994)
1.      The following major research programs have been identified for the Plan
Quinquenual (1990-1994) by the INRAN Working Groups:
(a) continuation of existing programs
Mi)     food self-sufficiency - millet, rice, maize, sorghum, coupeas
and groundnuts;
(ii)     environmental conservation - forestry,  soils and erosion
control;
(b) new program
Mi)     dry season cropping under irrigation - vogetables, fruit trees
and water management in small schemes.
2.      Each WC then prioriti-ed its research programs, same of which have had
to be programoed for later start-up than desirable due to shortfalls in
specialist research staff and/or in finance.   INRAN proposes to adopt a
multidisciplinary approach in order to minimize the dispersion and duplication
of effort, initially involving cooperative programs between the rainfed and
irrigated crop, livestock and farming systems research groups. Collaboration
with the international research institutes (ICRISAT particularly) will assist
with the technical reinforcement of programs, with the training of research staf'
and with the development of improved crop varieties  In order to strengthen the
scientific linkages with the University, INRAN proposes to assist with the
istablishment of associated laboratories to enable joint programs to be
undertaken. Also certain programs, forbwich the UnLversity have a comparative
advantage, will be delegated directly to the University.
3*      Rainfed cros (tNRAN)
(a)  millet:    a multidisciplinary  research group  (genetics,  agronomy,
entoology, pathology and weed science) vill establish a program with
the following objectives: (i) development of technical recommendations
(varieties and husbandry) that vill enable farmers to achieve increasing
but stable yields; and (ii) methods of control for ear miner, stalk borer
and striga.
(b)  sorghum    a multidisciplinary research group (as for millet) will
establish   a   program   with   the   following   objectives:   (i)
selection/development of cultivars with high yield and suitable quality
for sandy soils; (ii) study of the dynamics of the major pests and



ANNEX 4
p. 2 of 4
-2-
development of methods  for controll (iii) varietal  selection for
resistance to striga and smut; (iv) food technology for new varieties;
and (v) establishment of productive crop associations.
(c) maize: a multidisciplinary research group will establish a program tot
Ci) select productive varieties with appropriate climatic adaptability;
and (ii) resistance to streak virus and stem borer.
(d)  cowoeasT  a multidisciplinary research team will develop technical
recommendations (variety, husbandry, crop mixtures, pest and weed
control) that will give farmers increased yields, particularly when
intercropped with cereal crops.
(e)  groundnutes    a multidisciplinary team  (breeder,  plant protection,
agronomy and seed production) will establish a program tot (i) select
higher yielding short-cycle varieties resistant to drought and high in
oil content; (ii) develop pest control programs and variety selection
for resistance to rosette; and (iii) produce sufficient seed of improved
varieties to meet the demand.
4.      Rainfed crops. University and  AIRCs.
The University will assist INRAN with the design and establishment of an
associate laboratory to support the pest control research program. IITA and
ICUSAT will continue to assist INRAN with the training of their scientists and
technicians. Collaborative research with IITA and SAFGRAD will strengthen the
variety selection programs for cowpeas (resistance to drought and striga) and
maize (streak). INRAN will work with the CILSS program on the regional testing
of millet, cowpeas, sorghum, with INSAU on maize and with CRSP on groundnuts.
5.      Irriaated crops.  INRAN
(a) rices a small research team (mostly working part-time) will establish
a program to: (i) select productive short and medium cycle varieties
that are resistant to alkalinity, salinity, cold, pests and diseases;
(ii) establish trials with farmers to test selected varieties and
recommended husbandry practices; (iii) produce pre-basic and basic seed;
(iv) determine profitable levels of NPf fertilization for different soil
types, and Iv) initiate trials with natural phosphate.
(b) management of water and soils: a small research team (only one full
time) will: (i) evaluate the potential of different soil types for
irrigation; and, (ii) examine the costs and efficiencies of different
systems of irrigation.
(c) market gardening (onions, tomatoes, okra, pimentos, and Irish potatoes):
a small research team (Dutch voluntoer with part-time Nigerien graduate
assistance) will continue a multi-locational program of: Ci) variety
;



ANNEX 4
.~~~~~~~~~~p T _o 
testing; (ii) fertilizer and husbandry trials; and, (1ii) post control
trials.
(d)  citrus and mango:  a small team worklag part-ties will continue tot (i)
evaluate local and introduced varieties; (iI) study the cause of dieback
in citrus; (iii) establish an irrigation regiaslhatering for fruit grown
in rural areas; and, (iv) study the incidence of Tristeza virus in
Nigerien citrus orchards.
(e)  datepalm:   a small team wills (i) continue with the selection a*wd
evaluation of high yielding cultivars; Cii) establish irrigation.
fertilization and husbandry recommendations; and (iii) continue the
biological control program against mealy bugs (coccineae).
6.      Irrigated Crops. University and International
WARDA will continue to assist nIRAN with the selection of appropriate varietal
material for testing and will assist with the training of INiAN staff in rice.
The University will assist IliAN with the salinity and alkalinity control program
in the irrigated rice perineters. The university biology department will assist
INRAN with the pest and disease control program in vegetables, fruit crops and
datepalms.
7.      Livestock  11AM
The livestock program proposed for the Plan Quinquennal can be divided into
three parts, viz. (a) evaluation and improvement of natural pastureiranges (b)
improvement of livestock nutritionu and (c) improvemeat of the different breeds
of cattle, sheep and goats through selection and b.-eding.  In addltion, the
veterinary laboratory will continue with vaccine production and research and with
its diagnostic services.
8.      Livestock. University and International
The University proposes to establish an associate laboratory to support INRAN
in their nutrition and breeding programs. ILA will contlnue to assist with the
training of INRAN staff.
9.      Forestry, Fisheries and Natural Resources. rAN
The program proposed includes the following:
(a) Forestrys (l) genetic Improvement and management of local forest species;
(ii) Inventory and storage of forest geraplasm; (iii) management of the
natural forest; (iv) study of soil protection and management; and (v)
agroforestry - study of nursery techniques and management of local
species.



ANNEX 4
P. 4 of 4
-4-
(b) Fisheries: (i) adaptive research with production of fish in floating
cages; and (ii) study of the national fisheries resource.
10.          Forestr,  Fisheries  and Natural  Resources.   University  and
International. The University proposes to assist INRAN with the studies and
management of natural vegetation as well as with the raising of fish in cages.
ICRISATIICRAF will support the INRAN research programs on agroforestry and
management of natural resources.
11.          Fanmins Systems and Rural Economy.  INR
The program proposed is divided into three parts:
(a) Study and description of principal agricultural farming systems in ti)
the valley of the Niger river; (ii) the agro-pastoral zone (Maradi); and,
(iii) the pastoral zone south of the Sahara.
(b) Adaptive research involving technology testing at farm level.
(c) Studies of the principal productionimarketing chains for millet, rice,
sorghum, cowpeas, small ruminants and onions.



NIGER                                Annex 5
NATIONAL AGRICUJTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
!
Consultant Services and Technical Assistance
PROJECT YEAR             TOTALS
UNIT    PY1  PY2  PY3  PY4  PYS    MK    MY
1.  Civil Works, Equipment    MK         4    2    8    2    -       16
2.  Research Programming 1/    MW        -    -    8    -    -        8
3.  Finance Management          MW       4    3    2    1    1       11
6.  Research Specialists        MW      10   10   10    5    5       40
7.  A.T. A4roeco SP   21        MY       1    1    1    1    -               4
8.  A.T. Zootechny SP 2/        MY       1    1    1    1    -                4
9.  A.T. Fruit crop  2I         MY       -    1    1    1    -               3
10. A.T. Agroforestry 21        MY       -    1    1    1    1                4
11. A.T. Soil biology 21        MY       -    1    1    1    -                3
12. A.T. Vegetables   2/        MY       -    1    1    1    -                3
TOTALS                                                            75     21
3/   21
11 International research specialists, participating in periodic in-depth
review of the national research programs and of the individual programs.
2/ Long-term technical assistance - continuous.
31 Consultancies and studies.



ANNEX 6
p.1 of 3
THI UtFIIC8J;2 ppNiCia
~~mhuzlaLizaOFMM                 z
Na=&Ia Rasouro. HaapaztRmae   rogframme
Aac&igr,ond
1.          The agricultural sector, including crop and livestock production,
forestry and fisheries, is Niger's moat iqmprtant economic activity a-nd
provides the principal livelihood of the population. But, although Niger has
managed to be, aelf-sufficient In its basic staple food crops (millet and
cowpeas) and-'in livestock, except during exceptionally dry years, production
has been maintained at the cost of a deterioration in the environment. During
the past 10 to 15 years. the limit for satLsfactory rainfed crop production
has moved south by 70 to 100 km.. consequently Increasing the population and
production pressure on the area receiving more than 350 mm rainfall per annum.
Increasing unreliability in distribution has accompanied this reduction in
total rainfall. Nigerien agriculture is subsistence-based, prodtuctivity has
not improved over the last 25 years and purchased production inputs are rarely
used. The maintenance of soil fertility through long fallow periods has had
to be progressively abandoned as areas under cultivation have been increased
to produce sufficient food for the growing population.
2.          At the same time there has been a destabilisation of the livestock
production system as the equilibrium of the traditional crop production
systems has been broken under the combined stressesn of drought and population
prp'ssure. In addition, the droughts have contributed to overgrazing and
er-sian of rangeland through the cultivation of more marginal land in the
pastoral zone.
3.          Forestry is characterised by an accelerating degradation under the
combined effects of drought and man (clearing for cultivation, overgrazing and
firewood collection); annual consumption of firewood now far exceeding the
arnual increment in production.
4 *         Envirormental degradation is a progressive and complex process
and, in Niger now concern&s all areas to some extent. The reduction of
available fallow land for pastures has'not been coqmpnsated for by increased
production of fodder crops or availability of crop residues for livestock
feeding and therefore loes livestock have been able to make use of the
agricultural zone.* This Ias. in turn, resulted in less manre and so
diminishing yields and a compensating expansioni of cultivated areas. In the
agricultural zone, sedentary farmers nov put rangelands and crop residues,
formerly available to tranuhumant pastoralists duiring dry seasons in return
for mamure, to their own use. Conflicts between sedentary farmers and
pastoralists are growing and both crop and livestock production systems are
losing sustainability. Natural forests are being progressively dIminished and
trees have not yet been widely exploited for their non-timber benefits of crop
end soil proteotion, improvement of soil fertility and nutrition of livestock.



ANNEX 6
p. 2 of 3
5.          The potential fto marked improvements in agricultural productLvity
ln Niger (climate, soil, demographic and economic pressures) through greater
Lntensification of production are inherently low.  The central focus of
national agricultural reserch must therefore b  the optimm mauagemnt of
natural resources so as to derive optim  production boneflt from the
synerglstic effects of integrated crop, livestock end foroestry faormlng
systems.
6.          To develop farming systems for tho major agro-ecological zones
that would protect the environment, restore and sustaln soil fertility,
control erosion and atabilse farm output through the optimum use of trees,
livestock and crops.
7.          Research *ltes would be selected in village farming areas within
the pastoral, agro-pastoral and agrlcultural zones. WLthin the latter,
locations representing the more northern areas of weak potential (margLnal
rainfall and sandy soils of low fertillty) and the southern areas of higher
potentLal would bo Ldentified. There would thus be four trial areas selected
for the first phase. The areas selected would comprise the whole grazing/
cultivation/firewood land available to that village. The core NRM research
team would inLtially be based at Kollo, theresfter moving to Tahoua following
establislment of a research statLon. However, the research work would be
inLtlaied and would continue to be carrLed out on village lnd.
8.          The programme would be under the directlon of the Director of
INRA's Natural Resources Department, vorking In close liaison wlth the other
ministeries concerned with livestock and forestry production (Ministry of
Natural Resources and Eaux et Forsts ?). The programme would be designed and
managed by a group of six ?NRAN scLentists (agrotorestry, agronomy,
agrostology, animal production, pedology and economics). They would be
assisted as necessary, and probably part-tim, by other specialists from INRAN
and the University and would liaise closely with ICRISAT's Natural Resource
Management Research group.
9.          The field prograues vould'be supervised by technicians outposted
to the various sltes selected.
10.         Zonal programmes would be developed as follows:
(a)   Definition, in the test site selected, of the farming systems
followed by villagers (includLig cultural'grazing practLces,
source of firewood, etc.) and the problem  encountered both for
stability of farm output and lso for conservation of the
envlronment;



ANNEX 6
p. 3 or 3
(b)  Analysis of the soil (txture, *inewal qonten  etc. ), review of
pst cropping history (crops, lilvestock  trees ad their output)
and preoent lan  use and/or vegetative over);
(c)   Discussion of the case with interested uad quallfled scientists in
the UniveraLty and ICRSAT, reewv  of eternal and pst nigerien
experience/results and fonmulation of prioposed "sociations end
system for tooting;
(d) ImplementatLon of tests withLn the village land;
(c)  Evaluation of results over short and lori timoeframe_ in terms of
area/fas output, effect on the soll and vegetative cover,
productlvlty, economLis and evaluation of potentlal for future
wider adoptLon.
11.         The proposed project would provlde fLnaue  to cover the following
categories of expendLture:
Research team '7) seconded from other progrsaus
6 TechniLeins supdrLeurs
8 TechnicLen. ordLaLres
Main d'oeuvre temporalre
3 4x4 voitures
1 voiture liaison
4 aotos/mobylettes
Mat6riel bureau
Fonctionnement vdhicule et motos
Frais "placements
Cofts de fonationnement (uat6riel vdgetal, smences, clOtures ect.).



NICFR
NATIONAL ACRICUITURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
EVOLUTION DW  BUDGET "OFFICIEL" OE L'INRAN (1976-86)
Categories de dipenses         1976     77      78     79     80      81     82      83     84     85    86
Personnel                 151     161    210    229    308    258    288    381    394    386   392
Millions     Fonctionnenent (a)         54     108    106    141    117    109       71    148    133    140   131
F. CFA       EquipemWnt                 17       0     18      0      13     15       5      5      7      8    11
courants
Total depenses            222     269    334    370    438    382    364    534    534    534   534
Frais personnelltotal depenses (74    68        60     63     62      70     68     79      71     74     72    73
Source: Fascicule de pr6sentation de lI NRAN. 1986.
(a) Oepenses de Ofonctionno.ent" (au sons de 1 INRAN) diminu6es des frais de personnel.



_*1' em|, s .    eE   _   - ,- LVd
I t                                          ....._.  - 1-:--------------------------
fto"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d
X,..".. ~ ~  ~     ~    ~     ~    .....i            C. 
r.i.
II d.d
dov-I&At



LISlE DES CADRES I[AN Al it A2 EN FOWATION
0: recrutesnt direct d4itudi&ats
P: "profosslonmels It*chnicias de I IMW)
me. a. pribs           Statut finencemet  Liusu 6tudr  Discipline    Dates Atudes   Oiplites    trafe, an retour privu IWA*1    Observations
obtnms  viss    8t   as   99   90   91
ORA
I. OIESou. Chdrif        O    USA-AM        USA-Prdue   bhytopetho.    83 - 17               es            A2
2. IBLHli. Chwi          P                     *         Plytogot.    63 - S7                oS      Al                            Re*tur d4mod  apr6s OS
3. A890URAW E. Kollo O                                   Pbhtopatho.    63 - 7                 S           2
4. ISSUoU w,Kaprw        O                     e         Ptogit          83 - i               eS           Al
S. IAS. NIa              P                   Saissipt  led asm ces 83 - S7                    aS     Al
6. NiMDU. Ibrabhi    P                         *3 - i7                                        aS     A
7.  HAU5. amssi          P        *         USalorid    Hortkltflti-r     3 - 7               BS     Al                            Sourss suspifdu  (1)
. I   SSM   aitila (Nleh) S       *         USA4braAa Physio-0.    aS - 90                 1OS.6S                           Al   "S at passe OS
9. I'AII El  Ibrim    S           *         USA-WCerol. Nalearbolog    65 - 90                S.ltS                          Al       *
10  K0.I .. mm 1                  *         USA-Tames     etmelelt    0S - g-0                S5IS                           Al       *
11. 1WIIU    SiJita    t    il-SW(l) USA4 _lam   Ag              *       S -00       3S(6S)  is                              Al
12.  MAW. Vetoe                Alliwr       Nino          htogleSt.    e5 - I                                          Al
ORE
1. wooUl.Nakasoe         I    USA-PMA      LIA-Purdue   Sc. Sols(2)    63-Si11    63(65)  "I               Al
t.  UNIWU lm             S        * US      IA4c .uuaan3   goS.IS                                                            Al
1. SAKOUAam it           S        *                                      53- 90              S36                             Al^
4. DILOIma                                                                3 - so             63.65                           Al
S.   NlM. l       (ile) P    6S39W          USIA-llioic  lUreelo. Sol  61 - a                                                     RSbtr& smis IS
6. SSMI). HI             a    ite           Alm    FL t1(3)Crt1raphie   64 -                 H At.               A2'
7. uAsees  -hust               1 Alger        msp.i lt   4 - U                               Halt.               Al
ORf
I2.    0.  aley          S    A r-tie*re  lHror-Sail  tEo  at Forts 63 - 7                   Ing.                      AZ         Ercole I.. trevas EF
2.  bAYA. Is "                    *                                         - a                                        A AZ
3. OWSAioU. 110016l    S                                                 64 -l               lg                        AZ
4. Si.       _                                              *               -Si -ag. a                                 A
1. NALNSiU A hiuar    D    Agimer-ruo  Herc-FAM          Sc. Vitdria.   O - 5i               Wt            Al
1. ADOZ U, Add           D    Aigr         St_-FSE(S) Sc. Ico. c4 - O9                                                AZ
2. 4.UAYE.Iviht     *                                                      *S 6-0                     O                      A    USAun 197
3.  Ni. Assue Zarafi O S       lwioe-FAC   Frit          Agro-lncime    S5 - 66                      Al
IA Ibipelli*r
1. U10, PAm  Dodo        D    USlA-PAM     lSA-Purdue   Statlstique    6S - n9               n                        a
2. Z1UIM  Irtahimt    0    Alger            Nlami-FS(4) Elistroioque    64 - U               Nit.                      AZ
3. OABE. Nes             D    Alger         SItr-EISUT   Electroaiqge   64 - aS                      Al                           ?
4. IOUSSA. H1o           D      lger        atmey-FS     Elittstktil   a5 - 90                                         A2
NM AFfECTES
I. BASSO. Ada..          a      igier       Hflmy-Fc.Ag.Agrnoaol          4 - 88             HatS                AZ
2. US         iclsbtow   0        *            **-90                                                                          Z gA
3. SAN. lssats           0        *6  - 90                                                                                   Al
4. SALSSOU. _D *dw                             * 0*                       6 - 90                                             Al
S.SUSA. Abdoa          S                                                    go6-0                                          Al
S.  MLtMS. ireou         0                                               6- *  *-65             *                      AZ
?.  IJAIS-*M.lab*        8        *              -FS       tB           U6 -69                  * tA
6. SAtIA.AdonaiO                  **-FS                     *            66*-00                                             *2 
9. MSA.Ibrahis           0                       : -FS      "             6 - go                "                           A
10 Go DJit. Saint        B                        F -FS                  6 -90 g                                            Al
u1t '2.wu Sehil NItspor Oevelopme4t Projet                                                                                                                  %0
Ill Spe ililiC a delten.r t
111  l14  locuItc de$ tettros et Sciences aetines
iC  *    4 *.lt* d1 Scsieces
.'.. 5-t  *....04     4. $hiucesi Itonhum



Pn0E4   ftUIIUt DE RECHEHCHE *GOR4I1A E
Iabl IZ. f14U1 *Olt
Detaild Cost labls
(fCfA *0004
Quantity                                                          Do"  Co.sm
..   .................... .... ..... .. . . .................------------------------ ----- -.....--- -----...........-----------........ 
utit     1    2      3    4    5   total  Uit t Cost           I           2           3           4           5       total
3:::::   3:::   :: *3: 3             .,  ..  ....a. ........ 33  .   as::. 3:         s      : :         ;::::;:;;  :3:::
4. INVIESItIl COSIS
.. ............
A  CNERCNEItS
3. Cours Soanu  dAe  12 an"t
........ .......... ... .. ....
'iamo-taboratoiors hs soc t, $                                                              -t    -     I    1    6       a        7. 0-   7 000 0   7.000 0  42.000 0  56.000.0
Ntay ti                                                                        nite            -        I    3    2       6        7e000                            7.0000   21.000 0   14.000 0  42.00e    0
btolb  ,nite                                                                                          3    4      1      a        7.000                           21.000 0  28 000 0   7.0000 5o .00 0
lotam                                                                          nit.,             -    -    3    I        10        7000                   -                -  21.000.0  49,000.0  70.00.0
farma                                                                         uite         -     -    3    6       7     l6        7.000                           21.000. 0  42,000.0  49.000.0 112.0000 
Sub-lotal Cow-s loouw  Aurwe  12  na4                                                                                                                  '           -  56.000 0 1l9.000.0  t51.000.0 336.000.0
2  Sta.p.s  yonn  dwe   3 moos)
............................
Niany taboratoire  assoe"                                                     uiute        2     3    3      3    2       13       2,240    4.480.0   6.`200   6.7200    6,720.0    4.4500   n. 120.0
Winy  It                                                                      unite         1    2    2    2       1      A        2,240   2,240.0   4.480.0    4.480.0    4.480 0   2,240. 0  17,920.0
Rollo                                                                         unite        4    S    S    I        5    24         2.240    8,960.0   1l.200.0   11.20   0            .200 0   11 200 0  53,75 0.0
lahou                                                                         uite         -     I    I    I       1      4       2.240            - 2.240.0   2.240.0    2.240.0   2.240 0   5.960.0
farmn                                                                         umite        2     2    2    2       2     10       2.240   4.480 0   4,480.0   4.480     4480.0    4,480 0  22.400 0
S46-0ot.I Stagws  .yaiOne dAwe. 43  ao.sI.                                                                                                     2. 160.0  29. 120. 0  2n.120  20. 20 0  24.640 0 132.45 00
3  Vietoes court. dum    4IO jouwsl
.... ...... ..   .    ..   ..  ......
Visit.,                                                                        uits       20   25   25   25   25    120              250   S 600. 0    7,000.0       .000 0    7.000 0   7,000 0  33.690 0
Sih-lotal Visit., courts dure. 410 Jorsl                                                                                                        1.600.0    7,000.0   7,00.0    7.000.0    7,000.0  33.e 00.0
Sib-lotal ClfRCH4EURS                                                                                                                            2t.760.0  36. 1200  92.1 s    2t .  IO S. 120.0  192.640 0 501.710.0
. IEC4IICIEWS S1ID1RI11S
..... ....... .................. .
Stage  mywo      dae   2 amal                                                     umit,       10   20   20   20    10    60            1.500   1.oe00.0   30.000o0  30.000 0  30.0000 1e.0 "C 0  120.00  0
Suk)-lotal fElCNICIEHS SUPISIEURS                                                                                                                 II.000. 0  30.000.0  30.000.0  30000. 0   I1.OtO00  120.00 0
C. FO I t0S -U"i P7964ES  0EOWERCltE  GIN.I SPECIALISIES 1               WsSEC 4    fOfE         t0   to   40    5    5    40            3.400  34.,000.0  S4o.000   34.000.0   1.00004 o          .000.0 135,000.0
Q. CADRES OE DSRtil
. ............ .. ...
SIAGE  MDEff  PUREE 1 10S                                                           .sE        -    6      3     *    -       9       2.240                  3.440.0   6.7200 o                        -  20.10 00
t n      sWI9RSS SNtISWllUS    4 I                                                _E I  lOB  IS 11   is    Is   Is   Is    71            200   3000.0    3. 0   0.0    3,000. 0    3.00 0   3.000 0   IS, 0o 0
Si-lotal CAM0ES DE OIBICSIOW                                                                                                                       3.00.0 o 6.440.0   9,720.0    3.00.0   3,000.0  35. 150.0
tol o    WESSSMINI  COSTS                                                                                                                            n.160.0 116.60.0 161.N40 0 20S. 20. 0 227.640.0 792.20.0
... .... ......... ... 34-|$ .......  . A- -   ..  ..z
Total                                                                                                                                                  17.760.0 It6,160.0 e61.14*I 0 .2. 5.20 0 227.540 0 792.920 0
333:3:: :3.3* .... .3,3S       :  ::-:....    33:::  :4--::::
........     ..........    ....... .......... ... .. ..... ..... ................................... ................................................................. .................................................................................................................
sapta.t_ A8 4989 to. 00
fw



totals lncludir4 Contiqtnsl.s
.   ...    ..... ......... ............... ......... ............... ... ... ....
I         2         3          4         5        Total
-             8, 967.0   9.361.6   8, 64.8    ?6. S69. 4
-         -  8967. 0  28 084.   19. 6S        56 508. 6
-         - 26. 901.0  3?. 446.2   9, 73. 5    74. 120.6
*         -         - 28.084.7  68414.3    96,499.0
-         - 26.901.0  56. 169.4  66.414.3   151.484.7
----- ------ ----- ----- ------ ---.--.------..... ... . .. 
-         - 71. 736. 1 1I9. 146. S 224. *89. 8   455.672.4
5,265.3   8.245.5   8,608.3   S.S87. 1  6.255.0    37J361.3
2.632.   S. 497.   5.738.9   5. 99.4   3 127.5    22.9S7.5
10.530. 7  13. 742. 5   4. 347. 2  14 978.5  I5 637.6    69,236.5
-  2.148.5   2,669.4   2.90.    3. 127.S    11,741.2
5,265.3   5,497.0   5,738.9   5.991.4   1.255.0    28,747.7
23. 604.0  35.,30. 6  37. 302.8  3. 944. 1 34. 402.6   170. 074.2
6,51.7   8,59.1   8.967.0   9.361.6   9.773.5    43.272.8
6.5U.?   85S89.1   8,967.0   9,361.6   9.7 3.5    43,272.8   '
30.275.7  44,319.7 118.005.9 207.452.2 268.965.9   669.019.4
17.629.5  36,810.4  38.430.1  40. 121.0  20,943.1   153,934.1
17,629.5  36,810.4  38.430. 1 40. 121.0  20.943.1   153,934.1
39,960.2  41.7 M.4  43.554. 1  22,735.2  23,735.6   171.703.5
-  16,491. 1  6 608.3          -         -   25. 09. 4
3,525.9   3.681.0   3.843.0   4.032. 1  4.IS8.6    19.250.7
3,525.9  20.172.1  12.451.3   4,012.1   4,168.6    44,350.1
91.391.3 143,020.7 212,441.3 274, 320.5 317,833.2 1.039,007.0
91,391.3 143.020.? 212.441.3 274,320.5 317.,33.2 1.039.007.0
I'i
o |
o



ni~on
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESARUC PROJECT
PROCURDMENT ETNHOD AND DISBURSEIENTS
Project Element                         Procurement Method
Total
ICa     LCB        Other     N.A.   Cost */
*........ . (US$ millon) ..... . .
Civil Works                      5.32      -          -          -      5.32
(5.32)                                (5.32)
Vehicles and Equipment           4.65    1.57         ..         -      6.22
(4,65)  (1.57)                        (6.22)
Operating Costs (incl. Audit)    -         -          -        3.64     3.64
(excluding salaries)                                         (3.16)   (3.16)
Short-ternm Consultants' services -        -        2.48         -      2.48
& Training Costs                                   (2.24)              (2.24)
(excluding long-term Techn. Assist.)
Long-term Technical Assistance   -         -        4.60         -      4.60
and Fellowships  bI                                   (-)                 (-)
Incremental Local Staff           -        -          -       2.71      2.71
(-)      C-)
Reserve Research Fund             -        -          -       2.30      2.30
(2.30)   (2.30)
PPF repayment                     -        -        0.75         -      0.75
(0.75)              (0.75)
TOTAL                 9.97    1.57      7.83       6.65     28.02
(9.97)  (1.57)    (2.99)    (5.46)   (19.99)
Notes Figures in parenthese are the respective amounts financed by the IDA
Credit.
a/ Based on a five-year project implementation peried.
b/ Bilateral financing would be under the cofinanciers* procurement
procedures.



Annex 11
N1IGFR
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements of IDA Credit
Disbursement         Cumulative     VestAfrica
IDA Fiscal Year      Semester  Cumulative    Disbursement Agric. Projects
/Semester              (USS Million)            (Z)          (Profile Z)
FY 1991
December 31, 1990 11  2.5 2/        2.5           12               0
June 30, 1991          2.5          5.0           25               2
FY 1992
December 31, 1991      1.5          6.5           32               6
June 30, 1992          1.4          7.9           39              12
FY 1993
December 31, 1992      1.5          9.4           47              19
June 30, 1993          1.9        11.3            56              27
FY 1994
December 31, 1993      2.2        13.5            67              36
June 30. 1994          1.7        15.2            76              45
FY 1995
December 31, 1994      1.2        16.4            82              55
June 30, 1995          1.0        17.4            87              64
FY 1996
December 31, 1995      0.7        18.1            90              72
June 30, 1996          0.5        18.6            93              79
FY 1997
December 31, 1996      0.4        19.0            95              8S
June 30, 1997          0.3        19.3            97              90
nT 1998
December 31, 1997      0.2        19.5            98              95
June 30, 1998          0.2        19.7            99              98
FY 1999
December 31, 1998      0.2        19.9           100             100
11 Expected Date-of Board Presentations march 1990
Expected Date of Credit Effectiveness: July 1990
2/ Includes refinancing of PPF (US$ 0.75 million) and initial deposit into
Special Account (US$ 0.5 million)



NI 6ER
PROJEO  NTIONAL f D  RECHERCIE AGROUOUIUE
SUNNA? accouuims COST SUDNIArT
IFCFA 1000l                                     US$)                                      Tol
.................................  ...................................... *----  foreign   Bawe
tocal       foreip        Total            toc l         foreign         Total        Exchang       Costs
1. INVESINEOI COSIS
A. lIuhsIRUCIuREs
oRbal ttalion                                     45.482.5      22.367.5   6U.850.0          142,132 8       69,898.4      212,031.3            33          t
SGt slnts                                         S18M 13.S   761.6S6.3 1.280.W   o 0       1. 621.293.0  2.380.269.5  4.001.562.5               59         19
Pepin....                                          B. 670. 0     2. 030.0      8 700. 0       20. 843.8       6,343. 8      27. 17 5            23          0
..-- -- -       -- - - - -    -- - - - -   ------------    ------------      --------...----.... ..... .. ...------.-......-. .------- ....
Sub-total INEfASIR0CIuRES                            570.966.3   78.8083.S 1.357.050.0    1.784.268.5  2.456.511 7  4.240.791  3                     s5        20
B. VEiIICtiES                                          A 826 3   503. 348.8   592. 175.0         277, 5#2.0  1.572, 964.8  1.850.546.9               85         9
C. 1'PEfEUIN
ebilItar 03 eqJgp_m^t bureus                       77.s0e.0    117.039.0   194,940. 0         243,440.6      365.146.9      609. 187.5           60          3
Equspm_i d  laboratoir.                            94. 147.4    276,5 88.    370. 734.0       294120.5  S 64. 333. 3  1.1#8.543.8                75          6
Ntlr.,l agricol.                                    7.301.0      1 1.139.0     Is,440.0        22.815.6       34809.4        51.625 0            60          0
Autras eqUlpints                                   21. 18S.5     59.384.5      80O.570.0       66,204.7      185.576. 6     25.81. 3             74          1
Occntat ion                                        t7. 20.0      25, 80. 0     43.O00.0        53. no0        800625.0       134, 37.0           60          1
......---       -- - - - -    -- - - - -   -- - -- - -      --- ------     --- --- ---   .................. ... .  .......
Stb-lotal LtoUiPfiNI                                 217.134.9   489,949. 2   707.64.0           680.421.4   1.531.091 I  2.211.512.5                69        it
0  NEUOVilitinENI 0 INVESTISSEMENTS                   45."t.s8  J59.917 .3   305.785.0            143.336.1    812.241.4    9ss, 578.1               a5s        5
E. ASSISIaNCE  lECHNIQUE                              03.2s6.0   749. 6614.0    02,956.0         260. 300.0  2.342.700 0  2.603.000.0                90        12
f.    I DOAIION                                                    1 792,920.0   792,920.0 o                  2.417.875.0  2.411.875.0              100        12
...........- -- -- ---- ---               .............. ... ..  ____.........             .  _..... ...... _     ._._............    .  _.. _.. _.. _._
total INfESININI COSIS                                 1.006,691.1 3. 51. 82.9 4.588.574.0   3.145.909.7  It, 193. u.1 14.339.293.8                    78        69
IL. RCIURRml COSTS
. ............
A. E19111E      El IONCIIONINENINT
. . ............ ...................  
fonctoeninnl vahiculee                          218,604.0   145.136.0   364,340.0            603. 137.5     45S.425.0  1. 130.62. s             40          5
fonct..ontrot ion "oup_ent 1I0u                  147. 5s6.3     98.370.9   245.921.2         461,113.5      307.409.0      768.522.5            40          4
Entr et  n infrastructura  13)                   017.596 5    58.397.6   14. 994. 1          273. 738. 9    162,492.6    456.230.6              40          2
Sub   ial INIREITIEN It fOUCTIONNrENET              453.756.8   302.504 s   756.261.3   1.417.89.09   945.326.6  2.363.316.8                        40        lt
g ESSAIS I68911m
.......... ...........
Es"15             .                              109,190.0    56,514.0        V              141,237 s      1768ON. 3      517.843.a            34         2
54iwi                                              1.192t 0        3480. o25 2                                 !,OU? *       4.012.5            23         0
font /DaItarae                                     0.600 0       4.400.0                                     *     : C.     40,62S.0            34          0
............... ..    . . ..... ....   .....                                     .....   -- ---       .. .....
Sub-blatl ESSAIS 1E191Il                            110,9180 0    81.262.0    180.25.                                                .             34          3
C. PERSOSEL
SalMAes                                          756,004.0                  7s6,004.0   2.362.793.0                                                        II
Frets de esplacmnt                               150.920.0                   150.920.0       471.62 .0                     -                               2
..   .............    ..... ......    ..... ......  ...... ....... .. ...  ...........    ...... .... . . .... .... ..................
Sublotol PERSOIet                                   907.014. 0             -   907.014 0   2,34.41S18 a                     2.834.418 8                       14
D. DIVERS                                           135,.00 0      63.200.0 1o 9,000.0          424.375. 0      197.500.0    621.875. 0            32          3
E  AUDIT                                             50000.0 s                   50000.0 1o56250.0                             156250s0 
total 9iCIURRNI COSTS                                  1.665.558.S   426.966.5 2.092.5s.3    5.204.0371.2  1.334.270.4  6.S39. 141.6                    20        31
legal BASOEINI COSIS                                   2.672.249. 9 4.00,49.4 6,68l.099.3     8.350.700.9  12.527.654 4 20.878.435.3                     60        100
Pbhyscal Continpeces                                   151.003.7   537.282 .4    08. 286. 1        471,886. 5   1.679.007.6  2.180.894.1              78         10
Price Conti  nencue,                                  317.585.0   474.791.2         62.3S6. 2    1.211. 140. 8  1,483.722    2.694.863.3              55         13
.......-      ----------    -- -- -- -   ............ .......  ........... ......     .    ...... .......  .........  ...... ......  ...........................
lotal PRIOECI COSIS                                    3.215.18. 6 5.020.923 1 0231.741.6  10.033.0US. I 15 690.384.S 25.724.192 6                       so        123
.    ...   .....    .....  .....  . ...    .... ......... ............................... ... .................. ..    .......I...........................
SupVi*e S. 198, 10 00
_ _~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1



uOEt1  AThINAwt K  ICctECE tUE  80uIs U1
Siry *ccowtms by Vw
2I2IC '000
8..m  CoAtl                                             foreign   E
s;ass;;ssx;;sstsg.,.................................................................. ..=   .................sss _vasas
1              2               34                             1           VoteD            I       hm4mt
I. IRbESitEi  cosis
................
I tf USWRttN tENS
kahabul,Bation                                           42,600.0        25.250.0                                 -67.1M. 0    33.0                              22. 36?  1
Rbe     I *                                              4t*805.0 670. S9. 0    498S, 791. 0            60, 790.0        2 120. o  t. 2t80.10. 0      9. S    76. U66.3
Pepunlmr.                                                S. o,0 .        2.900.0                 -              -                      A 700. 0    23.3         2.030.0
...........    ............. ...........    .............. ...........    .............. ........ ................................................... .....
Sib- foet I3F8USlINIC RE1S                                    6, 2s.0    688. 740.0    49871.0              60. 7090.0      12.520 0  1. 37.050.0    57.9    786.083. 8
0. 64l2S                                                    is s. 0.11. 0    182t 700.0    t82.1S.o0    7n 1,0.0                710.0    592.t75.0    81.0    983.348.a
t Q0110E11r
Nbiahr ot equipe1 bus a                                  52.980.0        11,780.0        ?4.970.0         1 ,210.0               -    194.940.0    60. 0    171039.0
Equipmnt do laborstori                                   4,.06.0    120. 690. e    IsI. 64,0            32.912.0        11,640.0    3703.34.0    74.5    276.186. 7
Natersel eguicol.                                                                 -       9.350.0         9.090.0                -      18440.0    60.4          11. 139.0
*utrus .qiupmnts                                         22.000.0        26.,10.0        37,760.0        4. SOO. a                      80.S10.0    73.7        59,384.1
Ooc.m_tctton                                             2S.    . 0       S. 0t. 0        1.000.0        14,000.0        7,000.0        43.00 .0    8 0        21.80O.0
...........    ............. ...........    .............. ...........    .............. ........ ................................................... .....
Sib--lots# EUIPEIANJ                                         221.7660    197.760.0    289.710o             7,792.o0         6.6t64.0    707.614.0    69.2    489,949.2
0. RENOVIEHtENt(         o l0iVESIISSEiElS                  230720.0        43.100.0         61565.0       19,000.0         6.L00.0    3018. M.0    8 .0    219  i7. 3
E. ASSISTANUi   IECllIU2                                     87 120.0   2m. 380. 0    2i6. 560.0    220,380.0               36, SE.       8 32,00.0    00.o    749. 684.0
F. f5l09    0                                                17.760.0         6, 180.0    t16 840.0    201, t20.0    227.640. 0            r9.902. 0   380.0            79220.0 
........... ............. ........... .............. ........... .............. ........ ............................... ... ....    .....
lote    l hESnEIIT CeSts                                       768,1960   343,220. 0  1u410e03LO              656.t22.0    302.120.0 4,188,74. 0    78.1 3,581.882.9
a. ENTUE11111 2 feticr8El Eltl
fonctonnement vshicules                                 31.320.0       44U   90. 0     76.490.0    104,930.0    106.610.0    364.340.0    40. 0    145,736.0
fonct. nmtr*tminequipont  1101                          12. 576.6       32,3S2.6       61. 32.2        68L904. 4       70. 78. 4    245.927.2    40.0          08. 370.9
Entretimn  mnfrest  ctutwm     23I=                      2 88. 2        23,146.4       38.512.2        40.331.9        4t.712.1    245.,94.3    40.0             8. 397.6
......     -     ----- ----      --- ---  --    --- ---  --     -- -- --  -     -- - - -  -    ..... .. ........... ..... ....... ..... ........ . ........................... .....
Sub-total (119K23rEII (I    CFI0lN3EIl                     4L6M78.8    30.,892.0         76.327.4    224. 170.3    218. 089 9    n6,2616 3    40.0    302.504.1
ESSAIS 1ERiU8i
...............
Es(iis                                                  15. t'O. 0      t6.541.0       31 "061.0       48.610.0        106. 2O o    165. 710. 0    34.2        s6.514 0
suivi                                                                        40.0           80.0          360.0        1.20 .0a        2.140.0    22.6            348.0
foact.p/Monieri                                          2.000 0         2000.0         2000.0          3,000.0         4,000. 0       13000.0    33.6          4,400.0
Sbi-lotal tSSAIS I3E( I8I 17.130.0                                            .68S  0      *t 24f. 0       S1. 2970. 0    511320.0    180.210.0    34.0            61.262.0
C. PHRSOMit
Salairos                                                67.262 0    102808. 0    148.682 0    213.593.0    223,749. 0    716,94.0                     0.0            00 
frals de deplac_mnt                                      9.240.0 o      1. 120.0       30.240.0        47,320.0    ,49 000.0          10,.920.0       0.0             0.0
... . .... ... .... ..... ............. ... ..... .... ...........   .............. ........... ..............  ..... ................ .
Suboftal PERSOI2Et                                          76.s02 0    227.928 0          78,922 0    260.93 0    272, 749. 0    907,014.0               0.0             0 0
0. DIVERS                                                   21200.0        2.000.0        40,000.0        14.000.0       57,000.0    2  99000.0    32.6           63 200.0
C.   0122                                                   20,000.0        20,000.0        20,000. 0      20,000.0        30,000.0       98,000.0 0o       0             0.0
total fElMC229t3  COSIS                                         171, 414.8    274.,04. 0    442. 394. 4    n19.,03.3    633,218.9 2.092.525.3    20 4    426.965 5
total 6s411i31  Costs                                            940. 020 8   .721.724.0  2.812.4304 * .247.2651 3    01,688.9 6.681.099  3    800  4.008.849.4
P ileal  Conltng ios                                        115.289 4    217,683 0    211.101 4             98O431 8        41.316 5        M88 286. 1    78.    537.282 4
Prico  Cowing meis                                            24. 92 2    236,458.8    247,0405    232,798.4    221,914.4    s62.ss86.2    S$                       474.791.2
...........    .......... .....    ...... .....    ......   ........    .............. ...........  ........... ........... ....... ....... .............. .
lotel PRIWECI COSIS                                           1.079.492 4 2.079.8 ".7 2,310.976 3 1.518.447.19  182, 99 A8.2351.741 6    61.0 5.020.921 1
::.:.:5.s,; :s AALAAS:S:   a:::LLusSn.; ASAzthS    f =-zS: .A.                z......A...       -S  ..S....A-
foreign  uitchan.                                            746, I1S   8 1.347.907 7 1.47i.223.1   900. 795. 7    549.,4u. 0    S. 020.923. 1              0 0             0. 0
. . . . ... . ... .. ..... ...... ...... ...   .................................... .....................................
',Pt iitI  S  6    1229  20 00



PRaO461101181NA K KtCIERIRN GAUbOIqUE
Simip Account by Ptojecl Componen
RKW$ORcIE K
B6M10106E.NI 0  18 etc utea.mi                                                                       in aoCuia6
Miami                                                                                                                                             itily  
ta801*IlKs N18111   801                       $11SATO   CNINRI DE                SIMTIAN  0(3766 Kt 01116  06  ASS iISIAMCI                       oIiCIvioI
SSOCIIS   INDUSTRI(it ENT1R1E K  KOLLO  KM60         181811   STATION 6011I *G8KZ         1861A    2INKA      TECHIIOUE    FOmRbtOu            66N68A86    IQI.
A immas:micwoum
Ishab,I gtal, io                                                              62. 100.0         -                                       S   . 780. 0                                                       67.8a
6.t.nt~                                       110.840.0      588930.0        412,348. 0  266830.0 233. 128.0      92, 180. 0  48,910.0 127,800.0 136, 140 0           -38.000 0 1.280.8
ftp.nmt.r                                            -                        2,900.0          -  2.900.0                          -   2.900.0                                     -                 -     aI
Sub-Total 10uFRASIROCIURiS                       1108540.0       88,930.0       477.348.0  26.6)0. 0 236. 028. 0     92,180.0  45.910.0 136.150 0 116.140 0                                      38.000 0 I. 357.0
6. VLNICUIES                                      64.51). 0      44,700.0       210,650.06  7.878. 0  84. 178.0      22,728.0  It,780. 0  67. 00. 0  1 1,880. 0                                  83,675.0   892. 1
C. 69111PK&IN
Nob,itio  et equ:piet bateau.                  17. 190. 0     13,670.0        88. 60. 0   5.2*0.0  27.6*0.0        8,820.0   096 90. 0  20.200.0  13,250.0                                    22.4400a  194.9
Iquipiutl d. laboraoir.                        31,846.0       3&8.64. 0      162.371 0          -74.331.0                 -  6.80.0  33,500.0  23. 352.0                           .370.7?
Naterime  agracole,--                                                                               9.3*0.0                                        S.- 9O0900         ---                                  16.4
Autres eqmppmft.                                 .8 0          4.110 0         12,710.0             S.,800.0       2.2000 010,000.0   2,000.0   4.800 0                                       32,iAD 0    60.85
Ofacmwisl Ion                                  10. 000.0                       10,000.0             60.00.0                            12. 000.0   3,000.0                                           .   43.0
S,h-Iotal IEUIPiNNIU                              67 138. 0     *6. 614. 0      243,901.0   5.280 0 124,631.0         6,020.0  26,460.0  67.700.0  83. 192.0             -                        4.440.0   702.6
S. uUSmEi(KUt 0 IIW(SIISSINIUIS                         -        7,268.0        47,610. 0  11,000.0                         -126.010.0                     '113.900 0   308.7
E. 8ISISIA1CI IIcoiUI1-                                                                                          -         -                                    740,760.0                        68,200.0   032.9
1.  0118101-                                                                                      --                                                                        792,920.0                  -   M 92.
10t.1 IUWSISlEN  COSIS                              242.2*1.0  * 167,10.0          988.8W6.0  82,6685.0 448,031.0      122,928.0  01,140.0 397,660.0 200.662.0   746,700.0    792,920.0            343,218 0 4.8M.,8
11 KC011936N1  COSIS
A. 111911E6 It fANCTIIOUhNKhU
Iancl,ouv,mnl vgb,culg,                       80.100 0      41,880.0          6,600. 0   3,300.0  59,660.0       12,460.0   9,420. 0  52,660.0  18. 880,0                                    62.400 0   364. A
Ioncl. /elrot ten ofq u Im   1I0113           24,893.4      22,221. 6        67 479.8S  1,864.0  37,017.3         3,208.0   7.944 0  28,121.0  10,838.4              -26.220 0   248.9
tblr.tsmn infrastrucurues 131)                I3,264. 6      7,071.6         56,901.6   2,894.7  20,486.0        11,061.6   4,131.9  15,469.2  10,752. 6                          -4.200 0   148.9
S~-AbotelI 61136116  El f111111111611(11         87,088.2      70,673.2        201,07?1. 3   7,838. 7 117. 133.3    26.749 6  21,498.9  03.480.2  37,171.0                                      92.620 0   78b.2
6.ISSAIS 113681N
ts"ls                             ~~~~~~1.60.0                   U.,900. 0   1,200.0  33,610.0        6,000.0   3,600.0  30.200 0   2.40  0                                                  168.7 
Sumy,i                                                                          200.0                66.0                          -     400.0      60. 0                                                 1. S
fowlI. /pepiame.es                                                            7,800.0          - 3, 000. 0              -2,800..0                                                 .j. 0
S$b-Iotel ESSAIS 16ER8I1                          I 600.0                       94,600.0   1,200.0  37,470.0         6,000. 0   3,600. 0  33,100. 0   2,4600            -                                  160.2
C. PEUSUIUII
lola,,-..                                     63.268 0     102,870. 0       108.572.0  18,864.0  71,0012 0       14.224 0  20,312.0 108,886.0  10, 186. 0                                  224.680 0   786.0
frais de diplac~t                             38,640.0      20,190.0         :9.320.0   1,680. 0  21.S60 0        9.240 0 S, 040. 0  10,920 0   3,360 0                                     21.000 0   180. 9
Suh-Iotal KIRSOIIEt                            121,906.0      122.730 0       127. 92L 0  17.244 0  92,682 0       23.464 0  28,382.0 116,506. 0  43.516 0                                    246,60 0   907.0
0. DIVERIS                                       30,000.0       16,000.0        23,000.0   2,000. 0  32,000.0        7,000.0   4,000. 0  27,000.0   3,000.0                                     *8.000.0   199.0
I6E0I                                                   . 1.                                      .          . 17                                          -                                    80.000 0    60. 0
lotla  RICUIIII1I 00S1$                             241,556.2     2093.603 2       446,663.3  27.962 7 279.288 3        63.213 6 84,447.9 270,086.2  56.1:67 0                                     443.470 0 2, 092.  1 
leal 868111111 Costs                                 483,917.2     377. 112 2     1. 432.289 3  60. 667 7 724.286.3     186.13  6 145.5867 9 667.716 2 287,044. 0   746.760 0    792,920 0          786.668 0 6,04 1. 0Iz
Pthyjocal Voi.engu.,cmes                           36.337 7       25, 126.4       147.839 4   7.902 6  66.784 7       18.438 6  13,671.0  59.649 0  0. 132 3   112.014 0    118.938 0           81,462 3   6868.2
(rf.f. lCu, 'ngpnmses                              61.676 7      46,237.3        161.439 2  12. :85 7 III .049 7      23.335 0  24.461 4  76.818 2  46.235 3    96,271. 6    :27. :49 0          83.291 2   682. 3 
... ..mna,m. I Iu.I.                  6~~~~~~~82 131 6  448.4758 6 1. 731.537 8 100,756 2 902,000.6      227.9:2.41863. 720 3 806.183 4 333.416 6   958.045 6  1.039.007 0         .921.4644 48 217I 
* *                                 2W..021 5      191. 18b 9      968.689 6  49.947.5 40,.608.8        99,969 0  69.819 9 418.981 4 118.6308 6856, 316 3  1.039,00? 0            412. 770 6 6,020.9
..      .   . .   .. .. ... .. .. .. .. .. ... .. . . .. ..  . .   . .. .. .. .. .  



POEd  3AT81o10     K    IECHtE G10I2 UE
Project Ctonets by e"r
fFCF lowo
as" Costs                                         total
...............................  .................... .................................................  ........................
I           2            1             4            5           FCFA         luStI
IL    FoR3c&NI3I K  LA RECNEUtE
............   .................................  .
KIANhEI   t*6IOltES ASS4CIS                                   286838 0   201.819.8    99.425.86   85471.8    683561.6 4337917.2  1.5127241 3
11lANEhIOU321  IUDUStiRtiE                                     34.717.0   *59.227.3    14,015.3    53.019.3    56.06.3    377. 112.2  1. *7.475.6
CIltR tEof 1A0o                                                285.03 N t    26. 872.    3E9,342.9   121.969 5   129.03.5  1..432. 259. 3  4.475.810.2
SlOFION  atom0                                                  *.000.0              -    36.58*4.9    20.278.9      12.703.9      sO,866*.?    252. o86.
0*3115 K  1*A51                                                 26800    36.389 0   4*9.495.2   *31.5606.3   107.9*3.9    724.288 3  2.263.304 5
STAllS It 13l                                                           - 0  09. t01.4    21.547.4    30 104.4    25.37194    186. 138.6    581.61t3. 1
Statim  *18*1                                                           -                 50.915.3    39,911. 3    24,761. 3    145,587. 9    454,962.2
54111 K  YAM                                                   143.581.0   192,913.7   126.175.5   112.274 s    92,764.5    667.7tS.2  2.086.63. 1
MOTU  OE 1111ER                                                         * -               99,024.2   *19.043.4    38,981.4    257,049.0          03.278. 1
Sub-lotal REtFOCHAT K  1A  19ECERGE                               W30 061. 8 1.226,400.0 1.326.626.4   ;;3 681.3   555.964.9  4;354.734.3 13608,6544.7
B. 4SSISiC5 ItIniGOU                                               71.120.0   213.360.0   213.360.0   213.360.0    35.60.0    746.760.0  2.333.625.0
e  50UC1                E1100                                     77.7*0.0   116.560.0   I66,840.0   205.120.0   227.640.0    70292 0.0  2.477.675.0
0. hUNFORMUhU KE IA 6151*51 K LA 155CN115E
A16ftE    01Iti* I O*' GUtEAtLE                               261.089.0   167.404.0   146,604.0   115.104 0    96,504.0    786.665.0   2.468.390. 6
SA-lotel  U1O1CMNil D1 I4 CESIIE K  La 15516ER31E                26S.09. 0   *67.404.0   *46.604.0   5is. 104.0    96 504. 0    7,685.0  2.458.390.6
........... -----------.. -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -      .............. ... .... ......  
1.1.1 BASILiUI COStS                                                 94.0,010.8 3.725.724.0 1.852.430.4 3, 247.26M  3   9*5.66 9  S. 661.99. 3 Il0.686,435. 3
Physical Contgic                                                 *3 e  115.209.4   2t7.663.0   21t 505.4    98.431 6    45 376. S    668.26. 1 2ISO5.694 I
Price Contuipuies                                                 24.192.2   *36.456.8   241.040.5   232.750.4   221.914.4    862.356.2  2. 694.8 i3.3
..... .----...----.....--------.-..-. . .----........----....-----........---....-------........--.. ...........    ............
total P IEC  COSIS                                                1.079.492.4 2.079.866.7 2.310.976.3 1.576.447.5  1.182.959.8  8.231.41.6 25.724.192.6
3:::::: t0,: .:..:zss:. . ::: . ::::. .    .:.:.:. ...            ....::t: ..... ...
forupi Lsch_i                                                    746, 155.6 1.347.t07.7 1.476.223. 1  900. 795. 7   549. U. 6  5.020.923. 1 15.590.3U4.5
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
5w1_  A  1989  10:00                                                                                                                *-- -  ---



Pt9E0    UTIONAL U  RECHERCNE AROIhIE
MJECI ciSc  St UsR
^Un   0002                                       22SSW                                     I total
......---*------------------------------------..................  2 Foroign   Base
tocal        Foreign        total             ace I        Foreign           ot& I        Eaching       Costs
A.  IUlFOcEKEII     E LA RECHIIERCHE
.... . . ..   .... .........
1I5   - t_LORAI2RUS ASSOCIIS                                          268, 692.6   215 224. 6   483. ^'  2            39. U64. 3    672 577.0   1.512. 241.3              44          7
11501  *OU lell      StIlELE                                          21896.4   I15.215.9    317 112.2              SM  0S0.B       494.424. 6   1. 78.41S.6              42          6
CEIIIRE DE ROLu                                                       536.9212.    79M.337.4 1.432.259.3    I.N 9.380.9  2.465.429.2  4.475.810.2                         56         21
Sli N1BEM0U                                                            40.S4U.0       2.621.7       60.667.7        127.643.1       124.442.9       212.086.6             49          1
CltE! S  ItMlE 1                                                      366.493.4    35t. 92.9    724.286.3    1.145.291.7   . I8. 102.8  2.263.394.5                       49         1\
slat8O1N lOll                                                         104.756.0       81.38256   I86,38.6           327.362.5       254.320.6       58,683.   1           44          3
statism  AaME                                                          75. 02.S       70.50s  4    145 587.9        234.632.9       220.312.3       454.9;2.2             48          2
CutNi   SB tulE a                                                     322095. 1   345.621 1   667.716.2   1.006 U47.3   I.060.065 9  2,ON6.61 1.                          52         10
CEIIIR  DE ZIIIDE                                                     1198665.9    137.33.1   257.049.0            373.955.9       429.322.2       603278.1              53          i
,....... I.... .. ... .. ....... ......... ..  ....... ..... .... ........ ......... ...  .. ..... ....  .......
S46-total ftoRCEIkil 0E UA  tIECNEIC2I                                 2.153.449.6 2.201.264.7 4.354.734.3    6.729.530.1  6,679.014.16 13.60.544.7                          Sl          65
IL  ASSISIANCE IECNNIQUt                                                   74.676.0   672. o4.0    746.760.0            233.362.5   2,100.262.5  2.333.625 . 0                           I0I
C  1F001*20*                                                                        -   792,920.0    792,920.0                    -  2.47?.677 .0   2.477.875.0              20o         2
0.  UtlFOaEtNI  Dl LA CESIIl t  LA RS!C2EUfE
.    ... .    . . . .  I..  . . .  . .  .  .  . .  .
1IA8KY  - tIlRECI22    GEIIERaIE                                      444. 24.3   342,560 8    786.665.0    1. 387. 8. 3   1,070.502 3  2,458.390.6                       44         12
S,6-Total 0LUIORCLN!EI Of LA 01S1101 DE  A4 RECHERCHE                     444,124.3    342,560.8    786 685. 0    1. 387 66.3   1.070.502 3  2,458.390.6                     44          12
lotal USALIUBE COSIS                                                      2.672.24  9 4.00.649 4 s6.61.099.3    6.30.780.9  12.527.6s4.4 20.687, 431 3                          60        too
Physical Coolanp'Ies                                                     151.003.?    S3?.262.4    66A286. 1           411.666.5   1.679.007.6  2. 15.0894. 1               i           20
Price Conti    cies                                                      267.1565.0    474.791.2    862.356.2    1.211.140.6   1.483.722.5   2.694.663.3                   ss          13
...... ....     . ...... ..     ... ......  ..... .    ...   . .. ... ........    ..  ..... . ........  ....... ....  .......
total PBOEcIl COSIS                                                       3.210.82M.6 5.020.923.1 6.231.741.6  10.033,608.1 25690,384.5 25.724.192.6                            62        223
z-=s:z , ............................... =.=......  .--z- . . ......... .............-. .  -... =.=.=..
............. .................. ... .. .............................. .................................................. ....... ......... ..... ...... ................ ................. ....... .........................
Septe.r S. 1989   20:09
i



ANNEX 13
P.1 of7
FRUIT PRODUCTION USACN AM?ISU
Draft TermZs gf Rferornie
Backarg=ds
INMN (Institut National de Racherche Agronomlque du Niger),
ministry of Agriculture, to rosponsible for the planning and implementation of
national agrioultural research. In support of the national policy of
agricultural dlversification, INRAN plan to undertake a frult production
research program. Currently, the range of fruit types and varietios grown is
limited, the spread of sason lo below optimam and fruit quality does not
always match market demand. INRAN wish to recrult internationally a fruit
crop specialit to advi1e their hortLcultural research staff on the
development of an appropriate research program. The duties of the adviser
will principally nvolve the provLsion of on-the-job training to relevant
INRAN staff.
DutSs andRanponsibilities
The Frult Production Research Adviser (FPRA) will be responsible
to the Director of the IrrLgated Crops department of INRAI. The FPRA will work
alonglde the IlIAN Fruit Crops Research Officer (FCRO) and will:
(a)   assist the FCRO wLth an initial reviev of fruit crop productlon
and resarch ln NLger, including the establishment of an Liventory
of fruit species and varieties available on rosarch stations,
plant protectLon problems, recorded yields and harvesting seasons;
(b)   assiat the FCRO to plan an appropriate research program, including
the Lmportation of plant material, selection of sites, fruit types-
and varieties together with the cholco of experimental deslgn,
tretments and records;
(a)  assiat the FCRO to make useful reglonal and lnternational
contacts:
(d) assist the FCRO wLth the start-up and initial implementation of a
frult production research program;
(a)   provide short-term tralning in fruit production to INRAN
hortLiultural staff, to the Subject Matter Specialists of the
Natlonal ExtensLon Servico and to other nLgerlins as requested by
the DO, IlN;
(f)   orgxnlse, with the FCRO, the establishmnt of regular contact with
fruit producers, propagators and tradeamen, and provide liaison
and advice as necessary.
The Frult Production Research Adviser would be requLred for a
period of three years. The WPA would report directly to the DLrector of the
IrrLgated Crops department through the FCBO.



ANNEX 13
P. 2 of 7
2
2bakIatin&
The FPRA would have a postgraduate qualification and considerable
field oxpsrieneo in fruit crop productlon and research, preferably with
experienco of different systems of irrigation In arld regions.
VROTARR  ROP RRESAR6N ADVISER
|r ft Terms of Reference
Backgound
INRAN (Institut de Recherche Agronnmique du Niger), Ministry of
Agriculture, is responsible for the planning and lmplmentation of national
agricultural research. In support of the national policy of agricultural
diversification, INRAN plan to strengthen their present small research program
on vegetable crops. INRAN wish to recruit Internationally a research
specialLst ln vegetable crops to advlie their horticultural research staff on
the development of an appropriate research program. The dutles of the advlser
will principally involve the provision of on-the-job training to relevant
INRAN staff.
Duties A88dRae20ibilitles
The Vegetable Crops Research AdvLsor (VCRA) will be responsible to
the Director of the Irrlgatod Crops department of INRAN. The VCRA will work
alongside the research officer (VRO) responsible for the vegetable crop
research program and wlIl:
(a)  review the available national vegetable production and Import data
and compile a sumary of past natLonal research results wLth
vegetable crops;
(b)   visit, with the VRO, the ares wher vegetables are grown
commercially and in dLscussion with farmer and government
extension staff identify the priniopal prbblems constraining
productlon, storage or attainmut of marukt qualty;
(c)   assit the VRO to plan and Implement an appropriate research
I.rogram to address the major tcnmical problms confronting
producers, including the selection of trill sites, trial
objectives a%d treatments, experimental d6sign and records;
(d)  assist the VRO to establish regional and International contacts
that will contrLbute to the dewvlopment of appropriate technology
(varieties, hubandry and storage);
(a?   proviLd  short-tern training in vegetable production to INRAN
hortioultural staff, Subject Matter Specialists of the National
Extension Servlce and to other nigerlens as requested by the Do,
INRAN.



ANNEX 13
P. 3 of 7
3
Duration andR.orting
The Vegetable Crops Research Adviser would be requlred for a
period of three years. The VCIA would report directly to tho Director of thb
Irrigated Crops department throuph the VRO.
The VCRA will have had considerable experience In vegetable
production and research in arid tropical countrios and will possess a
postgraduate qualification.
Drafe  =rzs of  * -f,r&e
INRA (InstLtut National de Recherohe Agronomique du Niger),
Ministry of Agriculture, is responasble for the planning and implementation of
national agricultural research. The livestock sector contributes
significantly to the agrLeultural GDP. Llvestock and crop productlon ia
becoming increasingly inter-dependant as pressures on the land increase. The
composition of tho national herd has signLficantly changed since 1968 in favor
of a higher proportion of small ruminants and camels. INRAN proposes to
greatly strengthen its rsearch programs with livestock durlig the next five
year*, focussing particularly on the manageoenut and nutrition of small
ruminants and the better integration of livestock, forestry and crops in
farming systems. INRAN vish to recruit Lnternationally a Llvestock Production
Research Adviser to assist their liventook research staff with the development
of an appropriate rosearch program. The duties of the adviser will
principally involve the provision of on-the-job training to rxlovant INRAN
staff.
Duties anE d R* sponaLhiltl.
The Livestock ProductLon Ressorch Adviser (LPRA) will be
responsible to the Diretor of the d.pirtment of Livestock Production and
AnLmal Health of INRUN. The LPRA will work alongside the Livestock Research
Coordinator (LRC) and will:
(a) assist the livestock research group to draw up a coherent thematic
research program for Lvestock production, taking into account the
current structure of the industry, Its inter.relationship with the
crop sub-sector, past nigerlen and regional research information
and national polLcy for the livestock sub.sector;
(b)   participate in the dlscussions of the Natural Resources Management
research group as regards the planning and implementation of an
appropriate adaptive research programe_;



ANNEX 13
4                                   P. 4rf 7
(c)  assLit the LJC with the   plementation of the livestock research
programs together with its annual review and revision;
(d)  provide short-terv  training ln liveltock production and livestock-
based farming systems to INBAN resarch scaff, livestock extension
staff and to other nigerien as requested by the DO, INRAN.
Duation and Reportina
The Livestock Production Research Adviser would bo required for a
period of four yeara. The LPR would report directly to the Director of the
Livestock Production and Animal Health department through the LRC.
The LPRA would have had long experience wLth livestock production
systems in the Sahel and would have undertaken some livestock production
research. The LPRA should have worked on livestock nutrition wLthin extensive
farmlng systems. The LIRA could be a livestock production specialist or a
veterinarian with postgraduate training and experlence ln lLvestock
production.
39n   c oi '1MS
pAit Terms of Ref ene
INRAN (Institut de Rechrohe Agronomlque du Niger), Ministry of
Agriculture, is responsible for the planning and ipl6mentation of national
agricultural research. Nigerien agriculture is constrained by a limited
resource base, by a deteriorating environmnt including diminlihing soil
fertility and the carrying capacity of the rageland. INRaR plan to incroese
both their ulti-sectoral approach to the development of technology as well as
their functional research linkages with the University of N1isy. It is
within this context that INRAN wish to recruit internationally a soil
microbiologist to work in the Agronomy Faculty of the University to assist
with the  tablishment of a Joint INPAN/UUniversity microbiology laboratory and
research program. The duties of the adviser will principally involve the
provision of onethe-job training to relovant ULiversity and ItAW str&ff.
Duties and Ra.onasWlblieie
The Soil Microbiologist Research Adviser (SHRA) will be
responsible to the Dircctor of INMAZ' department of natural Resources through
a secoudment to the Dean of the Faculty of Agronomy. The SM  will work wlth
both the staff of the universittr and with the livestock and natural resources
management research group of tURAN and will:



ANNEX 13
5                                   P. 5 of 7
(a)   establish an inventory of leguinous crops, fodders mnd trees
currently used ln Nlger for hum   or livestock nutritton, forestry
or soil protection;
(b)   identify those legminous species wiloh naturally flx nLtrogen
through rhisobial associations and make a collection of relevant
rhisobial cultures;
(o)   provide training to laboratory staff in the establihurent and
management of a laboratory at the Unlversity for rhizoblal
production and conservation;
(4) assist IURAN/UnLversLty to establish a working linkage, including
participation In regional meetLngs, with HIRCU (Centre de
ressources microbiologLques pour l'Afrlque de lOuest) based at
Sambey ln Senegal;
(e)   participate with the ILvestock research and natural resources
management research groups of INBUN Ln the planning and
implementation of agrostology nd resource management research
program
1DjraieIg ankd Re__ Ctinzg
The Soll Hicroblologist would be requLred for a period of thte
years. The SIRA would report directly to the Director of the Natural
Resources department of 11R3* through the Dean of the Faculty of Agronomy.
The SHRA would have a postgraduate qualiftcation, experiene of
microbiological research In AfrLca and preferably would have establishad a
microbiological laboratory.
Draft Terms of Refraanwa
111AM  (Ins titut de Rehwrche 4ronomiqu du NLger), MlniLtry of
Agriculture, ls responsible for the planning and implementation of national
agricultural research. Economic, human and environmental pressures on the
agrLcultural sector are causing a continous evolution of tradLtLonal farming
patterns and systems These pressures are progressively contributing to a
destabiILsatton of the cropping and livestock farmLng system with associated
reductions ln production, To assist the NlnLstry of Agriculture with
appropriate advice on the msnagement of different farming system for optimm
production &Ad envIronental protection, INRAM intend to strengthen their
Farming Systems/Rural conomy department (Ddparteent Syat&rns de Production,
Iconouie Rurale at PolitLque Agricole) to undertake more in-depth research on



ANNEX 13
P. 6 of 7
faming system. INA  wish to rearuit lnteontionally an Aricultural
Iconomist vith aqorieno  la faming systow res"rcb to assLst with the
dwvlopmnt of an a"ptoate rs"oarh propsam. The dutLes of the Adviser
vill principal1y Itwolve d  provision of on-the-job training to relevant
11N3M and University staff.
The Agricultwal Econoist will be responsLble to the Director of
DSIECOR of INRAN. The AU (F8) will work alospide 1M    and Univertity staff
and will:
(a)   assLrs the  5P1C with th  identtiication and dasoription of the
preset major torging system  practisd In the pastoral,
transtional ad agiultual sone";
(b)  assist the fanming System  Program Coordimtor (8P1C) with the
definition of the oeall orlentation of the program, its content,
siting and organisation;
(a)  assiLt the  81C and tam membe with the start-up and
implemntation of the planned progrm.
(4)  provide training to M  team memhers In the different
methodologies used La farin  syste  r"earcb;
The Afiultural Bconomist (Faming Sytes) would bo required for
four years. The At (18) would report directly to the director of )81PCOR
throush the project coordiator for th farming system research program.
The AB would ha   sevral years ewrienc=  in farming system
tesearch, preferably in ftlac. The AS would habe a postgraduate
quallfi1ation tn fam oconmics (micro-econmics).
11M (Instltut Nationl do Roedhrche Agronmique du Nlger),
Ministry of Arictulture, is reponsible for the planning and implementation of
natLonal agrICltural research. Npgerion agrioulture is constrained by a
limited rource base, by a deterioratins envronnt Lncluding diainiaibing
soil fertilLty and the carrying apouity of the rangeland. Forestry is
charcterizsd by an accelerating degradation undr the combined effects of



ANNEX 13
P. 7 of 7
7
drougbt and man and annual consumption of firewood now far excoods the annual
increment in production. As1rei from their importance for fLrewood and timber.
trees provide on important  ourceS of feed for livestock, and are Important for
the protectlon of crops and the environment.  INRAN Intend to initiate a
multi-sector multi-disciplinary research programme on natural resources
management within -heir Plan Quinquennal (1990-1994).  INRAN wish to recruit
internationally a  Agroforestry research officer to advise on the development
of the agroforestry component of this program. The duties of the AdvLsor will
principally involve the provision of on-the-Job trainLng to INRAN staff.
*, IPutieu and ResponaibUlitias
t                Tho Agroforestry Adviser (MA) will be responsible to the Director
of the Department of Natural Resources. The AA will work as a member of the
NRM research group and will:
(a)   participate wlth the NRH team in the evaluation of potential
village sites for the adaptlve resoarch program, identifying the
forestry species now boing grown with thelr use (if any) and
charting the area occupied by trees;
(b)   assist in the planning and impl entation of the test programs,
taking into account previous research and development project
results wLth agro-forestry:
(c)   assist the INRAN forestry research grcup to make useful
international and regional network contacts;
(d)   asist the thematic forestry research staff with selection cf
material for teating and with their subsequent evaluation.
Duration and 11yortIng
The Agroforestry Adviser would be required for a period of four
years. The AA would report directly to the director of the INRAN's Natural
Resources department through the coordinator of the NRM program.
QhlifIAZt2on
The A would have an appropilate postgraduate qualification wlth
considerable field exparlence in resource management and agroforestry in
Africa.
;



ANNEX 14
P. l-of 2
NIGER
PROJET NATIONAL DE RECHERCHJ AGROPOHIQUE
Nombre des Chercheurs
Produit/Theme/     En  ...  ... Proj.t    ...  Total   TOTAL
Discipline       place  1   2   3   4   5 An.Rech. Cherc
Projet   Nat.
Systeme de Production
Niamey-Univ              3.0 0.0 2.0  4.0 4.0  4.0  14.0    7.0
Niamey-INRAN                                           0.0    0.0
Kollo                                                  0.0    0.0
Tarna                    3.0 0.0 0.0 3.0  3.0  3.0  9.0    6.0
Tahoua                   1.0  0.0  0.0  1.0  3.0 3.0  7.0    4.0
Agadez                                                 0.0    0.0
Zinder                                                 0.0    0.0
Konni                                                  0.0    0.0
0.0    0.0
Total partiel         7.0 0.0 2.0 8.0 10.0 10.0  30.0   17.0
Cultures pluviales
__________________
Niamey-Univ                                            0.0    0.0
Niamey-INRAN             2.0 1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0 1.0  5.0    3.0
Kollo                   10.0  0.0 0.0 0.0  0.0 0.0  0.0   10.0
Tarns                    8.0 0.0 0.0 0.0  0.0 0.0  0.0    8.0
Tahoua                                                 0.0    0.0
Agadez                                                 0.0    0.0
Zinder                                                 0.0    0.0
Konni                                                  0.0    0.0
Bengou                                       1.0  1.0  2.0    1.0
Total partiel        20.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  2.0 2.0  7.0  24.0
Cultures irriguees
__________________
Niamey-Univ                                            0.0    0.0
Niamey-INRAN                                           0.0    0.0
Kollo                    2.5  0.0 0.0 1.0 3.0 3.0  7.0    5.5
Tarna                    3.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0  0.0  0.0    3.0
Tahoua                                                 0.u    0.0
Agadez                   1.0  0.0 0.0  0.0 2.0  2.0  4.0    3.0
Zinder                                                 0.0    0.0
Konni                                                  0.0    0.0
0.0    0.0
Total partiel         6.5  0.0 0.0 1.0  5.0  5.0 11.0   11.5



j   , 14
P. 2 oFr2
Production animales
-__----------------
Niamey-Univ                                             0.0    0.0
Niamey-INRWN                                            0.0    0.0
Kollo                    3.0  0.0  2.0  2.0  2.0  2.0  8.0    7.0
Tarna                    0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  2.0 2.0  4.0    2.0
Tahoua                   1.0  0.0  0.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  3.0    2.0
Agadez                                                  0.0    0.0
Zinder                                                  0.0    0.0
Konni                                                   0.0    0.0
Total partiel         6.0  0.0  2.0  3.0  5.0  5.0  15.0   11.0
a   Ressources Naturelles
-__------------------
Niamey-Univ                                             0.0    0.0
Niamey-INRAN                                            0.0    0.0
Kollo                    3.5  1.0  1.0 1.0  1.0  3.0  7.0    6.5
Tarna                                                   0.0    0.0
Tahoua                   0.0  0.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  4.0    1.0
Agadez                                                  0.0    0.0
Zinder                   1.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  1.0  1.0  2.0    2.0
Konni                                        2.0  2.0  4.0    2.0
Total partiel         4.5  1.0  2.0  2.0  5.0  7.0 17.0   11.5
Autres Besoins
Niamey-Univ              3.0                            0.0    3.0
Niamey-INRAN             4.0  0.0 2.0 4.0  4.0  4.0 14.0    8.0
Kollo                                                   0.0    0.0
Tarna                                                   0.0    0.0
Tahoua                                                  0.0    0.0
Agadez                                                  0.0    0.0
Zinder                                                  0.0    0.0
Konni                                                   0.0    0.0
Total partiel         7.0  0.0 2.0  4.0  4.0  4.0 14.0   11.0
TOTAL CHERCHEURS        51.0  2.0 9.0 19.0.31.0 33.0  94.0   840
Total Techniciens Sup.   30.0  6.0 13.0 21.0 32.0 34.0  94.0
Total Techniciens Noyens 43.0 12.0 26.0 42.0 64.0 68.0 188.0
4



V
NIGER
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECTELIBIY
PROJET NAl7ONL DE RECHERCHE AGRONOMIQUE
AMRO - ECOLOGIAL. ZONES:
ZOAGROW ES                                  AL         I CDIA I
DesK                                        A L G E R I A 
- I
Paat -  zones 
Tranrsiticona   o
Z  de bansifwl
Zbf-    U
;   o  W ,TlltEllzo               
-X -   -  i
/A// -  P-   
ZValle ane g-M zones
_I Maq alkdoe  mies etmdf
Fwa:WX tS z ~~~~~~~ACADEZ|
0 Centess
Ta*ou   StIn                                                                            so"
RahLI d'4Wid,dwyme
C-90    =rlaW iw Oelats In days                                                 0
C=N  ~tlerlo'a  de cAw*" es            4
600ougl 500                                                                                    400           200
C=W5                                                                                       C A           C
60                            700 800  C  1  I20CNG R
___                                                    a.                                  C - ?
I                                                                           l9S9



