OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS,
CREDIT NUMBER 2122 NIR
Project Agreement
(National Agricultural Research Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
INSTITUT NATIONAL DE RECHERCHES AGRONOMIQUES
DU NIGER
Dated                 //           , 1990


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2122 NIR
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated      "    /4                , 1990, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMEN AS CIATION (the Association) and the
INSTITUT NATIONAL DE RECHERCHES AGRONOMIQUES DU NIGER (INRAN).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Republic of Niger (the Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to fifteen
million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 15,000,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only
on condition that INRAN agrees to undertake such obligations
toward the Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B) by a financing agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and INRAN, the proceeds of the credit provided for under
the Development Credit Agreement will be made available to INRAN
on the terms and conditions set forth in said Financing Agreement;
and
WHEREAS INRAN, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) INRAN declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the


﻿-2-
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and scientific
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the Project.
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Association and INRAN shall
otherwise agree, INRAN shall carry out the Project in accordance
with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement.
Section 2.03. INRAN shall carry out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services,
plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. INRAN shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Financing Agreement. Except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, INRAN shall not take or concur in any actioa
which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Financing Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) INRAN shall, at the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange views with the Association with regard to the pro-
gress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the Financing Agreement, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) INRAN shall promptly inform the Association of any con-
dition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the pro-
gress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit, or the performance by INRAN of its obligations under this
Agreement and under the Financing Agreement.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of INRAN
Section 3.01. (a) INRAN shall carry on its operations and
conduct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative,
financial, engineering and scientific practices, under the super-
vision of qualified and experienced management assisted by
competent staff in adequate numbers.
(b) To this end, INRAN shall take necessary measures, not
later than nine (9) months after the date of this Agreement, to
complete the implementation of all    organizational and staffing
proposals under the Project and, thereafter, to keep all key
positions filled at all times with'qualified staff and to consult
the Association on any further proposal for change in the
organizational structure of INRAN.
Section 3.02. INRAN shall at all times operate and maintain
its plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time
to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and
renewals thereof, all in accordance with soind engineering,
financial and scientific practices.
Section 3.03. INRAN shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) INRAN shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordan,,o with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial condition.
(b) INRAN shall:
(i) have its records, accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses
and related statements) for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association;


﻿-4
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after the
end of each such year (A) certified copies of its
financial statements for such year as so audited,
and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors,
of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and financial
statements as well as the audit thereof, as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of INRAN thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) the date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
INRAN of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between


﻿- 5 -
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have desig-
nated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                   Telex:
INDEVAS                      197688 (TRT)
Washington, D.C.             248423 (RCA)
64145 (WUI) or
82987 (FTCC)
For INRAN:
Institut National de Recherches
Agronomiques du Niger
B.P. 429
Niamey
Niger
Cable address:                   Telex:
INRANI                       5201 NI
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of INRAN may be taken or executed by the
Director General of INRAN or such other person or persons as the
Director General shall designate in writing, and INRAN shall
furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority
and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed ir, several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿-6-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States *of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By //ow~                k.~~o
RegJ11n7Vice President
Africa
INSTITUT NATIONAL DE RECHERCHES
AGRONOMIQUES DU NIGER
By                    u/thoriz   rt
Authorized Repre sentative


﻿-7-
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part D hereof, civil works and goods
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of
the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   To the extent practicable, contracts for inputs and equipment
shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent
of $100,000 or more each.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance. with the procedures
described in Part A 1 hereof, goods manufactured in Niger may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Preference for Domestic Contractors
In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A 1 hereof, INRAN may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Local competitive bidding:
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent
of $1,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to the Association.


﻿-8-
2.   Shopping:
Goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $30,000
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equi-
valent of $100,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of
at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part E:   Review by the Lsociation of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in para-
graphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of
the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said para-
graph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to
the Development Credit Agreement.
(c) The provisions of the preceding sub-paragraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Association has
authorized withdrawals on the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.   The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist INRAN in carrying out the Project, INRAN
shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the


﻿-9-
Association. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the
basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981.


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
1.   INRAN shall take appropriate steps, not later than four (4)
months after the date of this Agreement, to recruit the Director
for Administration and Finance, the Scientific Director, the
Personnel Officer, the Chief for Administration and Finance for
each research center, the Coordinators for each research program
and a Research Management Consultant, all of whom shall have
qualifications and experience acceptable to the Association.
2.   INRAN shall, not later than nine (9) months after the date of
this Agreement, submit to the Association for its approval a
detailed scientific and laboratory equipment purchase program
together with cost estimates.
3.   INRAN shall, not later than June 30, 1991, submit to the
Association for its approval the detailed rehabilitation and
construction plans for INRAN's headquarters' offices, centers,
stations and field support points.
4.   Not later than April 30 immediately preceding the beginning
of each fiscal year included in the Project implementation period,
INRAN shall conduct a review of its organization and research
programs and submit to the Association, for its approval, a
detailed work plan, and a budget and financing plai for that
fiscal year.
5.   INRAN shall, not later than nine (9) months after the date
of this Agreement, adopt internal procedures for research
programming, acceptable to the Association, including: (a) a
detailed description of coordination and approval procedures with
local extension staff for all on-farm research and farm surveys in
the annual research programs and protocols; (b) provisions for the
establishment of national and regional research management and
technical committees; and (c) a provision requiring all
researchers to set aside a portion of their time for the training
of extension staff.
6.   Prior to each of the consultative and review meetings
referred to in Sections 3.06 and 3.07 of the Development Credit
Agreement, INRAN shall submit to the participants, for their
consideration, a detailed report on the results of research
programs conducted during the previous year, and the proposed work
plans, research programs and financing plans for the forthcoming
year, together with such other reports, information and data as


﻿- i -
may reasonably be required for the successful conduct of each such
meeting.
7.   Not later than nine (9) months after the date of this
Agreement and, thereafter, not later than August 31 of every
subsequent year included in the Project implementation period,
INRAN shall submit to the Association for comments its proposed
training program for the ensuing twelve months' period and,
subject to the approval of the Association, shall take appropriate
steps to implement such program.
8.   INRAN shall require every one of its staff members selected
for training under the Project to provide adequate assurances that
he will remain available to serve in a relevant capacity with
INRAN for a period of not less than five years after completion of
such training.
9.   INRAN shall submit semi-annual progress reports on its
manpower recruitment and training program, and annual progress
reports on all other aspects of Project implementation.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


