Report No. PID7633
Project Name                     Ecuador-Rural and Small Towns Water Supply (@)
and Sanitation Project (PRAGUAS) (APL)
Region                           Latin America and Caribbean Region
Sector                           Water Supply & Sanitation Adjustment
Project ID                       ECPE49924
Borrower(s)                      REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
Implementing Agency
Address MIDUVI/SSA
Sub Secretaria de Saneamiento
Ambiental (SSA), Toledo 684 y Lerida,
Quito, Ecuador
Contact Person: Patricio Ribadeneira
Tel: +593 2 549-333
Fax: +593 2 567-022
Email: praguas@andinanet.net
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                September 25, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         February, 2000
Projected Board Date             October 17, 2000
1. Country and Sector Background
Main Sector IssuesThe WSS sector in Ecuador has a long history of poor
performance well below the standards of other Latin American countries.
The main problems include: weak institutions and institutional overlap at
all levels, lack of sector policies, and no PSP in the provision of
services. This results in low WSS coverage rates, and investments that are
neither sustainable nor able to keep up with growing demand. Specifically,
the main sector issues are:fn Unclear roles and functions of sector
institutions at all levels. Ecuador is divided into 22 provinces which in
turn comprise 214 municipalities. Each municipality is composed of a
municipal capital ("cabecera cantonal") and surrounding (mostly rural)
areas. Central functions in the WSS sector -- such as carrying out fiscal
and economic regulation, defining norms, providing training and technical
assistance and gathering and reporting sector information -- are poorly
developed. The SSA has been largely unable to play the role of sector
leader envisaged at its creation. There is still overlap of functions
among sector institutions. While municipal governments are supposed to
play a more significant role in overseeing service provision, their work
is limited, in most cases, to direct provision of WSS services in the
urban capital, with little oversight of activities in rural areas. n Lack
of a regulatory framework and financial policy. There is no consistent
financial policy for the sector in Ecuador. Tariffs are not regulated and
-- with city council approval - each municipality can set its own tariffs.
This usually results in politically-motivated tariffs that are well below
actual costs and, in other cases, in no tariffs at all. Average 1999
tariffs for residential customers were below US$0.03/m3 -- less than half
the cost of operation and maintenance even when investment cost recovery
is excluded. Unfortunately, it is precisely the low-income communities in



rural areas and small towns whom low tariffs are designed to protect that
suffer most from unsustainable financial policies, as low revenue
generation slows service extension to unserved areas. Sector financiers,
such as Banco del Estado (BEDE) and the Fondo de Inversion Social
Ecuatoriano (FISE), and other donors often introduce financial policies
for their programs which are not coordinated and often contradictory,
thereby sending confusing signals to beneficiaries. Although BEDE is a
lending agency, and theoretically requires beneficiaries to set tariffs to
recover costs, in practice, this condition is not met. Many
municipally-run WSS utilities set unrealistic and highly distorted tariffs
that send misleading signals to consumers while failing to generate the
resources necessary to provide reliable service and timely system
expansions.  In rural areas, WSS investments have reached less than 30t of
communities. These investments are usually funded on a grant basis, with
communities responsible for covering the cost of daily operations and
maintenance. Although many communities manage to keep their systems
running, almost none have the resources to undertake major repairs,
equipment replacement or service expansion.n Low coverage and quality of
services. WSS service levels in Ecuador are among the lowest in South
America.  Although total coverage rates show 61- for water supply and 40t
for sanitation (with no wastewater treatment), these numbers hide the
deficit in rural areas, where 50t of the population lives.    In the 152
rural municipalities targeted by PRAGUAS (approximately 22; of Ecuador's
population), in particular, only 489 of the population has access to
adequate water supply and only 35t benefits from appropriate sanitation
facilities. In addition, the coverage rates do not reflect the poor
quality and intermittent nature of the services. Across the country, only
about half of the water facilities installed include systems for
disinfection and barely 119 of the urban water systems have full water
treatment facilities. Although services reach many more inhabitants in
small towns (between 5,000 and 10,000 inhabitants) than in rural areas,
the unreliability of the service is usually worse, given the complexity of
operating these larger WSS systems. Nationwide, sector investments have
failed to keep up with population growth, and coverage actually decreased
by three percentage points between 1990 and 1995.n Poor management of
services and lack of sustainability: According to the Ecuadorian
constitution, municipalities are responsible for the provision of WSS
services in areas under their jurisdiction, including the rural areas that
make up large parts of each municipality. In practice, services in rural
areas have largely been provided through community and project
initiatives, usually with no linkages to the corresponding municipal
administration. Furthermore, in towns, there is as yet little consensus
around the idea that utilities should be commercially-oriented, autonomous
agencies and that PSP represents a valid option for the provision of WSS
services. Apart from 16 water utilities in medium-size and large cities,
services in municipal capitals are typically provided directly by the
city government with no managerial or financial autonomy. This situation
often triggers a downward spiral in which insufficient cost recovery
leads to financial problems which in turn lead to poor service and even
less cost recovery. Management and operations in these utilities and
municipalities has been inefficient. Few are recovering even their
operating costs; billing is deficient; meters, where installed, are often
not read, and water losses are very high. In rural areas (which include
about 10,000 communities nationwide), communities have demonstrated
relatively good capacity to keep the water flowing, more or less, on
- 2-



shoe-string budgets, though on balance, coverage rates are much lower.
Nonetheless, these systems also show a dramatic decrease in water quality
and design flows over time, suffer from poor financial management, and are
not sustainable in the long term. In urban areas, since existing assets
are not properly maintained, much less replaced, new investments don't
even cover asset depreciation. Overall, investments are not sustainable
and reconstruction or major rehabilitation needs to be carried out on a
significant number of systems.Government StrategyGOE is aware of these
issues and wants to turn the sector around. At the same time, in line with
its overall policy of decentralization, the central Government intends to
diminish its financial participation in the sector and, in return,
foresees the need for increasing financial self sufficiency and PSP
(private sector participation). Thus, GOE (Government of Ecuador) is
promoting the transition to independent self-sufficient utilities at all
levels, with private operators wherever feasible. Efficient institutions
at the national level would regulate the sector and provide technical
assistance. n Short-term strategy: GOE, through the Consejo Nacional de
Modernizacion (CONAM) and MIDUVI is promoting a review of the role of
sector agencies at all levels with respect to service provision. It has
outlined a comprehensive reform strategy that would redefine the
responsibilities of sector institutions, establish tariff structures and
economic regulation, and encourage PSP. The Government's short term
strategy has three main thrusts: (i) promoting coherent financial and
regulatory policies by harmonizing the financing rules used by different
sector financiers; (ii) reorganizing and strengthening central
institutions; and (iii) promoting the creation of self-sufficient
autonomous WSS system operators. These three main areas are interdependent
and must move forward simultaneously. For rural areas, the GOE will (i)
define and establish sound linkages with municipalities; (ii) continue to
encourage community-based organizations to promote a demand-driven
approach to design, construction and service provision; and (iii) define
technical assistance schemes to improve service sustainability in such
areas. The project objectives, including PSP, are fully consistent with
the reforms proposed by the government.n Sector reorganization and
strengthening. As stated above, GOE is defining the roles and
responsibilities of sector institutions at all levels, thereby clarifying
the functions and institutional relationships of all agencies dealing with
WSS. MIDUVI, through SSA, is the core technical sector institution and in
charge of setting general regulatory standards. GOE thus intends to
restructure the SSA and strengthen it to take responsibility for sector
policies and norms, technical assistance to municipalities, training and
regulation. It would not execute or finance works. At a local level,
municipal authorities are responsible for WSS service provision in their
jurisdictions, including the rural areas that account for a large part of
most municipalities. In the future, municipalities would no longer provide
the services directly, but would delegate them to autonomous (though not
necessarily private) operators. According to the GOE's approved sector
policy and strategy, municipalities would continue to own system assets
and regulate operators within general guidelines established by SSA. Full
privatization (sale of assets) is not allowed under the Ecuadorian
constitution, but other options for service provision ranging from
management contracts (operation and maintenance with commercial risk) to
full concessions are permitted. In all cases, service provision would be
delegated to a third party, although the scope of responsibility would
vary according to the degree of investment. Operators should be
-3 -



independent from the municipal administration. Qualifying operators could
range from a community organization (junta de agua), more suitable for
small communities, to public utilities and private operators who would
assume a range of risks which could include full service concessions. In
urban areas and some small towns, private operators would be encouraged as
the most desirable form of service provision.In particular, the strategy
envisions a progressive trend towards increased PSP, with concessions and
other integrated provision schemes for large and medium size cities,
(30,000 and over) and smaller operators and public institutions in smaller
municipalities (5,000-30,000). Municipalities and communities would be
encouraged to group to generate a critical size that could easily achieve
financial self-sufficiency and attract the PS. Municipalities would work
with communities to decide if the rural communities would have independent
juntas or would be served by the operator in charge of the municipal
capital. Given the severe financial crisis currently affecting the
Ecuadorian economy, it is expected that PSP will start slowly in a small
number of municipalities and accelerate towards the end of APL-l.n Sector
policies, regulation and financial framework. GOE will establish a
regulatory function at a national level in the form of a Sector Planning
Department within SSA. This department will focus its initial efforts on
tariff regulation, the definition of norms and standards and the
collection of information on the performance of operators. On the
financial side, the Sector Planning Department would provide guidelines
for tariff structures, methodologies for tariff studies and rules for
tariff proposals and approval. The financial policy, reflected in the
tariffs, would also include provision and allocation of government
subsidies and credit (mainly for investment costs), and would encourage
financial self-sufficiency and PSP. As part of this strategy, GOE has
defined BEDE and FISE as the two national financing institutions for the
sector and divided their target areas to avoid overlap.     Policies for
rural communities include (i) the use of a demand responsive approach and
intensive community participation and training in all stages of the
project cycle, (ii) appropriate technology options, and (iii) hygiene and
sanitation to achieve greater health impact.n From strategy to action:
Existing legislation, especially the 1996 Modernization Law provides the
legal framework for the sector reforms described above. Nonetheless,
municipalities retain the right to continue providing water and sanitation
services directly, should they choose to do so. To induce reform in the
short term, GOE will rely mostly on incentives (financial and TA) by
applying the sector policy through its financial programs (PRAGUAS, BEDE,
among others). In the medium term, GOE plans to strengthen the policy
further by passing a water supply law that would create a stronger
environment for service delegation and would enforce financial policies
within sector institutions. Given the fact that most services currently do
not cover operating costs, financial improvements will be required in
many cases simply to attract PSP. GOE is aware of the magnitude of the
task ahead and plans to establish a technical assistance program to
promote the above vision, in particular the delegation of services to
autonomous operators. A TA division within SSA will be responsible for
managing this program (see annex 2, section 1.2 for
details).Socio-Economic ContextThe sector issues and government strategy
presented above take on particular urgency in light of Ecuador's worsening
socio-economic situation. As shown in table 1 below, rural poverty
increased dramatically in all three of the country's major regions (Costa,
Sierra and Oriente) between 1995 and 1998, particularly in the rural
- 4 -



Sierra, where 35% of the population lived below the extreme poverty line
in 1998. Households are classified as extremely poor, when total
consumption expenditure falls below the food poverty line :Household
surveys support the conclusions on the low coverage and quality of
services presented under the main sector issues above. When rural
households were asked to rate the quality of water and sanitation services
in their community as part of the Bank's 1999 Poverty Assessment, 66% of
respondents in the rural Costa, 69% of respondents in the rural Oriente
and 75% of respondents in the rural Sierra region replied that service had
deteriorated over the past 5 years. Water supply coverage is strongly
correlated with wealth : While nationally, the percentage of households
that lack access to adequate water supply services stands at 39%, the
percentage increases to 75% among households in the poorest quintile of
Ecuador's population.
2. Objectives
The development objective (DO) for phase 1 of the APL (Adjustable Program
Loan) program ("the project") is the execution of investments for
increased WSS service coverage and quality for about 350,000 rural and
small town beneficiaries in about 40 rural municipalities as well as in
about 6 municipal capitals. In addition, the project DO includes the
improvement of sector performance through the application of coherent
policies, and the strengthening of sector institutions at the central and
local levels.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The World Bank has developed a strong relationship with sector agencies in
Ecuador based primarily on the experience of the FASBASE pilot project.
In addition, the UNDP-World Bank Water and Sanitation Program has been
working with the Government to translate the lessons of the pilot project
into national policy, and linking the experiences in Ecuador to those of
neighboring countries. In PRAGUAS, the specific value added by Bank
assistance will be to help establish national policies for the urban and
rural WSS sector and to support the development of a long-term national
WSS program for rural areas. The Bank can assist MIDUVI in establishing a
leadership role in the sector and in coordinating the investment provided
by other intermediaries (i.e. FISE and BEDE), as well as other donors
(i.e. IDB, UNDP, NGOs and bilateral aid agencies). Finally, the Bank can
help link the sector reform process to the overall GOE agenda of state
modernization and decentralization.
4. Description
COMPONENT 1 :1. Sector reform and institutional development : This
component will address the needs of the entire sector, both urban and
rural (except for the three major cities). It includes two
sub-components:lA. Institutional Development and Policy Reform:
assistance to SSA to assume its new role in the sector, including (i)
major re-structuring in support of decentralization and (ii) creation of a
new unit in charge of providing assistance to municipal governments for
service planning and delegated management. 1B. Strengthening of Municipal
Governments, NGO's and private sector service providers: design and
implementation of models for WSS service provision through autonomous
(preferably private) operators in all interested municipalities in
Ecuador. Municipal governments will also be strengthened to oversee
sector activities in their jurisdiction. Small municipalities that choose
- 5 -



to delegate service provision would become eligible for WSS investments in
their urban capital under component 3. Assistance will be provided to help
the private sector and NGOs at the municipal level organize small
multi-disciplinary companies to provide community development and
engineering services as well as to construct systems in rural communities,
using demand-based approaches and participatory development strategies.
Potential service operators will also be identified and encouraged to form
operating companies in small towns. COMPONENT 2 :2. Water and Sanitation
Subprojects in Rural Areas: this component comprises two sub-components:
2A. Subproject Promotion and Preinvestment: PRAGUAS will be promoted in
eligible municipalities and communities to stimulate interest in
participating in the project. Preinvestment activities will include:
community organization and formation of "juntas" (water users'
associations), selection of preferred service level, complete engineering
designs, initial community training in contract administration,
construction and hygiene education, and selection of management models for
RWSS services.
2B. Civil works and Community Training in administration, operation,
maintenance and hygiene education as well as continued municipal
strengthening. Rural water supply systems would include a range of
technical and service level options, from simple handpumps and rainwater
catchments to small piped systems. Rural sanitation options will focus on
on-site systems ranging from improved traditional latrines to ventilated
improved pit (VIP) latrines, aquaprivies and "basic sanitation units"
(UBS, comprising shower, sink and toilet). A Guide to Technical Options
(featuring technical solutions, service levels and their respective costs)
has been prepared to allow beneficiary communities to make their choice in
relation to their willingness to pay and sustain the services. COMPONENT 3
:3. Water and Sanitation Subprojects in Municipal Capitals: this component
comprises two sub-components:3A. Engineering studies : municipal capitals
(with populations below 10,000 people) that take steps to transfer the
operation of municipal water and sanitation services to autonomous public
or private operators will become eligible for PRAGUAS funding for studies
aimed at rehabilitating municipal WSS infrastructure.3B. Civil works.
PRAGUAS will finance the rehabilitation/expansion of urban WSS systems in
eligible municipal capitals up to agreed investment limits.COMPONENT 4
4. Project Management : A project management unit (PMU) will be
established within SSA/Quito and "Equipos Provinciales del PRAGUAS"
(EPP's) will be set up in participating provincial SSA offices. Component
4 will finance the following :Incremental operating costs for the PMU and
the EPP's;Equipment and software for the PMU (and EPP's as
necessary);Contractual personnel for PMU;External audits;Maintenance of
the financial management and project monitoring system;Consultancies (e.g.
for a Rural Sanitation Sector Environmental Assessment and periodic
reevaluation of economic limits for water supply investments)
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Government               0
IBRD                     32.0
IDA
LOCAL CONTRIBUTION       18.25
Total Project Cost       50.25
6. Implementation
-6-



Implementation period : 3-phase, 10-year APL loan with non-overlapping
phases of 4, 3 and 3 years. The financing data shown above, refers to
phase 1 only. Over the course of 10 years, the Bank would support a
program valued at US$210 million overall with 3 loans not exceeding US$130
million in aggregate.Executing agencies : MIDUVI/SSA through a
specially-created PMU (project management unit) for components 1 and 4,
small municipalities (populations of less than 10,000 inhabitants) for
components 2 and 3. Given that these small municipalities often lack
project implementation experience in general and familiarity with Bank
procurement guidelines in particular, municipalities will be assisted both
by provincial SSA offices (EPP - equipos provinciales de PRAGUAS) and by
specialized firms (Implementation Assistance Agencies, IAA's), hired by
SSA to support the implementation of the pre-investment and investment
activities under component 2.
7. Sustainability
The sustainability of the water and sanitation facilities will be
supported by:A. Community Willingness and Capacity to Manage and Sustain
Services: In rural areas this will be achieved by requiring communities to
demonstrate their commitment to service improvement upfront, including
taking initiative, selecting their preferred service level and management
option, making a cash contribution (no less than 10t of overall investment
costs), agreeing to an adequate tariff, and undertaking organizational
responsibilities (forming a Junta) before funding is approved. Overall,
beneficiaries will finance 30t of their water supply investments in cash
and through community labor. PRAGUAS will also strengthen community
capacity in the areas of organization, operations and maintenance,
financial management, hygiene and environmental education, and effective
water usage and disposal.B. Municipal Government support to Community
Management: Municipal governments, too, will demonstrate their ownership
by funding 20t of overall investment costs upfront before rural
sub-projects under their jurisdiction can be approved. In addition, they
will be required to separate service provision in all communities in their
canton from the operation of the water system in the cantonal capital.
Municipal governments will be strengthened to provide the required
technical backstopping to Juntas and small companies, without taking over
direct operational responsibilities. C. Competent Service Operators:
Since the long-term sector strategy is to assist municipal governments in
attracting private operators to manage their water and sanitation
systems, these operators have to demonstrate solid technical and financial
competence. PRAGUAS will include intensive capacity building to help
small entrepreneurs form companies, and eventually to create an
association of service providers (see component 1B). The performance of
these operators will be closely monitored.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Many experiences from within and outside Ecuador contribute to the
proposed project design. From within Ecuador, PRAGUAS builds upon the
lessons of :The $3 million Bank-financed Pilot Rural WSS component of the
FASBASE project. Through this pilot, the demand-responsive approach was
first introduced in the country. FASBASE demonstrated that poor, rural
communities are willing to organize and able to pay more than 40t of
service improvements, as well as take charge of sustaining their services.
However, FASBASE's implementation procedures (through the Ministry of
Health) also proved to be slow and bureaucratic. FISE and its proven
- 7 -



efficiency in sub-project approval, contracting and fund disbursement. At
the same time, PRAGUAS learns from FISE the major limitations and poor
sustainability that result from the lack of a community development and
training component. A long and rich tradition of rural WSS projects
constructed with a high degree of community participation through the
ex-IEOS, with support from the USAID-funded WASH programs (1980-1992), as
well as experience from major NGOs, such as CARE and Plan Internacional.
The projects have all shown the capacity of well-trained Juntas to achieve
good operation and management records, albeit with limitations in terms of
performing major repairs.PRAGUAS project design also benefits from the
work of the Bank's RWSS Thematic Group , the global UNDP-WB Water and
Sanitation Program and experiences from other agencies such as CARE,
UNICEF, PAHO, etc. The main "best practice lessons" can be summarized as
follows :Adopt a demand responsive approach where users determine if they
want to participate and select their preferred level of service based on
willingness to pay and assume long-term responsibility for service
management.Promote institutional reform based on clear roles for key
stakeholders where communities own their facilities, the private sector
provides goods, services, and operational support, and government
facilitates the process. Clearly define the role of local government,
service providers and Water User Associations (WUAs). Include clearly
defined capacity building components that enable all stakeholders to play
their roles and build partnerships.Ensure an appropriate legal framework
for ownership and management, and clearly allocate responsibilities
between national and local government and water users' associations
(WUA's).Support the formation of representative WUAs (Juntas) for
planning, implementation, and management of community water supply
facilities.Establish sound financial policies that lead to sustained
services.Integrate water, sanitation and hygiene education.Ensure
representative and informed participation of all stakeholders, including
women and traditionally excluded groups.For small towns, separate the
regulatory, management and operational functions. Promote the contracting
out of operations to the PS.Finally, PRAGUAS project design for APL-1 has
benefited from the lessons learned during a program pilot phase initiated
in March, 1999 in 30 rural communities spread out over 4 municipalities in
4 provinces across Ecuador.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        No major environmental issues are expected in the
implementation of this project, given the small scale of the water supply
and sanitation investments envisioned in rural areas and small towns.
Minor environmental impacts (proper disposal of construction wastes,
erosion control etc.) will be addressed by appropriate guidelines that
will be incorporated into the technical specifications governing the work
of construction contractors.Appropriate environmental screening criteria
for water and sanitation sub-projects have been discussed with the project
preparation team and incorporated into the project evaluation manual
("guia de evaluaci6n de proyectos") that will be used by the provincial
PRAGUAS teams (EPP's) to evaluate the technical, social, environmental,
financial and economic feasibility of WSS investments prepared by the OITS
in conjunction with program communities.As part of APL-1, PRAGUAS will
conduct a rural sanitation sector environmental assessment that will
provide inputs for additional training and institution-building activities
- 8 -



to be conducted under APL-2.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Oscar E. Alvarado
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone:   (202) 458-5840
Fax:   (202) 676-1821
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
-9-



