Document ol
The World Bank
Report No: 20438 EC
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED ADAPTABLE PROGRAM LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$32.0 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
FOR THE
RURAL AND SMALL TOWNS WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT (PRAGUAS)
IN SUPPORT OF THE FIRST PHASE OF THE RURAL AND SMALL TOWNS WATER SUPPLY
AND SANITATION PROGRAM
September 20, 2000
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Group
Country Management Unit 4
Latin America and Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate EffectiveSeptember, 2000)
Currency Unit = US Dollar
25,000 Sucres = US$1
US$0.00004 = 1 Sucre
FISCAL YEAR
1 January - 31 December
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AME          Asociaci6n de Municipios del Ecuador (Ecuadorian Association of
Municipalities)
APL          Adaptable Program Loan
BEDE         Banco del Estado (Bank of the State of Ecuador)
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
CB           Commercial Bank
CODENPE    Coordinadora de Nacionalidades y Pueblos del Ecuador (Ecuadorian Council
for Nationalities and Indigenous Peoples)
CONAM        Consejo Nacional de Modernizaci6n (National Council for Modernization)
EMS          Equipo Municipal de Saneamiento (Municipal Sanitation Unit)
EPP          Equipo Provincial del PRAGUAS (Provincial PRAGUAS Implementing Unit)
FISE         Fondo de Inversi6n Social Ecuatoriano (Ecuadorian Social Investment Fund)
FMS          Financial Management System
GOE          Government of Ecuador
IAA          Implementation Assistance Agency
LACI         Loan Administration Change Initiative
MIDUVI       Ministerio de Desarrollo Urbano y Vivienda (Ministry of Urban Development
and Housing)
OITS         Organizaciones de Intervenci6n Tecnico-Social (Technical and Social
Intermediary Organizations)
OM           Operation Manual
PAHO         Pan-American Health Organization
PMU          Project Management Unit
PS           Private Sector
PSP          Private Sector Participation
RWSS         Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
SSA          Sub-secretaria de Saneamiento Ambiental (Subsecretariat of Environmental
Sanitation)
TA           Technical Assistance
UBS          Unidad Basica de Saneamiento (Basic sanitation unit comprising shower, sink
and toilet)
VIP          Ventilated Improved Pit (Latrine)
WSS          Water Supply and Sanitation
WUA          Water Users' Association
Vice President:   David de Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:   Andres Solimano
Sector Manager/Director:   Danny Leipziger
Task Team Leaders/Task Managers:   Oscar Alvarado and Franz Drees



ECUADOR
RURAL AND SMALL TOWNS WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT (PRAGUAS)
CONTENTS
A. Program Purpose and Project Development Objective                                 Page
1. Programn purpose and program phasing                                              3
2. Project development objective                                                     4
3. Key performance indicators                                                         4
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project    5
2. Main sector issues and Govermment strategy                                         5
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                 9
4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans                 10
C. Program and Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                11
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                     13
3. Benefits and target population                                                    14
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                     15
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                         17
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies        17
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                          18
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                  19
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                       19
E. Summary Project Analysis
I. Economic                                                                         20
2. Financial                                                                         22
3. Technical                                                                         23
4. Institutional                                                                     23
5. Environmental                                                                     25
6. Social                                                                            26
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                29
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                   30



2. Critical risks                                                                  30
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                  32
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                         32
2. Other                                                                           32
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                       32
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                      33
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                       34
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                 41
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                      55
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                                56
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                            62
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                    63
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                  73
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                74
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                               76
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                         78
Annex 11: Social Assessment                                                           80
Annex 12: Policy Document for the Water and Sanitation Sector                         87
Annex 13: Technical Assistance Program for Improving the Provision of Services - PAT  93
MAP(S)



ECUADOR
Rural and Small Towns Water Supply and Sanitation Project (PRAGUAS)
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and Caribbean Region
LCSFW
Date: September 20, 2000                           Team Leader: Oscar E. Alvarado
Country Manager/Director: Andres Solimano          Sector Manager/Director: Danny M. Leipziger
Project ID: P049924                                Sector(s): WW - Water Supply & Sanitation Adjustment
Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program Loan (APL)    Theme(s): Poverty Reduction
Poverty Targeted Intervention: Y
Program Financing Data
Estimated
APL             Indicative Financing Plan        Implementation Period           Borrower
_______   ______ ______ _  _________(Bank  FY)
IBRD            Others       Total    Commitment   Closing
US$ m     %      US$ m       US$ m         Date        Date
APLIn    32.00    63.7    18.25           50.25     03/01/2001  02/28/2005 Republic of Ecuador MIDUVI
Loan/
Credit                            _ _ _ _ _ _
API.2        48.00    62.5    28.75       76.75     03/01/2005   02/29/2008 Republic of Ecuador MIDNI
Loan/
Credit
API-3        50.00    60.2    33.00       83.00    03/01/2008   02/28/2011 Republic of Ecuador MIDUVI
Loan/
CreditC
API-4
Loani
Credit                 _____
Total       130.00     ~      80. 00     210.00
Project Financing Data
Li Loan        El Credit        Li Grant        -I Guarantee    El Other (Specify)
For Loans/CreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m): 32.00
Proposed Terms:
Grace period (years): 8                                Years to maturity: 20
Commitment fee: 0.85% for 4 years,
0.75% thereafter
Front end fee on Bank loan: 1.00%
Financing Plan:    Source                                     Local         Foreian         Total
GOVERNMENT                                                       0.00           0.00           0.00
IBRD                                                            16.92          15.08          32.00
LOCAL CONTRIBUTION                                              18.25           0.00          18.25
Total:                                                          35.17  115.08                 50.25



Borrower: REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
Responsible agency: MIDUVIlSSA
Address: Sub Secretaria de Saneamiento Ambiental (SSA), Toledo 684 y Lerida, Quito, Ecuador
Contact Person: Patricio Ribadeneira
Tel: +593 2 549-333                Fax: +593 2 567-022               Email: praguasgandinanet.net
Estimated disbursements Bank FY/US$M):
FY       2001"       202           003        2004
Annual     6.8           7.4          8.7        9.1
Cumulative     6.8         14.2         22.9        32.0
Project implementation period: 4 years
Expected effectiveness date: 03/01/2001  Expected closing date:  02/28/2005
*Local Contribution consists of Municipalities (US$ 8.05 million) and Communities (US$10.2 million)
OCS A>- PAD Forn. W Mh, 2C
-2 -



A. Program Purpose and Project Development Objective
1. Program purpose and program phasing:
The development objective of the proposed program, PRAGUAS, is to increase the coverage and effective
use of sustainable water and sanitation (WSS) services in Ecuador, with a focus on the poorer populations
in rural communities and small towns. An equally important and associated objective is to support the
Government of Ecuador (GOE) in the implementation of an overall WSS sector reform program, covering
both urban and rural areas. The key elements of the program are:
* investment support, for rural areas and small towns;
*   development and application of improved policies;
*   strengthening of sector institutions, including the Sub-Secretariat of Environmental
Sanitation (SSA) of the Ministry of Urban Development and Housing (NMDUVI), municipal
governments, community groups, WSS service providers and the private sector (PS).
The program has been designed against the backdrop of Ecuador's worsening socio-economic crisis and has
specifically targeted investments to the rural areas and small towns where two thirds of the country's poor
reside. According to the Bank's 1999 poverty assessment entitled "Crisis, Poverty, and Social Services in
Ecuador", the incidence of extreme poverty increased from 12% to 17% between 1995 and 1998
nationwide, while extreme poverty grew from 23% to 30% in rural areas. In Ecuador's rural areas,
PRAGUAS will increase access to sustainable water and sanitation infrastructure while generating
temporary and permanent employment opportunities in rural communities benefiting from water and
sanitation investments.
The program, designed as an Adaptable Program Loan (APL), will also allow for better integration of
sector improvements with other more broadly defined state modemization and decentralization reforms
undertaken at a national level. These are designed to improve the overall efficiency of central government
agencies, to strengthen municipal governments and to create a more favorable environment for private
sector participation (PSP) in the provision of services. In the WSS sector, these reforms imply new roles at
all levels, and a firm commitment to increased cost recovery through demand-based investment. The SSA
will be re-structured and strengthened to assume its new regulatory, facilitation and advisory role.
Municipal governments will be strengthened to plan and implement investment programs and to ensure the
adequate operation of services in communities within their jurisdiction, through increased participation of
service users and the PS in service provision. Municipal governments will also be assisted in delegating
service provision to autonomous operators.
By the end of the program, PRAGUAS will have
*   provided a total of 1.6 million additional people in rural areas with water and/or sanitation
services that are used effectively and sustained;
*   initiated and consolidated profound sector reforns that increase sector efficiency and cost
recovery both in rural areas and small towns;
*   achieved a delegation of WSS service provision to autonomous public or private operators in
50 municipal capitals.
The adaptive nature of PRAGUAS will support a learning environment for the application of a
demand-based approach to sector investments, whereby community groups and municipal governments
decide whether to participate in the project based on a clear understanding of the rules of engagement. This
- 3 -



will include a willingness by municipal governments to delegate service provision and to require users to
meet their financial obligations and assume responsibility for sustaining and making effective use of their
improved services. The programmatic approach will allow for the gradual application of the new policies
throughout the country by providing investment incentives to municipalities that are willing to reform, and
coupling the transition with adequate institution building at all levels.
The APL  will be implemented in three Phases, spread over 10-years: (1) 3/2001-2/2005, (2)
3/2005-2/2008, (3) 3/2008-2/201 1). Key targets for each phase are:
Phase 1- (i) 350,000 additional people in small towns and rural communities are served by
new/rehabilitated water and/or sanitation infrastructure; (ii) policy reform initiated and SSA
restructured; (iii) SSA strengthening underway; (iv) draft sector legislation prepared; and (v)
service delegation options tested in at least 8 municipalities.
Phase 2 - (i) Policy reform deepened and new financial guidelines widely applied by other sector
financiers; (ii) institution building consolidated and expanded; (iii) a total of about 980,000
additional people in small towns and rural communities are served by new/rehabilitated water
and/or sanitation infrastructure (phase 1 + phase 2); and (iv) WSS service provision delegated in
20 small municipalities.
Phase 3 - (i) Policy reform consolidated; (ii) improved sector efficiency, complete O&M and
investment cost recovery and widespread private sector participation in service delivery achieved;
(iii) a total of about 1.6 million additional people in small towns and rural communities are served
by new/rehabilitated water and/or sanitation infrastructure (phase 1 + phase 2 + phase 3); and (iv)
WSS service provision delegated in 50 municipalities.
2. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The development objective for phase 1 of the APL program ("the project") is the execution of investments
for increased WSS service coverage and quality for about 350,000 rural and small town beneficiaries in
about 40 rural municipalities as well as in about 6 municipal capitals. In addition, the project DO includes
the improvement of sector performance through the application of coherent policies, and the strengthening
of sector institutions at the central and local levels.
3. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
1. Sector policy for rural areas launched, increased cost recovery achieved and policy reform initiated for
other aspects of sector;
2. Reorganization of SSA complete, with full staffing structure, training and portfolio of services in place
in accordance with the restructuring plan;
3. 40 municipal governments have the capacity to oversee service provision in their jurisdiction, and at
least 8 have delegated WSS service provision to autonomous operators;
4. Increased capacity of the PS and NGO's to provide goods, services and operating support for service
management at the local level, including at least 50 local implementation organizations (OITS) trained
and certified;
5. Sustainable new and rehabilitated WSS services serve 350,000 beneficiaries in rural areas and small
towns and 210,000 people in rural communities have been trained systems administration, O&M, and
hygiene education.
-4 -



B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: R2000-102; IFC/R2000-111        Date of latest CAS discussion: 06/22/2000
The proposed project would support the CAS objectives of poverty alleviation, reduction of government
subsidies and increased productivity of infrastructure services as provided for in the CAS (June 1, 1993)
and the CAS progress reports discussed by the Board on March 25, 1997 and June 22, 2000. The project is
also consistent with the sector policy note discussed with the Ecuadorian government in September, 1998,
which reinforces the CAS objectives. The project would improve access to basic WSS services in rural and
small town communities, most of which are under the poverty line. The World Bank is working with other
donors to support sector reforms and ensure complementarity in lending and technical assistance.
The project focuses on poverty alleviation and is in line with the findings of the "Consultations with the
Poor in Ecuador" study, which identifies the lack of drinking water as one of the key deficiencies that
characterize poverty.
The project also supports Ecuador's efforts to modernize and strengthen the WSS sector as it will support
sector reforn at the national level, by reshaping sector policies, strengthening institutional reform and
promoting capacity building in sector agencies. More specifically, the financial support and technical
assistance to be provided under the project would help to operationalize sustainable WSS service
management systems, thereby reducing government transfers to operate these services.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Main Sector Issues
The WSS sector in Ecuador has a long history of poor performance well below the standards of other Latin
American countries. The main problems include: weak institutions and institutional overlap at all levels,
lack of sector policies, and no PSP in the provision of services. This results in low WSS coverage rates,
and investments that are neither sustainable nor able to keep up with growing demand. Specifically, the
main sector issues are:
e      Unclear roles and functions of sector institutions at all levels. Ecuador is divided into 22 provinces
which in turn comprise 214 municipalities. Each municipality is composed of a municipal capital
("cabecera cantonal") and surrounding (mostly rural) areas. Central functions in the WSS sector -- such as
canying out fiscal and economic regulation, defining norms, providing training and technical assistance and
gathering and reporting sector information -- are poorly developed. The SSA has been largely unable to
play the role of sector leader envisaged at its creation. There is still overlap of functions among sector
institutions. While municipal governments are supposed to play a more significant role in overseeing
service provision, their work is limited, in most cases, to direct provision of WSS services in the urban
capital, with little oversight of activities in rural areas.
*      Lack of a regulatory framework and financial policy. There is no consistent financial policy for the
sector in Ecuador. Tariffs are not regulated and -- with city council approval - each municipality can set its
own tariffs. This usually results in politically-motivated tariffs that are well below actual costs and, in
other cases, in no tariffs at all. Average 1999 tariffs for residential customers were below US$0.03/rn3 --
less than half the cost of operation and maintenance even when investment cost recovery is excluded.
Unfortunately, it is precisely the low-income communities in rural areas and small towns whom low tariffs
are designed to protect that suffer most from unsustainable financial policies, as low revenue generation
- 5 -



slows service extension to unserved areas. Sector financiers, such as Banco del Estado (BEDE) and the
Fondo de Inversion Social Ecuatoriano (FISE), and other donors often introduce financial policies for their
programs which are not coordinated and often contradictory, thereby sending confuising signals to
beneficiaries. Although BEDE is a lending agency, and theoretically requires beneficiaries to set tariffs to
recover costs, in practice, this condition is not mnet. Many municipally-run WSS utilities set unrealistic and
highly distorted tariffs that send misleading signals to consumers while failing to generate the resources
necessary to provide reliable service and timely system expansions. In rural areas, WSS investments have
reached less than 30% of communities. These investments are usually funded on a grant basis, with
communities responsible for covering the cost of daily operations and maintenance. Although many
coinmunities manage to keep their systems running, almost none have the resources to undertake major
repairs, equipment replacement or service expansion.
*      Low coverage and quality of services. WSS service levels in Ecuador are among the lowest in
South America. Although total coverage rates show 61% for water supply and 40% for sanitation (with no
wastewater treatment), these numbers hide the deficit in rural areas, where 50% of the population lives. In
the 152 rural municipalities targeted by PRAGUAS (approximately 22% of Ecuador's population), in
particular, only 48% of the population has access to adequate water supply and only 35% benefits from
appropriate sanitation facilities. In addition, the coverage rates do not reflect the poor quality and
intermittent nature of the services. Across the country, only about half of the water facilities installed
include systems for disinfection and barely 11% of the urban water systems have full water treatment
facilities. Although services reach many more inhabitants in small towns (between 5,000 and 10,000
inhabitants) than in rural areas, the unreliability of the service is usually worse, given the complexity of
operating these larger WSS systems. Nationwide, sector investments have failed to keep up with
population growth, and coverage actually decreased by three percentage points between 1990 and 1995.
*      Poor management of services and lack of sustainabilitV According to the Ecuadorian constitution,
municipalities are responsible for the provision of WSS services in areas under their jurisdiction, including
the rural areas that make up large parts of each municipality. In practice, services in rural areas have
largely been provided through community and project initiatives, usually with no linkages to the
corresponding municipal administration. Furthermore, in towns, there is as yet little consensus around the
idea that utilities should be commercially-oriented, autonomous agencies and that PSP represents a valid
option for the provision of WSS services. Apart from 16 water utilities in medium-size and large cities,
services in municipal capitals are typically provided directly by the city government with no managerial or
financial autonomy. This situation often triggers a downward spiral in which insufficient cost recovery
leads to financial problems which in turn lead to poor service and even less cost recovery. Management and
operations in these utilities and municipalities has been inefficient. Few are recovering even their
operating costs; billing is deficient; meters, where installed, are often not read, and water losses are very
high. In rural areas (which include about 10,000 communities nationwide), communities have demonstrated
relatively good capacity to keep the water flowing, more or less, on shoe-string budgets, though on balance,
coverage rates are much lower. Nonetheless, these systems also show a dramatic decrease in water quality
and design flows over time, suffer from poor financial management, and are not sustainable in the long
termn. In urban areas, since existing assets are not properly maintained, much less replaced, new
investments don't even cover asset depreciation. Overall, investments are not sustainable and reconstruction
or major rehabilitation needs to be carried out on a significant number of systems.
- 6 -



Government Strategy
GOE is aware of these issues and wants to turn the sector around. At the same time, in line with its overall
policy of decentralization, the central Government intends to diminish its financial participation in the
sector and, in return, foresees the need for increasing financial self sufficiency and PSP. Thus, GOE is
promoting the transition to independent self-sufficient utilities at all levels, with private operators wherever
feasible. Efficient institutions at the national level would regulate the sector and provide technical
assistance.
Short-term  strategy: GOE, through the Consejo Nacional de Modernizacion (CONAM) and
MIDUVI is promoting a review of the role of sector agencies at all levels with respect to service provision.
It has outlined a comprehensive reform strategy that would redefine the responsibilities of sector
institutions, establish tariff structures and economic regulation, and encourage PSP. The Government's
short term strategy has three main thrusts: (i) promoting coherent financial and regulatory policies by
harmonizing the financing rules used by different sector fnanciers; (ii) reorganizing and strengthening
central institutions; and (iii) promoting the creation of self-sufficient autonomous WSS system operators.
These three main areas are interdependent and must move forward simultaneously. For rural areas, the
GOE will (i) define and establish sound linkages with municipalities; (ii) continue to encourage
community-based organizations to promote a demand-driven approach to design, construction and service
provision; and (iii) define technical assistance schemes to improve service sustainability in such areas. The
project objectives, including PSP, are fully consistent with the reforms proposed by the government.
-      Sector reorganization and strengthening. As stated above, GOE is defning the roles and
responsibilities of sector institutions at all levels, thereby clarifying the functions and institutional
relationships of all agencies dealing with WSS. MIDUVI, through SSA, is the core technical sector
institution and in charge of setting general regulatory standards. GOE thus intends to restructure the SSA
and strengthen it to take responsibility for sector policies and norms, technical assistance to municipalities,
training and regulation. It would not execute or finance works.
At a local level, municipal authorities are responsible for WSS service provision in their jurisdictions,
including the rural areas that account for a large part of most municipalities. In the future, municipalities
would no longer provide the services directly, but would delegate them to autonomous (though not
necessarily private) operators. According to the GOE's approved sector policy and strategy, municipalities
would continue to own system assets and regulate operators within general guidelines established by SSA.
Full privatization (sale of assets) is not allowed under the Ecuadorian constitution, but other options for
service provision ranging from management contracts (operation and maintenance with commercial risk) to
full concessions are permitted. In all cases, service provision would be delegated to a third party, although
the scope of responsibility would vary according to the degree of investment. Operators should be
independent from the municipal admninistration. Qualifying operators could range from a community
organization (junta de agua), more suitable for small communities, to public utilities and private operators
who would assume a range of risks which could include full service concessions. In urban areas and some
small towns, private operators would be encouraged as the most desirable form of service provision.
In particular, the strategy envisions a progressive trend towards increased PSP, with concessions and other
integrated provision schemes for large and medium size cities, (30,000 and over) and smaller operators and
public institutions in smaller municipalities (5,000-30,000). Municipalities and communities would be
encouraged to group to generate a critical size that could easily achieve financial self-sufficiency and
-7 -



attract the PS. Municipalities would work with communities to decide if the rural communities would have
independent juntas or would be served by the operator in charge of the municipal capital. Given the severe
financial crisis currently affecting the Ecuadorian economy, it is expected that PSP will start slowly in a
small number of municipalities and accelerate towards the end of APL- 1.
*      Sector policies. regulation and fnancial framework. GOE will establish a regulatory function at a
national level in the forn of a Sector Planning Department within SSA. This department will focus its
initial efforts on tariff regulation, the definition of norms and standards and the collection of information on
the performance of operators. On the financial side, the Sector Planning Department would provide
guidelines for tariff structures, methodologies for tariff studies and rules for tariff proposals and approval.
The financial policy, reflected in the tariffs, would also include provision and allocation of government
subsidies and credit (mainly for investment costs), and would encourage financial self-sufficiency and PSP.
As part of this strategy, GOE has defined BEDE and FISE as the two national financing institutions for the
sector and divided their target areas to avoid overlap. Policies for rural communities include (i) the use of
a demand responsive approach and intensive community participation and training in all stages of the
project cycle, (ii) appropriate technology options, and (iii) hygiene and sanitation to achieve greater health
impact.
*      From strategy to action: Existing legislation, especially the 1996 Modemization Law provides the
legal framework for the sector reforms described above. Nonetheless, municipalities retain the right to
continue providing water and sanitation services directly, should they choose to do so. To induce reform in
the short term, GOE will rely mostly on incentives (financial and TA) by applying the sector policy through
its financial programs (PRAGUAS, BEDE, among others). In the medium term, GOE plans to strengthen
the policy further by passing a water supply law that would create a stronger environment for service
delegation and would enforce fnancial policies within sector institutions. Given the fact that most services
currently do not cover operating costs, financial improvements will be required in many cases simply to
attract PSP. GOE is aware of the magnitude of the task ahead and plans to establish a technical assistance
program to promote the above vision, in particular the delegation of services to autonomous operators. A
TA division within SSA will be responsible for managing this program (see annex 2, section 1.2 for
details).
Socio-Economic Context
The sector issues and government strategy presented above take on particular urgency in light of Ecuador's
worsening socio-economic situation. As shown in table 1 below, rural poverty increased dramnatically in all
three of the country's major regions (Costa, Sierra and Oriente) between 1995 and 1998, particularly in the
rural Sierra, where 35% of the population lived below the extreme poverty line in 1998. Households are
classified as extremely poor, when total consumption expenditure falls below the food poverty line:
- 8 -



Table 1: Evolution of Extreme Poverty, 1995-1998
40 --  -
35 -
30 
25-
20
15 -AM.:,,
5
National  Nat.   Nat.  Costa  Costa  Costa  Sierra   Sierra  Sierra  Oriente  Oriente Oriente
Urban   Rural        Urban   Rural         Urban   Rural         Urban   Rural
[ Percent 1995 u Percent 199
Household surveys support the conclusions on the low coverage and quality of services presented under the
main sector issues above. When rural households were asked to rate the quality of water and sanitation
services in their community as part of the Bank's 1999 Poverty Assessment, 66% of respondents in the
rural Costa, 69% of respondents in the rural Oriente and 75% of respondents in the rural Sierra region
replied that service had deteriorated over the past 5 years. Water supply coverage is strongly correlated
with wealth : While nationally, the percentage of households that lack access to adequate water supply
services stands at 39%, the percentage increases to 75% among households in the poorest quintile of
Ecuador's population.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
GOE considers PRAGUAS the main vehicle for sector and institutional reforms. The project would
therefore take an integrated approach, and address the following issues:
Inconsistent investment financing and cost recovery~ policies applied by nati onal sector fmnanciers and
external suport agencies. During APL- 1, PRAGUAS will provide a forum for wide stakeholder
participation in the discussion of a new Water Sector Law. A previous draft law -- prepared with less
participation -- was derailed before it could pass Congress because several provisions (regulatory structure,
ownership of assets) proved unacceptable to key stakeholders. The participatory approach favored by
PRAGUAS is expected to generate the necessary backing for congressional approval.
Unclear roles and functions of sector institutions at all levels. The project will help consolidate the roles of
most sector institutions, especially in MIDUVI and at the municipal level. Municipalities, operators,
communities and the SSA would be strengthened to undertake their functions.
Low coverage and poor management of services. The proposed project will finance US$42 million worth of
WSinvestments in small towns (up to 10,000) and rural communities during APL- 1. In addition,
improvements in the management of services will be supported by the institutional strengthening program
- 9 -



to be carried out by SSA and partially funded by PRAGUAS.
4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans:
The program has three main objectives, with the level of intensity phased as follows:
Phase 1                 Phase 2                 Phase 3
Policy reform           Moderate                Moderate                Moderate
Institution Building    Basic coverage (40      Moderate coverage       High coverage
municipalities)        (about 100 municipalities  (about 150 municipalities
nationwide)             nationwide)
Investment              Moderate (rural areas and High (rural areas and  High:
pilot projects in small    towns)              (whole countiy *)
towns)                                         (*) does not include
I___ __ __ __ __ __   __ __ __ ___   I__   m ajor  cities
Given the economic crisis facing Ecuador today, PRAGUAS has been designed to support a moderate pace
of policy reform accompanied by an emphasis on institution building at all levels and an accelerating pace
of water supply and sanitation investments in rural areas and small towns.
Three categories of indicators will be used to track the APL Phases and serve as triggers for subsequent
loans:
Indicator          Triggers for Phase 2        Triggers for Phase 3
Category
Policy reform      * Draft Water Sector Law   *   Water   Sector   Law
presented  to  Bank  for  presented to Congress;
review;
*   Consistent   fnancial
policies (including tariffs
and subsidies) are applied
by all sector financiers;
Institution        * SSA   restructured  and   * SSA remains responsive to
Building:          responsive to new  sector  new sector policies;
SSA/MIDUVI         policies;
municipalities,
service providers    * At least 5 cases of WSS   * At least 20 cases of WSS
service   delegation    by  service    delegation    by
municipal  authorities  to   municipal  authorities  to
autonomous operators have  autonomous operators have
been conducted in municipal  been conducted in municipal
capitals.                  capitals.
- 10-



Investment        * 90% of APL- 1 funds for  * 90% of APL-2 funds for
Program (regional  rural component (component  rural component (component
sequencing)       2) committed;              2) committed;
C. Program and Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Indicative             Bank-      % of
Component                   Sector        Costs      % of    financing   Bank-
_US$M)    Total    (US$M)  financing
1. Sector Reform/lnstitutional     Institutional        4.50        9.0      4.50      14.1
Development                        Development
IA. Restructuring of SSA and policy
reform
1B. Strengthening of municipal
governments, NGO's and private WSS
operators
2. Water and Sanitation Subprojects in  Rural Water    39.00       77.6     22.00       68.7
Rural Areas                        Supply &
2A. Promotion, community           Sanitation
development, engineering designs and
supervision
2B. Water and sanitation
infrastructure, community training and
hygiene education
3. Water and Sanitation Subprojects in  Rural Water     3.00        6.0      1.75        5.5
Municipal Capitals                 Supply &
3A. Engineering studies and        Sanitation
supervision
3B. Civil works
4. Project Management              Rural Water          3.43        6.8      3.43       10.7
Supply &
Sanitation
Total Project Costs                    49.93      99.4      31.68      99.0
Front-end fee                     0.32       0.6       0.32        1.0
Total Financing Required                    50.25      100.0     32.00      100.0
1. Sector reform and institutional development.: This component will address the needs of the entire
- 1 1 -



sector, both urban and rural (except for the three major cities). It includes two sub-components:
lA. Institutional Development and Policy Reform: assistance to SSA to assume its new role in the sector,
including (i) major re-structuring in support of decentralization and (ii) creation of a new unit in charge of
providing assistance to municipal governments for service planning and delegated management.
lB. Strengthening of Municipal Governments. NGO's and private sector service providers: design and
implementation of models for WSS service provision through autonomous (preferably private) operators in
all interested municipalities in Ecuador. Municipal governments will also be strengthened to oversee sector
activities in their jurisdiction. Small municipalities that choose to delegate service provision would become
eligible for WSS investments in their urban capital under component 3.
Assistance will be provided to help the private sector and NGOs at the municipal level organize small
multi-disciplinary companies to provide community development and engineering services as well as to
construct systems in rural communities, using demand-based approaches and participatory development
strategies. Potential service operators will also be identified and encouraged to form operating companies in
small towns.
2. Water and Sanitation Subproiects in Rural Areas: this component comprises two sub-components:
2A. Subproiect Promotion and Preinvestment: PRAGUAS will be promoted in eligible municipalities and
communities to stimulate interest in participating in the project. Preinvestment activities will include:
community organization and formation ofjuntas, selection of preferred service level, complete engineering
designs, initial community training in contract administration, construction and hygiene education, and
selection of management models for RWSS services.
2B. Civil works and Community Training in administration, operation, maintenance and hygiene education
as well as continued municipal strengthening. Rural water supply systems would include a range of
technical and service level options, from simple handpumps and rainwater catchments to small piped
systems. Rural sanitation options will focus on on-site systems ranging from improved traditional latrines
to ventilated improved pit (VIP) latrines, aquaprivies and "basic sanitation units" (UBS, comprising
shower, sink and toilet). A Guide to Technical Options (featuring technical solutions, service levels and
their respective costs) has been prepared to allow beneficiary communities to make their choice in relation
to their willingness to pay and sustain the services.
3. Water and Sanitation Subnroiects in Municinal Canitals: this component comprises two
sub-components:
3A. Engineering studies : municipal capitals (with populations below 10,000 people) that take steps to
transfer the operation of municipal water and sanitation services to autonomous public or private operators
will become eligible for PRAGUAS funding for studies aimed at rehabilitating municipal WSS
infrastructure.
3B. Civil works. PRAGUAS will finance the rehabilitation/expansion of urban WSS systems in eligible
municipal capitals up to agreed investment limits.
- 12 -



4. Proiect Management:
A project management unit (PMU) will be established within SSA/Quito and "Equipos Provinciales del
PRAGUAS" (EPP's) will be set up in participating provincial SSA offices.
Component 4 will finance the following:
*  Incremental operating costs for the PMU and the EPP's;
*  Equipment and software for the PMU (and EPP's as necessary);
*  Contractual personnel for PMU;
*  External audits;
* Maintenance of the financial management and project monitoring system;
* Consultancies (e.g. for a Rural Sanitation Sector Environmental Assessment and periodic
reevaluation of economic limits for water supply investments)
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
During the first phase, PRAGUAS will act at three levels to support key policy and institutional reforms:
*  at a national level, the program will promote (i) the definition and refinement of financial policies
for the rural water and sanitation sector and the preparation of a draft Water Sector Law; (ii) the
establishment of consistent regulatory policies and the creation of a Sectoral Planning Department
within SSA; and (iii) institutional reforms within MIDUVI, including a profound restructuring and
strengthening of the SSA. In addition, PRAGUAS will be closely linked to other policy reforms in
Ecuador, most notably decentralization.
•  at a municipal capital level, PRAGUAS will promote a new institutional model for service
provision, using autonomous public and private entities rather than departments of the municipal
government to provide water and sanitation services. To incentivize the delegation of WSS
services, small municipal capitals (populations under 10,000) would become eligible for urban
WSS investment finance under component 3, while SSA would work with BEDE to secure a line
of credit for medium-size (more than 10,000 people) municipal capitals that have successfully
delegated their WSS services and wish to upgrade/expand them.
*   in rural areas, the program will roll out the demand-responsive approach to rural water supply &
sanitation to a total of 16 provinces, giving communities control over the systems they want and
are willing to pay for.
- 13-



3. Benefits and target population:
Benefits: The first phase of PRAGUAS will provide new or rehabilitated drinking water facilities to about
350,000 people in about 40 municipalities nationwide, and will promote the improvement of household
sanitation and hygiene practices. These benefits will accrue in Ecuador's rural areas which are home to two
thirds of the country's poor and where 30% of all inhabitants are classified as "extremely poor". Municipal
governments in participating municipalities will also benefit from institutional strengthening provided by
the local SSA offices ("Equipos provinciales del PRAGUAS", EPP) as well as one (or several)
Implementation Assistance Agencies (1AA, i.e., national or international NGO's or engineering consultants
with demand-responsive rural water supply experience). In addition, about 35,000 people living in about 6
medium-size pilot municipal capitals that delegate the operation of their urban WSS services to
autonomous public or private operators, will benefit from rehabilitated or expanded water (and/or
sewerage) systems financed under PRAGUAS.
All investments will respond to community demand for services and will be accompanied by substantial
community development activities in organization and training in administration, management and hygiene
education to ensure effective and sustained use of the facilities. The project will contribute to the reduction
of poverty through cost savings (time) and improved quality of life and health, especially for women and
children. International experience (see bibliography for references) points to a strong positive correlation
between welfare (as measured by consumption) and participation in community activities by members of
households, especially among the rural poor and even more so among the vulnerable, rural poor (defined
as poor rural households with pregnant women, children under five, and elderly family members).
In addition, community members will benefit in the long-term from the strengthening of a network of
formal and informal institutions that would help plan for, install and provide maintenance of rural
infrastructure facilities. The private sector and NGOs will be strengthened and this would lead to
increased employment opportunities in rural areas. Municipal governments will gain significant
institutional capacity to improve services in the district capital and in working with communities to
implement the sub-projects. This will contribute to the strengthening of the community-municipality
linkages, with spillover effects to other rural development activities.
Target population: For the physical investment components, the project will target the rural population of
Ecuador living in municipalities with district capitals of less than 10,000, including the residents of rural
communities and small towns. Although only 22% of the country's population live in these 152
municipalities, these represent about one third of Ecuador's service coverage deficit with respect to both
water and sanitation. Only 48% of the urban and rural population of these small municipalities has access
to adequate water supply and only 35% benefits from appropriate sanitation facilities. These communities
depend largely on agriculture or trading activities for subsistence.  The project will reach these
communities by targeting municipalities that have low service coverage rates, high poverty indicators and a
high community demand for improved services. Eligibility and prioritization criteria have been developed
to ensure that investments respond to community demand and that all eligible communities and
municipalities have an equal opportunity to access support.
The project meets both criteria (only one is required) for designation as a Poverty Targeted Intervention:
(a) the operation has specific mechanisms for targeting the poor through a systematic participatory process
for the selection and prioritization of beneficiary municipalities and communities, which include among
other considerations poverty indicators, percentage of indigenous peoples within the geographic area, and
the percentage of women participating in the project; and (b) the population of project beneficiaries has a
significantly larger proportion of poor people than the country's population as a whole (30% of the rural
- 14 -



population is classified as extremely poor compared with a national average of 17%). The majority of
beneficiary population is located in rural communities of less than 10,000 -mostly between 1,000- and
2,000 people- living at subsistence levels, and predominantly below the poverty line. Survey results
showed that nearly 100 percent of the potential direct beneficiaries lived below the World Bank's estimated
poverty line of US$ 2.13 per capita per day, with an average income of US$ 1.05 per capita per day, after
reported monetary income was adjusted upward by 40 percent to capture non-monetary income in rural
areas.
Employment generation: Communities will provide unpaid unskilled labor for the construction of rural
WSS systems as part of the beneficiary contribution to PRAGUAS (30% of construction cost overall, with
no less than 10% in cash). Since unskilled labor typically accounts for only 18 - 25% of the construction
cost of rural WSS systems in Ecuador, most of the paid employment generated by the program will accrue
to professionals (engineers and community development specialists) employed by the OITS for
pre-investment activities and supervision as well as to professionals and skilled workers employed by
construction contractors. It is expected that PRAGUAS will create approximately 3,000 to 4,000
person-years of employment over the course of APL-1.
Border provinces: Particular care will be taken to ensure that promotional activities reach
underdeveloped areas in   Ecuadorian provinces along the border with Peru (El Oro, Loja,
Zamora-Chinchipe, Morona-Santiago, Pastaza, Napo, and Sucumbios) in line with the Special Border
Province Development Initiative currently underway. The border provinces account for approximately one
fourth of Ecuador's total rural population in small municipalities. PRAGUAS financing will be open to
three of the seven border provinces during the first year of the APL (those with the highest poverty indices
and WSS coverage deficits) and all others from the second year of APL-1 onwards. Currently only about
293,000 people (42% of a total population of 685,000 living in small municipalities in border provinces)
have access to acceptable potable water supply. By the end of APL-1, this figure is expected to increase to
about 60% and by the end of APL-3 to about 90%.
The PRAGUAS project has been subjected to a poverty audit (see A. Chong: "Basic Infrastructure and
Welfare : PRAGUAS project in Ecuador") and has been found to have a design and a targeting strategy
that are positive from a welfare perspective.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation period: 3-phase, 10-year APL loan with non-overlapping phases of 4, 3 and 3 years.
Executing agencies : MIDUVI/SSA through a specially-created PMU (project management unit) for
components 1 and 4, small municipalities (populations of less than 10,000 inhabitants) for components 2
and 3. Given that small municipalities often lack project implementation experience in general and
familiarity with Bank procurement guidelines in particular, municipalities will be assisted both by
provincial SSA offices (EPP "equipos provinciales de PRAGUAS") and by specialized firms
(Implementation Assistance Agencies, LAA's), hired by SSA to support the implementation of the
pre-investment and investment activities under component 2. A full discussion of the responsibilities of all
actors involved in PRAGUAS as well as a detailed description of the project cycle is provided in annex 2
Onlending arrangements: None. Bank funds will fmance the centrally implemented components (1 and 4)
directly through SSA. Payments to contractors and consultants for water supply and sanitation investments
in rural areas (component 2) and small towns (component 3) will be made from municipal accounts jointly
managed by SSA and program municipalities.
- 15-



Flow of funds: For the implementation of components 2 and 3 (WSS investments in rural areas and
municipal capitals respectively), the GOE will hire the services of a Commercial Bank (CB) with
provincial offices for the management of funds. The Central Bank of Ecuador on behalf of the GOE will
be responsible for selecting the CB, according to criteria agreed with the Bank. The CB would hold all
PRAGUAS accounts in local currency and, following instructions from the PRAGUAS PMU, would
transfer funds to municipal accounts jointly managed by SSA (through the EPP's) and program
municipalities once relevant Grant Agreements ('Promotion and Preinvestment Grant Agreement" for
component 2A, "Rural Water and Sanitation Grant Agreement" for component 2B, "Delegation Investment
Grant Agreement" for component 3) between SSA and a participating municipality have been signed. The
"Rural Water and Sanitation Grant Agreement" for component 2B, in particular, will require municipalities
to deposit 20% of the cost of rural WSS investments in areas under their jurisdiction into their PRAGUAS
municipal account upfront. Likewise, beneficiary communities, will deposit 10% of the cost of their
systems. Once both the municipality and the community have made their contribution, SSA will make
downpayments to the municipal accounts on the basis of the Grant Agreement as described in Annex 6.
Payments to contractors would then be made from the CB with authorization from the provincial project
unit (EPP) and the municipality. Funds from the Special Account will only be transferred once payment to
consultants / contractors is due, or to reimburse payments already made. All project activities would be
carried out according to criteria, procedures and guidelines agreed upon between the GOE and the Bank
and detailed in the Project Operation Manual (OM).
Procurement: The main procurement actions will be carried out by the Ministry of Urban Development
and Housing (MIDUNI) and the beneficiary municipalities.  All procurement will be carried out in
accordance with the Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits dated January 1995,
revised January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 and the Guidelines for the Selection
and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers dated January 1997 and revised September
1997 and January 1999. A procurement capacity assessment was carried out on MIDUVI and a sample of
5 small municipalities and it was deternined that this is a high risk operation, mainly because of the weak
capacity of the municipalities. An action plan to mitigate risks has been prepared, including training,
adequate staffing of the PMU, supervision and monitoring systems and technical assistance to the
municipalities to be provided by a consulting firm (details in Annex 6).
Financial management and auditing: A 4-C certification has been issued. The SSA will establish a
project financial management system satisfactory to the Bank prior to effectiveness. Participating
municipalities will bundle the information collected in rural communities and provide the PMU with
quarterly updates on the status of ongoing and completed water supply and sanitation investments in rural
areas and municipal capitals under their jurisdiction. The PMU in tum will prepare and submit quarterly
project management reports to the Bank in January, April, July, and October of each year, according to
guidelines and formats provided in the OM. External auditors acceptable to the Bank would audit the
accounts of the project under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank.
Monitoring and evaluation arrangements: Monitoring and evaluation will be done by the Bank and
qualified consultants. In each province, the provincial project units (EPP's) and municipal sanitation teams
(EMS, equipos municipales de saneamiento) will track program communities for a period of 3 years after
water supply and sanitation systems have gone into operation to follow-up on the social indicators
(including health impacts and employment generation) mapped during the baseline assessment in each
community as well as the effectiveness of financial and operational arrangements. As needed, the
Implementation Assistance Agencies will support this process. The Bank will conduct at least two full and
one partial supervision missions per year. A mid-term review of APL-1 will be conducted in the third
- 16 -



quarter of 2002.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Option 1: MIDUVI implements the entire project, including contracting of OITS and construction
contractors. This option was rejected because MIDUVI does not have the in-house capacity to manage the
large number of small investments that the rural WSS component (component 2) will entail. Furthermore,
line ministries have traditionally not demonstrated efficiency in the management of these types of scattered
investment programs (as evidenced by the extremely high unit costs achieved by SSA compared to FISE,
FASBASE and others). Finally, direct implementation by MIDUVI/SSA runs counter to- both the
government's sector strategy and PRAGUAS' objective of strengthening municipalities for the provision of
WSS services.
Option 2: FISE implements the whole project. This option was also rejected since FISE's poverty
alleviation objective gives it a distinct focus in terms of overall approach, targeting mechanisms and
financial policies. In addition, its broad project portfolio does not permit it to develop the sectoral expertise
required to deliver sustainable community-managed WSS services, and especially to develop the critical
mass of community development expertise needed at the subproject design stage. In fact, FISE has an
extremely poor record in achieving sustained outcomes from its WSS investments, and GOE has clearly
recognized the need for public sector backstopping to community and municipality-managed services - a
role that needs to be undertaken by the line agency - SSA.
Option 3: Private financial intermediaries. MIDUVI/SSA rejected the idea of delegating community
sub-project evaluation, overall financial management and TA to municipalities completely to one or more
private intermediaries. Instead, the Bank and SSA agreed that a private Implementation Assistance Agency
(1AA) would provide technical support to various stages of the rural subproject cycle (see annex 2) while
provincial SSA offices ("Equipos Provinciales del PRAGUAS", EPP) retained responsibility for
sub-project evaluation and a commercial bank remained in charge of releasing project funds to service
providers (OITS, contractors etc.) in response to disbursement requests from project municipalities
approved by the EPP's.
Option 4: Project implementation directly through the municipalities, with assistance from a technical
organization such as the "Asociacion de Municipios del Ecuador" (AME). This option would have
involved transferring project funds directly to participating municipalities who would have made payments
to OITS, contractors and other service providers. The approach was discarded given the very weak
capacity of many municipal governments, as well as the sheer difficulty of ensuring sound financial
management in a project that would have so many different implementing agencies.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                      Project                 (PSR) Ratings
-_______________________________  .____________.____________  (Bank-financed   projects  only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                   Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Municipal strengthening           PDM (municipal development        S             S
project I)
-17-



Health / rural water supply       FASBASE                          S             S
Rural water supply and sanitation  RWSS pilot project              S             S
Other development agencies
FISE (IDB), UNDP, UNDP/WB         Guayaquil Water emergency
-WSP, KfW, CARE                   Loan (IDB)
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
The IDB as well as other donors are currently assisting the government of Ecuador in the water and
sanitation sector. In particular, IDB's ongoing emergency Loan to Guayaquil is supporting the privatization
of ECAPAG, the water and sewerage utility of the city, a process the World Bank has also supported with
the Guayaquil drainage operation which is now in standby mode. IDB also assisted in the preparation of a
draft water and sanitation sector law which was not passed by Congress. KFW and GTZ have been active
in providing financing to the city of Babahoyo, and GTZ has supported modernization reforms for BEDE,
AME and, more recently, PRAGUAS. Other bilateral donors (such as USAID), and NGOs (such as
CARE) have provided assistance to rural communities with pilot projects. So far the government has done
little to coordinate these efforts and to spell out a clear policy. PRAGUAS represents an opportunity to
improve coordination among donors and to ensure that basic policy guidelines are honored by all.
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Many experiences from within and outside Ecuador contribute to the proposed project design. From within
Ecuador, PRAGUAS builds upon the lessons of:
3 The $3 million Bank-financed Pilot Rural WSS component of the FASBASE project . Through this
pilot, the demand-responsive approach was first introduced in the country. FASBASE demonstrated
that poor, rural communities are willing to organize and able to pay more than 40% of service
improvements, as well as take charge of sustaining their services. However, FASBASE's
implementation procedures (through the Ministry of Health) also proved to be slow and bureaucratic.
3 FISE and its proven efficiency in sub-project approval, contracting and fund disbursement. At the
same time, PRAGUAS learns from FISE the major limitations and poor sustainability that result from
the lack of a community development and training component.
* A long and rich tradition of rural WSS projects constructed with a high degree of community
participation through the ex-IEOS, with support from the USAID-funded WASH programs
(1980-1992), as well as experience from major NGOs, such as CARE and Plan Internacional. The
projects have all shown the capacity of well-trained Juntas to achieve good operation and management
records, albeit with limitations in terms of performing major repairs.
PRAGUAS project design also benefits from the work of the Bank's RWSS Thematic Group , the global
UNDP-WB Water and Sanitation Program and experiences from other agencies such as CARE, UNICEF,
PAHO, etc. The main "best practice lessons" can be summarized as follows:
1. Adopt a demand responsive approach where users determine if they want to participate and select
their preferred level of service based on willingness to pay and assume long-term responsibility for
service management.
2. Promote institutional reform based on clear roles for key stakeholders where communities own their
facilities, the private sector provides goods, services, and operational support, and government
-18-



facilitates the process. Clearly define the role of local government, service providers and Water User
Associations (WUAs). Include clearly defined capacity building components that enable all
stakeholders to play their roles and build partnerships.
3. Ensure an appropriate legal framework for ownership and management and clearly allocate
responsibilities between national and local government and water users' associations (WUA's).
4. Support the formation of representative WUAs (Juntas) for planning, implementation, and
management of community water supply facilities.
5. Establish sound financial policies that lead to sustained services.
6. Integrate water, sanitation and hygiene education.
7. Ensure representative and informed participation of all stakeholders, including women and
traditionally excluded groups.
8. For small towns, separate the regulatory, management and operational functions. Promote the
contracting out of operations to the PS.
Finally, PRAGUAS project design for APL-1 has benefited from the lessons learned during a program
pilot phase initiated in March, 1999 in 30 rural communities spread out over 4 municipalities in 4
provinces across Ecuador (see map). The pilot phase drew attention to two deficiencies in the
pre-investment phase of the project cycle (see annex 2), namely that the OITS (organizaciones de
intervenci6n tecnico social) (i) presented project communities with limited (or no) options with respect to
service levels and (ii) did very little financial analysis as to the O&M costs per household that different
technical solutions would entail. In response to these weaknesses, simple tariff calculations and additional
background on the spectrum of service options available were added to the manuals that OITS will receive
as part of an upfront training exercise before they are sent to the field for the next pre-investment phase.
Additional lessons, referring specifically to social aspects of the pre-investment phase, are provided in
annex 11, section 6.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The SSA and MDUVI have established a dynamic project preparation team that has been preparing
PRAGUAS for 2 years.  MIDUVI has demonstrated commitment by taking the lead in establishing
institutional alliances for the project, hiring special advisors and establishing a control system to gauge
project preparation progress. Pilot projects in 4 provinces have been used to fne-tune PRAGUAS'
approach to promotion and pre-investment activities.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The World Bank has developed a strong relationship with sector agencies in Ecuador based primarily on
the experience of the FASBASE pilot project. In addition, the UNDP-World Bank Water and Sanitation
Program has been working with the Government to translate the lessons of the pilot project into national
policy, and linking the experiences in Ecuador to those of neighboring countries. In PRAGUAS, the
specific value added by Bank assistance will be to help establish national policies for the urban and rural
WSS sector and to support the development of a long-term national WSS program for rural areas. The
Bank can assist MIDUVI in establishing a leadership role in the sector and in coordinating the investment
provided by other intermediaries (i.e. FISE and BEDE), as well as other donors (i.e. IDB, UNDP, NGOs
and bilateral aid agencies). Finally, the Bank can help link the sector reform process to the overall GOE
agenda of state modernization and decentralization.
- 19 -



E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
Cost benefit and cost effectiveness
Cost benefit results of the sample: Average NPV = US$ 35,543; Average ERR = 28 %
A detailed economic cost benefit analysis was conducted for the 19 projects included in the pilot phase of
the Program. This sample includes a range of technical solutions to be financed and covers all major
regions (Sierra, Costa and Oriente). The major benefits of this project are improved water services to
approximately 350,000 beneficiaries in about 40 rural municipalities nationwide (APL-1). These include
direct user benefits: resource savings (time savings and savings that result from the elimination of
individual water treatment, e.g. the cost for boiling water), health benefits (estimated as reduction in costs
for coping with water borne diseases) and benefits from increased water consumption estimated by the
willingness to pay for the increased consumption, for users who without the project would use less effective
and more costly alternatives (such as rivers, bottled water, etc.). The project is demand driven and offers
new/rehabilitated WSS infrastructure to communities that express a willingness to participate. Technical
solutions will be designed so that beneficiaries can meet the variable costs associated with the level of
service they select. Direct beneficiaries will also be required to contribute in cash and labor to cover 30%
of investment costs. PRAGUAS also focuses on achieving service sustainability, through intensive user
education in effective use, administration, operation and maintenance of the systems. Thus, it is highly
probable that user benefits will be realized over time, as shown by the World Bank report "Making Rural
Water Supply Sustainable: Recommendations from a Global Study".
Additional benefits are expected from on-site sanitation investments, although these were not quantified.
Instead, a least-cost analysis of alternatives and cost-effectiveness criteria were used for investment
decisions. The sanitation strategy of the project calls for strong promotion and hygiene education, demand
generation for investments in sanitation, lower levels of subsidy, targeted coverage levels of at least 60
percent of households per community to achieve full health impacts, and promotion of a wider range of
lower cost options. These should bring additional positive health benefits to the communities.
The costs included in the analysis were: (i) capital investment costs, (ii) recurrent costs (operations,
maintenance and depreciation), (iii) institutional development costs, and (iv) community development costs
(organization, training and hygiene education). All transfers, including taxes and subsidies were excluded
from the analysis. All costs included were adjusted to reflect economic prices using conversion factors
calculated by Banco del Estado, Ecuadores Central Bank.
An economic internal rate of return, net present value using a 12% discount rate, and benefit/cost ratio
were calculated for each subproject in the sample. Of the 19 pilot projects evaluated, 10 were found to be
economically viable with an average NPV of US$ 35,543 and average ERR of 28%. A sensitivity analysis
for all major assumptions was conducted to all feasible projects. The results showed that the findings from
the economic analysis are robust. Simulations using Crystal Ball based on benefit probability distribution,
showed that there is 0 probability of obtaining an unfeasible project, except in one case were there is a low
probability of a NPV<0 (7.5%). Results from switching values for investment costs showed that projects
will be viable on average up to a cost overrun of 123% which is not likely to happen in this type of project
- 20 -



especially considering the conservative assumptions made on the cost side allowing for 10% contingencies.
In small rural communities there is a risk of low population growth rates caused by migration to urban
areas. For that reason a scenario with zero population growth was simulated, results showed that in 80% of
the cases the projects will be viable with constant population. These results were taken into consideration
for the operational manual to make sure population projections are conservative (see Annex 4 for details).
An estimation of an overall Program rate of return was not attempted here; such a calculation would be
based on an assumed distribution of community choices of capital investments.
Based on the results of the economic analysis of pilot phase subprojects, econometric models were
estimated between cost benefit and cost effectiveness indicators. This relation was used to find the critical
values to determine the economic viability of subprojects to be financed in the operational phase of the
project to save costs and time in project preparation during the implementation phase. Results showed that
the average critical value for investment cost per connection for a viable project was US$ 486.
Poverty Impact:
Distributive analysis:
A complete distributive analysis of the benefits was conducted to estimate the poverty impact of the project.
Results from the household surveys conducted for the economic analysis of the sample of 19 pilot projects
in 30 localities in all three regions showed that 100% of all potential direct beneficiaries of the project were
classified as poor. Survey results showed that 100 percent of the direct beneficiaries lived below the
World Bank estimated poverty line of US$ 2.13 per capita per day, with an average income of US$ 1.05
per capita per day, after reported monetary income was adjusted upward by 40 percent to capture
non-monetary income in rural areas.
The quantifiable net impact of the viable water projects on the welfare of the poor is substantial : US$
1,231 per household on average for the projects in the sample. The quantifiable impact is defined as the net
present value of the benefits that the direct beneficiaries will receive under the "with project" scenario, after
deducting the financial costs the direct users would pay (30% of investment costs and total operation and
maintenance costs).
Other benefits for the poor:
The Program has been design following a demand driven approach as explained above. To ensure that
benefits for the poor are not reduced by this approach, the project has an specific component for promotion
and education at the community level with the aim of helping them improve the way they organize and
associate, thus contributing to increased social capital (civic association), and reducing the moral hazard
associated with the idea that only well-organized communities will be able to participate. Trust, the other
major element in social capital would also be developed through women's involvement that is an integral
part of project design at the community level. In addition, a targeting mechanism to give priority to the
poorest communities was developed.
A matrix to prioritize communities (which is part of the Operational Manual) was designed to favor the
extremely poor, women, and indigenous and Afro-Ecuadorian groups, thus allowing for a targeting
mechanism to increase the impact on welfare to the poor and vulnerable groups such as women and the
indigenous population. As there is a strong correlation between poverty and ethnicity in Ecuador, most of
these groups are part of the target population of the project. The outreach campaign planned under the
project will inform potential beneficiaries of both the benefits and requirements for participation.
-21 -



2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
PRAGUAS represents an important instrument for the sector to start applying a rational cost recovery and
tariff policy in both urban and rural areas. A major activity of PRAGUAS preparation involved support
for the application of a national financial policy for the sector. Subsidies would be channeled both through
FISE and BEDE (with BEDE also providing credit for the larger and wealthier municipalities). A
comprehensive financing (tariff and subsidy) policy is being developed.
In urban areas, cost recovery will be achieved through tariffs applied by WSS companies. Tariffs and
subsidies for urban areas are still under development and key guidelines will be presented as part of the
proposed WSS sector reform. Tariff structures should differentiate the type of costs. To the extent possible,
cross subsidies should be eliminated and replaced by a basic sanitary consumption level affordable to all. In
principle all companies should cover their operation cost and debt service. Investments should be recovered
through tariffs in large cities and, to the extent possible, by internal cash generation and municipal funds.
However, the GOE recognizes the need for subsidizing investments directed at low-income beneficiaries as
well as for environmental investments such as wastewater treatment.
In rural areas, each project and agency now adopts a distinct financial policy - with FISE providing
services free of charge (and even paying for community labor), and the FASBASE pilot project recovering
more than 40% of investment costs. Through PRAGUAS, GOE has agreed that one financial policy will
apply to the entire rural sector (for communities of less than 10,000 people). This policy will require users
to pay all operating, maintenance and replacement costs for mechanical/hydraulic equipment for their WSS
service. Communities would be eligible to apply for a Government subsidy and enter into a cost sharing
arrangement for the initial investment of a WSS facility. The community will choose its preferred service
level, and would have to cover all costs above an established ceiling. For water projects, the first phase of
PRAGUAS will have the following cost sharing arrangement: community 30%, the municipality 20% and
PRAGUAS 50%.  Detailed studies and results of numerous projects (FASBASE, CARE, Plan
Internacional, ex-IEOS) demonstrate that this is an acceptable policy, and that the majority of communities
will in fact be able to achieve a high level of service (house connections) within this ceiling. Poorer
communities will not be excluded by this policy, as long as they are allowed to provide some of their
counterpart share in-kind as well as cash (as is common practice in Ecuador). At the same time, the per
capita ceiling will allow Government to make better use of subsidies, by not financing very costly
investments in a few communities at the expense of wider service coverage. This financial policy will be
adjusted during each phase of the APL, with a view to introducing greater cost recovery from service users.
The financial policy for sanitation investments provides a 70% non-refundable grant to individual
households building on-site sanitation systems (up to US$250) in communities that reach 60% sanitation
coverage levels overall. PRAGUAS will also finance 100% of school latrines (after communities have
excavated the pit).
PRAGUAS will cover the full costs of sub-project promotion, pre-investment, municipal strengthening and
community development.
Fiscal Impact:
At the national level, GOE (using proceeds from the Bank's loan) will contribute 50 percent of rural water
investment costs, while municipalities will cover 20 percent and beneficiary communities will contribute
30% in cash and in kind. GOE will be responsible for paying the principal and interest on the loan. The
- 22 -



government, however, will be able to recover a small part of its contribution through taxes on some
investment costs paid by construction companies. In the long-run, it is expected that the level of
Government subsidy to the rural water sector will diminish over time as a result of the financial policy
promoted by PRAGUAS, that would charge direct users for operation, maintenance, and replacement costs
(for mechanical/hydraulic equipment), to ensure sustainability. This implies that the "with project" scenario
in the long run would yield a positive fiscal impact when compared to the "without project" situation. The
net fiscal impact is not calculated here given that insufficient information is available.
3. Technical:
PRAGUAS faces no major technical issues, since all technologies considered for water supply and
sanitation systems are well-established. Instead, preparation has focused on compiling a comprehensive
Guide of Technical Options ("Guia de Opciones Tecnicas", available on CD ROM) that provides OITS
with (i) standardized designs for a range of technical options and service levels; (ii) standard costs for
individual components (sand filters, storage tanks, latrines etc.); and (iii) revised design standards that
reduce construction costs. The availability of standardized designs and cost tables will make it easier for
engineers to present rural communities with a range of technical options and associated service levels that
allow beneficiaries to weigh what they want and are willing to pay for.
One important preparation activity has been to identify and promote the application of lower cost and more
appropriate technologies for dispersed rural communities since many Ecuadorian engineers tend to
standardize on gravity-flow or pumped piped systems with house connections and meters. While these
service levels may be appropriate for larger communities whose members are willing to pay the associated
tariffs, alternative options may be more appropriate for smaller communities in the Costa and Oriente
regions. Sanitation options include (i) improved traditional latrines; (ii) ventilated improved pit (VIP)
latrines with one or two pits and a variety of superstructures; (iii) pour-flush toilets with a variety of
superstructures; and (iv) basic sanitation units ("unidades basicas de saneamiento", UBS) that integrate a
shower, sink and flush toilet. For larger communities, piped sewerage (standard, small-bore and
condominial) will also be an option. Water supplv options include (i) rainwater harvesting systems; (ii)
spring catchments; (iii) boreholes with handpumps; (iv) piped systems feeding multi-family taps (public
taps have been rejected because of a history of poor maintenance) and/or household connections.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
The main executing agency for PRAGUAS will be the Ministry of Housing and Urban Development
(MIDUVI) through the Subsecretariat for Environmental Sanitation (SSA). Together with the Housing and
Urban Development Subsecretariats, the SSA is a second-level dependency of MIDWVI, which reports
directly to the Minister. SSA will oversee PRAGUAS and act as a general coordinator for project
implementation. It will be responsible for overall project planning, supervision, information and reporting
functions. SSA will also directly carry out the execution of components I (Sector reform/Institutional
Development) and 4 (Project Management) of the project.
Subprojects in rural and small town areas (components 2 and 3) will use a decentralized approach, with
key implementation roles played by the municipalities and the communities. Municipalities will be
responsible for procurement and supervision of contracts and will have fiduciary responsibilities. The
project preparation team analyzed the current capacity of municipalities to implement the proposed project
cycle. As expected, most small towns are not fully familiar with project management procedures including
procurement. Effective implementation of this decentralized scheme is one of the project's proposed
- 23 -



innovations and challenges. The project will provide capacity building and technical assistance to the
municipalities by hiring one (or several) Implementation Assistance Agencies (IAA) that will provide
technical assistance to the municipalities and the SSA as necessary.
4.2 Project management:
Project management will be carried out in SSA through a Project Implementation Unit (PMU) and the
participating SSA regional offices. The PMU will be established for the duration of the project (component
4) and staffed mostly outside of SSA's personnel payroll. This proposal is in line with the Government's
vision on decentralization, which calls for ministries and central agencies to focus on policy, programming,
technical assistance, facilitation and coordination type of functions, and less on direct implementation.
The restructuring of SSA could prove to be a difficult process as it will probably involve reorganization
both at headquarters and in the regional agencies. It can involve difficult decisions regarding personnel
since there are new functions that will require non-existent candidates to fill certain position profiles. The
SSA will also probably decrease its size. As discussed in greater detail in annex 2, PRAGUAS will finance
severance payments as needed as part of SSA's restructuring initiative.
PRAGUAS's toughest challenge will be to provide sound and effective technical assistance to
municipalities, utilities and private operators to help implement the proposed institutional scheme for the
provision of sustainable services. In the case of the rural communities, the project will support the creation
and strengthening of water user associations (juntas) who will be responsible for operation and maintenance
in the respective community. Municipalities will also enter into agreements with their rural communities
which would involve the provision of technical assistance. Grouping of communities into multi-juntas, (i.e.
one junta serving several communities) will be promoted as a way to generate economies of scale and to
reduce operation and maintenance costs. For small and medium-size towns, effective delegation of service
to autonomous operators and training of municipalities on regulatory functions represents the main
challenge to attain sustainability. The project will provide technical assistance through SSA to carry out
such tasks.
4.3 Procurement issues:
A procurement capacity assessment was carried out on MIDWVI and a sample of 5 small municipalities
and it was determined that this is a "high" risk operation, mainly because of the weak procurement capacity
of Ecuador's small municipalities. MIDUVI (through the project management unit, PMU) will carry out
project components 1 and 4 while approximately 40 small municipalities will implement components 2 and
3 which account for 84% of total investments under APL-1. While the PMU's procurement capacity can be
upgraded rather easily (by contracting experienced procurement staff from the private sector), the
procurement experience of project municipalities is typically limited to direct contracting and shopping and
is harder to upgrade in the short tern. In view of this limitation, the project team has developed an
integrated procurement risk mitigation strategy that includes (i) extensive training for municipalities
participating in PRAGUAS in procurement and other RWSS topics under component 2A; (ii) easy
"on-demand" technical assistance provided through EPP's (PRAGUAS provincial project units) and
especially through Implementation Assistance Agencies (IAA) -- project consulting firms that will provide
municipalities with experienced procurement specialists to prepare bidding documents, manage the tender
process and assist with bid evaluation; and (iii) use of local engineering consulting firms (OITS) to
supervise construction and sign-off on contractor invoices.
4.4 Financial management issues:
Accounting, financial reporting, and auditing arrangements. The Project Management Unit would
establish a financial coordination unit headed by a qualified financial coordinator to prepare the financial
- 24 -



statements and assure financial control of the project as well as auxiliary staff to execute financial
operations and provide control over project assets. Accounting would be managed by MIDUVI's Financial
Directorate, with two full-time accountants responsible for keeping adequate records specifically for the
project. They would install a project-specific financial package which would provide the basis for
government reporting and support the preparation of PMR Report 1.
The project would develop and document the detailed procedures for all financial operations carried out
under PRAGUAS. These should include descriptions of the following: job descriptions, cash receipts,
disbursements, control over advances, replenishment procedures, account reconciliation and controls, and
reporting requirements. The unit would include these in the Internal Operations Manual.
The financial management system has been evaluated by a Bank Financial-Management Specialist and is as
yet unable to meet minimum Bank requirements. A 4-C certificate has been issued reflecting weaknesses in
record-keeping that are being addressed by the addition of specialized consultants that are assisting the
project preparation team. For the purposes of carrying out the project, deposits into the Special Account
and their replenishments would be made on the basis of cash withdrawal statements based initially on a
summary sheet supported by adequate documentation. The PMU would execute an action plan to develop
its capacity to produce all components of the financial management system as required under LACI no later
than June 30, 2001. An Action Plan for setting up a PMR-based system has been agreed to and includes the
following: (a) preparation of a revised project chart-of-accounts, (b) establishment of a format for periodic
and annual reporting, (c) a revised project Operational Manual incorporating satisfactory financial and
accounting policies for the project, (d) installation of a PMR compatible computerized system, (e) a
training program on PMR for all project senior staff, and (f) selection of a private firn to carry out the
external project audit. By effectiveness, items (a) through (d) of the Action Plan will be completed and the
Borrower will present the Bank with a short list of firms qualified to carry out the external project audit.
Following conversion to PMR-based disbursements, replenishments to the Special Account would be based
on cash forecasts contained in quarterly Project Management Reports. Each of these reports would: (i)
show actual sources and applications of funds for the Project, both cumulatively and for the period, and
projected sources and applications of funds for the Project for the following six-months; (ii) list separately
expenditures financed out of the credit during the period covered by the report and expenditures proposed
to be financed during the following six-month period; (iii) describe physical progress in project
implementation, both cumulatively and for the period covered, and explain variances between the actual
and previously forecast implementation targets; and (iv) set forth the status of procurement under the
Project and expenditures under contracts financed from the credit for the period covered.
Audit. The project accounts (including contracts for consultants, goods and works) as well as the deposits
and withdrawals from the Special Account would be audited each year by an independent auditing fimn
acceptable to the Bank under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. In addition to the annual
financial statements conforming to International Standards on Auditing (IFAC Standards), the audit report
would include comments on the internal control and on the accuracy and propriety of all expenditures and
on the extent to which supporting information could be relied upon as a basis for requesting disbursements
from the loan using PMRs. Audit reports with the related statements would be submitted to the Bank within
four months of the end of the Borrower's fiscal year. All supporting records would be maintained at the
project site for at least one year.
5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
-25 -



No major environmental issues are expected in the implementation of this project, given the small scale of
the water supply and sanitation investments envisioned in rural areas and small towns. Minor
environmental impacts (proper disposal of construction wastes, erosion control etc.) will be addressed by
appropriate guidelines that will be incorporated into the technical specifications governing the work of
construction contractors.
Appropriate environmental screening criteria for water and sanitation sub-projects have been agreed with
the project preparation team and incorporated into the project evaluation manual ("guia de evaluaci6n de
proyectos") that has been cleared by the Bank and forms part of the overall Operation Manual. The
screening criteria will be used by the provincial PRAGUAS teams (EPP's) to evaluate the technical, social,
environmental, financial and economic feasibility of WSS investments prepared by the OITS in conjunction
with program communities. PRAGUAS will provide training and technical assistance to the EPP's to
support effective use of the screening criteria.
As part of APL- 1, PRAGUAS will conduct an environmental assessment of the rural sanitation sector
that will provide inputs for additional training and institution-building activities to be conducted under
APL-2.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
Not applicable.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: N.A.
No stand-alone Environmental Assessment (EA) was deemed necessary for this project. Instead, project
preparation has focused on the development of appropriate environmental (and other) screening criteria,
that will be applied to every single WSS investment undertaken in rural areas and small towns under
PRAGUAS.
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
No formal stand-alone consultation on the environment was deemed necessary as part of project
preparation. It should be noted, however, that extensive community consultation on proposed WSS
investments and their environmental impacts is inherently part of the design process used under
demand-responsive rural water supply projects. Specifically, stakeholder consultation on environmental
issues will be conducted as part of the "Pre-investment" activities described in Annex 2.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
No major environmental issues are expected in the implementation of this project, given the small scale of
the water supply and sanitation investments envisioned in rural areas and small towns.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The Bank has worked closely with the PRAGUAS preparation team in the design and implementation of a
- 26 -



culturally appropriate social assessment, as recommended by O.D. 4.20. The main objective of the social
assessment is to incorporate a participation, gender and indigenous strategy into every stage of the project
design. A series of consultations both at the agency level and at the community level have been carried out
through project preparation to discuss lessons learned from WSS interventions country-wide and to
generate socially and financially appropriate strategies for the supply of water and basic sanitation to
small towns mainly in rural areas. A Participatory Rural Appraisal in ten culturally diverse communities
was carried out by a team of local social scientists with technical assistance from the World Bank. An
inter-institutional consultative group, formed by the Subsecretaria de Saneamiento Ambiental (SSA),
PRAGUAS, Coordinadora de Nacionalidades y Pueblos del Ecuador (CODENPE), PanAmerican Health
Organization (PAHO), and the World Bank-financed health project FASBASE, was organized with the aim
of defining a WSS strategy which incorporates gender and inter-cultural principles. Three studies in
particular have provided input to sector policy: (1) Participation Strategy of Gender and Indigenous
Peoples in WSS Interventions; (2) A Strategy for Basic Sanitation Intervention, and (3) A Communication
Strategy for targeted communities. These strategies are reflected in the Operational Manual and may be
modified to respond to clients' needs. A series of inter-institutional (government agencies and private
sector) workshops was carried out from October 1999 to January 2000 to assist the SSA in defining sector
policy and strategies for WSS in Ecuador.
Diagnostic data gathered at the municipal and community levels includes relevant socioeconomic,
demographic, cultural, health, sanitation, and financial information in addition to technical aspects. It also
includes information on (i) social stratification and community government; (ii) community organization
(including existence of Water Committees) and NGOs working on WSS; (iii) willingness to pay and
savings practices at commercial or community banks; and (iv) hygiene habits and sanitary practices. This
information is then used to create the project baseline. The project includes the development of an M&E
system which may start at the community level with the participation of the beneficiaries themselves.
The Participation, Gender and Indigenous Plan in Annex 11 is intended to assist PRAGUAS in the
operation of the WSS participation strategies. It includes a number of actions/activities such as: (a)
Inter-institutional Workshops to discuss the Strategies for Water and Sanitation in indigenous communities
with a gender focus; Workshops to discuss the Strategy for Basic Sanitation for the sector; Workshops for
women and youth in the management of water and sanitation; and (b) Production of training and
communication materials for program promotion as well as for periodic training for communities, OITS,
EMS and the PRAGUAS implementation unit. Some of these materials will be adapted to the different
cultural settings in at least two indigenous languages (quichua and shuar).
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The backbone of the PRAGUAS project is a participatory approach which incorporates stakeholders and
direct beneficiaries in the decision-making processes throughout the project. In principle, the primary
beneficiaries live in rural areas of small municipalities (those with cantonal capitals that have less than
10,000 inhabitants) -- in practice the pilot project shows that the bulk of the demand comes from
communities of 500-2,000 people. The selection of beneficiary populations at the provincial, municipal
and community levels is a systematic tripartite participatory process involving EPP/EMS, municipalities
and communities. Selection criteria at each level have been agreed and tested. Open forum and
consultations based on informed decisions are the norm in the promotional, pre-investrment and investment
phases. Mechanisms have been built into the project to ensure a gender and indigenous focus. Selection
criteria at the provincial level include: (a) poverty level according to LSMS 1998; (b) coverage deficit of
WSS; and (c) absence of other WSS interventions. Eligible municipalities must (a) have less than 10,000
- 27 -



inhabitants in the cantonal capital; (b) agree to PRAGUAS program rules and sector policies; and (c)
provide municipal budget support for WSS works. Selection criteria at the community level include (a),
(b) and (c) above plus (d) percentage of indigenous and Afro-Ecuadorian population; (e) number of women
requesting projects; and (f) per capita savings deposited by beneficiaries in a commercial or community
bank earmarked for the project.
The OITS is a key player in the project, as it accompanies the community through the project cycle to
provide it with the knowledge it needs to make informed decisions about applying to the project, technical
options, service levels, financial options and requirements. Communities will own their own systems and
be in charge of managing them. Community-based Water User Associations in charge of administration
and management of the projects as well as the communities themselves will receive appropriate training in
local languages and by means of culturally appropriate materials. Also, the project is planning to develop a
participatory M&E system so community members will be involved in periodically assessing the progress
of project activities.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
Several civil society organizations working on water & sanitation, health and education were invited to
forrn a Consultative Group and to participate in project preparation. Two 4-day workshops were held by
this Group to discuss the cultural and financial appropriateness of the project. Twenty-two agencies,
public and private (including NGOs) participated in the workshops. The main topics of discussion were
the use of appropriate multi-cultural and multi-lingual mechanisms to be included in project design, to deal
with minority groups and isolated rural communities. Further consultations with agencies and NGOs will
be conducted by SSA and the Consultative Group for project evaluation purposes.. (See Annex 11)
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
(a) A key institutional arrangement to ensure that the project achieves its social development outcome is the
team composition at the provincial, municipal and community levels to ensure that every step of the project
cycle be looked at from a social angle. Thus, each and every team working on the project is formed by
social and technical experts working together and concurrently. (See Annex  11)
(b) Training at various institutional levels as well as training of beneficiaries is at the heart of the project.
At the institutional level, training of technical and social experts at the provincial level and in the municipal
sanitation teams (EMS), as well as those working for the "Organizaciones de Intervenci6n Tecnico-Social"
(OITS) is emphasized throughout the project cycle. Moreover, communities are trained in community
participation in water projects, in water utilization and sanitation education, formation and administration
of water committees and the financial responsibilities of being connected to a water system.
(c) The criteria used for the selection and prioritization of beneficiary groups at the provincial, municipal
and community levels include such aspects as poverty, ethnicity, gender and beneficiary contributions. The
beneficiary group's choice of both water and sanitation together (instead of just water) is an important
selection criteria, as it tends to improve hygiene habits, reduce illness and promote social well-being.
(d) PRAGUAS has also created special mechanisms to include indigenous people, since about 40% of
potential beneficiaries self-identify as indigenous/black peoples of Ecuador. Indigenous groups will be
presented with all technical options available for water supply and sanitation either in their own language
- 28 -



or by means of interpreters, and the technical solutions and service levels selected will be adapted to their
needs.
(e) PRAGUAS has also been designed to respect indigenous institutions such as the Cabildo, and will not
build parallel WSS organizations where appropriate structures already exist. In some communities
targeted under the pilot projects, a Coordinadora de Agua which is a branch of the Cabildo was
constituted in place of a separate Junta de Agua. The Coordinadoras strike a balance between the rules of
the Cabildo and those prescribed by the Ley de Junta.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
For projects expected to receive authorization to appraise/negotiate (in principle) prior to April 30, 2000,
this section may be left blank.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                     Applicability
OL Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01. GP 4.01)           L3 Yes L No
O Natural habitats (OP 4.04. BP 4.04. GP 4.04)                    El Yes Li No
El Forestry (OP 4.36. GP 4.36)                                    C3 Yes LiNo
O Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                       O Yes LNo
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                   LiYes LNo
Li Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                   Z Yes L No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                              Li Yes Li No
L Safety of Dams (OP 4.37. BP 4.37)                                l Yes L No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)    El Yes L No
El Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60. BP 7.60, GP 7.60)         El Yes L No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
1. A social assessment was carried out as a joint effort between PRAGUAS and the WB between May
and November, 1999 (please see Social Assessment document and Participatory and Gender Plan,
annex 11). The social assessment included two studies, "Culture and Gender Strategy for Water and
Sanitation Interventions by PRAGUAS", and "Sanitation Intervention Strategy for the PRAGUAS
Program". Both studies included consultations with 20 indigenous and non-indigenous communities
nationwide.
2. PRAGUAS formed a consultative group including SSA, PAHO, and the Direccion Indigena de Salud
del MINSA to discuss the Indigenous and Gender Strategy for WSS Investements that will be
institutioralized by SSA.
3. Participatory processes were built into the PRAGUAS project cycle to ensure full participation (see the
flow chart of project cycle, figure 1, annex 2).
4. Proper training of the technical-social teams at the provincial and municipal levels will be carried out
to ensure that staff is sensitive to the specific needs of marginalized groups (indigenous people and
women).
5. A culturally-appropriate information dissemination campaign will be conducted within the project
regions in the languages spoken by beneficiaries.
- 29 -



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The sustainability of the water and sanitation facilities will be supported by:
A. Community Willingness and Capacity to Manaze and Sustain Services: In rural areas this will be
achieved by requiring communities to demonstrate their commitment to service improvement upfront,
including taking initiative, selecting their preferred service level and management option, making a cash
contribution (no less than 10% of overall investment costs), agreeing to an adequate tariff, and undertaking
organizational responsibilities (forming a Junta) before funding is approved. Overall, beneficiaries will
finance 30% of their water supply investments in cash and through community labor. PRAGUAS will also
strengthen community capacity in the areas of organization, operations and maintenance, financial
management, hygiene and environmental education, and effective water use and disposal.
B. Municipal Government support to Community Management: Municipal governments, too, will
demonstrate their ownership by funding 20% of overall investment costs upfront before rural sub-projects
under their jurisdiction can be approved. In addition, they will be required to separate service provision in
all communities in their municipality from the operation of the water system in the municipal capital.
Municipal governments will be strengthened to provide the required technical backstopping to Juntas and
small companies, without taking over direct operational responsibilities.
C. Competent Service Operators: Since the long-term sector strategy is to assist municipal governments in
attracting private operators to manage their water  and sanitation systems, these operators have to
demonstrate solid technical and financial competence. PRAGUAS will include intensive capacity building
to help small entrepreneurs form companies, and eventually to create an association of service providers.
The performance of these operators will be closely monitored.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating            Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
1. Sector policies, especially financial, not  S     1. GOE has presented a detailed policy letter
supported by major WSS sector                        setting out the WSS strategy the government has
stakeholders;                                        adopted. A broad stakeholder dialogue will be
conducted during APL- 1 to support the
preparation of a new Water & Sanitation Sector
Law. In the meantime, PRAGUAS will be rolled
out to Ecuador's provinces in a way that
minimizes interference with Ecuadorian agencies
and outside donors still using financing policies
inconsistent with SSA's new strategy.
2. SSA doesn't adapt to new role as sector  M        2. Appropriate design and ownership of SSA
leader, promoter and facilitator;                   restructuring program
- 30 -



3. Municipalities don't accept new role in  S        3. Project will only work in municipalities
sector, fail to apply cost recovery policies         committed to reform
and intervene in the day-to-day operations
of service provision;
4. Municipalities fail to provide PS and   S         4. Project will only work in municipalities
NGO's with long term incentives to                   committed to reform
support community managed services in
rural areas;
5. Communities are not willing to select,  M         5. Communities selected based on expressed
pay and assume management of services                demand for service improvement. Adequate
training is ensured
6. Women and minority groups do not        M         6. Training programs and monitoring indicators
actively participate in decision-making             include participation elements
7. Juntas/Small town operators are unable  S         7. Management training programs with
to properly administer water systems                 follow-up support from municipalities
8. Community members do not improve        S         8. High priority given to community
hygiene behavior or make effective use of            development, hygiene education and sanitation
water and sanitation services                        promotion, before, during and after construction
From Components to Outputs
1. MIDUVI (and central government) fail    S         1. Design and ownership of institutional
to take ownership of SSA restructuring;              development component
2. Training programs are poorly targeted   M         2. Adequate preparation, M&E and adaptation
and designed
3. Municipal and community subprojects     S         3. Cost-sharing and eligibility rules enforced,
not prioritized based on demand, political          rejected communities well-informed of reason
interference and project "capture" by
municipal authority
4. Software and hardware not properly      M         4. Subprojects works should not be funded until
integrated and priority given to facility            communities are well prepared and have made
construction                                        their financial contribution
5. Slow fund approval and disbursement     S         5. Adequate design of project procedures
to municipal government
6. Inadequate financial and project        M         6. Adequate project design, staffing and
management procedures                               institutional reform of SSA/MIDUVI
- 31 -



7. Municipalities and communities fail to   H         7. Only those rural subprojects for which
mobilize counterpart funding                          municipalities and communities have mobilized
their cash contribution upfront will be tendered.
In addition, first-time municipalities will be
allowed to propose only a small number of their
rural communities for PRAGUAS financing
until their ability to mobilize municipal
counterpart funds has been clearly established.
Overall Risk Rating                         s
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
*   Substantial (S)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
1. The Project Operation Manual (OM) has been issued by the Borrower and approved by the Bank;
2. The SSA Restructuring Plan has been approved by the Bank and MIDUVI has issued the respective
ministerial resolution for the implementation of the plan;
3. At least one Implementation Assistance Agency (IAA) has been contracted;
4. The PMU has been established and its project coordinator as well as the area coordinators for sector
strengthening, investments, and financing/administration have been appointed;
5. The Financial Management Action Plan has been implemented.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
1. SSA issues water and sanitation tariff guidelines acceptable to the Bank by June 30, 2001;
2. SSA presents a draft Water and Sanitation Sector Law for Bank review by June 30, 2002;
3. SSA maintains an adequately staffed PMU.
H. Readiness for Implementation
0 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
0 1. b) Not applicable.
2 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
O 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
E 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
- 32 -



1. Compliance with Bank Policies
Z 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
El 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Oscar .40araW                    lbanny M. Leipzi                   Andres      ano
Team  eader                       Sector Manager irec  r            Cgry Manager/Director
- 33 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
ECUADOR: Rural and Small Towns Water Supply and Sanitation Project (PRAGUAS)
K   Perfornance
Hierarchy of Objctives0        Indicators          Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumpotins
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:       Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Improved living conditions of % increase in households with                   Poverty Reduction,
the population in small  improved living conditions                           Modernization of the State
municipalities through    due to water and sanitation
improved access to sustainable services available and used
WSS services.             within rural and small town
communities
- 34 -



Key Perfonnance
Hierarchy of ObJectlvs           IndIatoms           Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Program Purpose:           End-of-Program Indicators:  Program reports:          (from Purpose to Goal)
Increase coverage and      *Phase 1:                  Quarterly progress reports,   Community members make
effective use of sustainable   I.Draft water sector law  supervision missions,   effective use of and sustain
water and sanitation services   prepared, policy reforms  end-of-phase reviews   services, make productive use
in Ecuador, with a focus on    initiated and SSA                                 of time savings and increased
the poorer populations in rural restructured;                                    water, thereby improving
communities and small towns. 2.WSS investments reach                             health and living conditions
350,000 people in rural
areas;
3 Delegation models
successfully piloted in at
least 8 small towns.
*Phase 2:
.Policy reform deepened and
new financial guidelines
widely applied by other
sector financiers;
2.A cumulative total of
980,000 additional people in
rural areas with new (or
rehabilitated) WSS services;
3.Delegated service provision
in 20 small towns.
*Phase 3:
I.Policy reform consolidated,
complete cost recovery
(O&M and full investment
cost) achieved and private
sector participation
deepened;
2.A cumulative total of 1.6
million additional people in
rural areas with new (or
rehabilitated) WSS services
that are used effectively and
sustained;
3.Delegation of WSS service
provision to autonomous
public or private operators in
50 municipal capitals.
- 35 -



Project Development         Outcome I Impact           Project reports:            (from Objective to Purpose)
Objective:                 Indicators:
Improved sector performance  1. Sector policy for rural areas *Quarterly and annual  Sector policies, institutional
through the application of    launched, increased cost   progress reports,         frarnework and investment
coherent policies, the      recovery achieved and policy  *Supervision missions,   enable an increase in
strengthening of sector     reform initiated for other  *Community and municipal  sustainable service coverage
institutions, and increased    aspects of sector;        surveys and impact studies
service coverage and quality
for approximately 350,000    2. Reorganization of SSA
beneficiaries in about 40 rural complete with full staffng
municipalities as well as in 6  structure, training and
small towns.               portfolio of services in place
in accordance with the
restructuring plan;
3. 40 municipal governments
have the capacity to oversee
service provision in their
jurisdiction and at least 8 have
delegated service provision to
autonomous operators;
4. Increased capacity of the PS
and NGO's to provide goods,
services and operating support
for service management at the
local level, including at least
50 local implementation
organizations (OITS) trained
and certified;
5. Sustainable new and
rehabilitated WSS services
serve 350,000 beneficiaries in
rural areas and small towns
and 210,000 people in rural
communities have been
trained in administration,
O&M and hygiene education.
-36 -



Key Perfonnance
Hierarhy of QbjectivOs           Indictor           Montriwng & Evaluation    Critical Assumptins
Output from each          Output Indicators:         Project reports:          (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
(1.1) Institutional framework  (1.1.1) % of sector  Quarterly progress reports,   *Sector policies, especially
and sector policy defined and  investments (involving public consultant reports,  financial, supported by major
implemented;              funds) carried out according to supervision missions,  WSS sector stakeholders;
agreed policy (25% by Dec    consultations with
2001; 50% by Dec 2002; 70%  municipalities, independent
by Dec 2003; and 90% by Dec evaluations with community
2004);                    surveys
(1.1.2) Water Sector Law
prepared by Dec 2002;
(1.2) SSA has been        (1.2.1) Reorganization (100%                         *SSA effectively adapts to
reorganized and has assumed  implemented by June, 2001);                        new role as sector leader,
its new role;                                                                   promoter and facilitator;
(1.2.2) Training program
(80% implemented by Dec,
2001);
(1.2.3) Deliverables for
current year's sector plan
achieved (80% by Dec, 2002);
(1.3) Local Governments    (1.3.1) # of municipalities                         *Municipalities accept new
strengthened to carry out  with WSS services delegated                          role in sector, apply cost
delegation of water and   (2 by Dec, 200 1; 4 by Dec,                           recovery and don't intervene
sanitation services;      2002; 8 by Dec, 2003);                                in day-to-day operation of
service provision
(1.4) NGO's and other private (1.4.1) # of trained private                     oLong term incentives
providers strengthened to  operators and NGO's (20                              available to PS and NGOs to
provide services to       OITS by Dec, 2001; 50 OITS                            support community managed
municipalities in project  by Dec, 2002)                                        services in rural areas
execution and operation;
(2.1) Municipalities and  (2.1.1) # of additional people                       *Communities are willing to
communities carry out the    with new or rehabilitated WSS                      select, pay and assume
subprojects according to the   services (70,000 by Dec, 2001;                   management of services;
agreed policy;            150,000 by Dec, 2002;
250,000 by Dec, 2003; and                            *Women and minority groups
350,000 by Dec, 2004);                                actively participate in
decision-making;
(2.1.2) # of people trained in
beneficiary communities                              * Juntas properly administer
(40,000 by Dec, 2001; 90,000                          water systems;
by Dec, 2002; 150,000 by Dec,
2003; and 210,000 by Dec,                            *Communities make effective
2004);                                                use of services;
- 37 -



(3.1) Municipalities carry out (3.1.1) # of urban centers with
subprojects according to  rehabilitated/ expanded WSS
agreed policy;            systems (I by Dec, 2001; 3 by
Dec, 2002; and 6 by Dec,
2003);
(4.1) Effective project   (4.1.1) Efficiency of Project  Financial management system
management: planning,     Management Unit (PMU) at  (FMS) and external audits.
fnancing, monitoring,     national and provincial levels;
evaluation and reporting.
(4.1.2) PRAGUAS rules and
targets evaluated on a periodic
basis with broad consultation.
- 38 -



Key Prtnance
Hierarchy of Objectives         indicatom          Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Project Components I     Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:        (from Components to
Sub-components:          component)                                          Outputs)
1. Sector Reform /       Consultants, capacity building *PRAGUAS-MIDUVI      eMIDUVI (and central
Institutional Development  for public and private agencies quarterly and annual  government) takes
and NGO's, equipment and   progress reports;        ownership of SSA
lA. SSA restructuring and    workshops                                        restructuring;
policy reform;           ($4.50 M)                 *Bank disbursement data;
*Training programs are well
1B. Strengthening of                               *Independent audit reports;   targeted and designed;
municipal governments,
NGO's and WSS operators;                           *Supervision missions;
*Participatory assessments in
communities;
*Stakeholder consultations at
national level.
2. Water and Sanitation  Consultants, training,                              *Municipal and community
Subprojects in Rural Areas  engineering designs, and civil                    subprojects prioritized based
works ($39.00 M)                                    on demand, without political
2A. Promotion, community                                                      interference;
development, engineering
designs and supervision;                                                     *Integration of software and
hardware, especially during
2B. Water and sanitation                                                      preinvestment phase;
facilities, community training
and hygiene education;                                                       *Quick fund approval &
disbursement;
*Good coordination between
SSA and financial
intermediary.
*Counterpart funding is
available from municipalities
and communities;
3. Water and Sanitation    Consultants, training
Subprojects in Municipal   engineering designs and civil
Capitals                 works ($3.00 M)
3A. Engineering studies and
supervision;
3B. Civil works
- 39 -



4. Project Management     Consultants, limited goods                           eAppropriate staffing,
and equipment for                                     financial and project
*  Operating costs for  PRAGUAS/SSA ($3.43 M)                                 management procedures
project management unit
(PMU);
* Contractual staff for
PMU;
* Equipment and software
for PMU
* Maintenance of
financial management
system and collection of
monitoring indicators
* Audits and
consultancies
* Rural sanitation sector
EA
-40 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
ECUADOR: Rural and Small Towns Water Supply and Sanitation Project (PRAGUAS)
By Component:
Project Component I - US$4.50 million
1.    SECTOR REFORM/INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
MvDUVI and CONAM have prepared a Sector Policy Document that defines the roles of the
Sub-Secretaria de Saneamiento Ambiental (SSA), municipal governments, NGO's and private sector
service providers in Ecuador's water and sanitation sector. Under component 1, PRAGUAS will provide
technical assistance, training, and equipment to enable each sector institution to assume its new sector
roles, as described below:
1.1    Subcomponent 1 A: Restructuring of SSA and Policy Reform
SSA Restructuring: PRAGUAS will support a major restructuring of SSA that will enable the agency to
formulate sector policies and norms, set general regulatory guidelines and provide technical assistance and
training to municipalities and other sector institutions. In the future, SSA is expected to act in four core
areas:
-   Definition of 5-year plans to increase water and sanitation coverage, improve service quality
and strengthen system management. SSA will (i) coordinate sector investments; (ii) enhance
service sustainability by leveraging investments to municipalities that make sound policy choices;
(iii) strengthen decentralization by coordinating TA programs to municipalities; and (iv) promote
the use of innovative and appropriate technologies.
*   Definition of regulatory guidelines. SSA will (i) define minimum standards for service quality
and continuity for water, sanitation and solid waste collection; (ii) set clear and transparent
guidelines for PSP in the sector (incl. standard bidding documents etc.); and (iii) set general tariff
guidelines.
*   Set-up and maintenance of a sector information system. The sector information system is
expected to collect and structure information at three levels : (i) macro data needed to define policy
and improve planing by national and municipal policy makers; (ii) registers of service providers
and operators, standard bidding and contract documents for municipalities and PS partners; and
(iii) information on costs, tariffs, and service quality of interest to users.
*   Provision of TA and training to municipalities, operators and communities. (see component lB
below).
SSA currently has a total of 269 staff (135 in Quito and 134 in 20 provincial offices). In Quito, SSA is
currently organized into three departments ((i) Department of studies, promotion and regional
strengthening; (ii) Department of sanitation standards; and (iii) Department of monitoring) with functions
that still support the traditional direct implementation of WSS projects. There is considerable overlap in
the functions exercised by SSA's departments.
- 41 -



To support its new role of sector facilitator/promoter, SSA/Quito will be reorganized into two main
departments (Sectoral Planning and Technical Assistance) which will be complemented by an
Administrative, Financial, and Legal Support Unit. Provincial SSA offices will be restructured to (i)
provide municipalities with TA; (ii) promote participation by private sector and community-based
operators and service providers; (iii) supply information to the sector information system; and (iv) provide
monitoring and follow-up for RWSS projects.
It is expected that SSA's restructuring will involve some (perhaps as many as 50) layoffs in addition to new
hiring of staff with skills that SSA currently lacks but will need to fulfill its new role in the sector (tariff
economists, financial analysts, PSP specialists, contract lawyers etc.). PRAGUAS has, budgeted
US$500,000 for out-placement assistance (training for new jobs in the private sector as well as severance
payments) in support of this process. It is expected that the restructuring of SSA supported by PRAGUAS
severance payments will significantly improve overall sector efficiency, as SSA delegates project
implementation activities to the private sector and decentralized levels of government.
In addition to severance payments, PRAGUAS will fnance technical assistance, training and promotional
activities in support of SSA's restructuring.
Policy Reform: PRAGUAS will support a participatory preparation process for a new draft Water and
Sanitation Sector Law that reaches out to a range of stakeholders (national and municipal governments,
sector financiers, NGO's, private sector participants) in order to build consensus and facilitate subsequent
passage by Congress. Previous attempts at passing such a law have been hampered by an insufficiently
participative process that made it impossible to reach consensus among key stakeholders on such issues as
appropriate regulatory structures and ownership of system assets. The project will:
•   conduct workshops to discuss the Sector Policy Document to be prepared by MIDUVI and drafts
of the proposed Water Sector Law;
*   provide TA to deepen research into the overlaps and contradictions that currently exist between
such laws as the "ley de juntas de agua", the "ley de municipios" and the "ley de modernizacion".
Among other things, these laws make contradictory provisions for the ownership of rural WSS
system assets. Bank missions will support the preparation process by providing guidance on the
appropriate scope for the new sector law (delegation of services, regulatory framework, financial
and tariff policy).
1.2    Subcomponent 1 B: Strengthening of Municipal Governments, NGO's and Private WSS
Operators
1.2.1 Delegation Assistance and Strengthening for Municipal Governments
Water supply and sanitation services in Ecuador's 214 municipalities are currently provided by 16 public
utilities (in the larger cities), municipal governments (in medium and small towns) and water committees
("juntas administradoras de agua potable") in very small urban centers and rural areas. Given the weak
performance of the sector overall (see section B2 in the main text for a detailed discussion), the GOEs
strategy calls for the delegation of WSS service provision to autonomous public and private operators over
the next 10 years.  SSA (through PRAGUAS)  would provide technical assistance to interested
municipalities (except the country's three largest) to (i) guide them towards delegation; and (ii) strengthen
-42 -



both municipalities and the new autonomous operators to assume their new roles once delegation has taken
place. Ecuador's three largest cities (Quito, Guayaquil and Cuenca) are considered capable of contracting
TA to prepare delegation processes without assistance from the national government.
Once municipalities have delegated the provision of water and sanitation services to either autonomous
public or private operators, those with small municipal capitals (under 10,000 inhabitants) will qualify for
PRAGUAS grants (see component 3 below) that will cover (i) 100% of the cost of engineering designs and
supervision for the expansion/rehabilitation of water supply systems; and (ii) 50% of the cost of water
supply infrastructure up to an agreed limit. For municipalities with larger municipal capitals (in excess of
10,000 inhabitants), SSA will work with BEDE to secure a line of credit that will allow delegating
municipalities to upgrade/expand their water supply infrastructure.
The following table presents a medium-term vision for service provision and summarizes water supply
financing options for municipalities that choose the reform path:
Table 1: Delegation profiles and available investment financing
Population               Municipalities   Likely delegation     Investment financing by
model
SSA (PRAGUAS)    BEDE
More than 300,000              3          Large national or
international private
operators
Between 30,000 and 300,000    30           Samll/medium                           (1)
private operators
Between 10,000 and 30,000     44          Public or mixced                        (1)
capital utilities
Between 2,000 and 10,000      95        Municipal companies       (2)
Less than 2,000               42         Water committees         (2)
TOTAL                         214                                 137             74
Notes:     (1) Investment financing through a line of credit to be negotiated with BEDE
(2) Investment financing under PRAGUAS component 3.
The delegation models identified above are preliminary. Four delegation pilots are currently underway in
Caluma (mixed capital company, "empresa de economia mixta"), Tena (users' cooperative), Pedro
Moncayo (consortium of water committees contracting outside operator) and Quevedo (management
contract with commercial risk) to develop models that are viable in the Ecuadorian context.
The SSA restructuring supported under component 1A will create a Department of Technical Assistance
within SSA/Quito that will define the general framework for TA to municipalities and a system of
provincial TA officers that will respond to requests for delegation assistance from interested municipalities.
When municipalities request TA for delegation, SSA will assist them in contracting teams of local
consultants that will (i) help municipalities to identify appropriate models and (ii) prepare the legal,
financial, technical and social instruments required to implement it. Based on experience with the pilot
- 43 -



delegation cases discussed above, the consulting teams would typically comprise a lawyer, a fnancial
analyst, an engineer and a community development specialist. PRAGUAS would provide grants to eligible
municipalities to fnance the work by these consultants. Eligibility criteria for small municipalities (those
that also qualify for component 2) and medium-sized municipalities differ slightly. The following table
summarizes the implementation principals for delegation assistance to municipalities.
Table 2  Implementation principles for delegation TA
Criteria                    Small municipalities                Medium-sized municipalities
Definition                   *Population of less than 10,000     *Population of between 10,000 and
people in municipal capital        300,000 in municipal capital
Minimum Eligibility          *Interest in delegating service     *Interest in delegating service
Requirements                  provision confirmed by mayor and    provision confirmed by mayor and
municipal council;                 municipal council;
*Agreement to raise tariffs in     eAgreement to raise tariffs in
municipal capital to levels that cover    municipal capital to levels that
at least O&M and 30% of             cover at least O&M and 30% of
investment costs;                  investment costs;
Priority given to            *Have at least 60% water supply
municipalities that...        coverage in the municipal capital;
*Willingness to group with other
small municipalities to achieve
economies of scale;
*Express interest in delegation     *Express interest in delegation
models tha involve private          models that involve private
participation.                      participation.
Services financed by        Before delegation                   Before delegation
PRAGUAS                      *100% (net of taxes) grant to finance    *100% (net of taxes) grant to finance
consulting services to prepare     consulting services to prepare
delegation;                        delegation;
*Training and study tours;         *Training and study tours;
After deleeation:                  After delegation
Continued training for municipality    * Continued training for
and new operators to assume new    municipality and new operators to
roles.                             assume new roles.
Financial incentives         *Municipalities that delegate service    *BEDE may offer line of credit to
provision become eligible for      finance expansion/rehabilitation of
component 3 (see below)            water/sanitation infrastructure.
investments in municipal capitals
(50%1O grant fnancing from
PRAGUAS);
eMunicipalities that do not delegate
service provision are eligible only
for investments in rural areas
(component 2).
As a result of the 4 pilot delegation cases, a number of tools (guidelines on asset valuation, financial
models, draft statutes for different delegation models) were developed during project preparation to support
the local consulting teams in their work.
-44 -



Over the course of APL-1, it is expected that approximately 15 municipalities will receive delegation
assistance from PRAGUAS and that no less than 8 of these will successfully delegate service provision.
The pace of service delegation is expected to quicken during APL-2 and APL-3 as successful pilots are
marketed as examples nationwide.
In addition to delegation assistance, small municipalities participating in component 2 of PRAGUAS would
receive assistance in (i) providing rural communities with the technical support they require to operate their
systems; (ii) procurement management; (iii) improved water & sanitation investment planning.
1.2.2 Assistance to NGO's and private sector service providers
In addition to the delegation assistance provided to municipalities, PRAGUAS will organize and finance
workshops, study tours, and training programs that will allow NGO's and private service providers to
assume their roles in the new sector structure.
Training events for private sector operators will be organized through Ecuadorian universities and
ANEMAPA ("La Asociacion Nacional de Empresas Municipales de Agua Potable, Alcantarillado y
Servicios Conexos") and will (i) promote the new sector strategy and the PRAGUAS approach to rural and
small town WSS; (ii) provide information on delegation models, the financial returns of systems that have
already been delegated and sources of investment financing.
Assistance will be also be provided to help the private sector and NGOs at the municipal level organize
small multi-disciplinary companies that provide community development, engineering and facility
construction services in rural communities that focus on demand-based approaches and participatory
development. Over time, SSA will also establish a certification program for sector professionals and
artisans (i.e. small-scale system operators, contractors, plumbers, etc.)
Additional background information on the technical assistance program developed by SSA to support
municipalities, NGO's, private sector service providers and users is provided in annex 13.
Project Component 2 - US$39.DO million
2.    WATER AND SANITATION SUB-PROJECTS IN RURAL AREAS
Under this heading, PRAGUAS will finance (i) promotion, community development, and engineering
activities (component 2A) as well as (ii) water and sanitation infrastructure, health & hygiene education,
and community training (component 2B) for water and sanitation subprojects in rural areas. All rural
communities in Ecuador's 152 small municipalities (those with provincial capitals with less than 10,000
inhabitants in 1990) that lack appropriate water and/or sanitation infrastructure are eligible for PRAGUAS
fnancing, subject to the rules and procedures described below. Communities that have water and/or
sanitation facilities but wish to expand and/or rehabilitate them are also eligible, provided that they accept
PRAGUAS' financing rules and cost recovery requirements.
2.1    Basic Principles
Table 3 summarizes the basic principles governing the implementation of the PRAGUAS rural WSS
- 45 -



component:
Table 3: PRAGUAS rural WSS implementation principles
Criteria                 Observation
Eligible investments     Construction or rehabilitation of water supply and sanitation investments
such as:
*   Water suppl : (i) rainwater harvesting systems, (ii) spring catchments,
(iii) boreholes with handpumps, (iv) piped systems feeding multi-family
taps and/or household connections;
*   Sanitation: (i) improved traditional latrines, (ii) ventilated improved pit
(VIP) latrines with a range of superstructures, (iii) pour-flush toilets
with a range of superstructures, (iv) basic sanitation units that integrate
a shower, sink and flush toilet; (v) piped sewerage (standard, small-bore
and condominial) for larger communities.
Investment ceilings      *   Water : US$ 700 per connection (for piped systems with household
connections) or per household (all other systems). Economic viability
will be checked for systems above US$ 415 per connection;
*   On-site single-household sanitation systems : US$250 per unit;
*   On-site sanitation systems in schools : US$8 per pupil.
Financing rules          Proiect preparation : 100%  (net of taxes) non-refundable grant to
municipalities (subcomponent 2A)
Proiect implementation (subcomponent 2B):
*   Water supply:
PRAGUAS: 50% (grant)
Municipalities: 20% (cash)
Communities : 30% (no less than 100/% in cash)
Individual beneficiaries pay full cost of individual
household connections and 100% of any costs above ceiling
*   On-site sin2le-household sanitation systems:
PRAGUAS: 70% (grant)
Households + Municipality: 30% up to ceiling, (at least 15% of
materials in cash), 100% of any costs above ceiling
*   On-site sanitation svstems in schools:
PRAGUAS: 100% (grant): (except excavation of pit)
Beneficiaries: excavation of pit
Eligibility requirements   *   Rural communities in small municipalities (municipal capitals with less
than 10,000 inhabitants) and small municipal capitals themselves;
*   Municipalities in each province that accept program rules (financial
participation, tariffs, demand-driven approach, etc.) are ranked using a
municipal Drioritization matrix;
*   Once municipalities have been selected, rural communities within these
municipalities that accept program rules are selected using a communitv
prioritization matrix;
*   Sanitation investments will be limited to rural communities that achieve
at least 60% coverage;
*   Communities must have legal control over water source before WS
investments can proceed.
Cost           recovery  *   Communities must agree to tariffs that cover at least O&M costs as well
requirements                 as   the  replacement cost of all electrical and  mechanical
equipment/valve work over 10 years.
- 46 -



2.2    The Roll-out Strategy
Each year over the life of the project, PRAGUAS will take a batch of communities from eligible
municipalities through a 5-step project cycle that includes (i) promotion, (ii) pre-selection, (iii)
pre-investment, (iv) investment, and (v) follow-up & technical assistance. It is expected that 5 batches of
communities will be able to complete the cycle by the end of APL-1, beginning with a pilot batch of 30
communities drawn from 4 municipalities in 4 provinces that began the cycle during project preparation
(March, 1999). To ensure that PRAGUAS will not exceed SSA's implementation capacity (at a national
and especially at a provincial level), the program will open in only 9 provinces during the first year of
APL-1 (the pilot provinces of Azuay (Sierra), El Oro (Costa), Pastaza (Oriente) and Bolivar(Sierra) as
well as 5 others prioritized according to water and sanitation coverage, poverty and regional participation
criteria) . During the second year of APL-1, municipalities and communities from all of Ecuador's
provinces (except Galapagos) will become eligible for PRAGUAS financing.
Particular care will be taken to ensure that promotional activities reach underdeveloped areas in
Ecuadorian provinces along the border with Peru (El Oro, Loja, Zamora-Chinchipe, Morona-Santiago,
Pastaza, Napo, and Sucumbios) in line with the Special Border Province Development Initiative currently
underway. The border provinces account for approximately one fourth of Ecuador's total rural population
in small municipalities. Currently only about 293,000 people (42% of a total population of 685,000 living
in small municipalities in border provinces) have access to acceptable potable water supply. By the end of
APL-1, this figure is expected to increase to about 60% and by the end of APL-3 to about 90%.
It is expected that by the end of APL-1 about 40 municipalities will have joined PRAGUAS.
Approximately, 40-50 more would join during each of the following two program phases (APL-2 and
APL-3). Once in the program, municipal governments would prioritize communities under their jurisdiction
that require water and/or sanitation investments according to clearly defined criteria contained in the
Operation Manual and submit them to PRAGUAS for financing either all at once or in batches. To achieve
economies of scale in terms of community mobilization, PRAGUAS would typically require municipalities
to assemble batches of rural communities that can absorb at least US$150,000 in water and/or sanitation
investments, though some flexibility will be allowed in light of Ecuador's current economic crisis. An upper
limit on the size of batches that could be nominated by a given municipality during any funding cycle would
be determined based on the availability of municipal and community counterpart financing (20% and 30%
of investment costs respectively).
Municipalities that join PRAGUAS could request investments in rural areas (under component 2) and --
after a one year wait -- in the municipal capital itself (under component 3). The one year waiting period is
intended to encourage WSS investments in underserved rural areas before additional investments are
undertaken in small urban areas where basic water supply services are generally available. In addition, any
small municipality seeking PRAGUAS assistance for "urban" investments would be required to delegate
WSS service provision to an autonomous public or a private operator.
2.3    Main Actors
SSA/MIDUVI will implement PRAGUAS in collaboration with eligible municipalities and communities.
Four types of legal agreements would be signed between the different parties:
*  Delegation Preparation Grant Agreements (between SSA/PRAGUAS and each municipality
-47 -



interested in delegating water and sanitation service provision under component 1B) setting forth,
(i) the technical assistance to be provided to that municipality; and (ii) the municipality's obligation
to carry out the delegation studies with support from consultants.
*   Delegation Investment Grant Agreements ((between SSAIPRAGUAS and each municipality that
has delegated water and sanitation service provision under component IB and has qualified for
PRAGUAS financial support under component 3) setting forth, (i) the engineering studies and civil
works for water supply/sanitation system expansion/rehabilitation to be carried out; (ii) timetables
for implementation; and (iii) the municipality's obligations for the studies and works.
*   Promotion and Preinvestment Grant Agreements (between SSAIPRAGUAS and a selected
municipality interested in preparing water supply/ sanitation investments in rural areas) setting
forth the general terms and conditions for (i) technical assistance to the municipalities; and (ii) the
preparation of investments in rural areas.
*   Rural Water and Sanitation Grant Agreements (between SSA/PRAGUAS, a selected municipality
and the rural communities for whom water supply/sanitation investments have been prepared under
the Promotion and Preinvestment Grant Agreement) setting forth (i) the works and training
activities to be carried out in the rural communities; (ii) the financial contributions of the respective
parties; (iii) the ownership of assets constructed under the Grant Agreement; (iv) the responsibility
of the communities' "Juntas de Agua" to operate the system; (v) the municipality's responsibility to
provide technical support; and (vi) the municipality's obligation to carry out activities under the
Grant Agreement in accordance with the Operation Manual.
Within this general framework, the role of PRAGUAS' main actors can be summarized as follows : A
proiect management unit (PMU) set up within SSA/MIDUVI will be responsible for overall coordination.
Provincial SSA offices will form EPP's (equipos provincialas del PRAGUAS) which will assist
municipalities that join PRAGUAS in setting up municipal sanitation teams (EMS's, equipos municipales
de saneamientc) and then support them in program promotion and pre-investment activities. Technical &
Social Intermediary Organizations (OITS, organizaciones de intervencion tecnico v social) -- private
companies and/or NGOs that have been pre-qualified to undertake community development and prepare
engineering designs -- will work with rural communities to plan investments, set-up water & sanitation
committees ("juntas de agua") and prepare for system operation. During the promotion and pre-investment
phases, one or more Implementation Assistance Agencies (IAA) -- national or international NGO's or
engineering consultants with demand-responsive RWSS experience -- will strengthen the EMS's and help
them in supervising the OITS working in their municipalities. During the investment phase, the IAA(s) will
assist the EMS's in selecting and supervising construction contractors and channeling project information
back to the PMU.
2.4    The Project Cycle
The project cycle and the responsibilities of main actors are summarized below:
- 48 -



Selection of Provinces                     System operation
- PMU -                               Communities -
ion of Municipalities               Operational assistance &
- EPP -                             additional training
- Contractor then EMS + private
Municipal capacity building                     sector -
- EPP, (IAA)-                       Follow-up - EPP, EMS -
Prioritization of communities
-EMS -
Execution of works and
san/hygiene education
Contractor, Community -
Pre-selection and packaging of
communities                         Supervision of contractor
- EPP, EMS -                             - OITS, (IAA) -
Supervision for on-site sanitation
systems
O iITS -
Promotion and Preinvestment
Grant Agreement                    Contracting of construction firms
(Municipality - SSA)                        -EMS, (IAA) -
Contracting of OITS                Rural Water and Sanitation Grant
- EMS, EPP, (IAA) -                Agreement - SSA, Municipalities,
Communities-
Baseline community assessment            Technical, social, environmental,
and formation of W&S Committees          financial and economic evaluation
- OITS, Communities -                         EPP, ()AA) -
Final designs and definition of
training and sanitation ed. Plan
Initiate collection of community            - OITS, Communities -
financial contribution
- Communities -                     Selection of operation model
- Municipalities, Communities,
OITS. EPP -
Pre-designs and costs of
alternatives                    Selection of technical alternative
-OITS -                              - Communities -
Note: Primary actors (bold), supporting institutions (italics), support on demand (parenthesis)
Figure 1: PRAGUAS project cycle for rural communities
-49 -



Subcomponent 2A: Promotion, community development, engineering designs and supervision
(US$5.0 million)
Subcomponent 2A provides grant financing to eligible municipalities to help rural communities under their
jurisdiction prepare water and/or sanitation projects that qualify for PRAGUAS investrnent financing.
Project funds will be used to finance, inter alia, (i) promotional activities (workshops, media campaigns
etc.), (ii) contracting of OITS and IAA; (iii) training for OITS, EPP, as well as EMS; and (iv) the
production of required training materials.
Subcomponent 2A activities will be accomplished in three phases as follows:
Promotional phase (2 months): At the beginning of each funding cycle, the PMU confirms which
provinces are eligible and sets-up/strengthens EPP's where SAA lacks the institutional infrastructure to
support the project. In each province, the EPP's then promote PRAGUAS and invite expressions of interest
from those municipalities that
*   have municipal capitals with populations below 10,000;
*   agree to operate rural systems under management models consistent with Ecuador's new sector
policy;
*   agree with the new financial policy for the sector as well as PRAGUAS rules and procedures;
*   are willing to form municipal sanitation teams (EMS).
In provinces where several eligible municipalities express interest, the EPP's prioritize responses based on
*   initial city budget allocations (per capita) for rural water and sanitation services; and
*   a composite index of water and sanitation coverage and poverty levels (available from census
data).
Once municipalities for a funding cycle have been selected, the EPP's help city authorities establish EMS's
(typically, though not necessarily within the Unidad de Obras Publicas). As needed, the Implementation
Assistance Agency (IAA), will be called upon to build EMS capacity in such areas as contracting, contract
administration and demand -responsive RWSS techniques. The EMS's will then proceed to promote
PRAGUAS among community leaders and rural populations. Interested communities submit standardized
request forms (solicitudes comunitarias) that demonstrate acceptance of PRAGUAS rules and provide
baseline information to the municipal government. The municipal government, in turn, will prioritize the
solicitudes in an open forum (with EPP participation) using criteria developed by PRAGUAS, to draw up a
first list of subproject requests for the pre-investment phase. The EPP will support the selection process by
ensuring that all eligible communities have an equal opportunity to apply for project funds and that
community selection is conducted in an open and transparent manner.
In parallel with community-level promotional activities, the EPP will identify the NGOs, development
agencies and private companies that provide sector-related services in the province and that might join
PRAGUAS as OITS. The agencies will be invited to PRAGUAS promotional and training sessions to
exchange ideas and strengthen their capacity to implement demand-based, community-managed WSS
programs. As needed, the IAA can be brought in to support this process. In time, PRAGUAS will develop
a broad base of community development, engineering design, construction and management service
providers in each province, that will ensure adequate competition in tenders at the local level. At the end of
- 50 -



these promotion/training activities, the EPP will pre-qualify local OITS.
Pre-selection phase (2 months): Once the municipality has presented its list of proposed communities, the
EPP verifies the availability of municipal government resources to cover 20% of expected investment costs
and adjusts the list of communities accordingly. The EMS and EPP group these finalists into packages that
fit the community development/engineering design capacity of the OITS short-listed earlier. Standard
Promotion and Preinvestment Grant Agreements are then signed between the municipality and SSA to
define commitments and responsibilities during the pre-investment phase.
Pre-investment phase (4 months): During this phase, the municipality contracts one or more OITS that
assist program communities in selecting and planning service levels and design alternatives that.they want
and are willing to pay for. Community participation in the municipal tender evaluation committee (comisi6n
de evaluaci6n y calificaci6n) will assure that rural populations have a voice in selecting the OITS that they
will work with. The EPP (and -- as needed -- the IAA) will assist the EMS in adapting standard bidding
documents and managing the tender process. Once one or more OITS have been selected, they will sign
contracts with the municipal government which will authorize disbursements (subject to approval from the
EPP) once agreed pre-investment products (designs, BOQ's etc.) have been satisfactorily completed.
OITS and communities will agree on activity plans, prepare baseline community assessments and set up
gender and ethnicity- balanced water and sanitation committees (juntas de agua). Terms of reference for the
OITS have been designed to emphasize an integrated approach to water, sanitation and health & hygiene
promotion. Since PRAGUAS requires communities to cover at least 30% of the cost of water supply
infrastructure overall and no less than 10% in cash up front, beneficiaries will be encouraged to open
community savings accounts for RWSS investments as early as possible. The OITS will help communities
to choose service levels and technological options from standardized design alternatives that have been
prepared as part of the Operation Manual (OM), and will explain the investment cost, tariff, operational
and environmental implications of each choice.
Table 3 (see above) summarizes eligible investments, investment ceilings, financing rules, eligibility
requirements and cost recovery policies.
PRAGUAS will encourage rural communities to adopt on-site household sanitation solutions.
Communities that mobilize enough households to reach an overall coverage level of 60% (a threshold that
guarantees that they will enjoy both the individual and the public health benefits of their investments) will
be offered grants that cover 70% of the cost of household units up to a ceiling of US$250 per unit during
the investment phase (see component 2B below). Beneficiary households (supported by municipalities) will
be required to put up 30% of the cost of the units they select in cash and/or in kind up to the overall ceiling
of US$250 and 100% of any costs above the ceiling. During the pre-investment phase, the OITS will make
the rounds of all households in a given community with a "sanitation menu" that shows pictures and
diagrams of each system (VIP latrines, pour-flush toilets, basic sanitation units (UBS) etc.) as well as a
materials list that allows each household to instantly price the value of its contribution. Households will
sign simple standard contracts that define the contribution to be provided by them and by PRAGUAS. The
OITS will then pool the materials required for each community. In communities that request both water and
sanitation services, these materials will be tendered-together with the goods and works required for the
water supply system. For communities that request only sanitation, at least 3 bids to supply (and deliver)
latrine materials will be solicited from local sources. During the investment phase (see below), OITS will
supervise the construction of on-site household sanitation systems by the beneficiaries.
To stimulate the demand for sanitary facilities, PRAGUAS will finance 100% of the cost of on-site school
- 51 -



sanitation systems (not counting excavation of the pit which must be accomplished by the community) up
to a ceiling of US$8 per pupil during the pre-investment phase.
Finally, a detailed training and hygiene education program will be drawn up by the OITS in conjunction
with community members as well as school and health clinic personnel who work at the community level.
The pre-investment packages will be reviewed by the EPP using standardized technical, environmental,
economic, financial, legal and social criteria/check-lists. As needed, the IAA will assist the EPP in this
process. Once community sub-projects have been reviewed, the EPP will verify the availability of
community and municipal contributions and package investments. Communities that fail to mobilize at
least 10% of their contribution in cash, will be deferred to the following funding cycle. The overall
investment package in each municipality will be sized so that municipal contributions cover 20% of
projected investment costs.
Subcomponent 2B: Financing for water and sanitatio.i infrastructure, community training and
hygiene education (US$34.0 million)
Once community subprojects have been screened and tendered, PRAGUAS will support the following
activities:
Investment phase (10 months): During the investment phase, local contractors and communities will
construct the water supply and sanitation infrastructure designed under component 2A using resources
provided by PRAGUAS, the municipalities and the beneficiary communities themselves.
During this phase, the IAA will support the EMS in (i) contracting construction firms to carry out physical
works in communities; (ii) supervising the OITS (which will be kept on from the pre-investment phase to
the extent that their performance has been satisfactory); and (iii) providing regular informnation on
implementation progress (physical and social) to the PMU. The IAA will be paid on a fee-for-service basis.
The OITS will supervise the contractors who will construct water supply systems and conduct the
community development and hygiene education activities designed during the pre-investment phase. To the
extent possible, small local contractors will be used for these activities. Contractors will provide
community liaison officers that organize community labor inputs (known as "mingas" in quichua) and will
supply materials for the construction of on-site household sanitation systems by beneficiaries under the
supervision of the OITS.
Follow-up and TA for community management phase (3 years): The PRAGUAS approach to
post-construction sustainability can be summarized as follows:
*   Under the supervision of the OITS, the contractor will stay on in the communities for a period of 6
months after water supply systems have been completed (provisional reception of works) to (i) put
systems into operation; (ii) launch the collection of the agreed tariffs; (iii) reinforce hygiene
education as necessary and (iv) strengthen the "juntas de agua" in such tasks as basic accounting,
maintenance, etc. Communities through their 'juntas de agua" will own and operate the systems
built with PRAGUAS assistance.
*   Once the contractor and the OITS have withdrawn, the EMS and EPP will conduct regular
technical support visits at 6 month intervals for a period of 3 years to monitor system operation
and management by the 'junta";
- 52-



*   The EPP and EMS will encourage the "juntas de agua" operating in each municipality to join in a
consortium that would meet regularly with the EMS to (i) coordinate bulk purchases of such inputs
as chlorine; and (ii) jointly contract equipment maintenance for such items as motorized pumps,
generators etc. as needed.
*   The EMS will call the juntas de agua operating in each municipality together on a regular basis for
training activities designed to consolidate the management models, apply appropriate tariffs, ensure
the adequate use of facilities and support sustainable improvements in hygiene and environmental
education.
Project Component 3 - US$ 3.00 million
3.    WATER AND SANITATION SUB-PROJECTS IN MUNICIPAL CAPITALS
This component has been designed to provide small municipalities (those will populations under 10,000 in
the municipal capital) that have successfully delegated WSS service provision to autonomous public or
private operators according to the program rules described under component lB above with access to
PRAGUAS financing for limited rehabilitation/system expansion investrnents. Investment ceilings will be
determined on a case-by-case basis.
PRAGUAS would provide a non-refundable grant to selected municipalities covering 100% (net of taxes)
of the cost to contract engineering consultants that would prepare technical designs and tender documents
and supervise the construction of works.
In addition, PRAGUAS would provide a non-refundable grant to municipalities to cover up to 50% of the
construction costs of eligible investments. Municipalities would have to finance the remaining 50% of
investment costs from their own resources and agree to increase tariffs as shown in table 2.
Under APL-1, US$0.5 million and US$2.5 million have been budgeted under this component for designs &
supervision and works respectively.
Project Component 4 - US$3.43 million
4.  PROJECT MANAGEMENT
A project management unit (PMU) will be established within SSAlQuito and "Equipos Provinciales del
PRAGUAS" (EPP's) will be set up in participating provincial SSA offices. These teams will oversee the
day-to-day operations of PRAGUAS. The PMU will contract (i) an overall project coordinator; (ii) a
coordinator for sector strengthening; (iii) a coordinator for water and sanitation subprojects in rural areas
and small towns; and (iv) a coordinator for financial managementladministration. These specialists will be
complemented by an administrative support unit and a technical support group (including legal and
procurement specialists).
Component 4 will finance the following:
*   Incremental operating costs for the PMU and the EPP's;
*   Equipment and software for the PMU (and EPP's as necessary);
- 53 -



*   Contractual personnel for PMU;
* External audits;
* Maintenance of the financial management and project monitoring system;
*   Consultancies (e.g. for a Rural Sanitation Sector Environmental Assessment and periodic
reevaluation of economic limits for water supply investments)
The Rural Sanitation Sector EA will provide inputs for additional training and institution-building
activities that will be conducted under APL-2.
- 54 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
ECUADOR: Rural and Small Towns Water Supply and Sanitation Project (PRAGUAS)
Local       Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Component                US $million   US $million   US $million
Sector Reform/Institutional Development                   3.71          0.09         3.80
Water and Sanitation Sub-projects in Rural Areas         22.47         10.62        33.09
Water and Sanitation Sub-projects in Municipal capitals    1.25         1.25         2.50
Project Management                                         2.37         0.55         2.92
0.00
Total Baseline Cost                                       29.80        12.51        42.31
Physical Contingencies                                    2.98         1.25         4.23
Price Contingencies                                       2.39         1.00         3.39
Total Project Costs             35.17         14.76        49.93
Front-end fee                    0.32          0.32
Total Financing Required              35.17         15.08        50.25
Local       Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Category                US $mitlion   US $million   US $million
Goods                                                       0.16           0.74         0.90
Works                                                      22.49          14.02        36.51
Services                                                   10.89           0.00        10.89
Incremental Operating costs                                 1.13           0.00         1.13
Severance payments                                          0.50           0.00         0.50
Total Project Costs    35.17          14.76        49.93
Front-end fee                    0.32         0.32
Total Financing Required     35.17         15.08         50.25
- 55 -



Annex 4
ECUADOR: Rural and Small Towns Water Supply and Sanitation Project (PRAGUAS)
Introduction
The primary objective of the Ecuador Rural and Small Towns Water Supply and Sanitation Program
(PRAGUAS) is to increase coverage and effective use of sustainable water and sanitation (WSS) services
in rural areas and small towns across Ecuador. To achieve this objective, phase one of the ten-year APL
will provide new or rehabilitated drinking water facilities to about 350,000 people in about 40 rural
municipalities and will promote improved household sanitation and hygiene practices. Responsibility for
O&M costs will be assigned to the beneficiaries who will also pay a 30 percent cash and labor contribution
to capital costs for project implementation.  The project also includes a pilot sub-component for
rehabilitation and expansion of existing water and sanitation systems in small towns.
The project requires communities to initiate participation in project activities and to validate their
commitment and need for the project via a cash contribution towards the expected capital cost. The
self-selected project communities (from those poor communities already identified as eligible) will choose
their preferred level of service from a menu of options. The selection of specific investments will be subject
to negotiations among prospective users and district assemblies. The final size of the community and the
level of service that will be achieved is not known at this point, and would be determined during project
implementation. However, the project design ensures that technical solutions would be economically
viable. Agreement to project rules regarding cost recovery is a prerequisite for project participation. In
particular, the project rules require that user charges cover operation and maintenance expenses, and that
communities confirm and demonstrate their willingness to adopt these charges. To ensure that investments
are and remain economically viable, sub-project performance will be monitored and information collected
on a continuous basis.
Conceptual basis for assessing economic benefits
In rural areas, consumers use water for drinking, cooking, bathing, washing and productive uses, such as
cooking for sales, construction and so forth. A distinction between residential and commercial users is not
made. The water quality required depends on the purpose or use. Brackish water might be acceptable for
washing but not for drinking. People in the rural areas rely on a variety of traditional sources, such as
rivers, ponds, springs and rain water. Both the quality and price (time) of water from these sources are
different, and each water source serves different needs. When alternative sources, such as wells, boreholes,
and piped water systems become available, they are potential substitutes for water from other sources.
The incremental quantity of water supplied under a project can be divided into two parts: one part replaces
the previous sources and quantity of water used, the other part is a net increase in water consumption. In
this context, the benefit of the first part is equal to the savings of economic costs of consumers who no
longer use the former water sources. These include time savings, reduced costs for altemative purification
methods such as boiling the water, substitution of more costly sources such as bottled water and water
tankers, and reduced costs for health related expenditures due to water borne diseases. The benefit of the
second part is equal to the area below the demand curve between the with-project and without-project use
of each consumer.
- 56 -



Methodology
A detailed economic cost-benefit analysis was made for the 19 subprojects identified on the pilot phase of
PRAGUAS. This sample represents different types of technological options to be financed and all major
regions of the country (Sierra, Costa and Oriente). The size range of the systems analyzed was between
18 to 154 connections, (in all cases households expressed their preference for a house connection, so there
is a 1 to I relation between number of households and estinated number of connections in each
community).
To estimate the benefits for increased water consumption due to improved water quality, more reliable and
lower cost water service provided by the project, a profile of consumption patterns which indicate the
quantity of water used and the amount of time and/or money spent for water from different sources was
used. This data was collected by applying surveys to communities with water services selected from the
group of communities with similar FASBASE projects where metering was available, to estimate the "with
project" consumption, and from the pilot PRAGUAS communities information for the "without project"
situation. The benefits for resource savings were estimated from the surveys of PRAGUAS pilot project
communities, basically time savings and other costs (monetary and non-monetary) reported in the
interviews. Based on FASBASE surveys, it can be expected that where treatment systems are in place,
households would replace most consumption from other sources with new piped water supply. For
PRAGUAS projects it was assumed that all other sources would be replaced by the PRAGUAS source.
Health benefits known to users are captured in their willingness to pay for good quality water; additionally,
reduction in costs related to water borne diseases (diarrhea) were assessed based on the frequency of
occurrence and monetary expenditures (in the last two weeks of the survey) by the potential beneficiaries.
Survey results showed, however, that illness-related monetary expenditures were not significant, and can
therefore be excluded from the analysis. The time lost (related to the episode) was not quantified.
The typical costs included in the analysis were: (i) capital investment costs, (ii) recurrent costs (operations,
maintenance and depreciation), (iii) institutional development costs, and (iv) community development costs
(organization, training and hygiene education). All transfers including taxes and subsidies are excluded
from the analysis. All costs included in the economic analysis were adjusted to reflect economic prices
using conversion factors calculated by Banco del Estado, Ecuador's Central Bank.
The estimation of a Program rate of return was not attempted here; such a calculation would be based on
an assumed distribution of community choices of capital investments. It was considered more important to
establish that each of these possible choices generates acceptable economic retums. The returns to the
phase one investments will be estimated at the end of three years and will be used as input to refine the
eligibility criteria for sub-projects to be financed in the second phase. The results of the economic cost
benefit analysis of the pilot projects (NPV, B/C ratio and EIRR) were used to design the eligibility criteria
for the sub-projects to be financed during the implementation phase and the financial policy of the Program.
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
The major benefits of phase one of the program are improved water services to approximately 350,000
beneficiaries in about 40 rural municipalities. These include direct user benefits: resource savings (time
savings and savings from purification mechanisms such as energy for boiling water), health benefits
(estimated as reduction in costs for coping with water borne diseases) and benefits from increased water
consumption estimated by the willingness to pay for the increased consumption, for users who without
project will use less effective and more costly alternatives (such as rivers, etc.). The project is demand
- 57 -



driven and offers improvements to communities that express a willingness to participate, and are scaled to a
level of service with affordable variable costs for beneficiaries. Direct users will also be required to
contribute in cash and labor to cover 30% of investment costs. PRAGUAS also focuses on achieving
service sustainability through intensive user education in effective use, administration, operation and
maintenance of the systems. Thus, it is highly probable that user benefits will be realized over time.
Additional benefits are expected from the on-site sanitation component, although these will not be
quantified. Rather least-cost analysis of the alternatives and cost-effectiveness criteria will be used for
investment decisions. The strategy calls for strong promotion and demand generation of user investment in
sanitation, low levels of subsidy, targeted coverage levels of at least 60 percent of households per
community to achieve full health impacts and promoting a wider range of lower cost options. These should
bring additional positive health benefits to the communities.
The main results of the economic analysis of the sample are presented in Table 1. Of the 19 subprojects
evaluated, 10 were economically viable, with EIRR ranging from 13.6% to 54.1% with an average return
of 28% and an average NPV of US$ 35,543.
Table 1. Results of the Economic Cost-Benefit Analysis of the Sample
Total     Present   Resource      Net    Economic  Investment
System         number of   Value of  savings as   Present   Internal      cost/
connections   Benefits   % of total   Value   Rate of    connection
(US$)    benefits    (US$)      Return      (US$)
El Rodeo                    37     8,432        80%   (12,241)       -2.0%         466
Ulucata                     35    15,273        73%    (6,670)       7.4%          469
Puca                       150                  74%      16,529     20.1%          215
52,926
Yanazacha                   40                  81%   (10,510)        1.3%         438
11,295
Buravalle                   51                  72%   (14,539)       -3.1%         420
9,662
Charquiyacu                 84                  72%      9,752       19.1%         289
18,722
Guayabal                    55                  65%   (10,050)        5.4%         512
35,120
Lomas del Pita -           150                  63%    96,671       45.0%          292
Yatuvi Piedra                     143,415
Redonda
Yatuvi - El Triunfo        154                  63%   (26,395)        7.7%          907
81,680
Sitio Nuevo                 35                  64%   (12,995)        2.7%          750
15,454
Tarapal- Piedra            109                  59%     43,459       23.2%          549
Hendida - San                     106,700
Jacinto- Buza Alto
- 58 -



Puente de Buza              45                  65%     61,108      54.1%          511
26,697
El Cristal - La Balsa       48                  59%      6,272       18.1%         458
85,562
El Recogimiento y           32                  70%   (17,428)        1.1%        1,202
Santa Helena                       14,773
San Rafael -                66                  60%    (6,545)       -3.2%         526
Janduyacu                          78,481
El Capricho                 28                  64%     77,374      45.9%          421
20,625
San Fransisco Puni -        18                  80%     40,001      28.3%         1,022
San Pedro                          4,378
Rey de Oriente              96                  66%      2,638       14.8%         319
115,031
San Vicente                 33                  64%      1,627       13.6%         568
21,927
Sensitivity analysis:
A sensitivity analysis for all major assumptions was conducted. It showed that the results from the
economic analysis are robust.
Benefits:   Using the information from the surveys, a probabilistic distribution of the benefits was
obtained, being normally distributed with a standard deviation of 4% of the mean. Simulations using
Crystal Ball were made for each viable subproject. The results are shown in the following table:
Table 2. Sensitfvi  analysis - Benefits
Subproject     Probability of an                       NPV range
unfeasible project                        (US$)
(NPV<O)
Puca                    0.0 %                            10,417 - 22,917
Charguiyacu             0.0 %                             5,833 - 14,167
Lomas del Pita          0.0 %                           79,167 - 112,500
Tarapal                 0.0 %                            31,250 - 56,250
Puente Buza             0.0 %                            50,000 - 70,833
El Cristal- La          0.0 %                             3,333 - 9,167
Balsa
El Capricho             0.0 %                            62,500 - 91,667
San Fransisco           0.0 %                            31,250 - 50,000
Rey de Oriente          0.0 %                               417 - 5,000
San Vicente             7.5 %                             (1,333) - 4,775
Mean: 1,629
Population growth rates: When designing infrastructure projects for small rural communities, there is a
risk of over-estimating population growth rates due mainly to migration to urban areas. For that reason, a
conservative scenario where the existing population remains constant (zero growth rate) was simulated.
- 59 -



Results are presented in Table 3. Results show that in 80% of the viable projects, results from the
economic analysis are robust, however this assumption must be handled carefully during project
implementation to ensure that projects financed will be able to achieve the estimated benefits.
Cost overruns: Switching value analyses were made for all feasible subprojects, to find the maximum
investment cost that would allow the project to remain economically feasible. The results for each
subproject are presented in Table 3. These analyses showed that most projects will be viable even after
large investment cost overruns. Moreover, large increases in investment costs are unlikely to affect project
returns given that project costs already include a conservative provision for contingencies (10%).
Table 3. SensitiviLy analysis - Growth rates and Investment costs
Subproject    Scenario with constant population NPV (US$) % of max. cost overrun for a feasible project (NPV = 0)
Puca                               5,550                                      58%
Charguiyacu                        3,008                                      50%
Lomas de Pita                     69,678                                      253%
Tarapal                           23,750                                      79%
Puente de Buza                    45,306                                      326%
El Cristal - La Balsa              1,304                                      43%
El Capricho                       53,870                                      262%
San Fransisco                     21,006                                      127%
Rey de Oriente                    (2,615)                                     20%
San Vicente                       (3,908)                                      11%
Economic eligibility criteria:
To estimate the economic viability of the projects that were not evaluated during appraisal, values for
cost-effectiveness indicators were estimated. During the implementation phase, for the new projects to be
considered these indicators will be calculated and will be compared to the critical values that resulted from
the detailed cost-benefit analysis. These critical values were calculated using an econometric regression in
which the dependent variable was the Benefit/Cost ratio as a function of cost-efficiency indicators
(investment cost per connection and estimated monthly resource savings): ln(B/C) = 3.52 ln(IC)    ln(RS)
(5.9)  (-8.4)    (16.3)
Where B/C is the benefit/cost ratio, IC is the investment cost per connection, and RS is the estimated
monthly resource savings component of the benefits. The values of the t statistic of the coefficients are
presented in parenthesis. The model R square is 0.95, and has a significance level of over 95%. Model
efficiency is high (90%) as is predicts correctly 17 of the 19 outcomes, as shown in Table 4.
Table 4. Model effici ncy Observed Results (§No. of projects)
Approved           Rejected             Total
Estimated by Model         Approved                 8 __8
(No. of projects)        Rejected                 2                  9                   11
Total                 10                  9                  19
Based on this relation the critical values were estimated. For a 12 percent EIRR the critical value is given
by the following relation:                     IC = 69.14 (RS)
Where IC is the investment cost per connection and RS is the estimated monthly resource savings. On
average, the critical value for the investment cost per connection for an economically feasible project is
US$ 486 per connection.
During implementation, the economic viability of the subprojects will be determined applying this relations,
with the objective of reducing time and preparation costs, and having an explicit methodology for increased
transparency. When subprojects are not feasible, projects should be redesigned lowering the level of
- 60 -



service, regional systems could be considered or investments postponed until a higher population can
benefit from the project, that could be considered in a following phase of the APL. To ensure that the
application of the eligibility criteria is resulting in viable economic projects, ex-post evaluations of 10
percent of financed projects will be conducted each year, starting on the second year. This information will
be used to refine the design of the eligibility criteria for the future tranches of the APL, and to monitor
economic performance of financed investments.
Poverty Impact
Distributive Analysis:
A complete distributive analysis of the benefits was conducted to estimate the poverty impact of the project.
Results from the household surveys conducted for the economic analysis of the sample of 19 pilot projects,
in 30 localities, in all three regions, showed that 100% of all potential direct beneficiaries of the project
were classified as poor. Survey results showed that 100 percent of the direct beneficiaries lived below the
estimated poverty line of US$ 2.13 per capita per day, with an average income of US$ 1.05 per capita per
day, after reported monetary income was adjusted increasing it 40 percent to capture non-monetary income
in rural areas.
The quantifiable net impact of the viable water projects on the welfare of the poor are substantial, the
average of which is US$ 1,231 per household. The quantifiable impact is defined as the net present value
of the benefits that the direct beneficiaries will receive in the with project scenario, after deducting the
financial costs the direct users would pay (30% of investment costs and total operation and maintenance
costs). Results for each viable subproject are presented in Table 5.
Table 5. Net Impact on the Poor
Subproject      Net impact on poor (direct beneficiaries) US$    Net impact on poor (per household) US$
Puca                              42,279                                    282
Charguiyacu                       27,089                                    322
Lomas de Pita                    129,184                                    861
Tarapal                           85,042                                    780
Puente de Buza                    77,794                                   1,729
El Cristal                        20,354                                    424
El Capricho                      103,657                                   3,702
San Fransisco                     64,721                                   3,596
Rey de Oriente                    14,768                                    154
San Vicente                       15,260                                    462
Average                           58,015                                   1,231
Other benefits for the poor:
The Program has been designed following a demand driven approach as explained above. To ensure that
the benefits for the poor are not reduced by this approach, the project has an specific component for
promotion and education at the community level with the aim of helping them improve the way they
organize and associate, thus contributing to increased social capital (civic association), and reducing the
moral hazard associated with the idea that only well-organized communities will be able to participate.
Trust, the other major element in social capital would also be developed through women's involvement that
is an integral part of project design at the community level.
Moreover, a matrix to prioritize communities (which is part of the Operational Manual) was designed to
favor the extremely poor, women, and indigenous and Afro-Ecuadorian groups, thus allowing for a
targeting mechanism to increase the impact on welfare to the poor and vulnerable groups such as women
and the indigenous population. As there is a strong correlation between poverty and ethnicity in Ecuador,
most of these groups are part of the target population of the project. The outreach campaign planned under
the project will inform potential beneficiaries of both the benefits and requirements for participation.
- 61 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
ECUADOR: Rural and Small Towns Water Supply and Sanitation Project (PRAGUAS)
The proposed US $ 50.25 million (including front-end fee) project will be financed jointly by the Bank, the
municipalities ("cantones") and beneficiaries in rural communities. The repayment of the Bank loan will the
responsibility of the Central Governnent. The financing scheme for the proposed project is summarized
below.
Project Financing Structure for First Phase of the APL
Financing                                      Funds
IBRD                                          US $ 32.00 million
Municipalities                                US $  8.05 million
Beneficiaries                                 US $ 10.20 million
Total Project Costs                           US $ 50.25 million
The estimated required financing during the four year implementation period is summarized in the following
table.
Required Financing
Fiscal Year / US$ million
r____________      2001           2002           2003           2004          TOTAL
IBRD                6.73           7.28           8.62            9.05          31.68
Beneficiaries       2.32           2.44           2.68           2.76           10.20
Municipalities      1.78           1.90           2.16           2.21           8.05
Total Project      10.83           11.62          13.46          14.02          49.93
Cost
Front end fee       0.08           0.08           0.08           0.08           0.32
Totalrequired       10.91          11.70          13.54          14.10          50.25
financing     I_I
Results of financial studies assessing the payment capacity of beneficiaries and municipalities show that both
beneficiaries and municipalities will be able to contribute their share of financing to the project.
-62 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
ECUADOR: Rural and Small Towns Water Supply and Sanitation Project (PRAGUAS)
Procurement
Procurement Arrangements
Procurement for the proposed project would be carried out in accordance with World Bank "Guidelines:
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits", published in January 1995 (revised January/August 1996,
September 1997 and January 1999) and "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers" published in January 1997 (revised in September 1999 and January 1999) and the provisions stipulated
in the Loan Agreement.
Procurement will be carried out by two implementation agencies: SSA through the PMU will be responsible for
procurement under components 1 and 4, related to sector strengthening and project management functions (mostly
consultants and a few goods), and the beneficiary municipalities will carry out components 2 and 3, (mostly works,
consultants and a few goods). The SSA/PMU will also be responsible for overall supervision and assistance for the
project's procurement (including components 2 and 3). To this end, the PMiU will (i) build in-house procurement
capacity, (ii) make arrangements with the EPP's (SSA's regional offices) and build their capacity to help supervise
procurement, and (iii) hire a project management firm, the IAA, to assist the municipalities in project
implementation with an emphasis on procurement.
a) Procurement methods: Procurement methods are summarized in table A and described below.
Procurement of works
Works procured under this project include the construction and/or rehabilitation of about 250 rural water supply
and sanitation systems in about 40 municipalities totaling US$34 million of which the Bank would finance US$17
million. Contractors for the water supply works will also conduct community development and hygiene education
activities. In addition, works procured include the rehabilitation of water supply and sewerage systems in about 6
small municipalities totaling US$2.5 million of which the Bank would finance US$1.25 million. Sanitation works
for rural communities would typically be limited to individual household solutions, usually either basic sanitation
units (combining a flush toilet, shower and sink) or latrines. Procurement for works will be carried out by the
beneficiary municipalities with assistance from specialized firms (Implementation Assistance Agencies, IAA's) and
will be supervised by the PMU and the EPPs. Contracts for these works estimated to cost more than US$ 1,000,000
shall be procured using international competitive bidding procedures (ICB), using the Bank's standard bidding
documents (SBD's). Given the decentralized nature of the execution of the project, very few or no contracts over
US$ 1,000,000 are expected. Contracts estimated to cost less than US$1,000,000 equivalent per contract, up to an
aggregate amount of US$24.5 million, may be procured under NCB procedures using bidding documents agreed
with the Bank. Contracts estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate
amount not to exceed US$5.5 million, may be awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from at least three (3)
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description
of works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the
Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest
price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract
successfully. Virtually all water supply and sanitation works to be constructed in rural communities are expected to
involve community labor (up to 20% of the value of works) which will be coordinated by community development
specialists employed by the contractors. As discussed in annex 11, rural Ecuadorian communities have a long
tradition of supporting infrastructure projects by volunteer community labor ("mingas" in Quichua) and small
contractors are generally skilled in managing it. Beneficiaries will construct on-site household sanitation units
(typically under US$250 each) using materials as described under 'Procurement of goods" below. The value of
unpaid community labor mobilized under the project is expected to be about US$7,000,000.
- 63-



Procurement of goods
Goods procured under this project would include construction materials for on-site sanitation solutions in rural
communities as well as computer equipment, software, office supplies and sundry items required by the PMU and
EPP's totaling US$ 0.9 million. Contracts estimated to cost more than US$250,000 equivalent shall be tendered
under International Competitive Bidding procedures (ICB), using the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents
(SBDs). Contracts estimated to cost less than US$250,000 (not exceeding US$0.9 million in aggregate) may be
contracted under National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures using bidding documents agreed with the Bank.
Given the dispersed nature of contracting for most goods under PRAGUAS (materials for on-site sanitation
solutions will be procured by as many as 40 project municipalities), neither ICB nor NCB is foreseen. Contracts for
goods which cannot be grouped into larger bidding packages and which are estimated to cost less than US$ 100,000
equivalent may be procured under shopping (national / international) procedures in an aggregate amount not to
exceed US$0.9 million equivalent using a model request for quotations satisfactory to the Bank.
Selection of Consultants
Consulting services hired under this project would include the following: (i) technical assistance (see the
discussion of "Implementation Assistance Agencies (IAA's) in annex 2) to be hired by SSA; (ii) pre-investment
studies including engineering designs, supervision, and community development & training services conducted by
local consulting firms (OITS) and hired by the municipalities, (iii) institutional development and strengthening of
SSA (see annex 12); (iv) development of information systems, and (v) training for SSA. These services are
estimated to cost US$10.89 million.
Firms
All contracts with firms (LAA's, OITS) would be procured using QCBS except for small and simple
contracts under component 4 of the project, estimated to cost US$200,000 equivalent or less (e.g. for
audits) that would be procured using LCS.
Individuals
Specialized advisory services (particularly in support of SSA restructuring, see component IA) would be
provided by individual consultants hired in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3
of the Consultant Guidelines, up to an aggregate amount of US$2,000,000.
Incremental Operating Costs
Incremental operating costs include travel, per diem, office supplies, utilities, gasoline & vehicle maintenance for
the project management unit (PMU) and provincial project units (EPP's) in accordance with an annual plan
reviewed by Bank supervision missions. Incremental staff for the PMU will be hired in accordance with the
provisions of paragraphs 5 of the consultants guidelines. Other consumable items (e.g. office supplies) where
packageable, would be purchased using three quotations as explained above in the goods paragraph. Small supplies
would be purchased directly.
b) Prior review thresholds: Based on the procurement capacity assessment of the project implementing unit
the following thresholds for prior review are proposed. They are summarized in Table B
Works:
(i) for all ICB contracts;
(ii) for all NCB contracts costing US$200,000 or more;
- 64 -



(iii) for the first two contracts awarded on the basis of at least 3 quotations obtained from qualified bidders;
Goods:
(i) for all ICB and NCB contracts;
(ii) for first two contracts awarded under shopping procedures;
Consulting Services:
(i) for all contracts with firms costing US$100,000 or more, prior-review of the whole process;
(ii) for all contracts with firms costing less than US$100,000 only the short list and terms of reference;
(ii) for all contracts with individuals costing US$50,000 or more, prior review of the whole process;
(iii) for contracts with individual costing less than US$50,000 only the terms of reference
Incremental Operating Costs: annual review of plan and budget
Assessment of the agencies' capacity to implement procurement
The main procurement actions will be carried out by the Project Management Unit (PMU) based in the
Sub-Secretaria de Saneamiento Ambiental (SSA) in the Ministry of Urban Development and Housing (MIDUVI)
in close coordination with the Central Unit for Finance within MIDUVI, with the participation of beneficiary
municipalities. The PMU will be responsible for coordinating and overseeing overall project execution and will
directly execute components I and 4 (consultants and goods for promotion, strengthening of SSA, information
systems, feasibility studies for delegation of services, and training) while beneficiary municipalities will execute
components 2 and 3 (works, goods and consultants for preinvestment activities, supervision, and works). The
PMU will be satisfactorily staffed and will include (i) a Project Manager (General Coordinator), (ii) three
coordinators in charge of implementation units (sector strengthening, subprojects and fmance/administration); and
(iii) additional professional staff, including one procurement specialist, a lawyer and a general technical advisor
assigned to a special advisory unit. The PMU will be operational by loan effectiveness. In addition, the PMU will
be assisted by the EPPs at a regional or provincial level, each with 3 professional staff including an engineer, a
social worker, and a financial specialist. The Operation Manual will include, in addition to the procurement
procedures, the Standard Bidding Documents to be used in each case, as well as model contracts for all methods of
procurement.
An agency procurement capacity assessment was carried out on the project implementation units (MIDUVI/SSA
and 5 small municipalities (Pedro Moncayo, Atahualpa, Nab6n, Santa Clara and Tena)) and was approved by the
Regional Procurement Advisor on May 30, 2000. The assessment concluded that this is a high risk operation in
procurement terms. While the PMU has been assessed as medium risk, the beneficiary municipalities have had
limited exposure to procurement in the past (mostly procurement on the basis of quotations) and have been
assessed as high risk. Given that the bulk of the investment will be procured by the municipalities, the overall
project was rated high risk for procurement. It is worth noting that the PMU using PHRD and PPF fimds has
recently carried out investment projects in 4 pilot municipalities procuring preparatory studies and civil works.
Lessons learned from this exercise were introduced into the capacity assessment and helped in the design of the
risk mitigation plan.
The financial management capacity assessment for the PMU resulted in a 4-C grade (not eligible for PMR-based
disbursement). An action plan has been agreed to upgrade SSA/PMU's capacity and become eligible for
PMR-based disbursement.
The main issue/risk involves the capacity of small towns to adequately carry out the procurement process,
including preparation of documents, evaluation of bids, record-keeping, responding to unexpected situations as
well as administering the process and the contract. The overall strategy to overcome existing limitations in
procurement capacity in the project executing agencies is to provide continued technical assistance and support, for
- 65 -



them to manage the procurement cycle adequately, without limiting or diminishing their responsibilities. To this
end PRAGUAS has developed an integrated risk mitigation strategy that includes:
* Extensive training for municipalities participating in PRAGUAS in procurement among other topics
related to implementing RWSS during the pre-investment phase. This training will be provided by the
EPP's (PRAGUAS provincial project units) and lAA's (consulting firms acting as the project's
Implementation Assistance Agencies) under component 2A;
* Easy "on-demand" technical assistance provided through the EPP's and especially through the IAA's.
LAA's will provide municipalities with experienced procurement specialists to (i) prepare bidding
documents; (ii) manage the tender process; and (iii) assist with bid evaluation;
*   Low threshold (US$100,000) for NCB limiting the use of "3 quotations" for civil works contracts;
*  Use of local private engineering consulting firns (OITS) to supervise construction and sign-off on
contractor invoices.
In addition, the Loan Agreement clarifies several provisions and practices under Ecuadorian law that are
incompatible with Bank procurement guidelines. The Loan Agreement (i) requires contracts for goods and
works to be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidder; (ii) prohibits requirements that a minimum number of
bids be submitted in order for a contract to be subsequently awarded; and (iii) prohibits provisions that
prevent foreign consultants from bidding on consulting contracts on equal footing with Ecuadorian firms.
Given the pilot nature of the process in Ecuador, a procurement audit will be carried out by consultants in
accordance with TORs acceptable to the Bank by the end of 2001 . Monitoring and supervision of
procurement actions is a key activity in the plan. A document filing system will be created with copies of
key documentation kept at the PMU. The system will specify the procurement documents to be filed,
authorized personnel, and flow of information between municipalities, EPPs and the PMU.
Procurement Plan
The borrower has developed a procurement plan for project implementation, which provided the basis for
the proposed procurement methods and the aggregate amounts. The plan indicates, on a yearly basis, the
activities to be procured together with the proposed procurement method. At the end of each calendar year,
the Borrower shall update the procurement plan with a detailed procurement schedule for the following
year.
Frequency of Procurement Supervision
Procurement will be reviewed in all supervision missions (at least 2 per year). In addition, as recommended
by the procurement capacity assessment, at least one of the supervision missions will involve visits to
municipalities and post review of procurement actions. Based on the overall risk assessment, the
post/review field analysis will cover a sample of not less than 1 in 4 contracts signed for components 2 and
3 (municipalities) and 1 in 5 in the case of components 1 and 4 (PMU)
- 66 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category            ICB            NoCB      M                  N.B.F.      Total Cost
1. Works                            0.00           24.27          12.23          0.00         36.50
(0.00)        (14.85)         (3.40)        (0.00)        (18.25)
2. Goods                            0.00           0.00           0.91           0.00          0.91
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.91)        (0.00)        (0.91)
3. Services                         0.00           0.00           10.89          0.00          10.89
Training, technical assistance     (0.00)          (0.00)        (10.89)        (0.00)        (10.89)
and studies
4. Incremental Operating            0.00           0.00           1.13           0.00          1.13
costs
(0.00)         (0.00)        (1.13)         (0.00)        (1.13)
5. Front-end fee                    0.00           0.00           0.32           0.00          0.32
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.32)         (0.00)        (0.32)
6. Severance payments               0.00           0.00           0.50           0.00          0.50
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.50)        (0.00)         (0.50)
Total                            0.00           24.27          25.98          0.00          50.25
(0.00)        (14.85)        (17.15)         (0.00)       (32.00)
1/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies
2 N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
a! Works (other) includes community participation up to US$7 million in aggregate (see section A,
"Procurement of Works" above) as well as procurement by means of at least three quotations for isolated
works up to an aggregate amount of US$5.5 million;
b/ Goods (other) includes sundry and small items by national and international shopping up to US$ 1.0
million in aggregate;
c/ Incremental operating costs (other) include travel, per diem, and consumable items for the project
management unit and provincial project units in accordance with an annual plan;
d/ Severance payments include training for new jobs in the private sector as well as severance payments
in support of the restructuring process for the Sub-Secretaria de Saneamiento Ambiental (SSA).
-67 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
Contract    _ Value         _    _Contacts Subject to
Threshold       ~~Procurement             prirRve
Ex;00hpenditure Category   i :                        Method                (US$ millions)
1. Works                    > US$1 million               ICB                      All
<US$1,000,000               NCB                  Contracts above
US$200,000
<US$100,000         At least three quotations  First two contracts
from qualified regional or
locally-based contractors
2. Goods                    >US$250,000                  ICB                      All
<US$250,000                 NCB                      All
<US$ 100,000              Shopping         First two contracts awarded
under shopping procedures
3. Services
Consulting Firms             >US100,000                 QCBS                      All
<US$100,000                QCBS             Prior review restricted to
TOR's and short-list only
<200,000          Least-cost selection for    Prior review restricted to
financial and procurement  TOR's and short-list only
audits
Individual Consultants         >50,000            Bank's guidelines for           All
individual consultants
<50,000            Bank's guidelines for  Prior review restricted to
individual consultants      TOR's only
Total value of contracts subject to prior review: approx. US$25 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
- 68 -



Procurement supervision will be conducted as part of regularly scheduled supervision missions.
1Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
-69 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
Disbursement
A US$32 million loan will be extended to the Republic of Ecuador in support of the US$50.25 million
(including contingencies and front-end-fee) program of activities described in annex 2. This loan will be the
first tranche in a 3-part Adjustable Program Loan (APL).
Overall, the Bank would finance 64% (US$32.0 million) of the activities to be carried out under the first
phase of the APL. During subsequent loan tranches of the APL, (APL-2 and APL-3), the Bank's overall
financing percentage will be reduced slightly as shown in the "Program Financing Data" table.
For project activities undertaken under components IB, 2A, 2B, 3A, and 3B, SSA will sign Grant
Agreements with participating municipalities that will stipulate, inter alia, the financial contributions of the
GOE, municipalities and communities towards the works, goods and services to be procured as discussed
in annex 2 and defined in the Operation Manual. For these activities, disbursements from the Special
Account will then be made on the basis of the terms detailed in the Grant Agreements. Disbursements for
goods and consulting services contracted directly by the PMU/SSA will be made directly against the
contracts for such items.
The closing date for APL- 1 will be February 28, 2005. Allocation of loan proceeds for APL- I is presented
in Table C.
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
7    ;Expend>iture i:0007 Categoy  tAmount in 10$niiion:n  Financing Percentage
(la) Goods procured under components       0.27                   100 % of foreign and
1 and 4 of the project                                         85% of local expenditures
(1 b) Goods procured under Rural Water     0.50            100% of the amounts disbursed under
and Sanitation Subprojects                                       each Grant Agreement
(2a) Civil works for Rural Water and       14.41           100% of the amounts disbursed under
Sanitation Subprojects                                           each Grant Agreement
(2b) Civil works for Delegation            1.06            100% of the amounts disbursed under
Investmnent Subprojects                                          each Grant Agreement
(3a) Consultants' services, training and   2.03                         100%
audits under components I and 4 of the
project
(3b) Consultants' services for             2.54            100% of the amounts disbursed under
Delegation Preparation Subprojects                               each Grant Agreement
(3c) Consultants' services for Promotion   4.23            100% of the amounts disbursed under
and Pre-investment Subprojects                                   each Grant Agreement
(3d) Consultants' services for             0.42            100% of the amounts disbursed under
Delegation Investment Subprojects                                each Grant Agreement
(4) Incremental Operating Expenditures     1.13                          88%
(5) Severance Payments                     0.50                         100%
(6) Refinancing of PPF                      1.30
Unallocated                                3.29
- 70 -



Total Project Costs                       31.68
Front-end fee         0.32
Total                                     32.00
Note.: Severance Payments means the cost of compensatory payments and/or training of SSA/MIDUVI staff made
redundant under the SSA Restructuring Plan.
Special Account and Flow of Funds
At the outset, when funds are being disbursed under the traditional disbursement method based on
documentation, the executing agency (MIDUVI/SSA) will set up a Special Account (SA) with an
authorized allocation of US$2.5 million at the Central Bank of Ecuador on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the World Bank. The advance will be limited to US$1.0 million until cumulative
disbursements under the loan have reached US$4.0 million. When the project moves to PMR-based
disbursements, the authorized allocation will be US$4.0 million. In addition to the Special Account, a
Central PRAGUAS Account (CPA) will be opened at a private bank in Quito and special Municipal
Project Accounts (MPA) will be opened at provincial branch offices of the same bank.
The Project Implementation Unit (PMU) will make payments from the CPA directly to consultants and
suppliers contracted under components 1 and 4 of the project. For severance payments made within the
framework of SSA restructuring (component IA), disbursements will be made from a separate category
(see table C above).
For consulting services, civil works and goods contracted by municipalities under components 2 and 3,
provincial PRAGUAS offices ("Equipos Provinciales del PRAGUAS", EPP) and municipalities will open
joint municipal project accounts (MPA) in which communities and municipalities will deposit their
financial contribution towards rural (component 2) and small town (component 3) RWSS infrastructure.
Payments will be made directly to consultants and contractors by the private bank once both the EPP and
the municipality have authorized the transfer. Initial payments from the Special Account to the MPA's will
be made on the basis of Grant Agreements between SSA and participating municipalities.
Details of this flow of funds, as well as guidelines for each step are contained in the project's Operation
Manual.
Detailed supporting documentation, including certification, for expenditures will be kept by the project
implementation unit (PMU) for at least one fiscal year after the year in which the last disbursement takes
place. For all contracts requiring the Bank's prior review, full documentation will accompany disbursement
requests until disbursement is based on PMR's.
Detailed documentation will be retained by the PMU for inspection during supervision missions and for
audit by external auditors acceptable to the Bank. These auditors will audit the Special Account, Central
PRAGUAS Account and Municipal Project Accounts annually. The audit report will be submitted to the
Bank no more than 4 months after the end of each fiscal year. Detailed terms of reference for the auditors
will be prepared following guidelines included in the World Bank's Financial Accounting, Reporting and
Auditing Handbook.
- 71



MIDUVI/SSA is in the process of integrating the project's accounting function and its physical and
financial planning with MIDUVI's financial management system in a way that will allow the PMU to
produce the comparative PMR's required by the Bank. It is expected that the system will be fully
operational by June 30, 2001. Until such time as the PMU is capable of producing PMR's, disbursements
would be made using traditional disbursement methods (direct payments, reimbursements and the SA, on
the basis of SOE's or full documentation). Under PMR-based disbursements, the Special Account would be
replenished quarterly, based on a six-month budget presented in the PMR's. All replenishment applications
would be accompanied by reconciled statements from the Central Bank showing all transactions in the SA.
Reporting:
The PMU would prepare and forward to the Bank quarterly PMR's (respectively by January 31, April 30,
July 31 and October 31 of each year). By December 31 of each year beginning in 2000, the PMU would
prepare and forward to the Bank an annual implementation plan detailing project activities contemplated
for the subsequent calendar year.
The SSA will submit an Implementation Completion Report (ICR) 6 months before the close of each stage
of the APL to assess project effectiveness and sustainability.
Assessment of Agency's Financial Management Capacity
An assessment of Agency's financial management capacity was conducted on site from February 22 to
February 25, 2000, by a Financial Management Specialist, and in accordance with guideline OP/BP 10.02
and the Project Financial Management Handbook dated February 1999. The objectives of the assessment
were to determine if the Project Management Unit has the capacity to properly manage and account for all
project proceeds and to produce timely, accurate and reliable project management reports for use by
management and submission to the World Bank.
On the basis of the assessment performed, the Financial Management Specialist concluded that, at this
time, the project does not yet meet the Bank's minimum financial management requirements (a 4-C
certification has been issued), due in part to weaknesses in record keeping. This shortcoming will be
remedied by effectiveness. In addition, MIDUVI/SSA is in the process of integrating the project's
accounting function and its physical and financial planning with MIDUVI's fnancial management system
in a way that will allow the PMU to produce the comparative PMR's required by the Bank. The action plan
for achieving PMR capacity includes:
1. Preparation of revised chart of accounts;
2. Preparation of Accounting Manual;
3. Definition of format for periodic and annual reporting (PMR);
4. Completion of Project Operating Manual, satisfactory to the Bank;
5. Installation of PMR compatible computer system;
6. Carrying out of training on PMR preparation and its use in project management.
PPF Refinancing
The disbursed amount of PPF P-366-EC along with interest and charges will be refinanced from the loan
upon its effectiveness.
- 72 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
ECUADOR: Rural and Small Towns Water Supply and Sanitation Project (PRAGUAS)
Proiect Schedule                                   Planned                      Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       27                           32
First Bank mission (identification)              02/27/98                     02/27/98
Appraisal mission departure                      01/15/2000                   03/08/2000
Negotiations                                     03/15/2000                   08/02/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    03/01/2001
Prepared by:
MIDUVI - Subsecretariat of Environmental Sanitation (SSA)
Preparation assistance:
N/A
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Oscar Alvarado                    Team Leader - Sr. Water & Sanitation Specialist
Franz Drees                       Co-Team Leader -Engineer
Jennifer Sara                     Sr. Water & Sanitation Specialist
Ma. Angelica Sotomayor            Economist
Ximena Traa                       Social and gender Specialist
Efraim Jimenez                    Sr. Procurement Specialist
Livio Pino                        Financial Mgmt. Specialist
Marcelo Romero                    Operations Officer
Marta Molares-Halberg             Sr. Counsel
Guillermo Yepes                   Sector Institutional Specialist
Lourdes Elena                     Rural Water Consultant
Juan David Quintero               Sr. Environmental Specialist
Issam Abousleiman                 Disbursement Officer
Patricia Acevedo                  Team Assistant
Note: The "time taken to prepare the project" reflects planned and actual times from the Identification
Mission to the Board Date
- 73 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
ECUADOR: Rural and Small Towns Water Supply and Sanitation Project (PRAGUAS)
A. Project Implementation Plan
1. Manual Operativo (Project Operating Manual)
B. Bank Staff Assessments
1. Social Assessment;
2. Economic Analysis of Sample of 19 Subprojects;
3. Analysis of Municipal Finance;
4. Basic Infrastructure and Welfare : PRAGUAS Project in Ecuador, Alberto Chong, June, 2000.
C. Other
1. Rediseno Organizacional de la Subsecretaria de Saneamiento Ambiental, GTZ, January, 2000;
2. Programa de Asistencia Tecnica, Lineamientos Generales, GTZ, January, 2000;
3. Estrategia de Intervenci6n para Proyectos de Saneamiento e Higiene, CARE Ecuador, January,
2000;
4. Ecuador, Consultations with the Poor, The World Bank, Poverty Group, PREM, September, 1999;
5. Poverty and Policy in Latin America and the Caribbean, Quentin T. Wodon and others, LCSPP, The
World Bank, Discussion Draft, October, 1999;
6. Ecuador, Social Sector Review (AAA): "Crisis, Poverty and Social Services in Ecuador", November
1999. Human and Social Development Group, LACR, The World Bank Report by Donald R.
Whinkler, LCSHD. Decision Draft.
7. Rural Water Projects: Lessons From OED Evaluations, OED Working Paper Series No. 3; The
World Bank, March 2000
8. Razones Precio Cuenta, Banco Central de Ecuador, Quito, 1998.
9. Making Rural Water Supply Sustainable: Report on the Impact of Project Rules, Jennifer Sara and
Travis Katz, The World Bank, 1997.
10. Making Rural Water Supply Sustainable: Recommendations From a Global Study. Jennifer Sara and
Travis Katz, The World Bank, 1997.
11. Water, Waste and Well-Being: A Multicountry Study, Steven Esrey, American Journal of
Epidemiology, Vol. 143 No. 6, The Johns Hopkins University School of Hygiene and Public Health,
1996.
12. Water and Sanitation: Health and Nutrition Benefits to Children, Susan Burger and Steven Esrey. In:
Child Growth and Nutrition in Developing Counties; Priorities for Action, Cornell University, 1996.
13. Effects of Improved Water Supply and Sanitation on Ascariasis, Diarrhea, Dracunculiasis,
Hookworm Infection, Schistosomiasis, and Trachoma. S.A. Esrey, J.B Potash, L. Roberts and C.
Schiff; Bulletin of the World Health Organization, 1991.
14. The Impact of Improved Water Supplies and Excreta Disposal Facilities on Diarrheal Morbidity,
Growth and Mortality Among Children. Steven Esrey and Jean-Pierre Habicht, Cornell University,
1985.
15. Evaluating the Impact of Development Projects on Poverty, A Handbook for Practitioners, Judy
Baker, Directions in Development, The World Bank, 2000.
16. Ethnicity, Neighborhoods and Human Capital Externalities, American Economic Review, pages
365-390, June 1995.
- 74 -



17. The Company You Keep: The Effects of Family and Neighborhood on Disadvantaged Youths, Case,
Anne and Lawrence Katz, National Bureau of Economic Research Working Paper, May, 1991
*Including electronic files
- 75 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
ECUADOR: Rural and Small Towns Water Supply and Sanitation Project (PRAGUAS)
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions          disbursements
Project ID     FY   Borrower                      Purpose                                      IBRD       IDA       Cancel.   Undisb.       Orig   Frm Rev'c
P007131       1997 Ecuador                    AG RESEARCH                                        21.00       0.00       0.00      18.71      4.48       2.35
P007135        1998 Ecuador                   AGRIC CENSUS & INFO                                20.00       0.00       0.00      13.73       1.30      0.00
P039084       1998 Ecuador                    EC HEALTH SERVIC MODERN                            45.00       0.00       0.00      40.76      6.73       0.00
P007087       1993 Ecuador                    EC SOC DEVT IIIHEALTH&N                            90.20       0.00       0.00     21.42       1.17       0.00
P070337       2000 Ecuador                    EC-SAL                                            151.52       0.00       0.00     151.52      0.00       0.00
P055571        1998 Ecuador                   EL NINO                                            60.00       0.00       0.00       8.30      -3.38      0.00
P007128        1996 Ecuador                   ENV MANAGEMENT PROJ                                15.00       0.00       2.99      6.27        9.26      -0.01
P064045       2000 Ecuador                    Fin SectrTA Ln                                     10.00       0.00       0.00      10.00       0.00      0.00
P007100        1991 Ecuador                   GUAYAS FL'D CNTL                                   59.00       0.00       0.00       1.84       1.84      1.50
P040086       1998 Ecuador                    INDIGENOUS PEOPLES                                 25.00       0.00       0.00      16.29       4.16      0.00
P040106       1998 Ecuador                    INTLTRDE,1NTEGRATIO                                21.00       0.00       0.00      18.51       5.01      0.00
P007105        1994 Ecuador                   IRRIGTA                                            20.00       0.00       0.00       6.28       6.22      -0.07
P036058       1997 Ecuador                    JUDICIAL REFORM                                    10.70       0.00       0.00       5.01       1.07      0.00
P007129        1994 Ecuador                   MINING TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                        14.00       0.00       3.00       1.30       4.30      0.30
P007115        1992 Ecuador                   RURAL DEV                                          84.00       0.00       0.00       8.63       8.63      8.63
P007136       1995 Ecuador                    TAMDRNOFSTATE                                      20.00       0.00       0.00       3.59      -0.47      0.00
Total:      666.42       0.00         5.99      332.16     50.32     12.7
- 76 -



ECUADOR
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
3 1 -Jul- 1999
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                              IFC
FY Approval         Company                        Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic
1997               Agrocapital                     3.50    0.00     0.00    0.00    3.50    0.00      0.00    0.00
1969/73/77/81/82/87  COFIEC                        0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00
1998               Concessionaria                 11.50     1.30    0.00    15.00    2.93    0.33     0.00    3.82
1999               FV Ecuacobre                    9.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    7.50    0.00      0.00    0.00
1998               Favorita Fruit                 10.00    5.00    0.00     0.00   10.00    5.00      0.00    0.00
1999               La Universal                    8.20    5.00    0.00     0.00    8.20    5.00      0.00    0.00
1993               REYBANPAC                       5.71    0.00     0.00    0.00    5.71    0.00      0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:        47.91    11.30    0.00    15.00   37.84   10.33     0.00    3.82
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                           Loan    Equity      Quasi    Partic
Total Pending Commitment:         0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
- 77 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
ECUADOR: Rural and Small Towns Water Supply and Sanitation Project (PRAGUAS)
Latin   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            America   middle-        -
Ecuador   & Carib.  income        Development diamond'
19S8 
Population. mid-vear (tmillions)                       12.2        502       908                  Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlasmethod, US$)                     1,530      3,940     1710
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                        18.6     1.978     1,557
Averaae annual growth. 1992-98                                                                         T1I
Population (16)                                         2.1        1116 11
Labor force (16)                                        3.0        23        1.5      GNP           /                   Gross
per                             primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1992-98)                                 capita                       enrollment
Poverty (% of populftion below nationol povetyj line)    35
Urban ooulation (% of total population)                  61         75        58 s
Life expectancy at birth (vears)                         70         70        6S
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                 33         32        38
Child malnutrition % of childrenundet 5)                 17          8         .                Access to safe water
Access to safe water (16 of poPulation)                  55         75        75
Illiteracy (f of population age 15+)                      9         13        14                                               t
Gross primary enrollment (6 of school-age populafion)   127        113       103
Male                                                    .          .       105          - -  Lower-middle-incom1e group
Female                                                  -          ..      100
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977     1987       199l      1998
Economic ratios*
GOP CUSS billions)                             6.7     10.5       19.8       19.7
Gross domestic investment/GDP                 265      22.7       20.2      24.7                      Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP             24.8     24.0       30.0      25.3
Gross domestic savings/GDP                    23.5      16.4      21.2      18,0
Gross national saevinslGDP                    M0.g      9.6       135       13,9
Current account balance/GDP                   -5.2    -11,3       -3.8     -10.7      Domestic
lnterestoayments/GDP                           1.0      1.9        3if6      4.0                                   Investment
Total debt/GDP                                34.5    8W8.        75.5      81.6      Savings                      Ivt
Total debt service/exports                     3.7      4.2       31.0      30.5
Present value of debttGDP                                       I 68.8
Present value of debtlexports                                    222.7
Indebtedness
1:977-87  198s-9s    1997       1998  1:999-03
(average annual growth)
GDP                                   2.5      2.9      3.4        0.6         -          -Ecuador
GNP Per capita                      .0.8       0.8      1.2        2.3                    ---Lower-middle-income grouP
Exports of goods and services         3 2      6.0      3.6       -2.5
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987       1997      1998      Growth rates of output and Investment (%)
(% of GDP)
Acriculture                                   16.6      15.3      121        12.0
Industry                                      34.4     32.3       35.1      32.7      10
Manufacturing                                18.0     19.5       21.4      21.9
Services                                      48.9     52.4       52.8      55.2       0
94   95     e7   99
Private consumption                           61.7     70.7       67.2      70.4    -.10 
General government consumption                14.8     12.8       11.6      117                 -GDI            e  GDP
Imports of goods and services                 27.8     30.3       29.0      32 0
1977-87  1988-98       1997      1998      Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                    3.0       3.1       4.1      -0.6    12 -
Industry                                       2.6      2.9        3.4      -0.6      8
Manufacturina                                2.3       2.5        3.5       0.4
Services                                       2.2      2.9        3.1        1.8     4
Private consumDtion                            3.0      2.4        2.5        1.7 o
General qovernment consuimption               -0. t     -0.7       °. °       1.'            93   94   95   ff    97  NO
Gross domestic investment                     -3.3      3.4       14.1        8.5    -4
Imports of ooods and services                 -1.9      4.2        6.4       3.8    I         -       Exports    Ilmports
Gross national Product                         1.9      3.0        3.3       4.2
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-qroup average, If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomolete.
- 78 -



Ecuador
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                              1977     1987      1997      1998      Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                         00
Consumer prices                              13.0    29.5        30.7     36.1 1
Implicit GDP deflator                        17.5    38.0        25.9     35.2
Govemment finance                                                                  20
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                 0
Current revenue                                 ..    20.1       14.0     14.1             93   94   95   96   97   9S
Current budget balance                         ..    -4.1        -1.5     -1.1                -GDP deflator   CCPI
Overall surplus/deficit                        ..    -9.6        -1.5     -0.1
TRADE
(US$ millions)                               1977     1987      1997      1998      Export and Import levels (US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                         1,401    2,021      5,264    4,141     5,000
Oil and products                              ..    818       1,412      791
Bananas                                       ..    267       1,327     1,070     4,000-
Manufactures                                  ..    361       1,011      981
Total imports (cif)                         1,361    2,158      4,955     5,503
Food                                          ..    125         612      713      2,000
Fuel and energy                               ..    294         437      327
Capital goods                                  .     732      1,481     1,830        o
Exportprice index (1995=100)                   ..       86       107       104            92  93  94  9s  93  97  98
Import price index (1995= 100)                 42       74        91        87               X Exports     * Impors
Termsoftrade(1995=100)                         ..    115          118      119
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                               1977    1987       1997      1998      Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services               1,603    2,442      6,000    4,988      4--
Imports of goods and services               1,774    2,702      5,787    6,311
Resource balance                             -171     -260       213    -1,322      0  v.9
Net income                                   -208   -1,059    -1,347    -1,573
Net current transfers                          38      132       391       776      "' -
Current account balance                      -343   -1,187       -743    -2,119     .      
Financing items (net)                         465    1,070       981     1,722
Changes in netreserves                       -121      117      -238       397    .12|
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)         ..    656        2,236    1,762
Conversion rate (DEC, locaLWUS$)             25.0    170.5   3,998.3   5,446.6
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977     1987      1997      1998
(US$ millions)                                                                      Composition of total debt, 1998 (US$ millions
Total debt outstanding and disbursed        2,295    9,348    14,918    16,092
IBRD                                         44      689       851       854    |                    854
IDA                                          36       34        24        23             G: 2,069        B: 23
C:67
Total debt service                             60      103      1,891     1,521                                   0 260
IBRD                                         10       85       173       130
IDA                                           0        1         1         1
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                               5       38        48                                    |          E: 1,973
Official creditors                           35      176        31       626
Private creditors                           579       23        95       614
Foreign direct investment                    35       75       577       476
Portfolio equity                              0        0         0                      F: 8,426
World Bank program
Commitments                                  70      268        32        1       A-IBRt)                      E - Bilateral
70  268   32       ill    ~~~~~B - IDA  0 - Other multilateral   F - Private
Disbursements                                13      137       165        85      C - IMF                      G - Short-term
Principal repayments                          6       43       105        80
Net flows                                     6       94        60         5
Interest payments                             4       43        69        51
Net transfers                                 3       51         -9      -46
Development Economics                                                                                                 9/9199
- 79 -



Additional
Annex No.: 11
Social Assessment
A social assessment was carried out as a joint effort by the PRAGUAS preparation team and the World
Bank during project preparation with the purpose of ensuring the inclusion of the beneficiaries and
stakeholders -- particularly women and indigenous people -- from the initial stages of project design and
throughout the entire project cycle. In the context of Ecuador, the term "indigenous" refers to the
"Nacionalidades y Pueblos del Ecuador" (NIP) which include all individuals who identify themselves as
either indigenous or as Afro-Ecuadorians. An inter-institutional Consultative Committee was. organized
with the aim of defining a water and sanitation strategy which incorporates gender and culture. Members of
this group are the Subsecretaria de Saneamiento Ambiental (SSA) / PRAGUAS, the Coordinadora de
Nacionalidades y Pueblos del Ecuador -official National Coordinator of Indigenous Peoples since 1998-
(CODENPE), the Pan-American Health Organization (PAHO), and the World Bank-financed Health
Project FASBASE.
Two studies in particular will also contribute to the finalization of Ecuador's water and sanitation strategy.
The first one, titled "Participation Strategy of Gender and Indigenous People in Water and Sanitation
Interventions", (September to December, 1999) was coordinated by the Consultative Committee and carried
out by a team of local consultants. The second is aimed at defining the "Hygiene and Sanitation
Implementation Strategy". A series of workshops was conducted with the participation of stakeholders of
the water and sanitation sector. The first one took place on October 1 1 and 12, 1999 to discuss case studies
and lessons learned from existing Water and Sanitation (WSS) projects in different cultural contexts.
Those attending the workshops included the WB-funded projects PRODEPINE (Indigenous Project) and
FASBASE (Health Project), as well as Instruct/CEPCUSSA, SSA/CEPCU, the Association of
Municipalities of Ecuador (AME), line ministries and mayors, FINAE (Achuar), Central and Regional
CODENPE, representatives of the different Nationalities and Peoples of Ecuador (NIPs), Central and
Regional PAHO, National Council of Women (CONAMU), Water Committees, Fundaci6n Natura and
other environmental organizations. Another workshop on the results of the Participatory Rural Appraisal
contributed to the definition of the Gender and Participation Strategy in the sector. A third one discussed
Hygiene and Sanitation Strategies.
The social assessment discusses: (a) a quick overview of the present socioeconomic conditions in Ecuador,
and those of the WSS sector in light of LSMS 1998; (b) an Institutional Analysis of the PRAGUAS project
and its participation strategy; (c) the participation strategy built into the project cycle; (d) lessons learned
from pilot projects; (e) characteristics of the Indigenous NIPs in Ecuador; (f) an Implementation Strategy
for WSS integrating gender and culture, (g) the results of the first inter-agency workshop on WSS
interventions in Ecuador and lessons learned, (h) a Hygiene and Sanitation strategy, and finally (i)
Recommendations and a Participation, Gender and Indigenous Plan.
1.    A quick overview of the WSS sector in light of the socioeconomic conditions in the
country
Ecuador's 12.3 million inhabitants live in 22 provinces. Almost half of the population live in the Coastal
Region, 46% in the highlands of the Andes range, 4.6% in the Amazon region, and only 0.1% in the
Galapagos Islands. Ecuador's macroeconomic and financial crisis has brought instability, unrest, and
upheaval of all sectors of the population. Several factors have contributed to this situation including (a) a
- 80 -



fall in oil prices, (b) damage caused by El Ninio in 1998; (c) the snowball effect of the Asia, Russia and
Brazil crises; (d) financial shocks caused by fiscal and banking sector crises; and finally (e) more than a
year of unrest caused by small but potentially large eruptions of the Pichincha and Tungurahua volcanoes.
Unemployment is over 20% and over 38% of the population lives on less than US$2 a day. By the end of
1998, 42.2% of the population could not afford the basic food and service basket.
In terms of WSS, there are major differences in the distribution of facilities between urban and rural areas.
Over 80% of water installation facilities (mostly household connections) are in urban areas, where only
50% of the population resides. The largest deficit is found in the coastal region. In the rural highland
region, 42% of people have household connections, 35% have access to communal facilities and 23% draw
water from rivers. This is not the case for the coastal regions, where 39% use river water and 20% use
wells. In the Amazon region, 45% also use river water for cooking.
2.    Institutional Analysis
The SSA will be responsible for setting the norms for the WSS sector, once a Sector Policy is in place.
The Project Management Unit (PMU) of PRAGUAS is in charge of coordinating efforts by central,
provincial and municipal teams.
PRAGUAS decentralization efforts stress institutional arrangements that ensure that the participatory
strategy is systematically applied at all levels. It must be born in mind that a distinctive feature of the
project is that the technical teams (central, provincial, municipal and local implementation units (OITS,
"organizaci6n de intervenci6n tecnico social")) comprise at least two specialties "technical and social".
Thus, the project promotes the ideal of the engineer-sociologist capable of adapting supply to the actual
demands (technical options and service levels) of the communities. The OITS' mandate is to accompany
the community through the process. The OITS is responsible for providing technical assistance and
training (a) to reach appropriate levels of community organization for appropriation of the project; (b) to
help communities identify the best technical option and service level; (c) to assess community capacity and
commitment (social, technical and financial) to formulate, implement and sustain the project; and (d) to
assess training needs (including hygiene and sanitation).
Water Committees and Communal Law
Consultations with communities and the Consultative Committee show the concept of water committees as
the administrative project units is widely accepted in the country. Only in certain NIPs communities have
requested the OITS not to introduce a new and parallel structure, but to identify one within their local
government (cabildos, coordinators or assemblies). The Cabildo is the community organization which
deals with different legal, organizational, or developmental issues in indigenous communities. A water
cabildo has the same functions of a water committee, but it would be articulated as part of a more general
organization which may be the Communal Assembly/ coordinators! assembly) which may be trained to
fulfill that function.
3.    Identification of beneficiaries to include the poor and indigenous
152 of Ecuador's 214 municipalities with populations below 10,000 people (1990 Census) are eligible for
program investments. It is expected that PRAGUAS will reach about 350,000 people in approximately 40
rural communities as well as at least 6 municipal capitals with new or rehabilitated WSS infrastructure
- 81 -



during the first phase of the project.
Selection criteria at the provincial, municipal and especially at the community level are key to reaching the
desired objectives. At the provincial level, the criteria include: (i) poverty rates based on poverty maps
and LSMS 1998; (ii) coverage rates for WSS; (iii) absence of other WSS interventions; (iv) installed
capacity of the SSA provincial office. To avoid regional biases, a balance will be sought between the
coastal, highlands and Amazon regions in each project phase.
Eligibility and selection criteria at the municipal level were also agreed. Eligible municipalities (i) have
less than 10,000 inhabitants; (ii) agree to PRAGUAS program rules and new sector policies; and (iii) are
willing to form municipal sanitation teams (EMS). From all municipalities meeting the above criteria,
those chosen will be prioritized based on (i) poverty index; (ii) WSS coverage; (iii) per capita budget
assigned to WSS works relative to population.
The single most important selection process will be at the community level. Besides the above criteria of
coverage, the following will complete the evaluation criteria:  (iv) percentage of indigenous and
Afro-Ecuadorian population; (v) number of women requesting projects; and (vi) per capita savings
deposited in a commercial or community bank earmarked for the project.
4.    Financing of PRAGUAS projects and beneficiaries' willingness to pay
All preinvestment costs are covered by PRAGUAS. For the investment costs, the municipalities and
communities are expected to contribute. Community contributions will cover 30% of investment costs (at
least 10% in cash) for rural WSS projects. Contributions may be in cash or in kind (local materials, labor).
A bank account with deposits committed to the project is a community prioritization criterium. Some of
the case studies presented by NIPs in workshops organized by the Consultative Committee show
communities' resourcefulness in fnding funds for their water projects, as financial contributions empower
people and entitle them to ownership and the right to demand improved services.
5.    Participatory mechanisms in every step of the project cycle
Pre-selection (2 months)
Since a limited number of municipalities will be targeted at a time, it is recommended that the promotion
campaign not be regional but local within the municipalities selected. It is strongly recommended that a
simple "set of rules" of the project be disseminated throughout the target region to reach those living in
isolated areas and those who are bilingual or monolingual. The eligibility criteria to participate in the
project must be discussed in an open forun, in the language spoken in the community. Three events are
planned for the promotion phase: (i) General Assembly at the provincial level, where the PMU and EPP
consult with all mayors and inform them about the project; (ii) Municipal Assembly of mayors and
community leaders who will in turn consult and inform communities; (iii) Community Assembly where all
community members discuss basic rules. It is recommended that advantages and disadvantages of
technical options and costs, service levels, potential independent private sector contractors be discussed in
open fora.
- 82 -



Pre-investment (4 months)
Independent OITS (Organizaciones de Intervenci6n Tecnico Social) typically formed by an engineer and a
social scientist! specialist are hired to assist the community throughout the process. OITS are hired
following World Bank procedures for contracting of consultants. The OITS is the single most important
team. It earns the community's trust, then takes it by the hand providing technical assistance and training
to choose the best technical option of water and/or sanitation and service level. It assists the community in
calculating its contribution (cash/ kind), opening a bank account, creating the Water Users Association,
planning a budget, and planning for sustainability. Having prepared a package of at least five
communities, the OITS presents the proposals to the mayor to ensure funding, who in turn sends them to
the EPP. The OITS ensures that the participatory strategy is promoted for gender equity and inclusion of
indigenous population in those communities. The mechanism recommended is "direct invitations" to
participate, clarifying that the data such as poverty rate, number of women and indigenous participating
add to 50% of the evaluation criteria for prioritization.
Investment (10 months)
The investment packages reach the EPP. They include: community development component; training plan;
construction designs; and rehabilitation of WSS systems. The EPP verifies that : (i) the Water Users
Association has been formed; (ii) there is evidence of a bank account and a community contribution; (iii)
legal agreements (e.g. property rights for spring catchments) have been finalized; (iv) management and
environmental plans are defined. Training in project management, and sanitary education are particularly
important.
6.    Most important Lessons Learned from the Preinvestment Phase of Pilot Projects
1. Professional profiles for staff forming the EPP, EMS, OITS and Juntas de Agua must be established.
Hiring of OITS under World Bank procurement procedures must be enforced.
2. Main project "rules" must be delivered to stakeholders and beneficiaries alike early in the
pre-investment phase, in simple language, with illustrations.
3. The OITS must provide high quality information to the communities with regard to technical options
and costs, service levels, community participation throughout the project cycle including maintenance.
4. The participatory strategy to include women and indigenous people in all meetings, events,
decision-making processes, etc. must be presented as a necessary condition to participate in the project.
5. The investment package must be calculated according to the municipal budget allocated for WSS
projects.
6. The level of interest in water is much higher than in sanitation. The promotional campaign for
sanitation must include technical options, a financing package and the possibility to contract the private
sector.
7. Although most communities agree to form a Water Users Association, some indigenous communities
prefer to form Water Cabildos or Coordinators to conform with traditional sociopolitical structures.
7.    Characteristics of the Nationalities and Indigenous Peoples of Ecuador (NIPs)
The exact number of indigenous peoples in Ecuador is subject to debate. Different accounts may vary
between 12% and 35% depending on definitions. In general terms, approximately 25% of the Ecuadorian
population (3.3 million) self-identifies with one of the 26 distinctive groups, although some of them may be
- 83 -



identified by other Ecuadorians as "peasants of indigenous descent". It is believed that about 12% of NIPs
are monolingual in their indigenous language. In all groups, women tend to remain monolingual. NIPs are
concentrated in 288 clearly identified rural and peri-urban communities (parroquias). CODENPE is a good
source of information on the location, characteristics and behaviors of the NIPs. They are the poorest
segment of the population. In all groups decisions are made in an open forun called Cabildo, Assembly, or
Congress. Their community organization around projects is more efficient than that of people in urban
areas. The participatory communal activity of team work is called "minga" based on the system of
'prestamanos" by which 'I give you a hand today, and count on you giving me a hand tomorrow.' About
90% of NIPs live under the poverty line. They are classified into 10 Nationalities as follows:
QUICHUA. This group speaks quichua, the second official language in Ecuador after Spanish.
Approximately 2,900,000 quichuas are divided into sixteen groups (Pueblos) in the provinces of Bolivar,
Imbabura, Pichincha, Cotopaxi, Chimborazo, Cuenca, Loja. They live in the Andes mountains between
2,000 and 4,000 meters above sea level. Subsistence agriculture is their main source of food and income.
Quichua pueblos are: Otavalo, Imbaya, Caranqui, Cayambi, Cutacachi Quichua Rumacuna, Quitu Cara,
Panzaleo, Chibuleo, Salasaca, Pueblo Guaranga, Puruha, Cainari, Saraguru. The Amazonian quichua are
approximately 266,000 in number along the Napo, Aguarico, Pastaza, Bobonaza rivers. In all the quichua
communities, decisions are made in General Assemblies headed by the indigenous authorities of the
Cabildos. In these communities, no projects can be initiated without the approval of the indigenous
authorities.
AWA. In Northern Esmeraldas and Tulcan provinces, they are 3,500 living in an area of 100,000 acres,
and speak Awapit. Their government is the Centro Awa del Ecuador.
TSACHILA. In Santo Domingo, Pichincha province. They are 2,500 and speak Tsafiqui. Semi-tropical
rain forest. The highest authority is the shaman and witch doctor.
CHACHI. In Esmeraldas province, surrounded by rivers, they live in 46 centers which form the
Federaci6n de Centros Chachi de Esmeraldas (FECCCHE). They are 12,000.
HIUANCAVILCA. In Guayas province. They are 34,850 and they speak Spanish.
COFAN. Only 850 people speaking A 'Ingae. They live in the northeast of Amazonia along the tributaries
of the Amazon. They are famous for their crafts and ornaments. They are organized in centers and
Canqque (communities). Their representative is the Organizacion Indigena de Cofanes del Ecuador
(OINCE), CONFENIAE Y CONAIE.
SIONA and SECOYA. Although they speak the same language Baicoca, they belong to two different
cultures. A population of 970 people scattered in 47,000 acres of legal and 127,000 acres of communal
land. Divided in three centers, they are represented by the Organizaci6n Nacional Indigena Siona del
Ecuador (ONISE uqe), whose Congress meets every 3 years. The highest authority is the Jujuque (elder).
HUAORANI. About 2,700 people speaking Huao Terero. They live in the Amazonian provinces of
Pastaza and Napo. Their crafts include blow guns, hammocks, necklaces with animal teeth, beans and
small insects. They are hunters and gatherers. Represented by the Organizaci6n de la Nacionalidad
Huaorani del Ecuador (ONHAE). The Communal Assembly and Cabildo are their main fora.
ACHUAR. About 5,000 people who live south of the Amazon, bordering with Peru. Their language is
- 84 -



achuar. Located in Pastaza and Morona Santiago provinces, surrounded by rivers. They are represented
by their Congress, family associations and Sindico.
SHUAR. A population of about 75,000, speaking shuar. They occupy 6 Amazonian provinces. They are
divided into 4 groups and represented by four different Federations. For the past 25 years, the Salesian
order has promoted the teaching of the Radiophonic bilingual School.
8.    Inter-institutional Coordination for Policy Making
A Consultative Committee to "discuss and formulate the Participatory Strategy for WSS with the
inclusion of women and NIPs" was formed. Its members are the SSA, PRAGUAS, CODENPE, PAHO
and FASBASE. They coordinate efforts with other sector stakeholders and beneficiaries. The function of
CODENPE is to coordinate with government agencies in the formulation of policy dialogue, sector reform,
and decision-making that affects the NIPs.
9.    A WSS Intervention Strategy which Integrates Gender and Inter-cultural values
Two studies have been carried out in support of the participatory strategy for the PRAGUAS project.
These studies aim at providing the project with more systematic mechanisms to address WSS needs in all
the different cultural strata of Ecuador. This information will allow the project to "truly respond to
demand". Ten indigenous communities were chosen for the indigenous study. The second study aims at
assisting PRAGUAS in the formulation of a Strategy of Sanitation Intervention in the WSS sector. The
strategy will allow the formulation of integrated sanitation plans to be coordinated between the EMS and
the communities.
10.   Series of Workshops to discuss Participatory, Gender, Indigenous, and Financial
Strategies for the WSS sector
A series of Workshops were conducted with the participation of stakeholders, line ministries, social
scientists, representatives of NIPs, OPS, PRODEPINE, IDB, KfW, GTZ, and beneficiaries to discuss the
strategy. It is particularly important that all strategies (participation, gender, sanitation, indigenous, WSS)
are discussed by all sectors, as this dialog prepares the ground for consensus on sector reform.
11.   Monitoring and Evaluation
The diagnostic data gathered at the municipal and community levels includes relevant socioeconomic,
demographic, cultural, health & sanitation, and financial information. It also includes social stratification
and community government, community organization (including existence of Water Committees) and
NGOs working on the WSS sector in the area. Moreover, willingness to pay and savings practices at
commercial or community banks are included, as well as hygiene habits and sanitary practices. Most
relevant information is then used to create the project baseline which will be instrumental for the
development of the M&E system contemplated under the project design. It is envisioned that community
training will include management of the M&E system at the community level.
- 85 -



12.   Main Conclusions of the Social Assessment
1. The participation strategy is a living instrument. It was tested in the Pilot Projects and improvements
were made in the strategy and the instruments used. The strategy may be readjusted for improvement
from timne to time.
2. It is recommended that the results of the studies on "Participation, Gender and the Indigenous in WSS
Interventions", the study on the "Intervention Strategy for Implementation of WSS projects", and the
"Information and Communication Study" be used to refine the strategy for the sector.
3. The promotional campaign should be limited to the targeted municipality to avoid raising false
expectations in non-selected municipalities. However, these campaigns should include all the necessary
information people need to make informed decisions with regard to technical options and costs, service
levels, financial arrangements, timing, community contribution (cash or kind), bank account required,
tariffs to be expected, maintenance plans, etc. It is recommended that the technical and financial
options be explained up front.
4. For the sake or transparency, the eligibility and prioritization criteria of municipalities, communities
and subprojects should be part of the basic information given out to municipalities, OITS and
communities.
5. Training and Technical Assistance to communities, municipalities, EPP, EMS, OITS, Water Users
Associations is key to project efficiency and sustainability. When training the communities, provisions
must be taken to invite a representative number of indigenous people and women. Provisions include
sending personal invitations, organizing child care facilities in the community, etc.
6. Communication of objectives, mechanisms, procedures, etc. must be done in the language of the
beneficiaries. Also, all the training delivery and information dissemination should ideally be done in
the target languages, with the semantic and cultural appropriateness needed to convey messages. One
of the most effective vehicles for this is the radio. Topics may include: The Water Users Association,
its rights and responsibilities; Contracting NGOs to build water systems; How to open a bank account
and savings strategies.
7. The community diagnosis is important to provide information on the socioeconomic situation of the
community, its level of organization and commitment, its financial status, cultural practices, etc. It's
also important as the baseline to be able to monitor and evaluate impact later on.
8. The community contribution in cash and in kind empowers beneficiaries and promotes ownership. As
they learn to manage "their" project, they demand quality service. Although the pilot projects
experience (phase I) indicates community willingness to pay 20-30% of project investment, it is
important to collect more information before commitments are made. Labor and local materials should
be systematically quantified as part of the contribution.
13. Participation, Gender and Indigenous Plan
An Action Plan was agreed on by PRAGUAS and the World Bank. It includes : (a) Inter-institutional
Workshops to discuss the Strategies for Water and Sanitation in Indigenous communities with a gender
focus; a Workshop to discuss the Strategy for Basic Sanitation for the sector; Workshops for women and
youth in management of water and sanitation; (b) Elaboration of training and communication materials for
program promotion as well as for periodic training of communities, OITS, EMS, and also the
PMU/PRAGUAS; some of these materials will be adapted to the different cultural settings in at least two
indigenous languages (quichua (official language) and shuar).
- 86 -



Additional
Annex No.: 12
Policy Document for the Water and Sanitation Sector
Sub-Secretariat of Environmental Sanitation- SSA
Reorganization and Strengthening
1.    Background
The Sub-Secretariat of Environmental Sanitation (SSA) under the Ministry of Housing and Urban
Development (MIDW VI) is responsible for the water supply and sanitation sector in Ecuador. The
Sub-Secretary of SSA reports directly to the Minister.
The current organization of SSA was implemented in 1992 as part of a sector decentralization strategy.
This reorganization led to the abolition of IEOS (Instituto Ecuatoriano de Obras Sanitarias), a centralized
agency responsible for service provision and construction of water and sanitation works in urban and rural
areas in Ecuador. At the same time, local governments were made responsible for the provision of services
and construction of works. Initially, SSA was responsible for general regulatory functions for the sector,
including the environment. After the Ministry of the Environment was created in 1994, it took over
responsibility for environmental functions.
In the past, SSA's effectiveness has been hampered by frequent changes in the central administration and a
lack of resources and experienced personnel, all of which undermined SSA's capacity to lead the sector
effectively. Key functions such as policy formulation and development, integrated planning and general
coordination and strengthening of the sector have rarely been exercised. Moreover, SSA's old
responsibilities (including a strong focus on engineering design, supervision and construction of WSS
works) lingered for many years, albeit at a reduced level.
In some ways, SSA's transformation has indeed been dramatic. SSA has, for example, trimmed its staff
from some 2,500 in the early nineties to about 269 people today, of which about half are located in nine
regional offices. Nonetheless, SSA's past lack of focus continues to undermine its effectiveness today, as
demonstrated by (a) a lack of credibility as sector leader and main coordinator with other sector agencies;
(b) an insufficient human resource base with serious gaps in areas such as finance, project finance and
economics; and (c) unmotivated personnel.
2.     The need for a new SSA
The GOE has developed new water and sanitation guidelines, which are to be the seed of a new policy
reform agenda to be developed as part of the PRAGUAS Project (see Annex 2). These guidelines call for:
*   Better definition of the roles and responsibilities of different agencies and stakeholders in the sector
and a more decentralized sector environment;
*   A redefined institutional setup at the local level to foster local participation, oversight and
accountability;
*   Financially self-sufficient, independent and commercially oriented service providers;
*   Strong promotion of the private sector to participate in financing and operations;
*   A revamped cost recovery, tariff structure and subsidy policy; and
*   Strong community participation in the design and operation of demand-driven services in rural and
- 87 -



peri-urban areas.
Developing and imnplementing this sector policy at a national level represents a. huge challenge, as all sector
institutions need to shed bad old habits and ineffective policies and embrace a cultural renewal in the way
business is conducted. A new sector approach also calls for strong promotion of innovative ideas as well
as staff training and oversight at all levels. The proposed sector reform is an ambitious undertaking that
requires a strong and committed SSA with the leadership to guide the transformation to a modem and
responsive sector. The country's current economic situation poses both a threat to these reforms (as
resources will be in short supply for the foreseeable future) and an opportunity to test and implement bold
and innovative ideas.
3.     Reorganization and Restructuring of SSA
SSA has the mandate to be the lead agency to develop and guide the detailed formulation and
implementation of the above mentioned policy objectives. The imnplementation strategy calls for a new SSA
that is capable of effectively discharging its responsibilities and promoting change at the local level while
introducing innovative (for Ecuador) ideas such as PSP, in an environment conducive to the rapid
development of the water supply and sanitation sector. SSA should, therefore, become more of a facilitator
to promote change and delegate functions to the local level and rural communities. In the first four years,
the PRAGUAS Project will support SSA to gradually assume its new responsibilities and consolidate its
leadership role.
4.    SSA's Main functions and Activities
SSA's role and responsibilities in the medium term have been grouped into four key deliverable products:
4.1    Sector Policies and Planning
SSA will be responsible for preparing and issuing the sector reform policy and the sector development plan
in close coordination with the Ministries of Health, the Environment and Finance, and other major
stakeholders. SSA will also take the lead in coordinating sector development programs and identifying key
agencies, at all levels, to implement them. The initial four-year sector development plan aims to:
*   Improve the coverage and quality of water supply and sanitation services;
* Increase efficiency in investments and the provision of WSS services;
* Promote different forms of PSP and competition through benchmarking;
* Support the financial rehabilitation of service providers;
* Develop criteria for cost recovery, tariff structure and subsidies;
* Develop financial programming for the allocation of national resources and proposed central
government budgets supportive of sector development goals;
* Identify technical assistance, research and training needs at all levels; and
* Promote demonstration projects to validate new organizational structures at the local level to
provide incentives to other local governments to reform local services.
SSA, with the help of external consultants, will develop these policy and development objectives as well as
instruments and strategies to achieve them.
- 88 -



4.2    Sector Regulation and Norms
SSA, with PRAGUAS support under APL-1, will prepare draft legislation, bylaws and guidelines to
support the above-mentioned goals, in close consultation with other relevant ministries and major
stakeholders, to cover the following main areas:
*   Framework legislation to be enacted by the Legislative and Executive branches of Govermment, as
appropriate, related to the organization of local services and the delegation of these services to
independent public or private sector providers;
*   Promotion of sector regulation, a participatory approach, and community oversight. These are
meant to further clarify existing legislation related to the rights and obligations of service
providers, the regulator and consumers. These include: (i) definition of the role of SSA, local
governments and communities in the regulation of services; (ii) guidelines for the design of tariff
structures, cost recovery and the allocation and management of subsidies; and (iii) service quality
requirements for service providers and competition for and in the market;
*   Technical norms. Update of standards for the design, construction and provision of water supply,
wastewater and solid waste services.
4.3   Information system
SSA is to develop and manage a sector information system. This product is envisaged as a comprehensive
system to help the GOE understand the provision of services, their quality and coverage. It will also
provide reliable and timely information to assist SSA and other sector agencies in sector planning,
budgeting and programming while promoting competition among service providers. In support of the latter
objective, SSA will develop benchmarking indicators to promote competition among service providers and
to help improve the productivity of investments and operations.
4.4    Technical Assistance and Sector Coordination
A strong new mandate for SSA is to provide technical assistance to municipalities, utilities and
community-based organizations which run the services. SSA will also help local govermments in delegating
the provision of services to autonomous and accountable public or private operators. The proposed TA
includes:
*   Advice to municipalities and communities in selecting and implementing responsive delegation
models (public or private) and in strengthening the capacity of operators to reach universal
coverage and improved living standards through sanitary education campaigns;
* Assistance to municipalities to develop their capacity to supervise and "regulate" the delegation
contracts. The TA will also cover project financing and programming and assistance to structure
municipal (urban and rural) investment plans, including tariff structures;
*   Assistance to community-based organizations or "Juntas de Agua" to enhance their capacity to
provide W&S services and help establish productive linkages with the municipalities and other
Juntas. This assistance will include (i) the definition of investment programs, financing and cost
recovery; (ii) access to technical support; and (iii) guidelines for community participation. It is
important to note that technical assistance should be carried out via the corresponding
municipality;
*   Improvement of operations. SSA is to make available a comprehensive set of guidelines and
benchrnarking information to help utilities increase efficiency and expand coverage. This would
include systems/models for financial administration (billing, collection, cost accounting). It is
- 89 -



worth noting that this TA will be offered to both private and public utilities.
5.    Proposed Organizational Structure
The proposed reorganization envisages that all functions to be discharged by SSA will be grouped in two
areas or Directorates (a reduction from the existing three): The Sectoral Planning Directorate and the
Technical Assistance Directorate. Both directorates will use the existing Provincial Directorates of
MIDUVI to help maintain a close interaction with local governments, communities and utilities and to
implement the products discussed above. The reorganization also includes the creation of a small unit for
fmancial control and administrative support to make processes more agile. Figure 1 shows the proposed
structure for SSA.
The reorganization of SSA depends on a new organizational culture and values that focus more on
leadership and less on supervision. Successful reorganization will also require improved procedures and the
creation of integrated multi-disciplinary teams (matrix) in place of separate units.
6.     Strengthening of SSA
The above reorganization requires that SSA be staffed with qualified personnel in accordance with the
proposed functions. To achieve this, SSA needs to recruit new staff, especially in the finance, economic,
social and legal areas. Profiles for the required staff have already been defined. It is expected that some
layoffs of existing personnel will be required, and severance plans are being finalized. Intensive training is
also needed to bring staff skills to an acceptable level and to help SSA rapidly assume its leadership role.
To this end PRAGUAS will support the transition and the institutional strengthening plan. This plan will be
particularly intensive in TA in the first phase of PRAGUAS.
- 90 -



Fig. 1 Proposed Organization of SSA
Ministerio de Desarrollo Urbano y
Vivienda,
MIDUVI
Subsecretaria de
Saemet               ...........................
7.    Implmentaton Pla
Ambiental. SSA 
Ac n t Direccy on de            D     eccvn  acivenas de            Direcariones
d   Planeacirn Sectorial               Promocifn y                 Provinciales
Asistencia Tecnica
....... .......... ... ............................................
t Operational 
7.    Implementation PLan
According to the policy framework and sector development objectives, the main activities to be carried out
during the first four years of the PRAGUAS Project are shown in Table 1.
-91 -



Table 1. Prog ram of Activities
Activity        Cost     Year1        Year2        Year3    Year 4
:__ __ _ _   (000)0000000000000 ;Is   I    2s  Is  2s  is  2s  Is  2s
1. Preparatory Phase   290   80    90    70    50
Reorganization SSA     100   XX
Demonstration                XX   XX   XX
Projects (4 cities)    100                            _
Project Monitoring           XX
System                 50
Workshops for SSA      40   XX   XX   XX
..(3).
Promotion of PSP                          XX   XX
2. Implementation     1,320                220   300   300   250   150   100
Phase                                                                      _
New demonstration                         XX   XX   XX   XX   XX
projects (5/year)      320
Monitoring system &                             XX   XX   XX
benchmarking           100                            I
Reform Policy Paper    350                      XX   XX   xx   xx
Regulatory Aspects     450                             XX   XX   XX   XX
Governance
Service Provision
Physical Infrastructure
Workshops for local    100                XX   XX   XX   XX   XX   XX
Governments &
dissemination _      _____
3. TA to Local         550    40    40   100   100   100   70    50    50
Governments/NGOs  __=
Benchmarking                                           XX   XX   XX
Dissemination.
Anemapa a/             50
Operators              200                XX            Xx          xx
Local governments &    300   XX   XX   XX XxX          Xx   xx   xX   XX
communities
Total US$             2,160  120   130   390   450   400   320   200   150
The implementation plan will be developed in full detail for the first year of the operation and will include
monitoring indicators and a feedback mechanism that will be updated every six months.
- 92 -



Additional
Annex No.: 13
Technical Assistance Program for Improving the Provision of Services - PAT
Background
1.     The Water and Wastewater Sector in Ecuador has had a long history of poor performance, well
below the accomplishments of other countries in Latin America. Low service levels of 61% for water
supply and 40% for sanitation and the nearly complete absence of wastewater treatment attest to this.
Ecuador has 16 utilities in medium and large cities and, in most cases, the water and sanitation service is
provided directly by municipalities. Indicators of quality of service point to a worrisome situation. Water
treatmnent of any kind is provided in less than 50% of systems; water losses are estimated at more than
50%. In only 16 medium and large cities is there the semblance of a utility, while in the rest of the country
water and wastewater services are provided directly by the city government. Very few of these utilities
manage to cover their operating costs; billing is deficient and meters, when installed, are often not read.
2.     While several factors explain the situation described above, a lack of appropriate service
management is undoubtedly the main cause. The existing model of municipally run water services has
failed consistently to provide adequate services. Yet, in most cities there is not yet a consensus that utilities
should be commercially oriented, autonomous and financially solid agencies, and that the private sector
represents a valid and viable option for financing and operating water and wastewater services.
3.     The effects of many years of neglect cannot realistically be overcome with rapid fixes. There is a
need first to better define the roles of central and local institutions and to strengthen their capacity to play
their mandated role in the sector. Severe budget constraints at the central and local levels, the absence of
financially strong local utilities and an incipient culture of full cost pricing and payment for services among
the population also point in the direction of a slow sector recovery process. These constraints suggest the
need to work with progressive local governments to develop innovative demonstration projects where cost
recovery and sound institutional/ organizational solutions become the central focus of sector reform to
serve the poor. The Government's strategy, designed to support its decentralization and modernization
efforts, envisions full responsibility and capacity building of the municipalities to provide the water and
sanitation services in areas under their jurisdiction (by delegating to third, autonomous parties as explained
below) and bringing substantial private sector participation. The Technical Assistance Program (PAT for
its acronym in Spanish) directly supports the above strategy and is envisioned to help operationalize the
delegation of WSS services to third parties. PRAGUAS will support the establishment, launching and main
operations of PAT. Also, the PAT represents one of the core functions of the reorganized SSA.
Objectives
4.     The PAT"s main objective is to assist municipalities, water and sanitation providers and consumers
in improving service provision for water and sanitation, through delegation and supervision of contracts
and strengthening of the capacity of providers. In line with this objective, the PAT has been established to
attain the following goals:
*   Municipalities. (i) Improve their capacity to delegate/contract the services, and follow-up and
regulate the delegation contracts, (ii) improve their capacity to manage allocation of grants and
subsidies within the general financial policy for the sector, (iii) be able to organize and coordinate
- 93 -



the technical supply offered by private sector providers, NGOs and other suppliers, (iv) increase
awareness and willingness to assess the option of associating with others to gain economies of
scale in service provision, and (v) improve health and sanitation conditions.
*   Community Operators (Juntas). The PAT will provide (i) training and TA to improve their
management capacity to effectively provide water supply and sanitation services, (ii) assistance to
promote associations of Juntas and, whenever feasible, their transformation into utilities, and (iii)
training to protect water resources and improve sanitary conditions.
*   Private Providers. PAT will assist in: (i) the creation and establishment of private and mixed
capital utilities, (ii) strengthening of utilities to improve service provision, (iii) defining the best
conditions to allow an enabling regulatory and legal framework for utilities to operate in, and (iv)
increasing private inflow of funds and hence diminishing the sector's dependency on public
financing.
*   Service Users. (i) Communities aware of their new role and responsibility with respect to water and
sanitation services, (ii) awareness of adequate use of water and sanitation facilities and training on
health-related issues, and (iii) awareness and promotion of sustainability in terms of payment for
the service and protection of water resources.
General Description of the PAT
5.     The PAT is a technical assistance program at the national level. It covers water and sanitation
services but could also allow for solid waste collection whenever the service is jointly provided. The PAT
will focus on municipalities as the core client but communities, providers and customers will also benefit
from its products.
6.     The PAT will operate by financing studies and technical assistance primarily intended to support
the GOE's policy of delegating services to autonomous operators. This delegation involves the capacity to
delegate and supervise the contract, and strengthen the operator. In rural areas, where Juntas will provide
the service, the PAT will assist with the creation of such juntas and provide assistance and guidelines for
service provision by organized communities. In all cases, the PAT will also assist consumers. The proposed
assistance will include training events, consultancies and studies, as well as documents and materials. In
particular, the program will offer the following products:
Preparatorv Phase
7.     The preparatory phase entails the establishment of the TA system, and developing the capacity to
deliver the PAT's services. The main activities are:
*   Rules and Regulations for Delegation. The PAT  will compile, develop and disseminate
documentation on the legal regulatory framework and examples regarding the delegation of
services. These include tariffs and subsidies as well as legal and regulatory texts that must be
introduced in the delegation contracts.
*   Demonstration Proiects. The PAT will carry out a group of about 5 pilot projects to better
understand the challenges posed by delegation and test different organizational models, as well as
to refine the instruments needed for this assistance by the PAT. It is also expected that the pilot
delegation cases will serve as models and inspiration for other municipalities to follow. These
- 94 -



pilots will be the first cases to attempt delegation of the water and sanitation services in the
country. These pilots will be carried out in close coordination with BEDE, AME and other sector
institutions that are expected to be part of the PAT system.
*   Promotion and dissemination of the PAT will be a key activity for the program during the
preparatory phase. Successful delegation processes are expected to become the best promotion
strategy.
*   Selection of Municipalities. During the first phase of PRAGUAS, the PAT will begin with limited
capacity and has therefore established a modest goal for successful delegation processes. The
selection of municipalities will need careful consideration and well-founded criteria. Basic elements
of these criteria include (i) demonstrated willingness to adopt the new institutional model, (ii)
agreement with the sector policy and PRAGUAS regulations, and (iii) higher priority for
municipalities willing to select a common operator.
*   Support to Private Operators and Entrepreneurs. Given the lack of historic demand for services to
privately operate the water and sanitation systems, it is no surprise that there are not, as yet,
experienced local operators. Experience elsewhere in Latin America indicates that it is improbable
that international operators will be interested in the small municipalities. Therefore, the strategy
calls for aggressive promotion, adequate information, clear and transparent processes and
assistance to local entrepreneurs to build initial capacity to operate systems.
e   Preparation of Instruments for the PAT. The Program will develop a set of key instruments to
facilitate the delegation processes for all parties involved. The include: (i) model terms of reference
to prepare the feasibility studies, the bidding documents and the contracts to delegate water and
sanitation services, (ii) guidelines to conduct quick diagnostics of a particular system, to help
determine the institutional options and to define an action strategy to cany out the delegation
process, (iii) guidelines for financial projections and analysis, including a tariff model to analyze
financial viability, (iv) tools to develop a municipality's capacity to regulate and follow-up on a
delegation contract, and (v) guidelines on institutional! managerial options. The PAT will also
develop a manual to guide the provision of technical assistance.
3   Training is also a key activity during the initial phase of PRAGUAS. Training modules will be
developed to promote and increase capacity to all actors in the delegation system. The training
program will focus on the PAT teams, consultants and municipalities. The PAT will also promote
the creation of formal training in educational institutions in Ecuador and will develop a training
plan including the modules, contents, duration and identification of candidate trainees.
*   Monitoring and Evaluation System. The PAT will have a monitoring and evaluation system. This
system will be part of the sector information system to be developed under PRAGUAS.
Implementation Phase
8.     This refers to the normal execution of the PAT, and will focus on actually providing the technical
assistance. Phase one will be a prerequisite, as it is expected that service providers will have been
identified, all parties trained, instruments developed and municipalities selected. As indicated before, it is
expected that during the first phase of PRAGUAS, approximately 15 municipalities would have begun the
delegation process and about 8 would have actually completed the process successfully. Phase two and
three will expand and at the end of APL-3, not less than 50 of the municipalities would provide WSS
- 95 -



services under delegation contracts. The PAT will also monitor and assist BEDE and/or other institutions
that might contribute to this delegation process. This phase will consist of the following general activities:
9.     Support to about 15 Municipalities. The PAT will finance studies and technical assistance to
municipalities that abide by the regulations and that have been defined during the preparatory phase. This
phase assumes that the functional structure of the program is consolidated and procedures have been
clearly established. In brief, interdisciplinary teams in SSA and its regional offices -- in a combined effort
with the municipality -- will carry out the following main activities:
*   Identify the cases and conduct an institutional and financial assessment.
*   Agree on an action plan with the municipality.
*   Establish a municipal counterpart.
*  Consultants carry out the feasibility studies, and assist the municipalities in choosing the most
suitable institutional option and the proposed investment program.
*   The final design, bidding documents and draft delegation contracts are prepared.
* In parallel, the design for the regulation at the municipality is developed.
*   After the documents are approved, the bidding process begins, with consultants supporting the
process.
*   An operator is selected. Service is delegated and operations begin under the responsibility of the
operator.
*   If the options study recommends maintaining a public utility, consultants provide TA for the
creation and strengthening of such an enterprise.
10.   In addition, this phase will include (i) promotion and dissemination processes, (ii) training to
involved parties, and (iii) monitoring and evaluation activities. For each completed delegation,
comprehensive evaluations will be carried out.
Organization for the Implementation of the PAT
11.   The PAT has been designed as a system with several actors providing services under the
coordination of SSA. It represents a long-term effort and is one of SSA's key functions.
12.   Program Management will be conducted by the Technical Assistance Department in SSA. There
will be a program coordinator. The coordinator will perform managerial functions including policy,
programming, budgeting, contracting services and management of program execution, coordination of
outside institutions and within SSA and MIDUVI, and monitoring and evaluation. Inside SSA, the program
will delegate the management of specific plans and programs to TA coordinators. These coordinators will
oversee and support operations nationwide based on a geographical division. Provincial Delegations will
provide follow-up support and perform various supervision tasks. Most operations will be carried out by
consultants or firms that provide multidisciplinary services to prepare feasibility studies, prepare bidding
documents, assist throughout the delegation process and provide TA to municipalities in establishing
regulatory functions and strengthening utilities.
Role of Key Participating Institutions
13.   As mentioned above, the PAT involves the collaborative effort of several institutions. The table
below shows the main institutions and their proposed role.
- 96 -



Participant                                  Key Role/Function
MIDUVI-SSA                     Coordinator of the program and responsible for its execution and follow-up.
Municipalities                 The main target of the PAT. Municipalities are responsible for the provision
of services to be carried out in a delegated fashion.
Autonomous Providers           Main beneficiaries of the PAT. Their creation and strengthening is the main
purpose of PAT.
Community Operators            Same as above
Technical Assistance Providers    PAT will be supported and actually implemented by private consultants.
.____________ _  These providers will be trained by the PAT.
CONAM/MOSTA                    General policy framework for modernization of the state. Currently CONAM
approves privatization contracts. This function will be transferred to
MIDUVI.
ANEMAPA                        Assist with training and dissemination
BEDE - Banco del Estado        Key participant. As the financial institution for the sector, BEDE will
provide financial support and TA for larger municipalities under the policy
outlined in PAT.
AME Association of Ecuadorian   Will support the TA process with promotional events.
Municipalities
Activities, Costs and General Timeframe
14.   Total program cost for the first four years (phase 1 of PRAGUAS) is estimated at US$1.6 million.
PRAGUAS will cover the entire cost of this first phase, excluding the incremental operating costs of
services provided by SSA's permanent staff. PRAGUAS will not provide financial assistance to other PAT
activities carried by other institutions such as the delegation processes under BEDE's coordination.
15.   The table below describes the proposed activities under the PAT and its unit and total cost grouped
into development phase and actual implementation phase. Costs are based on the assumption that
PRAGUAS will support the establishment of the PAT in MIDUVI and that during the first phase of
PRAGUAS the program will assist about 15 municipalities.
DEVELOPMENT PHASE                          TYPE   UNIT COST  TOTAL
US$       COST US$
Activities
1. Organization of SSA
2. Define National and Local Regulations
Tariff levels                                     Consultant       6,050        18,150
Subsidies systems                                 Consultant      6,050         18,150
Operator instruction & regulation                 Consultant       6,050        18,150
3. Execution of Demo Projects
Introduce 4 pilot projects                       Municipality     34,810       139,242
4. Dissemination of Executed Projects (3 programs)     Programs       10,000        30,000
5. Selection of Municipalities
Define selection & priority criteria (1 month)     Consultant      6,050        12,100
6. Organization of the Monitoring and Evaluation systems  Consultant  6,050         18,150
7. Support Programs
Edition and dissemination                           Program        10,000       20,000
8. Knowledge Update (3 workshops)                     Workshops       3,230         9,690
TOTAL COST                                                                         283,632
- 97 -



IMPLEMENTATION PHASE                        TYPE   UNIT COST  TOTAL
US$       COST US$
Activities
1. Participation with A.T.
Development of AT projects in 9 municipalities  Municipality       34,810       313,294
Execution of AT projects in 13 municipalities (1 st year) Municipality  34,810  452,535
Execution of AT projects in 13 municipalities (2nd year) Municipality  34,810   452,535
2. Monitoring & Evaluation Systems
Maintain monitoring & evaluation system updated  Consultant       6,050         24,200
Program adjustment: schedule, tools, tariffs, subsidies, Consultant  6,050      24,200
regulations                                         .
3. Knowledge Update Plan
Offer to governments & local authorities        Workshops         3,230         12,920
Offer to community & public operators           Workshops         3,230         12,920
4. PAT Dissemination                                Programs          10,000        30,000
TOTAL COST                                                                        1,322,604
- 98 -



ECUADOR
RURAL AND SMALL TOWNS
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
(PRAGUAS)
.~~~~~~~~~ .
-RI4                    E;t     z     -0,::                                     :.:                               'f :0; S 78A  77'  76'
COLOMBIA
PACIFIC
OCEAN                   17 1
. A                                                                _~~~M
C.k
JO e                                                                    e'         M  'gIEA0D  OCN   P PLOPOETs-
K:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~;~
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PERU  r . CMTRGOS
Sdi.,G L KIO;TL                                                                   ISSAL  _
(ARCHIPiFIAGO DE COLbN}               PILOT PROJECT SITFES
*    SOCIAL ASSESSMENT SITES
CIMATIC REGIONS:
Gnp yupetrh Psd*hEftr-w 6Mo 25  50  75 00                    iAATMIf   oEE1A                       ~ITRAINL8UDRE
7 moxmrcepneTch dmsI  I L    I  I         .A                                        ..                        SLE EDT WS  N)  RE
ChA                                                                                                        PROl°NCE 80'IDAS SAN 9LY  .I_RR
0   25  50  75  14  2   5        00   MA                                                        NERATOALRONARE
o   El'                    ES'                  OLOMKLOMETSRS  ISABEL
o                                      I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NTOA AIA



