Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 7035-EC
Loan Agreement
(Rural and Small Towns Water Supply and Sanitation Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated April 11, 2001
LOAN NUMBER 7035-EC
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 11, 2001, between the REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR (the Borrower) 
and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and
(B)
the Bank has received from the Borrower a letter dated July 28, 2000 
describing a 10-year program of policies, objectives and key actions designed to 
increase the coverage and sustainable use of water and sanitation services in Ecuador 
and to modernize the overall sector structure (the Program) and declaring the 
Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999 with the 
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement:
Paragraph (c) of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions is modified to read as 
follows:
“(c) Not later than six months before the Closing Date or such later date 
as may 
be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the 
Borrower shall prepare 
and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and 
in such detail as the Bank shall 
reasonably request, on the execution and 
initial operation of the Project, its cost and 
the benefits derived and to be 
derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the 
Bank of their 
respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of 
the purposes of the Loan.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“Delegation Investment Subproject” means a project for carrying out an 
engineering design and/or works for expansion and rehabilitation of water supply and 
sanitation systems to be carried out in a municipal capital by a Municipality (as 
defined below) which has entered into a Grant Agreement referred to in Section 3.03 
(a) (iv) of this Agreement, and which is eligible for financing out of the proceeds of 
the Loan in accordance with the provisions of the Operational Manual (as defined 
below);
(b)
“Delegation Preparation Subproject” means a technical assistance project 
to prepare for the delegation to autonomous operators of the water and sanitation 
services provided by a Municipality in a municipal capital which is eligible for 
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions of the 
Operational Manual (as defined below); 
(c)
“Eligible Categories” means categories (1) through (5) set forth in the 
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(d)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works and 
services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(e)
“Financial Management Action Plan” means the plan for the establishment 
of a financial management system for the Project set forth in the letter dated August 
2, 2000 from the Borrower to the Bank;
(f)
“Grant Agreement” means any of the agreements referred to in Section 3.03 
of this Agreement;
(g)
“MIDUVI” means Ministerio de Desarrollo Urbano y Vivienda, the Borrower’s 
Ministry of Urban Development and Housing;
(h)
“Municipality” means a municipality which is eligible to participate in 
Page  3
the Project in accordance with the provisions of the Operational Manual;
(i)
“Operational Manual” means the manual for the operation of the Project 
referred to in Section 3.06 of this Agreement;
(j)
“Performance Indicators” means the indicators set forth in the letter 
dated August 2, 2000 from the Borrower to the Bank;
(k)
“Project Management Unit” or “PMU” means the units referred to in Section 
3.04 of this Agreement;
(l)
“Project Management Report” or “PMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(m)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to the letter agreement signed on behalf 
of the Bank on August 6, 1999 and on behalf of the Borrower on December 29, 1999;
(n)
“Promotion and Preinvestment Subproject” means a project for the 
promotion of rural water system development, community development, and engineering 
and supervision activities in a Municipality which is eligible for financing out of 
the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions of the Operational Manual; 
(o)
“Rural Community” means a legally established community or water board;
(p)
“Rural Water and Sanitation Subproject” means a project for the 
development of water and sanitation infrastructure, health and hygiene education of a 
Rural Community, and training of a Rural Community on water systems operation and 
maintenance, which is eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of the Operational Manual;
(q)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement;
(r)
“SSA” means Subsecretaría de Saneamiento Ambiental, the Borrower’s 
Subsecretariat of Environmental Health within MIDUVI;
(s)
“SSA Restructuring Plan” means a plan for the restructuring of SSA to 
enable it to exercise its statutory powers to formulate water and sanitation sector 
policies and norms, set regulatory guidelines, and provide technical assistance to 
municipalities and other sector institutions at the national and local levels; and
(t)
“Subproject” means collectively Promotion and Preinvestment Subprojects, 
Rural Water and Sanitation Subprojects, Delegation Preparation Subprojects and 
Delegation Investment Subprojects.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to 
thirty-two million dollars ($32,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to 
time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 
of this Agreement.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
Page  4
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan and the front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement.
(b)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be October 31, 2004 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 
percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective Date, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amount of said fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i) 
eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and 
(ii) seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period 
at the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay 
interest on such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions.
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment other charges shall be payable 
semiannually in arrears on May 15  and November 15  in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i)
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount 
of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency;
(ii)
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to 
a Fixed Rate, or vice 
versa; and
(iii)
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or 
any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said 
Variable Rate.
(b)
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01 
(7) of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions 
of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
ARTICLE III
Page  5
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project, through SSA, with the 
participation of Municipalities in respect of Parts B and C of the Project, all with 
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate economic, public 
utility, financial, administrative, management and environmental practices, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall enter into agreements, under terms and 
conditions substantially similar to those of the respective model forms contained in 
the Operational Manual (the Grant Agreements), with:
(i)
each Municipality eligible to participate in a Promotion and 
Preinvestment 
Subproject for carrying out the technical 
assistance required to qualify 
for implementation of a Rural 
Water and Sanitation Subproject;
(ii)
each Municipality eligible to carry out a Rural Water and 
Sanitation 
Subproject and a Rural Cmmunity, setting forth: (A) 
the works and/or 
training to be carried out under the Rural 
Water and Sanitation Subproject; 
(B) the financial contributions of the 
respective parties; (C) the transfer 
of assets at Subproject 
completion; (D) the responsibility of the water 
boards in the 
operation of the systems; (E) SSA’s role in Subproject 
monitoring; and (F) the Municipality’s obligation to carry out the Rural 
Water and Sanitation Subproject in accordance with the Operational Manual, 
and procure the goods, works and services required for such 
Subproject in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 
to this Agreement;
(iii)
each Municipality eligible to carry out a Delegation Preparation 
Subproject 
setting forth: (A) the technical assistance to be 
implemented under the 
Delegation Preparation Subproject; and 
(B) the Municipality’s obligation to 
carry out the Delegation 
Preparation Subproject in accordance with the 
Operational Manual, 
and procure the goods and services required for such 
Subproject in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement; and
(iv)
each Municipality eligible to carry out a Delegation Investment 
Subproject 
setting forth: (A) the engineering designs and the 
works to be carried out 
under the Delegation Investment 
Subproject; (B) the Municipality’s 
undertaking to 
delegate the water and sanitation services to an autonomous 
operator, including the timetable for bidding for the services and entering 
into the necessary agreements with such operator; and (C) the 
Municipality’s obligation to carry out the Subproject in accordance with 
the Operational Manual and procure the goods, works and services 
required 
for the Subproject in accordance with the provisions 
of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
(b)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Grant Agreements in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall not assign, amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce any Grant Agreement or any 
Page  6
provision thereof.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall establish and thereafter maintain during the 
execution of the Project, a project management unit and provincial subunits with 
structure and functions satisfactory to the Bank, with qualified staff in adequate 
numbers as required to carry out its responsibilities.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Performance Indicators, the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about March 31 and September 30 of each year, commencing March 31, 
2001, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities 
performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the 
carrying out of their respective parts of the Project during the period preceding the 
date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient 
carrying out the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the 
period following such date; and
(c)
together with the Bank:
(i)
review by May 31 and November 30 of each year, or such later date 
as the 
Bank shall request, the reports referred to in 
paragraph (b) of this 
Section; and
(ii)
by June 30, 2002, in addition to the report referred to in 
paragraph (b) of 
this Section: (A) the effectiveness of the financial 
policies applicable to 
Subprojects, (B) the appropriateness of the 
Project processes, (C) the 
effectiveness of the level of 
assistance to and controls of the 
Municipalities, and 
(D) advances in sector reform and strengthening, 
including the 
capacity of SSA, the progress made in training 
Municipalities, and any changes proposed to the Program; and 
(d)
thereafter take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion 
of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions 
and recommendations of the said reviews and the Bank’s views on the matter.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with an 
operational manual satisfactory to the Bank (the Operational Manual), said manual to 
include, inter alia:
(a)
the procedures for the carrying out, monitoring and evaluation, of the 
Project (including the procurement and financial requirements thereof);
(b)
criteria for selection of Municipalities and Subprojects;
(c)
requirements for implementation of Subprojects, including standards, 
satisfactory to the Bank, for environmentally sound construction practices and 
appropriate screening procedures for Subprojects; and
(d)
model forms for the Grant Agreements.
Section 3.07.  The Borrower shall:
(a)
not later than June 30, 2001 issue guidelines, acceptable to the Bank, 
Page  7
for the setting of tariffs of water and sanitation services; and
(b)
not later than June 30, 2002, submit to the Bank for its review a draft 
water and sanitation sector law.
Section 3.08. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months before the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the 
future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall establish and thereafter maintain a 
financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements in a format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, 
resources and expenditures related to all parts of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and 
accounts for the Special 
Account for each fiscal year audited, 
in accordance with auditing standards 
acceptable to the Bank, 
consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than 
four months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such 
year as so audited, and 
(B) an opinion on such statements, records and 
accounts and report 
of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records 
and 
accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Bank 
may from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of 
this Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such 
Page  8
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such 
audit contains a separate opinion by said 
auditors as to whether the 
Project Management Reports or 
statements of expenditure submitted during 
such fiscal year, 
together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Bank for the strengthening of its financial management system for the Project in order 
to enable the Borrower, not later than June 30, 2001 or such later date as the Bank 
shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project management reports, acceptable to the Bank, 
each of which:
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected 
sources and applications of funds for 
the Project for the six-month period 
following the period 
covered by said report, and (B) shows separately 
expenditures 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan during the period 
covered by said report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan during the six-month period following the period 
covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
(B) explains 
variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; 
and
(iii)  sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures 
under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan, as at the end of 
the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of each 
calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
the Borrower shall have contracted the services of a firm to assist in 
the implementation of Part B of the Project;
(b)
the Borrower shall have established the PMU and appointed its Project 
coordinator as well as the area coordinators for sector strengthening, investments, 
and financing and administration;
(c)
the Operational Manual has been issued by the Borrower and approved by 
the Bank;
Page  9
(d)
the SSA Restructuring Plan has been approved by the Bank and MIDUVI has 
issued the respective ministerial resolution for the implementation of such Plan; and
(e)
the Financial Management Action Plan has been implemented.
Section 5.02. The date July 11, 2001 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Economy and Finance of the Borrower is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economy and Finance 
Avenida 10 de Agosto y Jorge Washington
Quito, Ecuador
Facsimile:
(5932) 569-386
 558-232
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
By /s/ Jorge Gallardo
Authorized Representative
Page  10
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ David de Ferranti
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
Part A:
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
   % of
Loan Allocated
Expenditures
Category
(Expressed in Dollars)
to be Financed
 (1)
Goods
(a) for Parts A and D of
    270,000
100% of foreign 
of the Project
expenditures and 85% 
of local expenditures
(b) for Rural Water and
    500,000
100% of the amounts Sanitation 
Subprojects
disbursed under each 
Grant Agreement
(2)
Civil Works
(a) for Rural Water and
 14,410,000)
Sanitation Subprojects
   )
100% of the amounts
   )
disbursed under each
(b) Delegation Investment
  1,060,000)
Grant Agreement
Subprojects
   )
(3)
Consultants’ services and
training (including audits)
(a) for Parts A and D of
  2,030,000
100%
the project
(b) for Delegation Prepara-  2,540,000)
100% of the amounts
tion Subprojects
   )
disbursed under each
   )
Grant Agreement
   )
(c) for Promotion and
  4,230,000)
 Preinvestment Subprojects
   )
   )
(d) for Delegation Investment  420,000)
Subprojects
   )
(4)
Incremental Operating 
  1,130,000
88%
Expenditures
(5)
Severance Payments
    500,000
100%
(6)
Refunding of Project
  1,300,000
Amounts due pursuant
Preparation Advance
to Section 2.02 (b) of
Page  11
this Agreement
(7)
Fee
    320,000
Amount due under
Section 2.04 of this
Agreement
(8)
Unallocated
  3,290,000
TOTAL
 32,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
(c)
the term “Incremental Operating Expenditures” means the cost of travel 
and per diem of personnel of the PMU and its provincial subunits, and office supplies, 
utilities, gasoline and vehicle maintenance for the PMU and its provincial subunits, 
all included in annual plans acceptable to the Bank; and
(d)
the term “Severance Payments” means the cost of compensatory payments 
and/or training of SSA/MIDUVI staff made redundant under the SSA Restructuring Plan.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $500,000 may be made on 
account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after April 11, 2000.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for: (a) works under contracts costing less than $200,000 
equivalent; (b) goods under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent; (c) 
consulting firms under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent; (d) individual 
consultant under contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent; and (e) incremental 
operating expenditures and severance payments, all under such terms and conditions as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account, in 
its Central Bank or a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including in the event it is opened in a commercial bank 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.
2.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Bank shall have received: (i) the first Project Management 
Report referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement; and (ii) a request from the 
Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Bank of a Project Management Report pursuant to 
Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
Page  12
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Bank determines at any time that any Project Management Report 
does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 of this 
Agreement;
(b)
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be 
made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of: (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records 
and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made on 
the basis of Project Management Reports.
5.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the 
Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part 
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account 
may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or 
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the 
Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.
(b)
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) of this 
paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are Not 
Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount 
of $2,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equal 
to $1,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account, plus 
the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank 
Page  13
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal or exceed $4,000,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish 
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis 
of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank 
shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn 
by the Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
3.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to 
the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on 
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are 
Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Bank may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each such 
deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account 
under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Loan Account for deposit into the 
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the respective Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so 
requested; and (b) the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the Project 
Management Report accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order 
to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of 
such report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to the amount 
indicated by said Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special Account, 
shall not exceed $4,000,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Page  14
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to increase the coverage and effective use of 
sustainable water and sanitation services with a focus on the poorer populations in 
rural communities and small towns.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Water and Sanitation Sector Reform and Institutional Strengthening
1.
Carrying out of:
(a)
a restructuring plan for SSA that will enable the agency to formulate 
sector policies and norms, set general regulatory guidelines and provide technical 
assistance and training to municipalities and other sector institutions; and
(b)
a participatory preparation process for a new water and sanitation sector 
law by conducting: (i) workshops with sector stakeholders; and (ii) the necessary 
legal research for the preparation of such law.
2.
(a) 
Provision of technical assistance to Municipalities to strengthen their 
capacity to delegate the provision of water and sanitation services to autonomous 
operators including identification of the appropriate delegation model, and 
preparation of the legal, financial, technical and social instruments required to 
implement such delegation.
(b)
Workshops, study tours and other training activities to strengthen the 
capacity of: (i) private sector firms and community based organizations to operate 
municipal water and sanitation services; and (ii) small engineering firms and 
non-governmental agencies to provide community development, engineering and facility 
construction services in rural communities.
Part B:
Rural Water and Sanitation
1.
Carrying out of promotion and community development, and engineering and 
supervision activities to enable Municipalities and Rural Communities to prepare Rural 
Water and Sanitation Subprojects.
2.
Carrying out of construction and/or rehabilitation of water and sanitation 
infrastructure, and provision of training to Rural Communities in the operation and 
maintenance of water and sanitation services.
Part C:
Small Towns Water and Sanitation
1.
Preparation of technical designs and tender documents for water supply 
rehabilitation and/or expansion investments in urban areas of municipalities, and 
supervision of the construction of such works.
2.
Carrying out of expansions and rehabilitations of water supply and sanitation 
systems.
Part D:
Project Administration
Establishment and operation of the PMU and its provincial subunits including, 
inter alia, equipment purchases, maintenance of its financial management and Project 
monitoring systems, and provision of expert advice for the preparation of an 
environmental assessment for the rural sanitation sector, and for preparation of 
Page  15
Project audits.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by April 30, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
1.
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn 
as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by 
the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as 
of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion 
applies.
Installment Share
Payment Date
(Expressed as a %)
On each May 15 and November 15
Beginning November 15, 2008
  through November 15, 2019
4.17%
On May 15, 2020
4.09%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a)
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule.
(b)
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a 
fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in 
the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the 
Original Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all 
remaining Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after 
such date, such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
3.
(a)
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts 
payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the 
second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable 
on each Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of  withdrawal.
(b)
Notwithstanding the provisions of subparagraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such 
sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system. 
Page  16
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the 
Loan to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that 
shall be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate 
that reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank 
under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank 
so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate 
component of the Screen Rate.
5.
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Sections I, III and IV 
of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provision shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B:
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $1,000,000 equivalent and not exceeding in the 
aggregate $24,500,000 equivalent, and goods estimated to cost less than $250,000 
equivalent and not exceeding in the aggregate $900,000 equivalent, may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of 
the Guidelines, using standard bidding documents acceptable to the Bank.
2.
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent and not exceeding in 
aggregate $900,000 equivalent,  may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of 
Page  17
the Guidelines.
3.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $100,000 and not exceeding in the aggregate 
$5,500,000 equivalent may be procured under lump sum, fixed price contracts awarded on 
the basis of quotations obtained from at least three (3) qualified domestic 
contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a 
detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant 
drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the 
lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources 
to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to: (i) each contract for goods and works to be procured in 
accordance with the procedures referred to in B.1 above; (ii) each contract for goods 
procured in accordance with the procedures referred to in C.1 above; and (iii) each 
contract for works procured in accordance with the procedures referred to in C.1 above 
and estimated to cost more than $200,000 equivalent; the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to the first two contracts procured in accordance with the 
procedures referred to in C.2 and C.3 above, the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier or the execution of any 
contract 
under shopping procedures, the Borrower shall provide 
to the Bank a report 
on the comparison and evaluation of 
quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under shopping 
procedures, 
the Borrower shall provide to the Bank a copy of the 
specifications and the 
draft contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Page  18
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Sections II, III, and IV of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants, estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per 
contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services for audits and special assignments under Part D of the Project 
estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines and not exceeding in the aggregate $2,000,000 equivalent, shall 
be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 
1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent, the terms of reference and short list 
of the consulting firms shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and 
approval. The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been 
given.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
Page  19
consultants estimated to cost $50,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms 
of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded only after the said 
approval shall have been given.
(d)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000, the terms of reference shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded 
only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
Section III.
Special Provisions
A.
In addition and without limitation or restriction to any other provisions set 
forth in this Attachment or the Consultant Guidelines, the following provisions shall 
govern all employment of consultants:
1.
Foreign consultants shall not be required to be locally registered as a 
condition of participation in the selection process.
2.
Foreign consultants shall not be required, either directly or indirectly, to 
give any participation in or share of any consulting contracts to any local firm or 
person.
3.
Foreign consulting firms shall not be required, as a condition to provide 
services, to be registered in Ecuador with a minimum capital different from that 
required for Ecuadorian firms.
4.
Foreign consultants, either individuals or firms, shall not be required to pay 
fees to the Ecuadorian Consultants’ Association that are different from those required 
for Ecuadorian consultants.
5.
No consultant financed by proceeds of this Loan shall, at the time he or she is 
carrying out his or her contractual obligations as consultant, hold civil service 
office or any other position in an agency of the Borrower or any Ecuadorian public 
sector entity, nor shall such consultant have any right to re-entry into any such 
office or position upon the conclusion of his or her consulting services.
6.
The Borrower’s Commission for the selection of consultants under the Project 
shall include among its members a representative of the relevant community who shall 
be entitled to a vote in the Commission’s decisions.
B.
In addition and without limitation or restriction to any other provisions set 
forth in this Attachment or the Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits, the following provisions shall govern the procurement of goods and works 
under Section I, Part C.1 of this Schedule:
1.
Each bid shall be evaluated and the corresponding contract awarded to the 
responsive bidder who meets appropriate technical and financial standards of 
capability and whose bid has been determined to be the lowest evaluated bid in a 
manner acceptable to both the Borrower and the Bank. Such determination shall be made 
exclusively on the basis of the specifications, conditions and evaluation criteria 
stipulated in the bidding documents. If any factor additional to the amount or amounts 
of each bid is to be considered in bid evaluation, such factor or factors and the 
quantified manner on which they will be applied for purposes of determining the lowest 
evaluated bid, shall be precisely stipulated in the bidding documents. For purposes of 
bid evaluation and comparison, the only bid amount or amounts to be used as a factor 
shall be the bid amount or amounts as quoted in the corresponding bid, including 
correction of arithmetic errors.
Page  20
2.
There will be no prescribed minimum number of bids to be submitted in order for 
a contract to be subsequently awarded.
3.
Foreign bidders shall not be required to authenticate (legalizar) their bidding 
documents or any documentation related to such bidding documents with Ecuadorian 
authorities as a prerequisite of bidding.
4.
The Borrower’s Commission for the procurement of goods and works under the 
Project shall include among its members a representative of the relevant community who 
shall be entitled to a vote in the Commission’s decisions.
Section IV: Internal Approvals
With respect to the procurement of goods and employment of consultants to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, any approval of bidding documents and 
contracts required under the laws of the Borrower shall be limited to the standard 
bidding documents referred to in Section I, Part C.1 of this Schedule.
