Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 20907-PH
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(34300; 3430A; 27534)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$150 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR
HIGHWAY MANAGEMENT PROJECT
DECEMBER 15, 2000
Transport Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distrbution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective July 1991)
Currency Unit = Philippines Peso (P)
P1 = US$ 0.0357
US$ 1 = P28
As of July 1, 2000
P1 = US$0.0232
US$1 = P43.13
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB        -     Asian Development Bank
BOM        -     Bureau of Maintenance
BRP        -     Better Roads Philippines
CIAP       -     Construction Industry Authority of Philippines
DBM        -     Department of Budget and Management
DENR       -     Department of Environment and Natural Resources
DOF        -     Department of Finance
DOTC       -     Department of Transportation and Communication
DPWH       -     Departnent of Public Works and Highways
EIRR       -     Economic Internal Rates of Return
EMK        -     Equivalent Maintenance Kilometer
GOP        -     Government of Philippines
HMP        -     Highway Management Project
NEDA       -     National Economic Development Authority
PMO        -    Project Management Office
RMS        -     Road Management System
RIMSS      -     Road Information Management Support Systems
NRIMP    -    National Roads Inprovement and Management Project
Vice President:   Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Director    Vinay K. Bhargava
Sector Director:   Jintendra N. Bajpai
Task Team Leader:   Denis Robitaille



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PHILIPPINES
Highway Management Project
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                         1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                        1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry              2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                 4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                   9
6. Sustainability                                                                      10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                       11
8. Lessons Learned                                                                     12
9. Partner Comments                                                                    13
10. Additional Information                                                             13
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                   14
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                   16
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                   18
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                   19
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                   21
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                      22
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                  23
Annex 8. Original and Actual Implementation Schedule                                   24
Annex 9. DPWH Enterprise Model                                                         25
Annex 9A: Key Accomplishments of RIMSS 1                                   26
Annex 10. Map of Implemented Road Rehabilitation Projects                              28
Annex 11. Cost Comparison of Estimates and Bid Prices                                  29
Annex 12. Borrower's Contribution to ICR                                               30
Map IBRD 22787
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






PHILIPPINES
Highway Management Project
(Loan 3430-PH)
Implementation Completion Report
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Highway Management
Project (Loan 3430-PH) to the Philippines for which a loan of US$150 million equivalent was
made on December 20, 1991 and made effective on June 1, 1992.
The Loan was closed on June 30, 2000 after one extension of 12 months. The final
disbursement was made on December 18, 2000.
The ICR was prepared by Mr. Daud Ahmad, Consultant. It was reviewed by Messrs.
Denis Robitaille (Task Team Leader) and Jitendra N. Bajpai (Sector Director, Transport Sector
Unit).
This ICR is based on materials in the project files and an ICR mission which took place
in April/May 2000. The Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by stating its views as
reflected in Mission's Aide-Memoire (May 2000), and by preparing its own evaluation of the
project execution (see Annex 12).






Project ID: P004597                                       Project Name: HIGHWAY MANAGEMENT P
Team Leader: Denis Robitaille                             TL Unit: EASTR
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: December 20, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: HIGHWAY MANAGEMENT P                           L/C/TF Number: 34300; 3430A; 27534
Country/Department: PHILIPPINES                                          Region: East Asia and Pacific
Region
Sector/subsector: TH - Highways
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  03/31/88                                 Effective: 06/01/92           06/01/92
Appraisal:  11/16/90                                  MTR:                       09/15/97
Approval:  12/20/91                                Closing: 06/30/99             06/30/2000
Borrower/Implementing Agency: GOP/DPWH
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Jemal-ud-din Kassum                        Attila Karaosmanoglu
Country Manager:     Vinay K. Bhargava                          Gautam Kaji
Sector Manager:      Jitendra N. Bajpai                         Jeffrey Gutman
Team Leader at ICR:   Denis Robitaille                          Peter Long
ICR Primary Author:   Daud Ahmad; Denis Robitaille;
Boonsri Prasertwaree Kim
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The proposed project would support the Govemment's infrastructure related policy reforms to
improve the quality and timeliness of road works and ongoing measures to develop a sustainable
institutional capability to manage the network. The project's main objective was to improve the quality of
the vitally important arterial highway network and thereby to reduce transport costs and increase the
country's economic competitiveness. Toward this goal, the project would: a) support selected
sub-projects included in the arterial highway investment plan for 1990-96; b) institute a nationwide road
management system to improve the planning, budgeting and implementation of works, particularly
resurfacing, strengthening, and maintenance, on a continuing basis; c) encourage increasing private
,sector participation in road maintenance; d) strengthen the capabilities of sub-sector staff through
technical assistance and training; and e) improve the effectiveness of the Philippine construction industry
by, among other things, introducing modem procedures.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The project objectives were never formally revised during project implementation. However, the
scope of technical assistance to DPWH for the development and implementation of road management
systems underwent major enhancements/ broadening during the early stages of implementation. The
main objective of the original component was to focus on developing integrated management tools for
multi-year programming, budgeting, monitoring, and data management. During the process of terms of
reference preparation for this study, it was felt that the introduction of computerized management tools
for those key processes was insufficient. Instead, a more comprehensive approach for the whole
department, including development of an enterprise system, was proposed. This meant looking at all of
DPWH's core and support business processes to improve and rationalize them and to develop
computerized tools for their implementation. While there were some initial reservations on the part of
Bank staff in regard to the institutional capacity for achieving this more comprehensive objective within
the Project, the Bank agreed to the DPWH proposal.
3.3 Original Components:
The following components, as defined in the Staff Appraisal Report, were originally proposed for
implementation over a seven-year period, 1992-98:
a) Technical assistance for the development and implementation of road management systems
for annual and multi-year programming and budgeting of road and bridge works, including
procurement of specialized equipment for monitoring and evaluating the condition and
structural capacity of pavement and bridge structure to provide essential data for technical
management of the system. Specifically, it was proposed that five modules of the road
management systems should be developed and implemented by June 1995. The selected
modules related to: database/reporting system, road monitoring/data acquisition, 5-year
investment programming, rolling work program for investment and maintenance, and
regional pavement rehabilitation program;
b) Civil works sub-projects to rehabilitate, upgrade, strengthen or resurface some 1,400 km of
deteriorated or damaged arterial highways and substandard bridges, including consulting
services for the related engineering and construction supervision. The selected sub-projects
were part of DPWH's arterial highway investment program, 1992-96. The first year program
included nine of the 10 sub-projects of the DPWH program for 1992-93. These were
selected on the basis of economic and technical criteria, regional development
considerations as well as readiness for implementation. Subsequent civil works components
were to be selected through an annual updating and review process of DPWH investment
program;
-2 -



c) Consulting Services to assist DPWH to:
i) coordinate project activities;
ii) implement procedures to improve pavement design and construction quality;
iii) initiate remedial measures at high-accident locations, to be developed under a
recently-defined road safety program;
iv) develop and implement a human resources planning and training program oriented
toward the Department's changing responsibilities due to decentralization and
implementation of maintenance by contract; and
v) increase DPWH's capacity to manage the preparation of environmental impact
statements for its projects.
d) Consulting services to assist the Construction Industry Authority of the Philippines (CIAP) to
carry out studies and implement measures to strengthen the construction industry.
Policy Improvement. In addition, it was agreed that the project would also support the following
policy reforms:
a) Increase private sector participation in highway maintenance under a phased program
resulting in the allocation of abut 60% of the total maintenance budget to contracted works in
1992, 70% in 1993, and about 80% in 1994;
b) Improve DPWH cost-effectiveness through a reduction in maintenance staff under a phased
program (44% reduction by 1992, 60% by 1993 and 75% by 1994); and
c) Annual adjustment of the Equivalent Maintenance Kilometer (EMK) allocation to maintain in
real term the 1991 routine maintenance budget for national roads during the project period.
3.4 Revised Components:
The following changes took place in the scope of the project components during its
implementation:
a) The scope of the civil works was revised within a year of loan approval; before start of
project implementation. An amended civil works program was recommended by DPWH in
December 1992 and approved by the Bank in October 1993. The revised program included
only major rehabilitation works leaving out less expansive road upgrading, strengthening and
resurfacing works. As a result, the total length of road to be rehabilitated under the project
was established at 717 km compared to the original 1,400 km proposed in the Staff Appraisal
Report for a mix of rehabilitation, upgrading, strengthening or resurfacing works;
b) The scope of the technical assistance component for development of selected management
tools for DPWH was expanded to convert it into a long-term exercise to develop a new
enterprise system for the DPWH (re-engineering process); and
c) After the 1997 Mid Term Review of the project, the terms of reference for the consulting
services to assist CIAP were revised to cope with the budget and implementation
constraints. This activity was later eliminated due to lack of serious interest on part of CIAP
management and to difficulty in transferring related budget to CIAP.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Overall, the quality of the project as appraised is rated as "unsatisfactory". The project was
prepared and approved at a time when the Philippines was going through a difficult budgetary situation.
As a result, the Department of Budget and Management (DBM) approval of the project was hanpered by
a number of postponements. At that time, availability of Govemment of Philippines (GOP) counterpart
funding was a main source of concem, which persisted as a problem during the life of the project. The
main focus of the Bank team was to seek agreements on the institutional and reform objectives of the
project, which may have diverted attention from routine detailed preparation works. As it turned out, the
- 3 -



project was neither ready for immediate implementation after loan approval, nor its scope defined well
enough to be implemented as appraised. The significant early on revisions to the scope of civil works
and the technical assistance programs, suggest that the project, as appraised, was not ready for
implementation. The Staff Appraisal Report stated that final engineering had been completed for 7 out of
10 road sub-projects selected for the first year program. However, updating of detailed engineering
designs was deemed necessary for all sub-components; completion of designs and bidding documents
for the first package of sub-projects took nearly two years after loan approval. Subsequent flexibility
shown by the GOP and Bank in re-defining the scope of the key components and better supervision on
both side after the 1997 Mid-Term Review helped salvage the project and led, in the end, to a
satisfactory outcome.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project did reasonably well in achieving its two main objectives: supporting Govemment's
infrastructure related policy reforms and improving quality of important arterial highway network. It
turned out to be the main vehicle supporting GOP/DPWH efforts to address a vast range of
institutional/policy issues as well as physical implementation constraints. In terms of achieving specific
short-term objectives spelled out in the Staff Appraisal Report, the project did not do that well. Instead it
contributed handsomely to initiate and sustain a long-term process of institutional and policy reforms and
improvement measures for planning/design and implementation of physical works. The broad agenda is
now clearly accepted and included in the ongoing Medium Term Public Investment Program of the
Government. The issue in the Philippines is no longer "what to do" in the roads sector, but "how to do" it.
The various studies and workshops supported by the project to undertake necessary analytical work and
strategy development made significant contributions to this end.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Annex 8 shows a comparison of planned and actual implementation by project components;
start-up delays are prominent in this analysis. Project outcomes by components are summarized below:
a) Technical Assistance for Road Management System. HMP started with some specific
objectives to develop and implement selected road management system modules by June 1995. This did
not happen as planned. Instead, a much broader and longer-term exercise of DPWH enterprise reform
was initiated during the start up stages, which is ongoing and has produced a wide range of
recommendations for implementation. This major change in focus and strategy that was agreed between
DPWH and the Bank should be viewed as a positive development. The scope of TA for road
management underwent major revisions/enhancement to undertake more relevant objectives. The
original scope was itself innovative, covering the development of decision support and a modular
computerized system for key aspects of road planning, programming, budgeting and design - the core
business of DPWH. This integrated approach aimed to overcome the ineffective operation of existing
stand-alone systems and obsolete information technology. However, during preparation of the terms of
reference for this exercise, DPWH staff started to realize that this objective of technology application in
itself was limited and not going to be enough or effective. The need to review and revise all of DPWH's
business processes along with development of related computerized tools was identified as the new
priority. Discussions with various consultants during the preparation stages contributed to this change in
strategy. The Bank staff initially had reservations on adopting this long-term comprehensive approach,
mainly on grounds of institutional capacity and implementation constraints, but later agreed to it at
DPWH's urging. Revised terms of reference for a Road Information and Management Support System
(RIMSS), including a first phase on full business process re-engineering and a small second phase
limited to the system development for pavement management as the first priority, was launched in
August 1995. However, the initiation of this revised component was delayed by a difficult and slow
selection of consultants - it took 18 months after submission of consultant proposals for DPWH to sign
the contract with the selected consultant. The consultants finally started work in April 1997. The project
supported RIMSS-1, the first phase of RIMSS which has evolved into following two stages:
- 4 -



* RIMSS-1, along with subsequent contract extensions (1A, 1 B, 1C) was supported by HMP
through June 30, 2000. This mainly covered detailed analysis of the existing DPWH set-up
(as-is situation), related problems, possible solutions and suggested recommendations. It
also included two "quick success" system applications (executive information and contract
document preparation), detailed specifications for the subsequent system development
activities and a study entitled "Better Roads Philippines".
* RIMSS-2, which is mainly the first phase implementation of the highest priority
recommendations, being supported under the Bank-financed First National Roads
Improvement and Management Project (NRIMP-1) for a 3-year period. NRIMP-1 is the first
of a three phase Adaptable Program Loan that was declared effective in July 2000.
An overview of the RIMSS recommendations is shown in Annex 9 along with a list of key
accomplishment of RIMSS-1. In summary, the first phase involved review of the "as is" situation of
DPWH and formulation of a wide range of recommendations to reform all aspects of DPWH's work
activities. A set of 154 changes was recommended by RIMSS, which have been grouped into 60
Business Improvement Implementation Projects (BlIPs). Of these, 37 BlIPs have been identified as 'high
priority" ones. Pilot implementation of two proposed changes; an Executive Management Information
System and a Contract Preparation System is taking place in DPWH. The project also started the
installation of a new communications network in the DPWH headquarters and selected regional offices to
provide the necessary infrastructure for modem information technology including RIMSS applications.
The overall RIMSS program, which is now at the early implementation stages, would be gradually
implemented under NRIMP-1. Sixteen highest priority BlIPs are included in NRIMP-1. In addition, a
study entitled 'Better Roads Philippines" was undertaken as a supplement to RIMSS to evaluate and
recommend options for the institutional reform of road management and financing, following the initiative
of a Bank- supported national workshop convened in 1997. This study contributed to the enactment in
June 2000 of a new legislation (RA 8794) that establishes special road funds and oversights for road
maintenance, safety and pollution control and raising road user charges. It became effective in
September 2000. Further support for the implementation of the road funds and institutional changes to
improve service delivery and private sector participation is provided under NRIMP-1.
b) Civil Works. The civil works component under HMP ended up supporting only major
rehabilitation of national roads whereas the original program called also for less expansive upgrading,
strengthening and resurfacing works. Thus, when a better identification of the works to be carried out
and the provision of more accurate cost estimates became available soon after the loan approval, the
initial target of 1400 km of national roads to be included in the program was immediately scaled down to
777 km. Thereafter, minor modifications reduced the program to 759 km. At project closing date, about
600 km of national roads had been rehabilitated under the project or 80% of the revised program. B
riefly, out of the 17 civil works contract packages procured to deliver the revised program, three (3)
contracts (89 km) had been terminated due to deficient performance of the contractors, 11 had been
completed (518 km), and three (3) contracts (151.8 km) had been partially completed at the Project
Closing Date. These contracts are being completed under the recently approved WB-financed NRIMP-1.
Hindsight reviews confirm that it would not have been possible to undertake only major
rehabilitation of 1400 km of national roads with the funds available under this project. This original
program was ambitious and not well defined. The roads sub-projects completed under HMP are shown
on the Map under Annex 10. The unit costs per km of roads rehabilitated under this project are in line
with other DPWH projects, including those financed by ADB and World Bank under NRIMP-1.
The civil works projects faced a whole array of implementation problems which are common in
the Philippines:
* Poor quality of detailed design leading to frequent and substantial variation orders.
* Slow procurement approval process.
* Weak construction supervision.
* Difficult and slow land acquisition process.
- 5-



*  Weak prequalification process leading to selection of less capable contractors resulting in (i)
low and unrealistic bid prices, (ii) slow implementation progress, (iii) expansive supervision
and management, (iv) frequent termination or repackaging of contracts, (v) litigation, and
(vi) sub-standards quality.
*  GOP counterpart funding shortages resulting in payment delays to the contractors.
*  A complicated set-up of supervision consultant services which diffused responsibility and
contributed to intemal bickering
*  Undue external influence and pressure
It is not difficult to understand why these problems occurred or persisted. All of the original civil
works contracts were awarded at prices well below (mostly 20% +) the Engineers' estimates (Annex 11).
Most of the contractors proved to lack necessary technical and financial capabilities -- a reflection of a
poor pre-qualification process. A cumbersome judicial process, compounded by client's inability to cash
in on contractor's performance bonds rendered DPWH totally ineffective in pursuing remedial measures
provided for in the contract documents.
The consulting services for road rehabilitation design and construction supervision turned out to
be a dominating and expansive activity under this project, which included:
*  13 contracts with as many local firms to undertake detailed engineering of the road
rehabilitation sub-projects. Total expenditure under this category amounted to $0.92 million.
* An expatriate Advisor worked with the IBRD-Project Monitoring Office (PMO) during
February 1992 - June 1996, for a cost of $0.385 million.
* An expatriate consulting company, supported by two local firms, was retained during June
1993 - June 2000 to monitor progress and to coordinate the work of other consultants; total
cost $5.25 million.
*  Two separate expatriate consulting companies, each supported by three local firms, were
hired for design reviews and construction supervision of the civil works project in separate
geographic zone; total cost $20.39 million.
*  Feasibility/detailed design of Halsema Highway (a new sub-project proposed by GOP which
attained urgency after the 1990 earthquake); total cost $4.0 million.
The requirements for consultant services were spelled out in the Staff Appraisal Report and
agreed during negotiations. The total cost of design and supervision services (excluding detailed
engineering designs for the Halsema Highway) amounted to $23.6 million compared to the original Staff
Appraisal Report estimate of $16.4 million. In the end, design and supervision costs under the Loan
amounted to 16.7% of the civil works costs, which are high by any standard. An elaborate/excessive
supervision set-up as well as start up and implementation delays contributed to these high costs. DPWH
staff/management maintain that the above consultant requirements were proposed/required by the Bank.
The September 1997 Mid-Term Review of the project identified significant cost overruns in consultant
supervision activity as a major concem. The Bank and DPWH worked effectively to control/curtail these
cost during the last three years of implementation.
c) Consultant Services to Assist DPWH. Following is a summary of activities that transpired:
i)  As mentioned above, to coordinate the project activities, DPWH first hired an individual
advisor to assist the IBRD-PMO in preparation and implementation of the project. The
advisor worked in the PMO during February 1992-June 96. This position was terminated
in June 1996 after the appointment of the "coordinating" consultants which, as per
provisions of the Loan, was appointed in June 1993 to monitor and coordinate project
progress, coordinate work of other consultants, establish quality assurance procedures
and technical and administrative standards, and organize annual reviews of project
accomplishments and discussions of following years work program with the Bank. The
outcome of this intervention was mixed. The consultants did maintain a good progress
reporting system; monthly progress reports issued were comprehensive and
informative. The consultants also prepared documents relating to Project Computerized
System and Standard Procurement Documents which were used by the PMO for this
- 6 -



project. Nevertheless, the main role of project coordination turned out to be difficult and
controversial.
ii)  Remedial Measures at High Accident Location. This component was included in the
services under the coordinating consultants contract. The assistance started in May
1994 and continued intermittently until March 1997 for a total of 9 person-month input.
The main objective of the technical assistance provided to the Accident Investigation
Unit was to establish an accident blackspot program and accident data system. The
actual achievements of this program are generally rated as "satisfactory". The major
factor which has inhibited the total success, has been the slow return of completed
accident forms from the Philippines National Police, which is not associated with the
Loan arrangements.
iii) Human Resource Planning and Training Program. This program supported two main
training initiatives: quality assurance and road construction and maintenance
techniques. The first activity was delivered through the coordinating consultants
contract (ref.: section c.i above). Training, material testing equipment and vehicles
were provided to the newly created Quality Assurance Unit and to the Bureau of
Research and Standards. Overall, this initiative contributed significantly in improving
the quality control performance of the Quality Assurance Unit. The second activity
consisted of implementing a nationwide comprehensive training program for DPWH
resident and field engineers to improve their skills with regards to road construction,
maintenance and management techniques. As a result a total of 2,459 engineers were
accredited as project engineers/inspectors. Positive feedback with regards to the
effectiveness and appropriateness of the training activities was provided by the Human
Resource Planning Division of DPWH and engineers that were trained. Two specific
sub-activities were not carried out, CADD application in infrastructure project design
and advanced audiovisual production, because the procurement of the needed
equipment was a failure.
iv) Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) Capacity: a five-year training program was
successfully implemented which aimed at developing DPWH staff to manage
preparation of ElAs and to monitor construction and maintenance works for compliance
with environmental legislation within its central operations. DPWH now has a well
functioning EIA Project Office with 18 trained staff whom prepare/review ElAs, and
assists in training of regional staff. This TA component is clearly recognized as a
substantial success. Institutional capacity for ElAs has been created and now widely
used within DPWH. The program was carried out by a joint venture of foreign and local
consultant, the key accomplishments of which are:
* Training of a core EIA team within DPWH.
* Training seminars for DPWH senior staff and regional managers.
* Signing in May 1999 of a Memorandum of Agreement between Department of
Environment and Natural Resources and DPWH on EIA requirements/procedures.
* EIA home page of DPWH.
d) Assistance to the Construction Industry (CMAP). The loan provided about $2.0 m for
assistance to CIAP to undertake studies/programs in such areas as: pre-construction activities,
construction industry data bank, technology information and dissemination and training of government
supervisors and field officials. The funding for this component was to be channeled to CIAP through
DPWH budgetary allocations. The GOP budget procedures made it impossible for these allocations to
materialize; only PHP 1.02 million was released to CIAP out of the original PHP 52 million allocation.
Serious efforts were made by the Bank staff to modify and revive this component during the Mid-Term
Review mission but without success, partly due to lack of serious interest on part of CIAP management
and to difficulty in transferring related budget to CIAP. However, the project did its share to improve the
quality of the works performed by the local industry. First, under the RIMSS component, DPWH
reviewed, designed and implemented a comprehensive pre- and post- qualification system that should
- 7 -



eliminate poor performers. In addition, the Better Roads Philippines (BRP) study actively involved
representatives of the local contracting industry. As a result, the management of the recently established
road fund will include representatives of the industry.
e) Maintenance Policy Improvements: Given the external constraints including the complex
political arena, overall accomplishments in the proposed policy improvements should be viewed as a
sustainable success as summarized below:
i)  Maintenance Budget Allocation. DPWH managed to obtain substantial increase of
funds for the maintenance of the 26,000 km network of the national roads and bridges
during 1994-97. The unit allocation of EMK increased from P20,500 in 1991 to P66,835
in 1997. Annual increases are now limited by the Congress to 5.5%. In addition to this
hefty increase, GOP has recently established a Special Road Support Fund which is
dedicated to the maintenance of the national roads.
ii) Private Sector Participation. To a large extent, DPWH succeeded in increasing private
sector participation in the maintenance activities. The original target of contracting 80%
of maintenance works to private contractors by 1995 was over-ridden by the Congress
in 1995 when it fixed this ratio to 50% maximum. However, the Congress came back on
its decision in 1999 and fixed the ratio to 70% maximum which is currently achieved by
DPWH.
iii) Maintenance Work Force. Even though DPWH managed to increase private sector
participation in maintenance works, DPWH could not reduce its' maintenance staffing
accordingly. At the time of the 1997 MTR, DPWH indicated that it would reduce its
work force from 8,000 to about 6,900 staff by 2000. However, the Government
launched a labor-intensive program in 1998 to counteract impacts of the major financial
crisis that affected Asia at that time. The figure is now at about 7,800 and has declined
by 6.24% over the last two years. As a follow up of the Better Roads Philippines (BRP)
study financed under HMP, DPWH has undertaken a major revision of its role.
As a follow up of the BRP study financed under HMP, GOP and DPWH have undertaken to
commercialize (i.e.: business-like management) the road sector. As a first major achievement, GOP
has established a Special Road Support Fund which is dedicated to the maintenance of the national
roads. Based on cost recovery principles, this fund generates its revenues from vehicle registration
charges. The fund is managed by a board comprising representatives of road users. The related
legislabton and implementation rules and regulations agree with the main recommendation of the BRP
study. As a second achievement, DPWH has undertaken to redesign the role of existing road sector
agencies with the overall goal to separate policies/regulations from operations. This should lead to an
increase role for the private sector and a reduction of the govemment size.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Annex 3 provides a summary comparison of IRR for the civil works project components for the
original (SAR), amended (1992) and "as implemented" programs. A one-to-one comparison of the
original and final components is not meaningful as the civil components went through many changes
because of program revisions and contract modifications/termination. The methodology used for post
evaluation is based on a conventional road cost-benefit analysis that quantifies benefits mainly from
savings in vehicle operating costs and travel time costs for both normal and generated traffic. The
software used (ECOVAL) was developed by DPWH and found satisfactory by the Bank. Despite
implementation delays and cost over-runs, the IRRs for most sub-projects are in the 20-40% range and
generally higher than the original forecasts. This is mainly due to the level of traffic being higher than
anticipated.
The TA component was not subject to an economic evaluation in the original Staff Appraisal
Report. However, a detailed analysis of the RIMSS component was canied out under the recently
appraised Bank-financed NRIMP-1. This analysis estimates the associated Benefit Cost Ratio at 32.
-8 -



4.4 Financial rate of return:
N.A.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The impact of the institutional development/policy reforms supported by HMP is rated as
"significant". As mentioned earlier, the project started with some limited goals of implementing RIMSS
tools. This approach was aborted soon after loan approval and a longer-term and much more
comprehensive approach to undertake enterprise reform of DPWH was initiated. Thanks in large part to
the commitment and continuity of senior DPWH management, the new approach is well underway and
showing potential for significant benefits. DPWH is unique in that its top management did not change
much even with the change of the national Government in 1999. The Secretary of DPWH, who has
been in this position for the last six years, is personally committed to DPWH reforms and is providing the
leadership and motivation for the necessary changes. While the original limited institutional objectives of
the projects were not met per se, the accomplishments to date and the created potential for future
changes more than compensates for what was not achieved. As mentioned in para. 4.2a, RIMSS and
the Better Roads Philippines initiative have provided the necessary analytical framework and basis for
some major policy decisions which have already been taken and institutionalized. Implementation of the
highest priority actions is being supported by the ongoing NRIMP Program. These include major
revisions to the DPWH business processes and a revamped organizational/financing system for
maintenance of the national road network. These should weigh heavily in the overall evaluation of this
project. In addition, the establishment of an EIA Unit within DPWH and its ongoing activities are
resulting in wider institutional benefits.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The following factor impeded project implementation:
* Counterpart funding shortages prevailed throughout the project life and the 1997 Asian
financial crisis made things more difficult towards the end.
The following factor had a positive factor of project outcome:
* Road users representatives involved in the Better Roads Philippines study requested
reforms to commercialize the road sector.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The following factors had negative impact on project implementation:
*  Political intervention in sub-project selection, contract disputes and share of private sector in
maintenance works.
*  Lack of mechanism to transfer budget to CIAP which resulted in abandonment of the
component.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The following factors which were within DPWH control, affected project implementation
negatively:
-9-



*  Frequent changes in PMO Director (8 directors during 1990-2000) did not help in addressing
implementation issues. The longest duration for one PMO Director (May 1997 - January
2000) coincided with the period when efforts the rescue the project from serious
implementation difficulties were successful.
*  The internal procurement approval process for civil works and consulting contracts is lengthy
and cumbersome.
* Right of way land acquisition was slow and cumbersome.
*  Weak performance of the PMO in handling pre-qualification and acceptance of conditional
performance bonds and subsequent handling of contract disputes contributed heavily to the
implementation problems.
*  The design and management of supervision consultant arrangements could have been
better handled by the PMO.
The following factor had a positive impact on the outcome:
* Involvement and commitment of highest level-of DPWH management towards the business
re-engineering process initiated under the RIMSS component.
5.4 Costs and financing:
Annex 2 provides a summary comparison of estimated and actual costs and financing sources
by sub-components. While the overall final project cost in dollar terms are very close to the original
estimate, a meaningful comparison of the original estimate and final cost is difficult to make given the
significant variations in project scope of the civil works component. For this category, a total of about 600
km of national roads were rehabilitated within the original budget, against the original program of 1,400
km. The original program, however, envisaged some minor road works like resurfacing and
strengthening works, which were not undertaken. In the end, the project only focused on the more
expensive rehabilitation works of the selected national road sections. It must be noted that the final unit
costs ($0.25 million/km) of the roads upgraded under this project compare favorably with other DPWH
projects and other similar projects undertaken in the region. On this basis, we can conclude that DPWH
obtained reasonable assets for the funds available. This certainly is not the case for the Technical
Assistance category, which registered substantial cost overruns of 30% overall due to a overblown road
rehabilitation supervision set up. The Equipment category had an under-run, mainly due to budgetary
constraints and procurement difficulties. However, the non delivery of planned equipment did not affect
the outcome of the project and its sustainability
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Overall, the prospects for project sustainability are reasonably good. Whereas, the project faced
serious implementation difficulties and delays, it did manage to put in place systems/mechanisms to start
addressing the financing and institutional issues and implementation problems faced by DPWH for a long
time. The ongoing RIMSS and BRP initiatives, which have gone past some extremely difficult decision
making stages and which are fully supported by GOP top management are currently being implemented
under NRIMP, provide a sustainable framework for the project.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
A follow-up operation financed by the Bank (NRIMP-1) is already approved and under
implementation. The project aims to address the systemic implementation problems and provides a
mechanism for addressing longer-term institutional policy reforms.
- 10-



7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7. 1 Lending:
Overall, the Bank staff performance in project preparation and appraisal has to be rated as
mixed. The Bank staff succeeded in including in the project a starting agenda for long-term reforms of
the road sector. However, the project itself was poorly defined in terms of scope and was not ready for
immediate implementation. This resulted in major changes in project scope even before start of
implementation of the physical works. Also there were major start-up delays (few activities were
implemented in the first 3 years) and major cost overruns in the category of consulting services.
7.2 Supervision:
Overall, the Bank performance in supervision of the project is rated as satisfactory despite many
hiccups along the way. The project faced major start up delays and serious contractual problems
throughout its implementation. It was rated as a "problem project", within the Bank system, during
1996-98. There were major staff changes in PMO management and also some on the Bank side. During
1996-1997, when the project was facing serious problems and was rated as "problematic" the project had
3 different PMO Directors, on the Bank's side, it was managed by a long-term consultant with an
economic background, who could not establish the necessary rapport and credibility with the clients to
address the problems faced by the project. A change of Bank team with a highway engineer with works
experience as leader at the time of the Mid-Term Review (September 1997) and a new and efficient
PMO Director provided a basis for a fresh start to resolve the pending problems and put the project back
on track. Another positive development was the broadening of the TA for RIMSS which facilitated the
initiation of a major institutional reform effort.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Rated as satisfactory, based on the final outcomes. A reasonable civil works program has been
completed at a reasonable cost. In addition, the Bank supported major promising initiatives with regards
to financing arrangements (e.g.: road fund) and institutional reforms (e.g.: DPWH business
re-engineering) that should ensure the sustainable development and preservation of the national road
network.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation.
The Borrower's performance for project preparation is rated "pooe' for the same reasons as given
for Bank's performance in this category.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Satisfactory; senior DPWH Management demonstrated continued commitment and support to
the policy and institutional reform initiatives. Other core agencies--DOF, DBM, NEDA--also supported
DPWH in this area, resulting in institutionalization of RIMSS and BRP programs. On the other hand,
central government departments could have contributed further towards smoother project
implementation in such areas as: land acquisition procedures; counterpart funds availability and
necessary budget allocation to CIAP for the constnuction industry component.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Mixed: poor during early implementation years; satisfactory after the 1997 Mid-Term Review.
- 11 -



7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Satisfactory
8. Lessons Learned
Contrary to the OED's general assessment that Bank's transport operations better achieve the
physical objectives than the institutional ones, the Highway Management Project promoted substantial
reform in the Philippines highway sector. While the road upgrading component faced several difficulties
despite an extensive and costly supervision set-up, the contribution of the project toward defining a
consensus based reform agenda for the road sector and initiating its implementation is commendable.
The project helped design and initiate a comprehensive business re-engineering process within DPWH
and a commercialization process including the establishment of a road fund dedicated to the
maintenance of national roads. The key factors contributing to the above achievements are:
*  the flexibility shown by the GOP and Bank in redefining the scope of the TA to meet clients
needs;
*  a sustained commitment of the DPWH senior management to pursue a consensus based
long-term reform agenda with Bank's support;
*  use of an internal participatory process to build strong ownership for the design and
implementation of the road management systems component of the project; and
*  use of local specialists and consultants to assist with the processing of politically complex
reform initiatives.
On the civil works side, the project implementation faced persistent technical, financial,
managerial and political intervention problems, which are common in the Philippines. Despite these
problems and due to a very close follow up by both the Bank and DPWH team in the remaining three
years of the project life, the project managed to deliver a reasonable road rehabilitation program at an
acceptable cost with the exception of the supervision activities. Some specific lessons that can be
learned from this project in this area are:
*  the scope and size of the civil works program should be fully appraised before project
negotiations;
*  bidding documents for civil works and TORs for technical assistance studies to be
implemented in the first year program should be ready at the time of project approval;
*  the pre-qualification process for major civil works should be tightened to prevent
sub-standard contractors from being selected - the evaluation criterion as well as the
evaluation process needs to be improved (this has already been addressed by DPWH with
the complete reform of the prequalification system under the RIMSS initiative);
*  mechanisms need to be put in place that discourages contractors from submitting low/
unrealistic bids - one way to do this is to stipulate in the contract documents provisions for
increasing the performance bond amount, whenever submitted bid amount is below the
Engineer's estimate by a large and specific percentage;
*  the performance security to be posted by the contractors should be in such a form (e.g.
unconditional Bank Guarantee) that in case of poor performance, DPWH is able to cash-in
easily (this is now common practice with DPWH);
*  the engineering designs should be reviewed and vetted by the supervision consultants
up-front to establish the required ownership of the designs;
- 12-



* the perception that construction supervision contracts would be extended if delays occur in
contract implementation must be dispelled - construction supervision contracts, somehow,
should be linked to satisfactory performance on the ground. Currently, delays in completion
of civil works contracts result in "automatic" extension of supervision contract;
* a quality-cost based selection procurement method for road construction supervising
consultant should be favored with a minimum of 30% for the financial weight (in order to get
competitive bid price-wise);
* the variation order approval process for civil works contracts shall be reviewed and simplified
before loan negotiations;
* appointment of supervising consultant teams in the field shall take place concomitantly with
contractors' mobilization;
* experienced and qualified staff shall be appointed to manage the day-to-day operation of the
project - such staff shall be maintained in place as much as possible during project
implementation;
* technical and managerial skills of Banks' Task Team Leader remain a critical factor for
successful project implementation and supervision; and
* before negotiating the project, guarantees that required budget allocations for the project
shall be obtained from the Government.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The borrower's own assessment of the Project is given in Annex 12. In addition, DPWH
commented the Bank's ICR. Under its letter dated December 6, 2000, DPWH indicated that it had
reviewed the draft ICR prepared by the Bank and found it in order and fair. Specifics comments were not
provided.
(b) Cofinanciers:
N.A.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N.A.
10. Additional Information
N.A.
- 13 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
1) Investment Program                        766                                 600
Satisfactory (procurement, time,
quality, fund, ERR>1 2%) execution of
civil works (rehabilitation of about
766 km of arterial roads).
2) Road Management Systems              One system                           Partially achieved. Objectives and scope
Design of Road Information                                                 of this component revised/enhanced
Management Support System                                                 to undertake a comprehensive
(RIMSS) for maintenance                                                   Information Roads Management
planning purposes.                                                         Support System. Background
studies completed under this
project; implementation being
supported by NRIMP.
3) Part of RIMSS, development of        Two systems                          Two systems designed and installed.
Executive Management System                                               In addition, a registraton system
and Contract Preparation                                                   combined with a post-qualification
System.                                                                    for NCB civil works have been
designed and implemented.
4) Review of road maintenance            Review                              Partially achieved; being addressed
procedures and recommen-                                                   under RIMSS.
dations for simplification of
these procedures.
5) Study on feasibility and modalities for  Study                            Study completed; recommendations
the establishment of a National Road                                       approved, implementation
Authority and Fund.                                                        underway after enactement of
a legislation by the Congress.
6) Annual increase of Maintenance budget  NPV of 91 maintained               Achieved
(91 EKM allocation equivalent
maintained).
7) Private Sector Participation         50%                                  70%
Increase percentage of maintenance
works executed by contract
(to 50%).
8) Reduced size of DPWH maintenance     6,800                                7,800
workforce (7,600 in 98 and 6.860 in 99).
9) Institutional strengthening          Procedures/staff training            Achieved
Development of environmental
procedures for DPWH.
10) Integration of EIA team's work in   Integration                          Achieved
regular DPWH activities.
11) Training of 50% of DPWH staff at the  50%                                Achieved
central level on environmental
issues.
12) Increase awareness on safety issue.  -                                   Partially achieved
- 14 -



Outcome / Impact Indicators:
IndlcatorlMatlx                     Projctd Ih last PSR                    ActuaULatest Estimate
13) Development of an accident data       _                                    Not achieved
system and black spot program.
14) Implementation of the Human          66 sessions                           Achieved
Resources Development and
Training Program (66 sessions).
15) Implementation of a Quality          System + training                     Achieved
Assurance Program.
16) Construction Industry
Development of construction           Two studies
industry data bank and                                                      Canceled
contractor prequalification
system
Output Indicators:
NA                                     NA                                     NA
End of project
-15 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Poect Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
3   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~p
Civil Works-Road Upgrading                           125.20         165.57           102
Construction Supervision and Engineering Designs      12.50          27.61           170
Project Coordination and Quality Assurance            4.70            8.51           140
Road Safety                                           0.30            0.21            55
Human Ressources Development and Training             2.50            0.23             7
Environment                                           0.70            1.48           164
Construction Industry Authority of the Philippines     1.90           0.03             1
Road Management System                                6.20            9.23           115
Total Baseline Cost                                  154.00         212.87
Physical Contingencies                               15.40
Price Contingencies                                 29.30
Total Project Costs            198.70          212.87
Total Financing Required             198,70         212.87
Percentage at appraisal consider are calculated after allocating the contingencies to appraisal estimate of each component
Project Costs b Procurement Arran ements (A  raisal Estimate) (US$ million e uivalent)
1. Works                     131.10        30.80         0.00          0.00        161.90
(91.80)      (21.50)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (113.30)
2. Goods                      2.40          0.40         3.70          0.00         6.50
(2.40)       (03)(3.70)                 (00)(6.40)
3. Services                   0.00          0.00         30.30         0.00        30.30
(0.00)       (0.00)       (30.30)       (0.00)       (30.30)
4. Miscellaneous              0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous              0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous              0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (.0
Total                     133.50        31.20         34.00         0.00        198.70
(94.20)      (21.80)      (34.00)        (0.00)      (150.00)
- 16 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
~~~~ __              i~~~~NBF                 lb    Cst
1. Works                        165.57          0.00           0.00           0.00          165.57
(105.28)        (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)       (105.28)
2. Goods                         1.04           0.00           0.00           0.00           1.04
(1.04)         (0.00          (0.00)         (0.00)        (1.04)
3. Services                      0.00           0.00           46.26          0.00          46.26
(0.00)         (0.00)        (43.68)         (0.00)        (43.68)
4. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00          0.00)
Total                        166.61          0.00           46.26          0.00          212.87
(106.32)        (0.00)        (43.68)         (0.00)       (150.00)
1/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Cormponent (in US$ million equiilent
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ar                                        C ,
Civil Works-Road         113.00     48.50               105.28     60.29               93.2   124.3
Upgrading
Construction Supervison   16.14                          26.84      0.63              166.3
and Engineering Designs
Project Coordination and  6.06                           6.96       1.55              114.9
Quality Asurance
Road Safety               0.40                           0.21                         52.5
Human ressources          3.25                           0.04       0.18               1.2
planning and training
program
Environment               0.90                           1.45       0.03              161.1
Construction Industry     2.45                           0.03                           1.2
Authority of the
Philippines
Road Management System    8.00                           9.19       0.04              114.9
- 17 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Comparison of Project Road Listings and IERR Based on
Staff Appraisal, Amended Civil Works Sub-Projects Component and As Implemented
Staff Appraisal Report,1991 al                      Amended Civil Works Sub-projects                     As implemented Post-Evaluadon Report c/
IComponent, 1911 tl                            I
rojeot Roads       Vr  IRR         I,proe              Projet Road.        Lwh   IRR        Impn           Con           e No       LrVth   IM        keProanuet       Rarafk
(Sr di.ons      hks   (%           m3rs                (Saction(k)   0              (%)     & Cosl        Prcus Roodd (5oib)      udrtoddun   (%     & cost (P M)
(P M)                                                    (P M)                                IkmPM)
1. Santiago- Tugurgar3o   122.9   18.6 AC: 534.8     Sawlago-Tug-ogarso           122.9    16.6 PCC:  950.0  CP402 Sanrewo-Tuggsrwo        121A     34.8 PCC:             Comoled
Road                     3      47C        3         (abo-Sol  J3.)                                                                       1121A41             1,019.7
2. Rosarioe Pugo Road   13.0  84.7 AC: 108.3                                               _                                                         _me,.ed
under OECF
3. U=pA-Sto amas (wilh  19.0  126.9 AC: 23.2                                               _elt
4. Cebu North Reed      62.4  23.9 PCC/AC: 100.9     Cabu Nort Road               102.1    95.1 PCC44ANE:   CP412: Mandau.ooseloo           8.5    1032 PCC:  121.2    Completed
95.2                                       (5.5
38.9 PCC 4-LANE:   CP405: ConsoleornrSrn        86.7      22.4 PCC:   845.5   Compled
___________________________________________ 95.2          Reafare,jgl 
S. Va11enrmloo,La       51.4  20.5 035T/AC: 140.2    Valeheroeo.la Castielran     19.0   15.1 AC:   125.0  CPdi04 Va8   rang-Se           282      3989 AC:    164.1    Compld.
Castellra                                            (Valtsanno-Caron)a.                                      E rtque (Vblluaer.oC.on      [25.2]
8 MamsaD-              100.B   76.6 DB6T:  129.7     Maraysiqb4e,se-Kebecn         60.0   16.0 AC:    350.0 CP#11-AB Mirarennsob            60                            Temitaed due to
Yhbae-tK.ab-an                                       (Mra-ProVI Bory.)                                        Provl Bdry                   [131                           oor ior poor
CPl-111A-: renWige gofstof   [14]     33.9 AC:      419.8  30% oorrpleed at
CP  1/A r l47tkm (80-13)                                    proed oosng
date. To be
o.Vamtetd oeder
laRIMP-1
7. Zanmoanga- Pagadlan    51.6  25.6 AC: 252.3      PfgadlianrZsmbosngi            52.0   19.4 PCC:   380.0 (PB7: PagedlKriZmboanga        43.0                           Tern..e..d re to
lBoIAa-ttl'"an)                                laBoedtbaeal)                                            (Brat Ktbeass.4n             (3.01                          -ooeetr poor
To be oompleted
und. P6MPl1
8. Badan Cr-Afaeoontal   32.7  26.6 AC 133.7                                                                                                                              Deleted
Road
(Isabela-Maluso)
9. Dav-Co CiOt-go  Road   51.9  41.1 AC: 197.6        Davao Ciy4-lgo Road          51.8   71.4 AC:            CFSIO: Drvao Cty-Ioew        47.6     41.2 PCCIAC: 338.9  Completad
__________                                 ~~~~~~         ~~~~~~~~~~~~300.0  Road      [41. 81  _ _    __   _  _
10.HghwayseD-muagdby TBD    TBD  3446                                                                                                                                     Deleted
MtL  Pwirrtubo                                                                                                  _   _  _  _  _  _  _  _    _  _             _  _  _   _
_Rosabat-l-r-Son. Jao        30.0   46.8 PCC:   200.0 CP011A. .01/A-1 -011A-2:       29.8      20.9 PCC:            Cmplaeedundrer
Ro rateApe-Sn. Joa" Ciy      [29.8)                  291.1  3 pWrla8eo
Dav-r3ddonRoad              140.1   21.0 AC:    908.9 CPt LetA   -ClCnan             34.9      29.8 AC:      301.3 Comprad
CP49B1: CrfiFBuo     1~~3416.810 
CP881 CaBlht-Bude,           46.0                           Tamrrnatad 8dwto
[01                          contractor potw
Perlenoase. To
be omopleta
CP388B8d% mowerTn            58.0      22.8 AC:       794.2 45% complAd at
(20.81                         Poardoje t g"
dale.
To be TOe5ltd
_____________                                         _______       _______________                                             ardar   NRIW-1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~u tle    NR W -
_   (Crbu antran-B           ss.s     8.7 78.0   21.1 AC:    400c0   W  a74.8 29.5 AC:                      473.2  Coplnted.
________       _         _      ____                   ub,boeto-Srty )___ 777.2o+toaa _Se2 z               Tct n           ion      [Sbt.1    _-         Si
Cabe Tanere Reed             38.0   23.7 PCC:   260.0  CP     Caeb Ttaaehrta         32.8      37  CC:              90% Oompleted at
_/  Based ron Economic Re-Evaluation Report dated August 1993. For Cebu North Road, the figures in brackets represent the rerommernded lengths.
The vvhole road analysis for Davao-Bubidnon is roontained in a separate reprort dated October 1994. The IRRs for Pagadian-;ambr anga and Digos-Gen. Santos are the
rcorreced version as discussed in the project road profi(e.
Ed   As implemented under HMP. For CP#11Ithe 59.8 km represents the total incluc rkg as built as resdnded, loral funds as well as the balance oJf works being implemented Linder
HMP up to June 2000, and the continuing works under NRCMP.
For CP#7only 3.0 km vvas implemented as esinded, a noew contract Rill be finaced und3r NRIMP. CP#9B1 was also resdnded and the  balanc8  of works vFill be financed
under NRIMP.
- 18 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions;                                                         ___
Stage of Project Cycle              No. of Persons and Specialty              Performance Rating
(e.g 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)    Implementation      Development
MontwYear    Count        Spialty                          Progress          Objective
Identification/Preparation
Prior to FY 1991            NA    NA                                    U
FY 1991                       2   Highway Engineers                     U
I   Road Mgt. Specialist
2   Transport Economists
I   Procurement
1   Training Expert
1   Environmental Specialist
Appraisal/Negotiation
FY 1991                       2   Highway Engineers                     U
I   Road Mgt. Specialist
2    Transport Economist
I   Procurement Specialist
I   Training Expert
FY 1992                       1   Highway Engineers                     U
1   Road Mgt. Specialist
1   Transport Economist
I   Procurement Specialist
Supervision
FY 1993                        1  Highway Engineer                      S
1  Road Mgt. Specialist
I  Procurement Specialist
FY 1994                        4  Highway Engineers                     S
I  Road Mgt. Specialist
I  Transport Economist
I  Procurement Specialist
FY 1995                        2  Highway Engineers                     S
1  Road Mgt. Specialist
I  Transport Economist
I  Procurement Specialist
FY 1996                        2  Highway Engineers                     U
I  Road Mgt. Specialist
I  Transport Economist
2  Procurement Specialist
FY 1997                        2  Highway Engineers                     U
I  Transport Economist
2  Procurement Specialist
FY 1998                        1  Highway Engineers                     S
I  Senior Operations Officer
3  Procurement Specialist
1  Financial Mgt. Specialist
Disbursement Officer                                            .
- 19 -



(a) Missions:                                                                    Perform.e_Rating
Stage of Project Cycle               No. of Persons and Specialty               Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)    Implementation      Development
Month/Year    Count        Specialty                         Progress          Objective
Supervision
FY 1999                        2  Highway Engineers                      S                  S
I  Road Mgt. Specialist
2  Procurement Specialist
I  Financial Mgt. Specialist
FY 2000                        2  Highway Engineers                      S                  S
I  Road Mgt. Specialist
I Procurement Specialist
ICR
FY 2000                        1   Highway Engineer                      S
I   Senior Operations Officer
FY 2001                        1   Highway Engineer                      S
I   Senior Operations Officer
I   Road Mgt. Specialist
Notes:   I - Development objective rating started only in FY 1999
2 - Rating of preparation/lending phase is based on current ICR findings.
(b) Staff.
Stage of Project Cycle                     Actual/Latest Estimate
l ________________________          No. Staff weeks               US$  (,000)
Identification/Preparation               59.30                       119.20
Appraisal/Negotiation                    52.00                       129.10
Supervision                             198.79                       462.90
ICR                                       5.85                        21.26
Total                                   315.94                       732.46
-20 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
a Macro policies                        O H  OSUOM  ON  * NA
0 Sector Policies                       O H  OSU*M  ON  O NA
Z Physical                              O H  OSU*M  ON  O NA
E Financial                             O H  O SU * M  O N  O NA
Z Institutional Development             0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
Environmental                          OH  *SUOM   ON  ONA
Social
F Poverty Reduction               O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
M Gender                          OH OSUOM ON *NA
M Other (Please specify)          OH  OSUOM  ON  * NA
X Private sector development            0 H  O SU *M  0 N  0 NA
E Public sector management              0 H  O SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
MOther (Please specify)                 O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
- 21 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                 Rating
? Lending                                            OHS OS *U  OHU
E Supervision                                        OHS OS   Ou  OHU
Z Overall                                            OHS  S s O u O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
F Preparation                                        OHS OS  *  u  O HU
I Government implementation performance              O HS 0 S  0  U  0 HU
2 Implementation agency performance                  O HS O s  0  U  0 HU
Z Overall                                            OHS OS O u O HU
- 22 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1.  Staff Appraisal Report (9439-PH), Highway Management Project dated October 4, 1991.
2.  Aide Memoire (dated October 28, 1997) of the Mid Term Review Mission (September 1997) of the
Highway Management Project.
3.  Monthly Progress Reports of the Coordinating Consultants (Renadet S.A); last report reviewed: #81,
June 2000.
4.  RIMSS Phase 1A, Final Report, dated April 1999: Conclusions and Recommendations by
consultants Scott Wilson and associates.
5.  Better Roads Philippines, Final Report dated April 1999 by Scott Wilson and associates.
6.  Aide Memoire, Implementation Completion Report Mission, May 2000.
7.  Staff Appraisal Report (19754- PH), First National Roads Improvement and Management Program
(NRIMP), January 21, 2000.
- 23 -



PHILIPPINES
HIGHWAY MANAGEMENT PROJECT
1.1 -PARTO 0IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
AU IIVI IY              .-  -I           T 3    ________ 3                                 T T    *    TTW                                   A        aY   4           T    *T1                 ~
BANK LOAN-
Slgnature/StartlClose             PI
A. CIVIL WORKS (ROAD PRQGR6
2nd Year Pivroga
a. Prequalificatlon                              XXx YO(
b. Bid Period                        S                     xxyxxxxxx
C. ExeCution                                                          xxxi.  x    y.xxxxxy         xxjox~i v    .XKXXXXXXXXXXXXXXjo cxxxxxxxxx
a.Prequallficatlon                  A                                             -1210/7                                                                    1/129 
b. Bid Period                        A                                   4 XX4                                   a4/95X
c. ExecutIon                         A                                                                                                                                                                                        r
B. TECHINICAL ASSISTANCE                                                                  2&D
a. Appoint Consultants            S  Xxx  3/24/92                 5/5/93 
A
b. ExecutIon                      s       )xJUxxJiZxxxmXlX 1XXXXXJUXXXXXJ(XX YXJXXXKXXXX J(XX   XXXXXX)OOXXXXXXXXXi  )Uxxxx .iXY(x XJX  XXxxuo  xxxx)(XXXX~  xxxx,xxxxxxxxxM
2. Advisor to PMO-IBRD                   1/31/92
a. Appoint Consultant             A0
2/27/92                                                                      6/30/96-
b. Execution                          A 
~' 3. Design and Supervision                                                                                                                                                                                                     f
a. AppointConsultants              S  xxxx"xxxxxx           5/17/93                9/7/94                                                                                                                                  r
A
b. Execution                      S                 XYJ   X)((XXXXXXXXXXf    lXXXXXXXXXXXJX ~XXXXXXXXXXXX.LKXXXJ AXXJ(XXXXXXXXXXX  )(XXXXXXO(   XXXY)D XKXXKXXX.XXXXXXXX
A 
12/1/i                                                                                                                                9
4. RIMSS
a. Appoint Consultants            S )XYX.
A
b. Execution                      S           XXXXXXX, jXXXXXuxxxxxxxxxxi  ix)xxxxxxxxxxxo(xxK  (Juxxxxxjocxxxcxxxx
A
.5. Envirmnmentel Assessment4/69
a. Appoint Consultants            S                    xxl.X.XX.XX)(XXXxX
A                                                                                                                                                                                        f
b. Execution                                                                                                                                                    1119
A
6. Trainting Program (OPWH)          S                                                        xxxxxxxxx  XXXXXXXX  XXXXXXXXXK
A
7. Accident Reduction
8. Quality Assurance
9. Assistance to CIAP
a. Appoint Consultants             s  XXXXX
A
b. Execution                       5           x.KXX    xxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
XXXX     Ore
*  IchLcb in toe Coordnleii Comiuftiar  CoiisLmncy wt
Y      EtOde bIan ciosIlgit*t



4   1                                                                                                   Ill~~~~~~~~~~~41  , W
- E
F-    .-                                                                          A
L.                                                          -   -
1   ..   _  *  !~~~~~ 5_>.      t                                                                       .       r ~~~~~P__ .................................. *  *  *  e  ................. tV X |  b j   t  I   0 iit} g E ltu g X 0!~~~~....... ..... ............
Qe  ... e  +  +  ...  .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..... ..
Implementation
Schedule



Annex 9A
The Philippines
Roads, Information Management Support System (RIMSS)
Summary Listing of Accomplishments of RIMSS-1 (till June 2000)
*  An analysis of "how" DPWH's existing road management processes are performed;
*  The identification of alternative, innovative, cost-effective, efficient, and beneficial
opportunities for improving these processes, and plans to integrate them within DPWH's
existing environment;
*  A change management strategy which addresses the existing issues that the organization
will face in implementing change as well as those the organization is likely to encounter with
six (6) sessions in change agent training and five (5) sessions of reengineering-related
training being conducted with the RIMSS Core Team;
*  Requirements for the software and application enhancements needed to enable
reengineered business processes including reporting requirements and the documented
data, technology, and application architectures;
*  Comprehensive technology training program for DPWH Information Technology personnel
was completed. This included 16 courses for IT professions with approximately 25
participants each and numerous training sessions for the Leadership Team and end-users in
office-type applications (e.g. Windows, Word, Excel);
* Development and implementation of two top priority applications. An Executive Information
System designed for use by the DPWH Executive Committee and a Contract Preparation
System to standardize Civil Works and Consultancy contract documents;
*  The overall Network Planning and Programming methodology and application prototype;
* The creation of an interim database and tools to be utilized by Planning Services until the
department-wide integrated system is implemented as part of the World Bank loan (NRIMP);
* The implementation of an Interim Financial System for the World Bank loan (NRIMP);
*  The design of an integrated Financial Management System to be implemented
department-wide as part of the World Bank loan (NRIMP);
*  The development and implementation of new Pre-Qualification policies, procedures and
automated registries for Civil Works, Consultancy, and Materials and Supplies to be
completed by June 2000;
*  Review of implementation arrangement for data administration and initial implementation of
a revised information management organizational structure;
*  The design of the locational referencing system and associated highway infrastructure data
collection methods, with the actual centerline survey of all national roads to be completed by
June 30, 2000. Roughness data is also to be collected for all paved national roads;
*  The development of integrated data, applications, and technology standards;
*  The development of the integrated conceptual design, which will be the blueprint for future
application development in RIMSS;
- 26 -



*  The implementation of the new communication network (voice and data) for the Central
Office and NCR Compound which includes connections for 1,000 telephones and 1,700
computers. Training of Network Administrators (data), telephone users, and telephone
operators was conducted. This was all achieved through savings generated by the
Consultants;
*  The training of 50 departmental employees in new techniques for managing projects and
contracts (two 6-week courses);
*  Preparation for implementation of improvements through World Bank and ADB financing,
including preparation of procurement documents;
* Procurement and implementation of the Department's servers and backup devices. This
was achieved through savings generated by the Consultant.
- 27 -



Additional Annex 10. Civil Works Program
Map of Implemented Road Rehabilitation Projects
PHILIPPINES  H-ihway Mailsgmetm  hvvcas (Uyan 3430 - PH)
In)p[uvinvd Road R'haNfitirti0ii Proc'cts
UP I V ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~ApA    :>MIA1I~'L
(:1       1'<'4>tS -                               O 
CI'4K'7                               ,
C#fX2    ~  .,
Ad&d  R- 5L,4, .V WIl~s. t
CPOS  a9,                              j KI
C 4.k09 A    1l IV
D-2 ~ ~            ~            ~
I MPMl S   =   S * J O K !n   [   ; S m e   a    2 8   -
(:P04    _    wnso   \  tstf Lg:S.: '  /                  f         ~     ~     ~       ~      ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t  j
t-Ptt,   5200Hn.   \      0*  >0000 C                                9 k "
t.ib r!   _   4>elSvo   l   >,.   l              /   _         /           ^   _                  i~~~S%"V
('P{)S   -    i59S.8I                           o'e' .- 28 



Additional Annex 11. Cost Comparison of Estimates and Bid Prices
PHILIPPINES: HIGHWAY MANAGEMENT PROJECT (LOAN 3430-PH)
COST COMPARISON
ENGINEER'S                                          VARIANCE                 FINAL
No.      NAME OF PROJECT         ESTIMATE           AAE A       AWARDED CONTRACT FROM AAE -  AWAROF  EXPECTED
No.    ____________                                               AMOUNT (R)          1+). %     AWARD__    COST (P)
01  Rosales-Lupao-San Jose Road
01/A                       152,729,009.74    99,069,396.55       78,563,748.95    -20.69    08-Dec-94   41,074,931.00
01/A-11(negotiated)                                              30,979,970.85       -      21-Feb-97   32,695,199.00
01/A-2                     195,701,097.85   159,961,705.11      177,880,437.34    +11.20    17-Dec-97  200,058,453.00
02  Santiago-Tuguegarao Road     908,186,189.23   820,768,651.07      792,821,714.87     -3.40    08-Dec-94  948,594,473.00
03  Kabankalan-Sipalay-Basay Road  617,633,011.00   475,466,836.05    344,030,196.82    -27.64    01-Feb-96  443,543,279.00
04  La Castellana-Vellehermoso Roa  215,671,062.56   168,267,224.16    111,588,518.00    -33.68    28-Jul-95   151,909,281.00
05  Cebu North Road              476,997,936.71   380,805,221.42       301,829,412.00    -20.95    12-Dec-94  561,443,053.00
06  Cebu Transcentral Raod       740,450,827.89   503,454,521.30      373,034,486.03    -25.91    15-Aug-96  407,761,698.00
07 Zamboanga-Pagadian Road       389,879,322.54   343,174,776.31      277,848,714.75    -19.04    25-Jan-95   58,342,476.00
08  Digos-General Santos Road    625,595,525.50   515,657,462.83       365,014,426.10    -29.21    19-Feb-96  498,497,451.00
09 Davao-Bukidnon Road
09/A, Davao-Calinan        256,772,206.85   242,036,153.84      177,524,222.80    -26.65    13-Nov-95  278,946,580.00
09/B, Calinan-Maramag      681,071,042.27   509,528,596.85      396,281,336.48    -22.22    28-Jan-97   121,037,792.00
09/B-2, Buda-Maramag       627,242,339.00   555,140,798.39      735,336,413.00    +32.46    22-Apr-99  294,135,000.00
10  Davao City-Digos Road        398,739,104.86   356,538,118.71      265,917,544.94    -25.42    18-Jan-95  315,282,265.00
11  Maramag-Kibawe-Kabacan Road
111A                       295,173,631.60   264,330,787.61      197,973,530.59    -25.10    26-Jun-95   54,026,976.00
11 /A-1, Pinamaloy-Damulog    352,638,916.60   310,586,529.70   287,499,668.54     -7.43    28-Jun-99  115,000,000.00
12  Mandaue-Consolacion Road     167,241,816.36   143,455,926.52      116,889,098.06    -18.52    28-Nov-95  155,663,139.00
11 Given with the Detailed Engineering
2/ Approved Agency Estimate - DPWH document (confidential) opened and read during the opening of bids,second to the last bid.
- 29 -



Additional Annex 12. Borrower's Contribution to ICR
Philippines: Highway Management Project
Implementation Completion Report
A. Introduction
The Highway Management Project (HMP) is one of the major roads project implemented by the
Department of Public Works and Highways. It has the distinction of having initiated business process
reforms, originally as part of its intended objectives, and also as a result of implementation experience.
The project has faced major problems that now provide useful basis for further changes in how the
government in general and the DPWH in particular develop and implement road investments.
The project was completed in June 2000. This Project Completion Report is prepared in
conjunction with the post-implementation review being conducted by the World Bank. The Bank is in the
process of completing its Implementation Completion Report (ICR). While this DPWH report is part of
the ICR process, it is also meant to provide the Government important insights gained in the
implementation of this project in the hope that these are considered in the formulation and
implementation of roads and other projects that may be pursued with the World Bank in the future.
B. Project Background and Design
The project was conceived in the late 1980s. At that time, the Government Medium Term Public
Investment Program identified the improvement of the transport network as critical to its economic and
social goals of strengthening the economy, supporting rural development and agricultural production, and
reducing inter-regional disparities in income and development.
Also at that time, World Bank completed its Transport Sector Review. The Government
requested project preparation assistance from the Bank to address problems identified in the sector
review.
The result of the Bank assistance was a proposal for a system-wide Transport Sector Project.
The idea was to focus on the three most acute problems in the sector: the counterproductive policy and
regulatory environment, the inefficient and unsafe inter-island shipping services and the unsatisfactory
condition of the arterial road and bridge network. However, due to unevenness in he progress of
preparing identified project components, the Government requested, which was concurred by the Bank,
that policy operation and infrastructure investment operation be separated. The Bank believed at that
time that the highway component was ready for implementation by the 1991 - 1992 construction season.
During the earlier stases of project preparation, the Bank also assessed the DPWH Arterial Road
Program which was aimed to bring the 13,650 km arterial road network up to a satisfactory level by 1996.
The Bank decided to support the program by assisting in the financing of three annual slices of the
program on a 'sector loan" basis.
In December 1990, a broad agreement was reached among key govemment agencies such as
the DPWH, NEDA, DOTC, the private sector (construction industry) and even other multilateral and
bilateral agencies on the Govemment's plans for the highway sector, specifically the components of the
proposed Highway Sector Project. The Worlds Bank package was to include measures to improve road
design, procurement, construction, construction-supervision, quality assurance, monitoring and
reporting, cost estimates, and institutional strengthening.
The Bank pushed for an early Government approval of the Project even as the Government was
at that time in dire budget situation. (During 1991 - 1992, the govemment was in serious budget
situation that it had to put a moratorium on new project approvals). A special meeting of the ICC was
called to review the project. The major issues raised concerned the ability of the DPWH to carry out
such a huge project given the budget situation and the rather large technical assistance component of
- 30 -



the project. The ICC reluctantly agreed to use portion of Bank loan to finance the technical assistance
activities of the project.
C. Project Objectives
In April 1991, the proposed Highway Management Project was approved by the Government
Investment Coordination Committee of the NEDA.
As formulated, the primary objective of the project was to improve the arterial road network of
the country which was estimated to consists of about 13,650 kilometers of roads and bridges through
rehabilitation/upgrading of high pHority roads and implementation of institutional and policy reforms to
improve quality of roads and maintenance practices. Specifically, the project would: a) support selected
subprojects included in the arterial highway investment plan for 1990- 1996; b) institute a nationwide
road management system to improve the planning, budgeting and implementation of works, particularly
resurfacing, strengthening and maintenance, on a continuing basis; c) encourage increasing private
sector participation in road maintenance; d) strengthen the capabilities through technical assistance and
training; and e) improve the effectiveness of the Philippine construction industry by, among other
things, introducing modern procedures.
Planned for implementation over a seven-year period (1992 - 1998), the following components
were to be pursued:
1. Civil works subprojects to upgrade, rehabilitate, strengthen, resurface some 1,400 kilometers
included in the DPWH's arterial highway investment program. The First Year Program
included 10 subprojects, none (9) of which were identified at appraisal based on economic
and technical criteria and readiness for implementation. The tenth subproject was a
provision for highway damaged by the Mt. Pinatubo eruption in 1991;
2. Technical assistance for the development and implementation of a road management
system including the procurement of equipment for monitoring and evaluating road
conditions;
3. Consulting services to DPWH for project coordinationlconstruction-supervision, improvement
of road design and construction quality, formulation of a road safety program,
development./implementation of a human resource planning and training program related to
decentralization, management of contracted maintenance, Environmental Impact
Assessment (EIA) needs, the upgrading of technical skills in line with technological
innovation; and
4. Consulting services to the Construction Industry Authority of the Philippine (CIAP) to
strengthen the construction industry.
D. Implementation Experience and Output
Broadly, the project objectives defined on the proposal and preparation stages remained
consistent during the course of implementation, although some changes took place on specific project
components as follows:
1. Civil Works. The scope of civil works was substantially reduced from the proposed 1,400
kilometer at appraisal to 717 kilometer. The revised scope of road projects to be
implemented was necessitated in view of the increase in cost estimates after update based
on the prevailing prices in 1992 and also based on the changes in the level of improvement
on some road sections from Asphalt Concrete Pavement (CP) to Portland Cement Concrete
Pavement (PCCP) and Double Bituminous Surface Treatment (DBST) to ACP. The
updating of the economic evaluation was conducted to determine the project viability in view
of the substantial cost increases and change in implementation schedule. Comparison of the
original, awarded actual civil works program is shown in Annex "A".
- 31 -



2. Technical assistance for the development of road management system. Scope of
technical assistance was revised due to realization that the Department needed major
reforms in its organization and business processes. The Terms of Reference for the study
was therefore revised with the Bank's concurrence. This resulted to the launching of the
Roads Information Management System Study (RIMSS). While the modules of the road
management system have not been implemented as originally outline, the Department feels
that the RIMSS approach would provide the greatest benefit to DPWH in the long term
thought improvements of the business processes and provision of technology with conscious
efforts on sustainability.
Major start-up for all components were experience particularly on the procurement for both civil
works and consultant services. All the activities started way behind the proposed schedule per SAR that
it took three (3) years before the project could take-off (please refer to Annex 'B"). Extension of the loan
closing date for 18 months was then requested to allow: 1) the completion of civil works contracts, 2)
completion of detailed engineering designs for road projects for construction under the MMURTRIP and
NRIMP, and 3) to bridge the gap between the proposed BlIPs under NRIMP and RIMSS.
Specifically, the following describes the implementation experience and output per components:
1. Civil Works. During the first two years of implementation, activities were mainly related to
detailed engineering and procurement of consultants for project coordination,
construction-supervision and detailed engineering services. Although the detailed
engineering design (DED) of seven out of ten subprojects for the first year program had been
completed, the bidding documents had to be updated and recast to conform with the Bank
Standard Bidding Documents. Since those projects are intended for Intemational
Competitive Bidding (ICB), the Bank required the DPWH to repackage the subproject large
enough to attract intemational contractors.
Coordinating Consultants was also mobilized in June 1993 while the two (2) Construction
Supervision Consultants, got on board in December 1994 and January 199.
The third and fourth year implementation activities were mainly related to selection of
contractors. The prequalification process took a longer period due to a complaint staged by
the Philippine Constructors Association (which had reached up to congress) regarding the
prequalification criteria for being too stringent that prevent Filipino Constructors to be
prequalified. A softened criteria was agreed between the Bank and DPWH to be able to
qualify some Filipino Contractors. There were also delay in the award of some contracts.
The first civil works contract was started in January 1995.
As usual, execution of civil works contracts experienced implementation problems such as
road right-of-way acquisition, counterpart funding shortages due to budgetary constraint On
the part of national government, inadequate detailed engineering designs which led to
issuance of variation orders and time extensions, cumbersome and slow contract approval
procedure within DPWH (GOP), poor performing contractors and weak performance of
supervision consultants.
Despite the reduction from 1,400 kilometer to 717 kilometer of arterial road network, only
600 kilometer were completed at project closing date. Out of the 17 civil works contract
packages, only 9 were completed. Some contracts had to be terminated after partial
completion due to deficient performance of constructors. There were two rescinded
contracts which were rebid and presently still being implemented under this project, financing
of the uncompleted portions of which beyond June 30, 2000, the loan closing date, shall
come from NRIMP.
2. Technical Assistance (RIMSS). There was a delay in the start of the study due to a very
long consultant procurement process. Launching in 1995 was followed by 18 months of
consultant selection and contract approval, thus actual work was only started in April 1997.
However, compensating for this delay is the fruitful outcome of the conduct of the study.
The study has achieved an atmosphere of objective development and leaming for the future.
- 32 -



Involvement of a great number of people in all level of the Department in the various
workshops and tainting course has not only encouraged commitment and enthusiasm for the
study but has also prepared and conditioned them to organizational changes in the future.
The study was seen as a constructive process if evaluating existing business practices with
the end view of achieving changes required for he well being the organization. As of project
closing date, the following are just some of the significant outputs of RIMSS:
*  An analysis of "how" the DPWH performs in its road management processes;
*  Identification of altemative, innovative, cost-effective, efficient, and beneficial
opportunities for improving these processes, with plans of integration within the existing
DPWH environment;
* Change-agent and reengineerng-related training conducted for the RIMSS Core Team
as a change management strategy;
* Identification of requirements for the software and application enhancements needed to
enable reengineering business processes;
* Comprehensive technology training program for information technology personnel of the
Department;
* Development and implementation of two top priority applications; a) the Executive
Information System, and 2) Contract Preparation System;
* Implementation of the new communication network (voice and data) for the Central
Office and NCR compound. This includes training of DPWH personnel on network
administration and telephone utilization; and
- Several improvement projects such as Design of the Integrated Financial Management
System and implementation of Interim Financial System.
Further, RIMSS has development individual priority tools called Business Process
Improvement Implementation Projects (Blips) which are ready for implementation under the
NRIMP.
3. Consulting Services for Environmental Impact Assessment
Among the consulting services provided for DPWH in its various functions, the technical
assistance on the strengthening of the Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) capability of
the Department is most noteworthy. Among the program accomplishments are as follows:
* Training of the EIA Core Team (composed of staff from the Planning Services and the
various PMOs in the Department), over a two year training period, in all phases of the
Philippine Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) requirements for infrastructure
projects.
* Conduct training by the Core Team, with assistance from Consultants, to representative
staff from all DPWH Regional Offices.
* EIA Project Office (EIAPO) was created at the Central Office. This office has to prepare
more than fifty environmental reports which has facilitated the issuance of environmental
compliance certificates being issued by DENR.
* Installation of the Environmental Management System EIA which created the database
and home page for EIAPO.
- 33 -



4. Consulting Services for Quality Assurance.
To support the newly initiated Quality Assurance Unit of DPWH, technical assistance and
laboratory and field tesfing equipment and vehicles were provided to the Bureau of Research
and Standards (BRS). These activities were carried out by the BRS and the expatriate
Quality Control Specialist (QCS), engaged under the Coordinating Consultants contract, to
assist BRS. The QCS post was occupied successively for nominal periods of 2 or 3 years by
3 different staff members who provided the various skill inputs required on quality control,
quality assurance, computerization and policy matters as the quality management function
was developed. Details of accomplishments of the specialist is shown in Annex UC".
The laboratory testing equipment which were procured under the loan were already
distributed to the Cordillera Administrative Region (CAR) as part of its Laboratory Testing
Equipment Standardization Program. With the acquisition of the testing equipment, the
regional office was able to augment their testing capability and improve their performance in
quality control implementation. Likewise, these equipment are being used from time to time
by the Quality Assurance Units during the course of their project assessment in the project.
The service vehicles were likewise allocated and distributed to the different Regional Offices
of the Department nationwide, These vehicles are stationed in each Region for exclusive
use of the QAU - Central Office in conducting quarterly assessments of on-going and
completed DPWH projects, as well as in undertaking project investigation and conduct of
field inspection for completion and acceptance of project. This resulted in greater mobility
on the part of the QAUs in assessing projects and increasing the number of projects to be
assessed.
The bridge inspection vehicle is being used by QAUs in conducting through an extensive
assessment of on-going and completed bridge projects.
In general, the procurement of these equipment and vehicles has contributed significantly in
improving the quality control performance of the DPWH CAR and provided the QAU with
additional logistics to be more effective and efficient in conducting project assessment.
Summary of equipment and vehicles are provided in Annex "D".
5. Consulting Services for Road Safety.
The services of the expatriate specialist was also engaged under the Coordinating
Consultants Contract. The main objectives of the Technical Assistance was to establish an
accident blackspot program and data system. The major function which has inhibited the
total success has been the slow return of filled out forms from the Philippine National Police
(PNP). Details of accomplishment of this component is shown in Annex "E".
6. Human Resource and Development Training.
With the objective of having a holistic Human Resource Development a well-thought out
training program is critically needed in meeting the needs related to decentralization, the
management of contracted maintenance, EIA needs and the upgrading innovations. During
the first five years of implementation, little progress in this component on preparation or
implementation has been achieved with one seminar and some overseas trip. In February
1996, the Department submitted to the Bank four (4) training courses and a proposal for
purchase of training equipment amounting to P44.0 million.
Nationwide implementation of the Comprehensive Training of Field engineers is one of the
major elements of the DPWH training program. Initially, for the period from March 1998 to
November 1999, a total of 52 sessions were conducted simultaneously in the Regional
Office, Regions I to XII, NCR and CAR. As of September 2000, a total of 2,459 engineers
from the Central Office and the Regional Offices have been accredited as project
engineers/inspectors.
-34 -



The Human Resource Planning Division of DPWH conducted an evaluation on the outcome
of the training program nationwide and was proved to be generally a success. The
participants gained knowledge on design specificaton, construction methods and techniques,
materials testing requirements, maintenance procedures, duties and responsibilities of a field
engineer, etc. Feedbacks from some engineers in the field offices show that performance of
their staff who attended the training have greatly improved specially in project
implementation.
The course on CADD application in Infrastructure Project Design was not implemented
because the bidding for the procurements of CADD work station was a failure. Likewise, the
Advanced Audiovisual Course Production was also not conducted due to failure of AV
Production equipment.
The procurement process was slow and faced with many delays due to administrative
procedural requirements like securing clearance for the Department of Budget and
Management (DBM) for the 'Authority to Purchase" (which was granted only after several
attempts) and clearance for the national Computer Center for the IT equipment and software.
Summary of equipment purchased is shown in Annex "F".
E.    Project Costing and Financing
The project was appraised in October 1991 at an exchange rate of P28.00 to US$1.00 for a total
project cost of US$198.7 million with the Bank loan financing 75%. The project cost was reviewed in
detail and the present estimate show a cost overrun of US$14.28 million due to peso devaluation. The
current estimated total project cost is US$212.98 million in terms of dollars and Bank participation have
decreased from 75% to approximately 70%. Understandably, the government absorbs and carries the
burden of the significantly increased cost in relation to the Peso caused by continued increased in
exchange rate which is now at the average of P31.88 to US$1.00 from appraisal up to October 30, 2000<
the deadline for disbursement. Breakdown of project cost is shown in Annex "G".
F.    Bank Performance
Appraisal
Technical assistance for the institutionalization/reform program of the DPWH processes has
been considered a very ambitious component of the loan to be identified. The scope of the project has
also not been clearly determined.
Supervision
The take-off activities have been hampered by the introduction of the standard bidding
documents for use in the implementation of IBRD-assisted projects, including the HMP. The criteria and
guidelines in these documents proved to be too stringent for Filipino contractors' participation. In
September 1997, after the Mid-Term Review Mission, the problems encountered in project
implementation have been threshed out and solutions identified/effected through the joint efforts of the
Bank's new Task Manager and the DPWH.
G.    Borrower's Performance
Preparation
Project preparation had not been properly given enough time for its development into a
well-thought-out plan. The terms and scope of the project had not been thoroughly discussed with the
Bank.
- 35 -



ImplementatVon
Delays had been encountered in the initial stages of project implementation. The introduction of
the standard bidding documents for use in IBRD-assisted projects for the first time contributed to the
delay. The inability of DPWH to acquire the necessary road right-of-way prior to project implementation
caused a major set-back. The Philippine Government's counterpart funds had not been made readily
available.
H.    Lessons Learned
With the experience gained in the HMP implementation, the success of the project depends on
the following conditions:
1. Road right-of-way has to be acquired prior to project implementation.
2. The prequalification process to be tightened to prevent poor performing/fly-by-night
contractors from participation in the bidding process.
3. The liability and responsibility of the consultants for the detailed design and
construction-supervision of the project has to be clearly defined in the consultancy contracts.
Conclusion
Project performance can be characterized as a mix of success and costly leaming experience for
the Government. While it achieved some success, particularly in the soft components, it incurred a very
high cost of civil works and construction supervision.
Note: Annexes A - G referred above are on files.
- 36 -



ISRD 22787
Z     4,2
(D  2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
< *uO                                                    o
iiSr4-,;,                                    
I47 
4                               y r 
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
a~~~~~~~~~~        ,              N4                                           1
-Ei~ ~ ~ ~ ~~<')J>
17   A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~COE19



