.2-A! /  3'93O
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Rqept No. 9439-PH
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
-HILIPPINES
HIGHWAY MANAGEMENT PROJECT
OCTOBER 4, 1991
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department II
Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(as of July 1991)
Currency Unit           Philippine Peso (P)
P 1         D     US$0.036
US$1.00     =     P 21
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                          3.2308 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                     0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2)      -      0.3861 square mile (mi2)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB         -    Asian Development Bank
BOM         -    Bureau of Maintenance
CIAP        -    Construction Industry Authority of the Philippines
COA         -     Commission on Audit
DBST        -     Double bituminous surface treatment
DENR        -    Department of Environment and Natural Resources
DILG        -    Department of the Interior and Local Government
DOTC        -    Department of Transportation and Communications
DPWH        -    Department of Public Works and Highways
EIA         -    Environmental Impact Assessment
EIRR        -     Economic internal rate of return
EIS         -     Environmental Impact Statement
EMB         -     Environmental Management Bureau
EMK         -    Equivalent Maintenance Kilometer
ERR         -     Economic rate of return
ICB         -     International Competitive Bidding
LCB         -    Local Competitive Bidding
MTPIP       -    Medium-Term Public Investment Program
NEDA        -    National Economic and Development Authority
OPSF        -    Oil Price Stabilization Fund
PMO         -     Project Management Office
PPAR        -     Project Performance Audit Report
QAU         -    Quality Assurance Unit
RMS         -    Road Management System
SOE         -     Statement of Expenditure
UNDP        -    United Nations Development Programme
USAID       -    United States Agency for International Development
voc         -    Vehicle Operating Costs
VPD         -    Vehicles Per Day
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PHILIPPINES
.IGHWAY MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Loan and Proiect Summarv
Borrower:         Republic of the Philippines
Amount:           US$150 milti.on equivalent
Terms:            Repayable in 20 years, including five years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate
project           The proposed project would support efforts of the Department
esrLgtion:    of Public Works and Highways (DPWH) to improve the condition
of the country's deteriorated arterial highway network and
establish a sustainable institutional capability to manage the
network.   For this purpose, DPWH has developed an arterial
highways investment program with a significant focus on
rehabilitation and has introduced measures to improve the
delivery of services on arterial roads: it is decentralizing
responsibilities to the regions and encouraging private sector
participation in road maintenance. Under the project, DPWH
would (a) develop and implement a management system for annual
and multiyear progra-ming and budgeting of pavement and bridge
works for arterial roads; (b) carry out civil works
subprojects to begin in 1992/93 and 1993/94 to upgrade,
rehabilitate, strengthen or resurface some 1,400 km of
deteriorated or damaged arterial highways and substandard
bridges; and (c) engage consulting services to assist it to
(i) coordinate project activities, (ii) improve road design
and construction quality,  (iii) initiate a road accident
reduction program, (iv) develop a manpower planning and
training program to meet DPWH's changing staff needs due to
decentralization and contract maintenance, and (v) increase
DPWH capacity to produce environmental impact statements for
its projects.   The project would also finance consulting
services to assist the Construction Industry Authority of the
Philippines (CIAP) to carry out studies and implement measures
to strengthen the local construction industry.
Benefits          The main benefits expected from the project are lower road
and Riska:      transport costs  and savings  in road maintenance  costs.
Benefits accruing to competitive truck and bus companies will
ultimately be passed on to producers and consumers through
lower prices of goods and services. The main project risk is
the pace of the institutional reforms to be supported.
Particularly at risk are the decentralization process,
contracting of maintenance and the related reduction of
maintenance staff. However, in view of progress already made
in these areas, this risk is regarded as acceptable. In
addition, civil works under previous projects have been
delayed and construction quality has sometimes been poor.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorzation.



- ii -
Under the proposed project, these potential problems would be
addressed by appointing consultants to help ensure project
coordination and technology transfer, completion of actions
already begun by DPWH for timely subproject preparation, and
quality assurance measures.
Estimated Cost:                                  Local      Foreign       Total
- - - - (US$ million) - - - -
Arterial Road Subprojects                          52.6         72.6       125.2
Consulting Services to DPWH
Project support                                 9.3         6.5         15.8
Capacity building                               2.2          3.8         6.0
Consulting Services to CIAP                         1.2          0.6         1.8
Equipment                                           0.3          4.9         5.2
Base Cost                                      65.6        88.4        154.0
Physical contingencies                              6.6          8.8        15.4
Price contingencies                                11.6         17.7        29.3
Total Project Cost  Aa 83.                                114.9        198.7
Financuinm, Plan:
Government                                     48.7            -        48.7
IBRD                                           35.1       114.9        150.0
Total                                          83.8       114.9        198.7
Estimated
Disbursements:
IBRD FY         1992     193    I9        I9      1996    1997    19       1999
- - - - - - - - - - - - -(US$ million) - - - - - - - - - - - -
Annual             0         9      23      30      30       29      22       7
Cumulative         0         9      32      62      92     121      143     150
Economic Rate of
19% to 126% for individual subprojects to begin in 1992/93,
with an overall weighted return of 33%
IBRD No. 22787
La    Including estimated taxes and duties totaling about US$28.1 million
equivalent.



- iii -
PHILIPPINES
HIGHWAY MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Loan and Project Summary ................... .                                                      i
1. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A.  The Transport  System   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                  1
B.  Government  Investment Program,  Objectives and Policies   .                                 2
C.  Bank Lending to the Sector and Sector Strategy   . . . . .                                   2
2. THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR
A.  The Network  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                   5
B. Road Transport.                                                                               6
C. Highway Administration.                                                                       8
D.  Highway Expenditures  and Revenues  from Road Transport  . .                                 9
E.  Highway  Investment Program   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                10
F.  Highway Planning,  Design and Construction  . . . . . . . .                                12
G. Highway Maintenance .13
H. Staffing and Training .15
I.  Environmental Aspects  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   . . .                                 16
3. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives .16
B.  Rationale  for Bank Involvement   . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                17
C. Project Description . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                   17
D.  Project Cost and Financing   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                 22
E.  Implementation   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                 24
F. Procurement .25
G. Disbursement .27
H.  Auditing,  Monitoring,  Reporting and Supervision  . . . . .                               27
I.  Environmental  Impact   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                29
4. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. Objectives .29
B.  Benefits and Beneficiaries   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                 29
C. Economic Analysis .29
D. Project Risks .31
5. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION   . . . . . . . . . . .                                   31
This report Is based on the findings of a September 1990 preapprisal mission couprising Peter Long (Highway
Engineer and Task Manager), Antonio Cittatf (Highway Engineer), Maurice Le Blanc (Transport Economist),
Francesco Same  (Procurement Specialist), Renato Schulz (Transport Economist), Witli  Barker (Training Expert,
Consultant) and Byron Nickersen (Envirormntal Specialist, Consultant), and a December 1990 appraisal mission
coeprising Messrs. Long, Cittati and Barker. Nohit Ganguli (Transport Economist, consultant) and Patricia
Brereton-Niller (Operations Assistant) contributed to writing the report. The Peer Reviewers for the project
were tfltf  Paterson (Highway Engineer) and Jean-Marie Lantran (Construction Industry Speciatist). The project
was cleared by Jeffrey Gutman (Division Chief, AS21N) and Goutam Koji (Director, AS2DR).



- iv -
TABLES
1.    Public Investment Program: Transport Sector, 1990-94
2.    Policy Action Plan for Roads and Road Transport
3.    Road Network by Length and Surface Type, 1989
4.    Condition of Arterial Roads, 1989
5.    Motor Vehicle Registrations, 1981-89
6.    Revenues from Road TranEport and Expenditures on Roads, 1981-89
7.    Comparative Petrcleum Product Prices To End Users in Selected Asian
Countries, January 1991
8.    Arterial Highways Investment Program, 1990-96
9.    Arterial Highways Investment Program, Regional Distribution
10.   Design Standards, Philippine Highways
11. Project Arterial Highlways Program: First Year's Works
12.   Detailed Project Costs by Year
13.   Estimated Disbursement Schedule
14.   Economic Returns
ANNNEXES
1.    Highway Maintenance by Contract
2.   Road Management System:  Draft Terms of Reference
3.    Outline Terms of Reference:  Consultant Team for Project Coordination,
Construction Quality Improvement and Road Safety
4.    Strengthening the Environmental  Impact Assessment Capability of the
Department of Public Works and Highways
5.   Assistance to the Construction Industry Authority  ' the Philippines:
Outline Terms of Reference
6.    Project Monitoring Indicators
7.    Supervision Plan
8.    Selected Documents &nd Data Available in the Project File
GM-RTS
1.    Organization of the Ministry of Public Works and Highways
2.    Project Implementation Schedule
IBRD No, 22787: Philippines: Highway Management Project



1.  THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. The TransRort System
1.1         In 1990, the Philippines' Gross Domestic Product grew by less than
2.5%, after achieving about 6% growth in 1988-89. As part of its strategy for
regaining a sustainable growth path, the Government is attempting to increase the
efficiency and competitiveness of the economy by undertaking measures to, among
other things, render transportation services more reliable and less costly. The
proposed project would support this effort by helping the Government to establish
a sustainable institutional capability to manage the road network, increase the
efficiency and cost-effectiveness of road maintenance and construction, and
improve the country's economically significant arterial road network.
Transoort Infrastructure and Services
1.2         The Philippine transport system comprises some 157,500 km of public
roads, 19 major ports and 314 private ports, a railway system of some 700 km in
Luzon, and 6 international and more than 80 other public airports. The system
is basically bimodal: road transport and interisland shipping together account
for almost 100% of national freight and 97% of passenger movements.   Most
transport services are provided by the private sector, with the exception of
scheduled domestic air transport and rail services. Government organizations
develop, operate and maintain the transport infrastructure and facilities (except
private ports) and regulate commercial services.
1.3         For decades, government policies in the transport sector have been
characterized by a strong regulatory bias. Over time, a number of contradictory,
discriminatory and anti-competitive regulations and taxes have accumulated in the
transport sector which impede rather than enhance the growth of both the sector
and the economy, especially exports. Among the most damaging regulations are
franchising requirements for entry into the passenger and freight services
industry, single operator rules in some areas, measured capacity criteria to
control entry into road transport and interisland shipping services, and import
restrictions on vehicles, equipment and spare parts. Recognizing the constraints
such regulations put on the economy, the Government is gradually deregulating the
transport industry. Deregulation of road transport is discussed in Chapter 2.
Segtor Afministration
1.4         The Department of Transportation and Communications  (DOTC)  is
responsible for overall transport policy and for administration and regulation
of the sector. Infrastructure is provided by specialized agencies, all of which,
except those dealing with roads, report to DOTC. The Department of Public Works
and Highways (DPWH) is responsible for national and barangay (village) roads,
which comprise about 70% of the public road net 4ork.  The Department of the
Interior and Local Government (DILG) is responsible for provincial, city and
municipal roads, functioning both centrally and through the relevant local
government authority (para. 2.11).   The National Economic and Development
Authority (NEDA) monitors and coordinates public investments in the sector and
plays an advisory and coordinating role in the formulation of sector policies.



-2-
The Government is reorganizing the responsibilities of DPWH and DILG under a new
Local Government Code, now being considered by Congress. The Bank is currently
assisting the Government to examine the implications and feasibility of
decentralization as part of its sector fork.
B. Government Investment Program. Objectives and Policies
1.5         The updated Medium-Term Public Investment Program (MTPIP) for 1990-94
envisages total public investments of P 592.3 billion, of which P 104.7 billion
or 17.7% would be for the transportation sector, the second largest allocation
after the 18.4% devoted to energy, power and electrification.   The bulk of
transport investments (P 64.2 billion or 61%) would be for roads and bridges
(Table 1).  The road sector would thus receive about 11% of the total MTPIP
program, reflecting tha high priority attached by the Government to improving the
country's road infrastructure. The Government's general objectives for transport
sector development, as stated in the MTPIP, are to stimulate agricultural
production and thus increase rural incomes, reduce disparities in socioeconomic
conditions among regions by developing regional growth centers, and achieve
greater efficiency in the use of transport facilities through, among other
things, improved maintenance. At the policy level, emphasis is being placed on
deregulation, increased private sector participation, and organizational
decentralization. Under this policy stance, the Government is in the process of
deregulating trucking, interisland shipping and port operations, restructuring
road user charges, and rationalizing vehicle import restrictions.
C. Bank Lending to the Sector and Sector Strategy
Past Lendin
1.6         The Bank Group has assisted the treuisport sector through five highway
projects, two rural roads projects which were mainly oriented to provincial
roads, four port projects and one shipping project. Total lending for highways
and rural roads has been US$499 million. Four of the highway projects (Lns. 731,
950, 1353 and 1661-PH) have been completed. Implementation of the ongoing Fifth
Highway Project (Ln. 2418-PH) was at first seriously delayed by disruptions
associated with the change in Government in 1986 and a lack of counterpart funds,
but progress has since improved and project completion is expected by end-1992.
The Rural Roads Improvement Project (Ln. 1860-PH), carried out by DILG (then the
Department of Local Government) and DPWH, was delayed by about four years, partly
due to the country's economic and political crisis during the mid-1980s. The
ongoing Second Rural Roads Improvement Project (Ln. 2716-PH) is about three years
behind schedule, largely due to problems within DILG.
Lessons Learned
1.7         The Project Performance Audit Reports (PPARs) (No. 2449, April 4,
1979 and No. 4757, October 25, 1983) for the first two highway projects found
that the projects' economic returns were realized despite implementation delays
caused by civil disturbances in the area of the first project and difficulties
with one construction contract on the second project. The PPAR for the third
project (No. 7316, June 30, 1988) and the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the
fourth project (No. 3053, September 7, 1989) found that project targets had



- 3.
generally been achieved, although completicn of the fourth project was
considerably delayed by the economic crisis that occurred during implementation
as well as slow contractor prequalification procedures and slow selection of
consultants for technical assistance.  The PCR for the Rural Roads Improv(5ent
Project (dated October 24, 1990) traced implementation problems to DILG's lack
of adequate technical capability to administer activities in the roads subsector
and contractor problems caused by the Government's contracting policies.
1.8         Several Bank reports, including the PPAR for Ln. 1353-PH and a study
carried out by the Bank's Operations Evaluation Department (OED),Ll have focused
particularly on the inadequate maintenance of both the arterial and the rural
road networks. Regarding the arterial system, the PPAR concluded that the issue
of highway maintenance had not yet been resolved despite continuing efforts of
the Government and the Bank and called for a renewed government commitment to
maintenance and for the Bank's adoption of a clear strategy in its maintenance
support. The Report recommended that the Government and Bank both evaluate the
maintenance situation and together produce a plan of action, drawing on the
findings of a 1988 Bank paper, "Road Deterioration in Developing Countries." The
Report specifically noted the need for greater recourse to the private sector as
an effective means of improving maintenance efficiency anc reducing costs, as
well as the need for capacity building, an effective road management system and
increased internal accountability. C.onsistent with the OED recommendations, the
Government has decided to replace the existing maintenance system, which was not
working, with a decentralized system based on contracting out 80% of all
maintenance (para. 2.30). The action plan to institute this change is now being
implemented.
1.9         Regarding rural roads, the OED report recomme.gded, inter alia, that
the Government prepare a comprehensive maintenance development plan and that the
Bank support preparation of the plan and envisage preparation of a rural roads
maintenance program in the Philippines. Terms of reference for this study have
been prepared by the United States Agency for International Development (USAID),
and the study is expected to be carriee out with USAID funding. The Government
is also preparing a Rural Infrastructu4re Project, including barangay roads, for
Bank financing.
1.10        While  inadequate  and poor  quality maintenance  is one  factor
responsible for the poor condition of Philippine roads, also contributing are a
lack of timely pavement strengthening and upgrading, poor initial road design,
poor construction quality and inadequate construction supervision. Consequently,
under the proposed project, a broad range of capacity-building measures would be
implemented both to support the maintenance action plan and to address the
various problems affecting the road system.   These measures include the
installation of a Road Management System to optimize project planning and
programming, improved design techniques, quality assurance, and strengthening of
the construction industry. Measures will also be taken under the project to
avoid the delays and other problems that hampered implementation of previous
projects, including early initiation of preconstruction activities (engineering
jX    "World Bank Support for Rural Roads Maintenance - Philippine Case Study,"
OED Report No. 7228, April 20, 1989.



-4 
studies, prequalification of contractors and bidding) to allow a prompt start to
project civil works, early recruitment of consultants for project coordination,
and assistance under the project to improve quality control procedures and
standards.
Sector Strategy
1.11        The Bank's strategy in the sector is based on lessons learned in the
course of previous projects and its Transport Sector Re-iew (Report No. 7098-PH,
March 31, 1988,, which indicated the following key sector issues: a regulatory
policy tilt hampering the provision of efficient transport infiastructure and
services by both the public and private sectors; a complex, overly-centralized
government administrative structure; inadequate infrastructure management;
operatioual inefficiencies; a shortage of available financing for private sector
investments; and limited private sector involvement in some key aspects of the
sector.   In the last few years, the Government has come to recognize these
problems and has adopted a new policy stance aimed at decentralization,
deregulation, increased private sector participation in the sector, and general
institutional reform (para. 1.5). Actions already taken by the Government to
further these reforms, including the privatization of operations at the port of
Manila, increasing privatization of road maintenance operations, deregulation of
road freight operations countrywide and of intercity passenger transport in
Luzon, etc., indicate a serious commitment to change. The Bank is therefore
supporting the policy reorientation, with a focus on the major transport modes,
roads and shipping.
1.12        The range of institutional, technical and policy concerns requires
a mixture of lending instruments to effectively address the various types of
issues and the different responsible agencies. A series of four projects is
envisioned.   The Industrial Restructuring Project, approved by the Board on
January 3, 1991, addresses issues relating to the financing of transport fleet
renewal. The proposed Highway Management Project and a maritime sector project,
now being prepared, would address institutional and technical issues in the two
key sectors and deal mainly with the government operati g agencies.  A fourth
loan, a sectoral adjustment operation, is also programmed to address the broader
cross-sectoral policy issues involving normative government agencies like DOTC.
highway Subsector Strategy
1.13        Bank highway lending is directed toward supporting the Government's
introduction of policy and institutional reforms. With respect to policies, the
deregulation of freight and passenger transport services will be supported, as
will infrastructure-related policies governing the quality and timeliness of
interventions.   In institutional development, Bank assistance w'll initially
support the Government's goal oZ strengthening the central administration by
building up its capacity to efficiently manage the arterial highway system -- the
backbone of the whole network. This is the aim of the proposed project and is
expected to require further support under subsequent projects. Other operations
in the future will target the provincial roads and the rural system, in line with
Government's efforts at decentralization.



- 5 -
1.14        The Bank's strategy has been closely coordinated with that of the
Asian Development Bank (ADB), whose recently approved Road and Road Transport
Sector Program builds on recommendations of the Bank's Transport Sector Review
and is aimed at policy reforms and related measures pertaining to deregulation
of the road transport industry, road infrastructure managoment, road safety,
import policies for road transport equipment and vehicular air pollution in Metro
Manila (see Table 2). In view of the policy emphasis of the ADB Program, the
proposed Bank project will have an institutional/management emphasis, expanding
on measures initiated in the context of ADB's dialogue with the Government.
Since sustainable institutional r Corm will require a sequence of projects, a
cooperative effort involving both MiB and the Bank will be required. USAID is
also active in the subsector and has concentrated on rural roads.
2. THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR
A. The Network
2.1         The Philippines has a total road network of approximately 157,500 km,
including 26,100 km of national roads, 29,150 km of provincial roads, 16,600 km
of city and municipal roads, and 85,600 km of local (barangay) roads (see Table
3). About 14% of the network is paved with either Portland cement concrete or
bituminous surfacing and about 86% is gravel/earth-surfaced (see Table 3). The
network is generally adequate in location and extent, but the condition of many
roads is poor because of inadequate design, substandard construction (to which
poor supervision and quality control have contributed), inadequate maintenance,
and damage from overloaded vehicles. A recent DPWH survey of national roads
indicated that only 18% are in good condition, 48% are in fair condition and 34%
are in poor condition, and, according to a DPWH estimate, at least 40% of
provincial roads and 50% of barangay roads are in such poor condition that they
cannot be maintained and must be rehabilitated.    Many bridges are also
substandard for current traffic volumes and vehicle weights.
2.2         National roads are meant to be primary roads linking main population
centers or provinces, and many carry significant traffic vol-umes. Provincial
(mainly secondary) roads constitute the basic network within the provinces and
usually carry medium or low traffic volumes.   City and municipal roads are
generally urban arterial and collectors/feeders, while barangay roads function
mostly as penetration, feeder or farm-to-market roads. The classification system
does not, however, reflect actual functions since classifications have become
increasingly   determined  by   funding,   administrative   and/or   political
considerations,  rather than the function of the roads.   A Functional Road
Classification Study for modification of the current system was carried out by
DPWH in 1986, with funding under the Bank's Fifth Highway Project (Loan 2418-PH),
but the recommendations of the study were not adopted by Congress. The study
did, however, provide a basis for the definition of the arterial network by DPWH.
A new classification system will be introduced following an updating of the study
and completion of an inventory of the entire road network, which are now being
carried out with ADB assistance.
2.3         In 1989, partly in recognition of the current classification system's
limitations, DPWH identified a network of some 13,650 km of arterial roads,
consisting of the north-south backbone, the main east-west laterals, and other



-6
roads of regional imptrtance. These roads are the most important to the economy
as they serve priority produ_.tion areas and important population centers and they
contribute to the country's socioeconomic integration.   T.e arterial network
comprises about 9% of the total road network but carries about 35-40% of all
domestic freight and passenger traffic.  About 40% of the arterial system is
still unpaved; about 2,000 km (15%) of arterial roads are in poor condition while
another 9,575 km (70%) are classified as fair (Table 4).
B. R2#A_T_M0p_*rt
Vehicle Fleet and Traffic
2.4         The registered vehicle fleet in 1989 totaled some 1.43 million,
including 0.33 million motorcycles/tricycles (see Table 5). This represents an
average ownership rate of 24 vehicles per 1,000 population, which is rather low
compared to other Asian countries (e.g., 50 in Indonesia and 113 in Thailand).
During 1981-89, the fleet increased by an average of about 4% a year. About 65%
of the trucks have two axles, 25% have three axles and 10% are truck/semi-
trailers. Almost 90% of the commercial fleet is diesel-powered.
2.5         Traffic volumes vary from about 55,000-90,000 vehicles per day (vpd)
on the 120 km of toll expressways serving Manila to less than 10 vpd on some
rural roads. A nationwide traffic counting program was established by DPWH in
1975 with the Bank's assistance and improved in 1986. At present, almost 1,500
counting stations are in operation, of which about 125 are automatic.
Traffic Safety
2.6         In 1985, about 20,000 traffic accidents involving personal injuries
occurred in the Philippines, including 4,800 fatalities and 16,500 injured
persons. Traffic accidents now cost the courtry some P 1 billion a year. With
Bank financing under Loan 2418-PH, a Road Traffic Safety Study was carried out
in 1985-87 to review the adequacy of laws and regulations governing traffic
safety, accident reporting procedures, highway police activities, and the
linkages of road design and safety, with the aim of recommen- ing a suitable
action plan for improvements. The Study recommended that the safety issues be
addressed through measures such as the creation of a Road Safety Board to
coordinate the agencies involved, driver training, improved vehicle inspection,
better enforcement of regulations, revision of road and intersection design
standards, and improvement of road geometrics.   An Interagency Road Safety
Committee under the chairmanship of DPWH was established by Presidential order
in May 1991 to prepare and implement a detailed course of action. Physical road
safety measures (e.g., black spot improvements, provision of guard rails and road
signs, etc.) will be implemented by DPWH, with assistance under the proposed
project.    In addition,  DOTC  is carrying out a program to  increase  its
effectiveness in testing vehicle roadworthiness by constructing additional motor
vehicle inspection stations, with assistance from ADB and the Japan International
Cooperation Agency.



-7-
R,oad Transport Industra
2.7         Structure.  The Philippine road transport industry comprises some
1,740 registered trucking companies with a total of about 13,800 trucks, some 885
bus companies with about 10,700 vehicles, about 88,000 jeepneys and some 12,200
taxis. In the trucking industry, owner-operators with only one truck represent
about 25% of the industry, 52% own between two and five vehicles, and large
operators with 50 or more units represent only 1%.  All the companies are
privately owned.
2.8         Regulation and Industry Performance.  Officially, the road transport
industry is fully regulated. The basic prerequisite for providing transport
services _.s an official authorization or "franchise," issued as a certificate.
Issuance of a franchise requires the provision of proof of the applicant's
satisfactory financial status and citizenship (or the company's majority local
ownership) and assurance that the operation will promote the public interest.
This last factor poses a major problem for prospective passenger transport
operators since local authorities and current operators can object to the
issuance of a new franchise on these grounds. Passenger operations are also
limited by the standard criteria used for determining the number of vehicles
allowed to operate on any route.   Franchises restrict truckers to their own
island and describe the route, schedules, stops, etc. of passenger carriers. In
addition, the Government sets transport fares, requiring uniform rates per ton-km
for general cargo, despite major differences in operating costs throughout the
country. Passenger transport rates are, however, differentiated by region, type
of vehicle and passenger class. Trucks are also licensed for either own-account
(T licenses) or for-hire (TH licenses) operations.
2.9         A large number of commercial transport operations nevertheless take
place outside the existing legal framework. The officially registered commercial
truck fleet (with TH licenses) accounts for only about 10% of the country's total
truck fleet because many private vehicles registered for own-account use (T
licenses) operate on a for-hire basis.   This has probably accounted for the
responsiveness of the industry to the demand for trucking services as well as the
competitiveness of the industry.  Both truckers and their clients have also
disregarded the government-specified road freight tariff levels, making the cost
of trucking more responsive to demand. Similarly, despite government regulation
of passenger transport services, in practice, only bus services are regulated and
minibus, jeepney and tricycle services are de facto deregulated. Because of this
de facto partial deregulation of passenger services, in mcqt areas there are a
varietv of services offered which are competitive in cost and quality, and,
except where roads are in poor condition, passenger services are considered
adequate. Formalization of the industry'- de facto deregulation as well as the
introduction of policy reforms is being carried out by the Government under the
ADB-assisted Road and Road Transport Sector Program (Table 2). For example, a
bill to eliminate the licensing distinction between private and for-hire trucks
has been filed in Congress, some franchises valid for more than one island are
now being issued, legislation is being introduced in Congress to replace the
Common Carrier Tax on commercial vehicles with an annual road users' fee
applicable to all vehicles, import policies governing road transport equipment
are being liberalized, fares on air-conditioned intercity buses have been



- 8 -
deregulated, and the current single fare for provincial bus transport services
is, on a pilot basis in Luzon, being replaced by a policy of permitting a fare
"range" of plus or minus 15%.
Vqhicleo te ePulations
2.10        Many  trucks  in  the  Philippines  are  grossly  overloaded,  and
enforcement of the present low axle load limits is lax. After a thorough study
of all potential costs and benefits, a Pavement and Axle Load Study completed in
1986 with Bank assistance under Loan 2418-PH recommended new load limits of 13
tons for single axles and 23 tons for dual tandem axles. L2gislation to enact
these recommendations has recently been introduced by the Government, along with
required budgetary appropriations and staffing levels for improved enforcement
of the new regulations. The Government has already rehabilitated and improved
the operation and management of its 16 existing weigh bridges, and additional
weigh bridges and portable loadometers will be procured with ADB financing.
Introduction of the new weight limits will, however, require the Government to
bring the road network in several key areas up to standard and to maintain that
condition.
C. Highway Administration
2.11        Responsibility for the public road network in the Philippines is
divided, with some overlap, between the national government and local government
agencies. In the national government, DPWH, the recognized technical highway
authority, is responsible for the national highways system and for providing
technical assistanea to other government agencies.   At the local government
level, provincial governments, cities and municipalities, under the general
supervision of DILG, are responsible for the provincial, city and municipal roads
in their areas, through Provincial, City and Municipal Engineers Offices,
respectively. Barangay roads are administered by DPWH and the barangay councils.
These arrangements are under review by the Government  (para.  1.4).   The
organization of DPWH is shown in Chart 1. Aside from its headquarters staff,
DPWH has a field network comprising 15 Regional Offices, 95 District Offices and
55 City/Municipal offices.
2.12        To provide more effective  delivery of basic  services  at  the
provincial and barangay levels while simulta..eously improving the condition of
the arterial highway network, DPWH is in the process of focusing its activities
on the arterial highways, while decentralizing and devolving some of its current
responsibilities  to  field offices  and  to  local  government units.   With
decentralization and the new emphasis on arterial roads, DPWH Regional Offices
would be responsible for arterial roads.  Training to be provided under the
proposed project would prepare DPWH staff to assume their new responsibilities.
The rest of the national network would effectively be reclassified as secondary
roads, not of national impoctance, and could eventually be the responsibility of
the Provincial Governments.  Devolution would involve the transfer of DPWH's
District Office staff to the Provincial Governments and the provinces' assumption
of responsibility for the expanded provincial network and, eventually, barangay
roads. Five provinces (Tarlac, Laguna, Negros Occidental, Davao del Norte and
Batanes) have been selected on a pilot basis to test the efficacy of devolution,



- 9 -
and agreements between DPWH and the five provincial governors were signed in
March 1990.
D. Highway Expenditures and Revenues from Road Transport
ExRenditures
2.13        Highway expenditures by the national government for both maintenance
and construction during 1981-89 increased from P 4,087 million to P 10,428
million in current terms (Table 6). However, in real terms, using constant 1978
prices, road expenditures dropped to about half their 1980/81 level during the
mid-1980s  due  to  the  country's  financial  crisis.    Since  1984,  however,
expenditures have made a significant recovery, with an average growth of almost
13% p.a. up to 1989, and in 1989 road expenditures in real terms returned to
their 1980 level.   In 1990, expenditures increased 37% over 1989 in nominal
terms, equivalent to a 17% increase in real terms.
2.14        During 1981-88,  about 25% to 30% of total national government
expenditures for roads was allocated for recurrent maintenance. This percentage
decreased in 1989 and 1990 owing to increases in the investment budget, which is
largely driven by donor-financed projects and has increased more rapidly than the
maintenance budget.   Consequently,  despite a 20% increase  in maintenance
expenditures in 1990, the proportion of maintenance in total national government
expenditures on roads was 17%. The fall in the proportion of maintenance in the
overall road budget did not necessarily mean that recurrent maintenance funding
was inadequate on the arterial network.   In the Philippines, most periodic
maintenance activities, such as pavement overlays, are included in the investment
budget, and the maintenance budget covers only routine items. Allocations for
routine maintenance of the arterial network, based on the funding formula used
(para. 2.33), were adequate in 1990 but should be maintained at that level in
real terms.
Revenugs
2.15        During 1981-89, revenues from road user charges (fuel taxes and motor
vehicle fees) rose from P 5,149 million to P 13,361 million (Table 6). By and
large, government revenues from road users have exceeded public road expenditures
by a substantial margin for most of the past decade. There are, however, three
deficiencies in present road pricing policies: first, rigid two- and three-axle
trucks do not pay adequately toward the damage they cause to the roads; second,
the Common Carrier Tax unfairly favors own-account trucks; and third, congestion
costs, which are mainly significant in Metro Manila, are in general not
adequately recouped from the vehicle operators. The first two issues are now
being addressed by the Government under the ADB program (Table 2).
2.16        Fuel Pricing. Three companies, two private and one Government-owned,
operate in the sector, under the supervision of the Government's Energy
Regulatory Board. In principle, pump prices follow the international price of
crude oil and the peso-dollar exchange rate. In order to cushion against the
effects of fluctuations in the international price of crude oil, a buffer
mechanism was set up in the mid-1980s, the Oil Price Stabilization Fund (OPSF),
financed from a levy on petroleum products during periods of low international



- 10 -
oil prices.   The OPSF worked satisfactorily up to 1989 when the Government,
because of socioeconomic considerations, began to intervene increasingly against
upward adjustments of pump prices which were required for cost recovery. This
led to growing deficits in the OPSF, which were made worse by the crisis in world
petroleum markets brought about by events in the Middle East since August 1990.
The Government has responded to this situation by terminating the OPSF as of
December 31, 1990 and committing itself to deregulate fuel prices completely by
the end of 1991.
2.17        Fuel prices at the pump in the Philippines are generally higher than
those in other countries in S.E. Asia, although they are significantly lower than
those in Japan, Western Europe and Africa (Table 7).  The landed prices of
gasoline and diesel in the Philippines are $0.82 and $0.61 per US gallon
respectively (May 1991), compared with pump prices of $2.57 for premium, $2.41
for regular, and $1.24 for diesel.  The large spread in pump prices between
gasoline and diesel is typical of S.E. Asian countrier and much of the developing
world, as governments attempt to tax higher income on auto owners and to avoid
taxation of non-transport users of diesel.   No significant distortions are
discernible in the consumption of gasoline versus diesel despite the price
differential.
Accounting and Auditing
2.18        While all levels of the government have accounting systems and all
accounts are financially audited by the Central Government's Commission on Audit
(COA), until 1989 no effective accounting existed for expenditures on
construction and maintenance of roads at the lower government levels. Because
funding allocations to the local governments were made to a single public works
account, no separate accounting categories were established for road
construction, road maintenance, and other types of public works. This was a
major problem and led to the diversion of funds from road maintenance to
improvement or construction of roads.   In 1989, DPWH revised its system for
monitoring the use of funds being allotted to the regions and districts for
maintenance of national roads and for ensuring that the funds allocated by the
National Government for maintenance of provincial, city and municipal roads are
actually utilized for the purposes intended and supplemented by matching funds
from the local governments.   Accounting and auditing requirements for the
proposed project are described in para. 3.37.
E. Highway Investment Program
Obiective±
2.19        Overall planning and coordination of the highway investment program
is done by NEDA and summarized in five-year Medium Term Public Investment
Programs. Individual projects included in the MTPIP must be approved by NEDA on
the basis of feasibility studies showing satisfactory economic returns for the
projects. The current program was scheduled to be completed in 1992 but, because
of the present financial situation, is being stretched to the end of 1994. An
irnterim updated program was therefore produced by NEDA for 1990-94. In addition
to listing specific projects, the MTPIP sets out transport sector objectives,
policies, strategies, and targets. Regarding the road subsector, the objectives,



- 11 -
to support agro-industrial development and promote greater efficiency in the use
of existing facilities, and the policies, to promote stronger linkages among
regions and improve access to economically backward areas, are appropriate. The
strategy, to focus on the rehabilitation and sustained maintenance of .nfrastruc-
ture facilities such as arterial roads and the construction of feeder roads,
while giving priority to underdeveloped regions and locations of special economic
interest, can be supported by the Bank.   Some program targets are, however,
overoptimistic, such as the goal of increasing the percentage of all-weather
roads from 58% to 71% and of paved national roads from 49% to 75%.
2.20        Arterial Highway Investment Program.  Although the concept of an
arterial road network has not yet received formal political endorsement, the
1990-94 HTPIP specifically recognizes objectives and targets for arterial
highways. During preparation of the updated MTPIP, DPWH carried out a complete
inventory of the arterial system, most of which was found to need improvement
(para. 2.3). Based on that inventory, DPWH developed a program to improve the
arterial network, with investments scheduled over a seven-year period, 1990-96.
Of the 13,650 km of arterial highways, funding for improvement and rehabilitation
of about 6,800 km has already been committed by various bilateral and
multilateral lenders. Another 1,750 km are in relatively good condition or are
missing links not yet programmed for improvement. However, the balance of about
5,100 km needs rehabilitation, improvement, construction or periodic maintenance.
2.21        The program particularly focusses on rehabilitation/improvement
works, to provide a satisfactory level of service, i.e., to put all pavements in
good condition by 1996, with a view to reducing vehicle operating costs.
Investments in capacity expansion and the few new links required are given lower
priority at this stage, but future programming will depend on the relative
economic returns. The program also envisages new construction of a number of
bridges to replace weak or missing structures.   The program, which will be
reviewed and updated each year to provide a three-year rolling investment
program, will also be useful for DPWH's dialogue with all donors by indicating
the relative economic merits of different subprojects. Subprojects selected from
the program would be financed under the proposed project and, based on the
progress of this project, tI:e Bank would consider supporting further program
investments under a subsequent project. During negotiations, assurances were
obtained from the Government that a three-year rolling arterial highway
investment program would be formulated and adopted by March 31, 1992 in
consultation with the Bank, and would be updated by March 31 of each subsequent
year during the project period in consultation with the Bank, applying
appropriate economic and technical criteria.
Financin: Reguirements
2.22        The MTPIP allocates P 64,191 million for all nationally funded road
and bridge projects in 1990-94:  P 46,053 million for ongoing projects and P
18,138 million for proposed projects. The road program is heavily dependent on
donor financing; only about P 20,100 million (33%) of total investment would be
locally funded. The DPWH arterial highway program for 1990-94, the plan period,
totals P 21,860 million, financing for about half of which is already committed,
largely under projects of the major funding agencies in the sector--ADB, USAID,
the Bank and the Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (Table 8).   Funding of



- 12 -
arterial roads under the proposed project would represent about 26% of the
uncommitted portion of the program. The arterial program represents about 34%
of the total roads budget, which appears reasonable. The regioaal distribution,
annual physical targets, and financial requirements of the 1990-94 program are
shown in Table 9.
F. Highway Planning. Design and Construction
2.23        All foreign-funded and some locally-funded national highway projects
are identified by DPWH's Planning Service in cooperation with NEDA.   The
remaining locally-funded projects for national highways and barangay, municipal
and provincial roads are identified at the local levels and are then reviewed at
the provincial and regional government levels, after which they are appraised and
submitted for final review by the central offices of DPWH and NEDA.
2.24        The DPWH Bureau of Design is responsible for all design work related
to national roads.   Most large projects are designed by local or foreign
consultants. For smaller national roads projects, detailed engineering designs
are prepared by DPWH's Regional or District Offices.   Many roads in the
Philippines have been built with Portland cement concrete pavements following a
policy of using local cement rather than imported bitumen. The designs using
short, unreinforced concrete slabs, together with the construction practices
usually employed, often produced unsatisfactory results. This issue would be
addressed under the proposed project by generally employing bituminous-surfaced
pavements in project designs. In specific cases, where local conditions are not
appropriate to bituminous surfacing, analysis of lifetime costs would be carried
out, and alternatives could be permitted in the bid documents.   On large
contracts with foreign contractors and supervising engineers, quality control of
properly designed pavements of either type is not expected to be a problem. The
project would also reintroduce the use, on a pilot basis, of double bituminous
surface treatment (DBST) as an economic pavement for low-traffic roads. Current
design standards are shown in Table 10.
2.25        Construction of national and provincial roads is normally carried out
by contract. Supervision of foreign-assisted construction projects is carried
out by domestic and foreign consultants while supervision of locally-funded
projects is carried out by DPWH's Regional or District Offices (for national and
barangay roads) or the Provincial, City or Municipal Engineers' Office, often
with DPWH assistance.   Construction supervision by DPWH and by many local
consultants has been inadequate, as evidenced by the number of roads which fail
early due to poor quality construction. DPWH began to address this problem in
early 1990 with the establishment of 15 Quality Assurance Units (QAUs). The QAUs
carry out spot checks of completed projects and report directly to the Secretary
on discrepancies between specifications and actual construction results. Initial
results of the Units' work confirmed the need to strengthen quality control
procedures and to allocate increased resources to enforce those procedures in the
field.   The proposed project would support this DPWH program by providing
training and equipment to improve the quality of construction supervision by DPWH
staff and would support the establishment of additional QAUs where necessary.



- 13 -
Adequate construction supervision to ensure construction quality would be
provided under the project (para. 3.12).
Local Gontractirg Industry
2.26        The domestic road contracting industry has grown rapidly in the last
two decades, largely due to multilateral-assisted projects in which domestic
contractors worked either as prime contractors or as subcontractors to foreign
firms. With its growing experience, the industry should be capable of assuming
a substantially larger role in the sector, although this will require greater
technical sophistication in the industry.
2.27        Support for industry development is provided by 'he Construction
Industry Authority of the Philippines (CIAP), which is attache to the Department
of Industry and was established by the Government in 1980 to evolve an overall
strategy for development of the construction industry in the country.
Representing and serving both the public and private sectors, CIAP accredits
local contractors in their areas of specialization, maintains an inventory of
accredited members, and has established procedures for prequalifying contractors.
2.28        A  number  of  local  contractors'  associations  have  also  been
established to protect their common interests and promote the provision of high
quality work.   The  largest  of these  groups,  the  Philippine  Contractors
Association, has over 2,000 members countrywide. Through its leadership, the
Association has expressed concern about the Government's current policies for
contracting infrastructure projects. Among the areas of concern are: the lack
of standardized contracts; the system's bias in favor of the government; the
fixing of prices for certain materials by DPWH; the requirement that contractors
must meet or be below the Approved Government Estimate; frequent delays in the
contracting process, which make bonds onerous; and the lack of an adequate price
escalation clause. These procedures are being reviewed and revised, since the
Government hopes to build up a local contracting capacity to handle its
increasing requirements. Studies would be carried out under the proposed project
to assist the local contracting industry, including a study to formulate measures
to streamline  the government contracting process.    Details of the  local
contracting industry are available in the Project File.
G. Highway Maintenance
2.29        Road maintenance has remained the weakest area in the subsector,
despite attempts to introduce an effective maintenance management system under
earlier Bank-assisted projects. Recognizing the impact of a poorly maintained
road network on agricultural and industrial growth, the Government, assisted by
the ADB's Road and Road Transport Sector Program, r-cently set out to improve
road maintenance by revising some important policies and practices regarding
maintenance funding and organization. The proposed project would support further
improvements to the existing maintenance system, particularly by introducing a
Road Management System for improved maintenance planning.



- 14 -
Or2a&ization
2.30        Until recently, all routine and some periodic maintenance on national
roads was carried out by DPWH's District Engineers' Offices, using force account.
Works were minimally supervised by the DPWH Regional Offices and the central
Bureau of Maintenance (BOM). Equipment was provided by the area equipment yards
of the DPWH Regional Offices.   Despite the existence and nominal use of a
maintenance management system, on the ground management of force account
operations was poor, equipment availability was less than 30%, and there was no
effective monitoring of the use of funds and of physical accomplishments. Works
were deficient in both quality and quantity. The amount of work that could be
accomplished was further reduced by the fact that, because of political pressures
to engage staff, labor accounted for abo t 50% of maintenance funds rather than
the 28% estimated by DPWH to be an appropriate level.   To remedy these
deficiencies, DPWH decided to change from a force account system to a contract
system.  Beginning with a pilot program in 1987, DPWH has been progressively
increasing private sector participation in road maintenance, and in 1990 carried
out 40% of national road maintenance by contract, with the remainder done by
force  account.    Experience  gained  from  the  pilot  project  testing  the
effectiveness of contracted maintenance indicated that costs were much less than
the standard cost of force account maintenance and the quality was superior. By
1994, the Government expects to contract out 80% of its maintenance operations.
During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government that by
December 31, 1994, about 80% of the maintenance budget would be allocated for
contracted works and, in consequence, the number of maintenance staff would be
adjusted in accordance with a plan and timetable satisfactory to the Bank.
2.31        In addition to the Department's move to contract maintenance, an
improved system of maintenance planning and programming is required.   The
proposed project would therefore assist DPWH to develop a road management system
(RHS) for the national road network. The RMS would act as a tool to support
managers in their function of planning, budgeting and implementing maintenance
works on both pavements and bridges. The RMS comprises a road data base, a road
and bridge monitoring system, and decision models for programming rehabilitation
and routine maintenance activities (paras. 3.4-3.7). The system would enable
DPWH to evaluate the economic effects of various maintenance, rehabilitation and
improvement strategies, determine optimal budgetary requirements, and select
appropriate standards for maintenance intervention that optimize the use of
available budget resources.
Funding System
2.32.       In order to eliminate politically-based distortions in maintenance
allocations among provinces-and to approximate allocations to the level of need
in each district, some years ago a budgetary allocation system was instituted
based on an Equivalent Maintenance Kilometer (EMK).   The base EMK is the
theoretical amount required to maintain a kilometer of road with average traffic.
To determine budgetary allocations for the national road network, a weighting is
applied to each section of the network for traff_..c volume, road width and surface
type, length of bridges, etc., which results in an allocation greater than the
base EMK amount for most national roads. For the other road classes, a flat rate



- 15 -
Is used as follows: 100% of the standard EMK for each kilometer of city roads,
75* of the standard EMK for provincial roads, 50% for municipal roads and 40% for
barangay roads. The National Government funds the total cost of maintaining
national and barangay roads, but covers only a part of the cost of maintaining
other roads (66% for provincial roads, 33% for city streets, and 60% for
municipal roads). The balance of funds required over the national contribution
is intended to be provided by local government funds.
2.33        In 1990, the Congress approved a 20% increase in the basic EMK,
raising it to P 20,400. Previously, the EMK had not been frequently revised, as
it should have been, but the Department of Budget and Management now accepts that
it should be adjustad annually to maintain at least the 1990 level in real terms.
The DPWH proposal for a 1991 EMK of P 24,000, however, had to be cut back due to
the country's weak financial situation and the need to restrict the recurrent
budget to 1990 levels. After much delay, Congress passed the 1991 appropriation
on June 30, 1991, and the amount for road maintenance was actually an increase
by 24% in nominal terms over 1990. During negotiations, assurances were obtained
from the Government that during the project period it would recommend in its
annual budget proposal an adjusted cost per EMK to maintain in real terms at
least the 1991 routine maintenance budget for national roads. When operational,
the RMS will develop the recurrent maintenance budgetary requirements for each
section of road in the arterial system, and the EHK system will become
obsolescent.
2.34        The budget for road overlays was transferred from the investment
budget to a separate line item in the recurrent budget for 1991 to enable the BOM
to plan overlay works on a national basis.   This was done to avoid the
technically unsound short contract lengths produced when the overlay budget was
divided among all the districts. The cutback of the 1991 budget to 1990 levels
meant that no new item could be included in the budget passed by Congress.
However, DPWH allocated P 150 million f.om its lump sum appropriation 'or
overlays and preventive maintenance in 1991. During negotiations, assurances
were obtained from the Government that it will retain an item in its budget
request for periodic overlay works and, by Harch 31 of each year commencing in
1992, would prepare in consultation with the Bank the maintenance program for the
next fiscal year, including the program and budget for periodic road overlays.
H. Staffing and Training
Staffing
2.35        DPWH has some 20,000 staff members responsible for roads, mainly the
26,000 km national road network. This staffing level is excessive, particularly
since maintenance will increasingly be contracted out.   The Department has
therefore prepared a detailed manpower and equipment reduction plan (see Annex
1), the aim of which is to retain only enough force account maintenance staff and
equipment for emergency works and specialized bridge maintenance. The Department
is fully committed to the program, but realizes that difficulties may be
encountered in some areas where contractors are reluctant to work, for example,
where there are peace and order problems. However, it intends that the program
will be substantially fulfilled. During negotiations, assurances were obtained



- 16 -
from the Government that the number of DPWH maintenance staff will be adjusted
in accordance with a plan and timetable satisfactory to the Bank.
iDxiniD
2.36        DPWH has 70 full-time professional training staff to prepare and
implement an annual in-house training program approved by the Secretary. The
annual program, organized and implemented mainly at the Headquarters office,
covers orientation, employee development, professional, technical and scientific
development, supervisory development and management development. A review of
overall highway subsector training capacity and strategy is now being carried out
by DPWH under the ongoing Bank-assisted Fifth Highway Project and is expected to
be completed by end-1991.   Recommendations arising from the review would be
incorporated in a training program to be prepared and implemented under the
proposed project, which would be geared to meeting the new training needs related
to decentralization, the management of contracted maintenance, and the upgrading
of technical skills in line with technology innovations (e.g., tha RMS) to be
introduced under the proposed project.
I. Environmental Aspects
2.37        According to regulations of the Philippine Government, Environmental
Impact Statements (EISs) are required for all environmentally-critical projects
and for projects  located within environmentally critical areas.   Project
proponents must first submit a project description and initial environmental
examination for review by the Environmental Management Bureau (EKB) in the
Department  of Environment  and Natural  Resources.    If required by EMB's
Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) Review Committee, a detailed EIS must be
prepared for the project. The EIS forecasts the potential positive and negative
environmental impacts that may result from the project and proposes measures to
prevent, minimize, and/or mitigate potential adverse impacts. After approving
an EIS, EMB issues an Environmental Compliance Certificate for the related
project, which may then be implemented.  EMB's capacity to implement the EIS
system is currently inadequate, but will be strengthened under a proposed USAID-
supported project. The capacity of DPWH to manage the production of EISs for the
highway subsector would be strengthened under the proposed Bank project through
the provision of technical assistance.
3. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives
3.1         The proposed project would support the Government's infrastructure-
related policy reforms to improve the quality and timeliness of road works and
ongoing measures to develop a sustainable institutional capability to manage the
network. The project's main objective is to improve the quality of the vitally-
important arterial highway network and thereby to reduce transport costs and
increase the country's economic competitiveness. Toward this goal, the project
would: (a) support selected subprojects included in the arterial highway
investment plan for 1990-96; (b) institute a nationwide road management system
to improve the planning, budgeting and implementation of works, particularly
resurf&Ling, strengthening and maintenance, on a continuing basis; (c) encourage



- 17 -
increasing private sector participation in road maintenance; (d) strengthen the
capabilities of subsector staff through technical assistance and training; and
(e) improve the effectiveness of the Philippine construction industry by, among
other things, introducing modern procedures.
B. Rationale for Bank Involvement
3.2         The proposed project is important to renewed economic growth in the
Philippines, to the responsiveness of the overall transport sector, and to the
institutional development of DPWH.   The project would support investments
targeted toward making the best use of the existing arterial network, which, in
its present condition, is constraining attempts to restart the economy. It is
also one of four coordinated projects through which the Bank is addressing
important issues in the transport sector: issues related to the financing of
private sector investment in the vehicle fleet are being addressed under an
Industrial Restructuring Project, while a maritime project and a sector policy
adjustment operation are also being prepared.   Most important,  the project
supports DPWH's institutional development toward comprehensive management of the
arterial highway network. Given the time required for such development, this is
expected to be one of a series of projects for that purpose.
C. Project Description
3.3         The following components would be implemented under the project over
a seven-year period:
(a)   technical assistance for the development and implementation of a
management system for annual and multiyear programming and budgeting
of road and bridge works, including procurement of specialized
equipment for monitoring and evaluating the condition and structural
capacity of pavement and bridge structures to provide essential data
for technical management of the system;
(b)   civil works subprojects to upgrade, rehabilitate, strengthen or
resurface some 1,400 km of deteriorated or damaged arterial highways
and substandard bridges, including consulting services for the
related engineering and construction supervision;
(c)   consulting services to assist DPWH to:
(i)   coordinate project activities;
(ii)  implement  procedures  to  improve  pavement  desigrn  and
construction quality;
(iii) initiate remedial measures at high-accident locations, to be
developed under a recently-defined road safety program;
(iv)  develop and implement a human resources planning and training
program   oriented   toward   the   Department's   changing
responsibilities due to decentralization and implementation of
maintenance by contract;
`



- 18 -
(v)   increase  DPWH's  capacity  to  manage  the  preparation  of
environmental impact statements for its projects; and
(d)   consulting services to assist the Construction Industry Authority of
the Philippines to carry out studies and implement measures to
strengthen the construction industry.
Road Management Svstem
3.4         Technical assistance and equipment would be provided under the
project for the introduction of a Road Management System (RNS) (including
bridges) to enable DPWH to make more effective use of road maintenance and
investment funds. The system would comprise: (a) regular data collection on the
condition and utilization of the network; (b) forecasting, analysis and
development of national maintenance policies, standards and multiyear budgets for
use at headquarters; and (c) practical tools for preparing annual work programs
and for monitoring works, for use by DPWH staff at the regional level.
3.5         At present, due to the absence of objective data, decisions on
maintenance and iehabilitation rorks are largely based on subjective information
on road conditions and the judgement of DPWH engineers and administrators. The
RMS would allow DPWH to plan road and bridge rehabilitation and maintenance on
rational engineering and economic grounds through the establishment of an
integrated database system containing essential statistics on the network using
a computer-aided system of techno-economic analysis. The RMS would enable DPWH
to evaluate a range of maintenance and rehabilitation strategies, and to carry
out an economic optimization of these for the whole network, considering budget
constraints.   It will produce annual maintenance and medium- and long-term
investment programs and budgets, based on minimizing total life cycle costs for
both infrastructure and road users, within the constraints of available budgets.
3.6         The systems would be developed for the specific conditions existing
in the Philippines and would be implemented in staged modules, with each module
having a useable end product, including:
(a)   database and reporting system,
(b)   road monitoring and data acquisition system,
(c)   a central five-year investment plan and budget forecast,
(d)   a central rolling works program and budget for investments and
maintenance,
(e)   a regional pavement rehabilitation program,
(f)   a regional bridge maintenance and rehabilitation program, and
(g)   a regional program of routine maintenance contracts.
This initial Planning and Programming Model could be complemented in later phases
with additional models for design and tendering and for construction monitoring.



- 19 -
These could be capable of producing computer-generated roadwork designs and
quantities, tender documents and contract monitoring information.
3.7         Consulting services would be provided unde; the project for the
development, initial operation and DPWH staff training in the use of the RMS for
a total of about 120 staff-months of international consultants and about 250
staff-months of local consultants. The systems will also require the purchase
of specialized equipment for inspection and evaluation of pavement and bridge
conditions, for monitoring of condition and usage of roads and bridges, and for
data acquisition and processing.   The total cost of equipment and related
vehicles for development and subsequent operation of the systems will depend on
the actual system to be selected, but is provisionally estimated at US$3.5
million. Terms of reference and an action plan (Annex 2) for the introduction
of an RMS were discussed during negotiations, when assurances were obtained from
the Government that the first five modules of the System will be put into effect
by June 30, 1995.
Civil Works
3.8         The project would finance civil works subprojects included in DPWH's
arterial highways investment program (para. 2.20). Subprojects to be financed
would begin in the 1992/93 and 1993/94 dry seasons and funding would continue
until completion of each subproject. A total of about 1,400 km of deteriorated
or damaged arterial highways and substandard bridges would be upgraded,
rehabilitated, strengthened or resurfaced. Ten subprojects are programmed for
the 1992/93 dry season (Table 11). Of these, nine were selected on the basis of
economic and technical criteria, including a rate of return of at least 15%, as
well as poverty alleviation and regional development considerations. Feasibility
and engineering studies have been completed for seven of the subprojects. The
feasibility of the eighth and ninth subprojects has been judged on the basis of
preliminary engineering; when detailed design of the subprojects is completed,
their feasibility will be verified using the engineer's cost estimates. The nine
subprojects have been selected countrywide to compensate for past underinvestment
in some regions and to ensure proper implementation of works in the disadvantaged
areas. The comparatively low traffic levels on some of these roads provided the
opportunity to initiate a pilot program to reintroduce double bituminous surface
treatment, which is an appropriate and cost-effective technical standard for such
roads.
3.9         Regarding  the  tenth  subproject,  the  Bank  has  agreed  to  the
Government's request to make provision in the 1992/93 program for repair of
highways affected or damaged by the Mount Pinatubo volcanic eruption. Stretches
of the arterial highways in the affected area will need to be raised; at present,
however, conditions have not stabilized sufficiently to permit engineering
design.   When conditions permit,  the improvements will be designed,  the
feasibility verified, and tenders called. For the purposes of this report, a
notional amount has been included for the cost of this subproject.
3.10         The 1992/93 program is estimated to cost about P 1,960 million
(US$70 million) in 1990 prices (Table 11). Subprojects to begin in 1993/94 will
be selected from DPWH's arterial highway investment plan, which will be updated
annually. Selection will be based on technical and economic criteria, &-ceptable



- 20 -
to the Bank, including a rate of return of at least 15%. To give sufficient time
for subproject design and bidding, the 1993/94 program would be agreed by March
31, 1992. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government on
these arrangements and on subproject selection criteria.
Consulting Services
3.11        Project Coordination.  The existing DPWH IBRD Project Management
Office (PMO) (Chart 1) would be responsible for project coordination and would
be assisted by a consultant financed under the project. The consultant would
assist PMO staff to monitor and coordinate project progress; coordinate all other
consultants appointed under the project; establish quality assurance procedures
and technical and administrative standards; and organize annual reviews of
project accomplishment and dis^.ussions of the following year's program with the
Bank. Outline terms of reference for the consultant are shown in Annex 3. To
ensure a rapid project start-up, during negotiations assurances were obtained
from the Government that the cons tant to assist DPWH with project coordination
would be appointed by June 30, 1992.
3.12        Imnlementation Oualitv Improvement.   DPWH needs to develop and
implement a mechanism for effective quality control and monitoring (including
technical audits) of road works in a decentralized environment.  The Quality
Assurance Units (para. 2.25) are still relatively new and their operations,
scope, responsibilities and staffing levels will need to be assessed with a view
to their consolidation within the structure of DPWH. The Bureau of Construction
and the Bureau of Research and Standards will need assistance to revise quality
control procedures and standards and to train and assist regional and district
staff in implementation of the revised procedures. The project would therefore
finance a quality control specialist and local engineers to revise standards and
procedures and train the QAUs and central and regional staff, and provide
laboratory and field testing equipment and vehicles.
3.13        Engineering Design and Construction Supervision.  Consultants would
be appointed by DPWH to carry out project design and construction supervision.
The consultants would review engineering designs already prepared, particularly
the pavement design, to ensure that the existing pavement structure and condition
are fully taken into account, and that, using an acceptable design methodology,
the proposed pavement structures are adequate for a 10-year life with the
forecast traffic. There would be two project supervisory teams consisting of
foreign and local staff. Each team would have the following foreign staff: a
highway engineer team leader, an earthworks and bituminous engineer and a
materials engineer. Additional specialist staff such as a bridge engineer would
also be provided as needed. With the expansion of the workload when the second
year program starts, an additional engineer would be required.
3.14        Road Safety.  During 1991, an Inter-Agency Road Safety Committee
under the Chairmanship of DPWH has been formulating medium- and long-term road
safety programs, based on data from the four major agencies involved--DPWH, the
highway police, the emergency medical services, and DOTC. Consulting services
would be provided under the project to help establish the Committee's data
collection system and data base and to design and begin implementation of a
program for the identification and improvement of high accident locations (black



- 21 -
spots). Civil works to correct black spots would generally be small and would
be funded from the national DPWH budget.
3.15        Human Resources Development and Training.  Implementation of DPWH's
highway investment plan combine-I with substantial decentralization of functions
and responsibilities to the Department's regional offices will generate a variety
of new tasks for DPWH staff at all levels, but particularly for managers and
professional staff in the Regional Offices. The staff will also be expected to
absorb a number of technological innovations to be introduced, including the RMS,
measures to strengthen quality control and Environmental Impact Assessment
techniques. A training program to be prepared and implemented under the proposed
project would be geared to meeting the training needs related to
decentralization, the management of contracted maintenance, EIA needs, and the
upgrading of technical skills i- line with technology innovations. The program
would be prepared by DPWH assisted by consultants and would be implemented during
1992-96. It would be based on recommendations arising from a Study on Manpower
Development and Training, now being carried out under the Fifth Highway Project
and to be completed by early 1992. Training would be provided through a modular,
structured program of in-country training courses, workshops and seminars in
highway subsector management and technology, complemented by on-the-job training.
The main target group would be professional staff, administrative and financial
officers, and quality control staff at headquarters and in the regional
engineers' offices. Some 500 to 600 professional staff are tentatively expected
to benefit from project training. The project would finance technical assistance
to help prepare and implement the proposed program, which is tentatively expected
to require about 100 staff-months of foreign consultants and 200 staff-months of
local consultants.   During negotiations, a.surances were obtained from the
Government that it would undertake and comp ete a Study on Manpower Development
and Training and, by June 30, 1992, would discuss the results thereof with the
Bank with a view to agreeing to a manpower development and training program, to
be initiated by September 30, 1992 to the satisfaction of the Bank.
3.16        Environmental Screening of Road P *jjS&A. DPWH intends to establish
a central environmental protection unit to c( .i-dinate and prepdre EIAs and to
respond to the concerns of donor agencies. Teicnnical assistance and equipment
would be provided under the project to help de'ealop and establish the central
environmental scrcening and assessment unit, with eppropriate linkages to EMB and
DPWH regional offices.   Ietails of the propoted unit are given in Annex 4.
Establishment of the unit will generate substantial training needs, including the
requirement at the regional level for timely identification of projects having
a potentially significant environmental impact, and for monitoring sur' projects
during implementation. An initial training program for DPWH is being provided
under an ongoing USAID-assisted project. Building on this, a second phase of
training will be carried out under the project.
Assistance to CIAP
3.17        The local construction industry would be strengthened thrcugh project
technical assistance to CIAP to: (a) prepare a study to formulate measures
streamlining  and  improving  the  preconstruction  activities  of  governm,nt
infrastructure agencies; (b) develop a computerized data bank center to keep up-
to-date  information  on  contractor  prequalification,   registration  and



- 22 -
classification as well as project cost estimates; (c) implement a program for
technology information and dissemination, including technology training courses;
and (d) organize training of government supervisors and field personnel in
project management and construction techikology project management.   Suitable
arrangements for cost recovery of the training provided to public officials and
contractors' staff would be prepared by CIAP and agreed with the involved
parties. Outline terms of reference for this assistance are given in Annex 5.
Local contractors are also expected to benefit from the technology transfer
fostered under joint ventures being encouraged under the project (para. 3.28).
Policy Improvements
3.18        The project would also support the following policy reforms:
(a)   increased private sector participation in highway maintenance under
a phased program resulting in the :illocation of about 60% of the
total maintenance budget to contracted works in 1992, 70% in 1993
and about 80% in 1994 (para. 2.30 and Annex 1, para. 2);
(b)   improved DPWH cost-effectiveness through a reduction in maintenance
staff under a phased program (44% reduction by 1992, 60% by 1993 and
75% by 1994) (para. 2.35 and Annex 1, para. 8); and
(c)   adjustment  of  the Equivalent Maintenance  Kilometer  allocation
annually to maintain in real terms the 1991 routine maintenance
budget for national roads during the project period (para. 2.33).
These policy reforms and the associated timetables were discussed and agreed with
the Government during negotiations.
Status of Pro1ect Preoaration
3.19        For subprojects beginning in 1992/93, final engineering has been
completed for seven subprojects and, for the eig-hth and ninth subprojects, will
be completed by June 1992 and October 1992, respectively. As noted in para. 3.9,
engineering and bidding on highways damaged by the Mount Pinatubo eruption will
be carried out when conditions in the area permit.   Preparation of EIAs and
prequalification of contractors are in progress. Draft standard documents for
the Prequalification of Contractors and for the General Conditions of Contract
for civil works to be financed under the project have been reviewed by the Bank
and will be printed for use for all civil works bidding under the project. A
consultant to assist the PMO with project coordination is now being appointed and
is expected to be in place by June 30, 1992.
D. Proiect Cost and Financing
3.20        The project would have an estimated total cost of about P 7,509
million (US$198.7 million equivalent), including foreign exchange of US$114.9
million or about 58% of total costs.   Taxes and duties equivalent to about
US$28.1 million are included. The cost estimate for the 1992/93 civil works
program, which has already been defined, is based on prices as of September 1991.
The cost of the 1993/94 program has been determined by the financing available,



- 23 -
with the number of kilometers to be improved based on the estimated average cost
per kilometer for the first year's program.   Project costs include physical
contingencies averaging 10% of base costs. Price contingencies, equal to 18% of
base costs plus physical contingencies, have been estimated based on the
following rates of inflation: for local costs, 12% for 1991 and 10% thereafter;
and for foreign costs, 3.9% for 1992-1999.  Cost estimates are summarized in
Table 3.1 and cash flow requirements are shown by year in Table 12.
Table 3.1: PROJECT COST ESTIMATES
Local  Foreign    Total  Local Foreign   Total    Foreign
- - - (P million) - - -  - - - (USS million) - - -  as X
of total
Civitl Works Subprojects
1992/93 program              847   1,168    2,015  30.2   41.7   71.9        58
1993/94 program              626    865    1,491  22.4   30.9   53.3         58
Subtotal Civil Works        1.473   20      35     52.6   72.6  125.2         58
OMpN Technical Assistance
Project SW"port
Construction supervision     228    123       351   8.1    4.4   12.5         35
Project coordination          28      46      74   1.0    1.7    2.7          63
Capacity Building
Road anagement System         28      47      75   1.0    1.7    2.7          63
Training program              26      45      71   0.9    1.6    2.5          64
Environmental assessment       8      13      21   0.3    0.4    0.7          63
Accident reduction             3       6       9   0.1    0.2    0.3          67
Quality assurance              3       6       9   0.1    0.2    0.3          67
CIAP Technical Assistance        34      18       52   1.3    0.6    1.9         37
subtotal Technical Assistance         304     662   12.8          M
Equipment
Road anagement System          5      93      98   0.2    3.3    3.5          94
ality assurance                2      44      46   0.1    1.6    1.7          94
Subtotal Equipment             7     137     144   0.3    4.9    L2           94
Total Base Cost              1.838   2,474    4,312  65.6   88.4  154.0        57
Physical ContIngencies        184    247      431   6.6    8.8   15.4         57
Prfce Contingencies         l.lU    1.618    2.76   11.6   17.7  Ekl          60
Total Project Cost           LI    L a   ;          i      114.9  198.7        58
3.21        The proposed Bank loan of US$150 million would finance about 75% of
the total project cost, including 100% of the project's foreign exchange cost.
The Government would finance the balance of project costs or some US$48.7 million
equivalent.   The Government is seeking grant funding from various bilateral
donors to help finance project technical assistance costs, which are now covered
under the proposed Bank loan. If grant financing is secured, the corresponding
provision of the loan would be reallocated to the civil works program. The Bank
loan would be made to the Republic of the Philippines and would be passed on to
DPWH as normal budgetary appropriatione. Loan funds would be channeled to CIAP
through DPWH. Project financing arrangements are summarized in Table 3.2.



- 24 -
Tablg 3.2:  PROJECT FINANCING PLAN
(US$ million)
Local       Foreign      Total
Go"rrnient         48.7        -            48.7
IBRD               35.1        114.9        150.0
TOTAL              MA          11.          190.7
E. Imnlementation
3.22        DPWH would be the main executing agency,  responsible for all
components  except the consulting services  to strengthen  the construction
industry, which would be the responsibility of CIAP.
3.23        Overall coordination and supervision of the project would be the
responsibility of the DPWH Undersecretary for Operations (Foreign Assisted
Projects), through the Director of the existing IBRD Project Management Office
(PMO).   The PMO, assisted by the coordinating consultant provided under the
project, would be in charge of consultants for detailed design and construction
supervision of the subprojects, as well as the procurement process. A second
DPWH branch, under the Undersecretary for Technical Services (UTS), would be
responsible for annual programming of the arterial highway works and for the
institutional development of DPWH.   Under the UTS, planning, programming,
feasibility studies, and environmental assessments would be carried out by the
Planning Service or by consultants assisting the Service. Development of the RMS
would be carried out by consultants under the supervision and direction of the
Bureau of Maintenance. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the
Government that the PMO will be maintained until project completion.
3.24        Most of the units which will be responsible for executing the
proposed project are already working on the ongoing Fifth Highway Project. CIAP
is also already involved in supervising several construction industry studies
being carried out by consultants under the ongoing Fifth Highway Project and is
consequently prepared to begin implementing the proposed project's studies.
DPWH's Undersecretary of Operations has instituted a system of monitoring and
control of project execution. To avoid start-up delays, he has also initiated
preconstruction activities, including engineering studies, environmental impact
analyses, prequalification of contractors and bidding for the 1992/93 program
well in advance. Procurement for most of the civil works included in the first
project year is sufficiently advanced to permit contract signing in the third
quarter of 1992.   Subprojects for the 1993/94 civil works program will be
proposed for the Bank's approval by September 30, 1992.
3.25        Based on experience with previous transport and other projects in the
Philippines wbich have been delayed because of a lack of budgetary resources, the
project is expacted to be completed in seven years by December 31, 1998, with the
loan fully disbursed by June 30, 1999 (see Chart 2). However, in view of the



- 25 -
advanced state of project preparation and measures being taken to avoid
procedural delays that also hampered implementation of previous projects, the
project is targeted to be completed in five years.
F. Pro.urement
3.26        Procurement under the project would be carried out as shown in Table
3.3.
Table 3.3: PROCUREMENT SUARY
(US$ million)
Procurement Method      b        Total
Project Eletent               ICB          LCB         Other       Costs
Civil works                    131.1       30.8                    161.9
(91.8)     (21.5)                 (113.3)
Equipment and
vehicles
RNS                           0.7        -            3.7        4.4
(0.7)                   (3.7)      (4.4)
DPWH laboratories            1.7         0.4                     2.1
(1.7)     (0.3)                    (2.0)
Technical assistance                                    30.3       30.3
and training                           _30.3)                   (30.3)
TOTAL                    133.5       31.2         34.0      198.7
(94.2)     (21.8)       (34.0)     (150.0)
La    All tfgures include contingencies and figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the
ak.
3.27        Civil works contracts with an estimated value of US$2.5 million
equivalent or more would be procured through international competitive bidding
(ICB) procedures, in accordance with the Bank Guidelines for Procurement.
Contracts having an estimated value of less than US$2.5 million equivalent would
be procured through local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures governed by
Presidential Decree 1594 and associated Implementing Rules and Ttegulations, which
are currently being revised on the basis of discussions with the Bank. During
negotiations, Government's revised local procurement procedures for civil works,
goods and consultants were reviewed by the Bank, and an understanding was reached
with the Government on necessary actions to render those proceduress satisfactory
to the Bank.  Foreign contractors will not be required to    '.ster with the
Government unless they are being awarded a contract.   Preqialification of
prospective contractors will be carried out for all contracts with an estimated
value exceeding US$2 million equivalent. For LCB, any foreign contractor who
wishes to do so may participate on an equal basis with the domestic contractors.
3.28        One of the main objectives of the project is to substantially improve
the quality of road construction works in the Philippines and to expose the local
construction industry to quality pavement construction technologies already
widely used by the construction industry abroad. This will be achieved by using



- 26 -
foreign or large domestic contractors, with the required experience and technical
capacity, for the execution of most of the project's civil works program. In
order to realize an effective transfer of technology, joint-ventures of foreign
and local contractors would be encouraged. In the current civil works market,
contracts of up to US$10 million may be only marginally attractive to
international contractors, while a contract size of about US$20 million is likely
to attract meaningful competition. However, due to the size and location of
subprojects, the opportunity for assembling contract packages of this size is
limited. The 10 subprojects to be initiated in 1992/93 (Table 11) vary from
about US$0.8 million to US$19.1 million. Civil works to begin in 1993/94 will
also be packaged as much as possible to achieve the above objectives.
3.29        Contracting will be carried out using standard bid documentation
acceptable to the Bank. Standard prequalification and bid documents for civil
works using ICB have been submitted and reviewed by the Bank. Tenders will be
arranged in a manner to allow the simultaneous letting of bids for packages of
one or more contracts with provision for appropriate discounts for the award of
combined packages. While prequalification of contractors will not be required
for contracts having an estimated value of less than US$2.0 million, a careful
and thorough post-qualification will be carried out by DPWH, using procedures and
evaluation methods satisfactory to the Bank, to ensure that contract awards are
made only to firms with the necessary financial, technical, equipment and
personnel resources Wo enable them to satisfactorily complete the work.
3.30        Euuigment and vehicles for road inspection and evaluation and for the
construction quality improvement program, having an estimated total value of
US$2.3 million, will be procured through ICB in accordance with the Bank
Guidelines  for Procurement.    Equipment and tools  for the DPWH district
laboratories, valued at less than US$200,000 equivalent each and up to a total
estimated value of US$400,000, would be procured through LCB procedures
satisfactory to the Bank. Specialized equipment and vehicles for road and bridge
inspection and evaluation, and computer hardware and software for the RMS, with
contracts valued at less t}.an US$150,000 equivalent each and up to an estimated
total value of US$3.7 million, would be procured on the basis of international
shopping procedures in accordance with Bank guidelines.
3.31        Consulting  services  for  technical  assistance  and  training,
development of the RMS, design of civil works, and construction supervision of
all civil works included in the project, amounting to approximately US$30.1
million, will be obtained in accordance with the Bank Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants and under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank. The range and
scope of expertise required for the RMS and supervision of large contracts with
strict quality control procedures are not locally available. The consultants,
selection process will therefore include foreign firms. The consultants'
suitability for specific assignments and the draft contracts to be used will be
reviewed and approved by the Bank before their appointment.
3.32        Prior evie.  Prior Bank review would be required for civil works
contracts estimated to cost over US$2.5 million equivalent and goods contracts
over US$200,000. In total these would represent about 81% of the value of all
contracts, which is adequate. Bidding packages for civil works estimated to cost
less than US$2.5 million would not be reviewed routinely by the Bank but DPWH



- 27 -
would maintain copies of the bid evaluation for the Bank's inspection and send
final contracts to the Bank for approval prior to submission of the first
withdrawal application. All contractual arrangements with consultants will be
subject to the Bank's prior review.
G. Disbursements
3.33        The proceeds of the proposed loan would be disbursed against eligible
expenditures as follows:
(a)   Civil Works:  70% of total expenditures;
(b)   Equipment and Vehicles:   100% of the c.i.f. cost of all items
procured directly from abroad; 100% of the ex-factory cost (net of
taxes) of locally manufactured items; and 65% of local expenditures
for other locally procured items; and
(c)   Consulting Services and Training:  100% of total expenditures.
3.34        Disbursements for training expenditures, civil works contracts of
less than US$2.5 million equivalent, and equipment contracts of less than
US$200,000 would be on the basis of Statements of Expenditure (SOEs). The PHO
with the assistance of the consultant for project coordination would handle the
SOEs as well as normal withdrawal applications. Disbursements for all other
expenditures, including all consultants' contracts, would be against full
documentation. To facilitate loan administration, withdrawal applications would
be for a minimum of US$50,000.
3.35        Estimated  disbursement  of  the proposed  loan  and profiles  of
disbursement for previous loans to the Philippines are shown in Table 13. Loan
disbursement is based on the profile for the Philippine loan portfolio, and loan
closing would be by June 30, 1999.
H. Auditing. Monitoring. ReRorting and Supervision
3.36        The DPWH would establish and maintain a separate account for
expenditures under the project. These accounts, including Statements of
Expenditure, would be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank, with the audit also including a separate opinion on Statements of
Expenditure used as a basis for disbursement   These audits would be furnished
to the Bank within six months following the end of each government fiscal year.
3.37        The monitoring of project progress will be coordinated by the PHO,
assisted by the  coordinating consultant.    Monitoring procedures  for  the
accomplishment of major project items are shown Annex 6. The PMO will report
quarterly on the progress of project implementation. Progress in achieving the
project's main objective, to improve the quality of the arterial highway network,
would be monitored by annual surveys of the condition of the whole network.
These surveys will initially be based on visual assessments hut, following the
introduction of pavement and bridge evaluation modules under the RMS, the surveys



- 28 -
will record objective data indices. The key management objective of developing
a rolling investment plan and annual implementation plans for the arterial
network will be the subject of annual meetings of the Government and the Bank in
September of each project year (para. 2.21). The participation of the private
sector in road maintenance, the reduction in force account manpower, and the cost
of executing routine and periodic maintenance by force account and by contract
will be monitored by the BOX and reported annually. Monitoring indicators for
execution of the project training program will be prepared by June 1992, based
on recommendations of the revised human resources development program now being
prepared. The output of the various CIAP studies will also be monitored.
3.38        The DPWH would provide the Bank with quarterly project progress
reports on all project subcomponents. These reports would be prepared by the PMO
using data and contributions from each of the participating units.   The
Department would also provide their part of the project completion report, within
four months of loan closing. The coordinating consultant would help ensure that
the various reporting agencies comply with reporting requirements and schedules.
During negotiations, adequate reporting arrangements were discussed and
confirmed.
3.39        Project supervision would follow the supervision plan shown in Annex
7. Bank field supervision would require a total of about 78 staff-weeks during
the life of the project, of which about 36 staff-weeks would be required during
the first two years of implementation for project start-up, review of subproject
designs and procurement. Supervision would be carried out mainly by a transport
engineer, supplemented by specialists in road management systems, training,
transport economics, and the construction industry.
I. Environmental ImRact
3.40         Training provided under the project to DPWH's central environmental
protection unit is expected to develop the staff's capabilities to prepare EIAs
and to monitor construction and maintenance work for compliance with
environmental legislation. Initial Environmental Examinations (IEE) would be
prepared for all arterial roads to be improved under the project, and would be
reviewed by EMB. For sub projects which EMB considers would have a significant
environmental impact, DPWH would submit an Environmental Statement to EMB. Upon
EMB's approval, an Environmental Compliance Certificate is issued and projects
may proceed to implementation.   No changes are expected in the existing
alignments of roads included in the first-year program, with the exception of the
Santiago-Tuguegarao road for which an EIS is being prepared.   The smoother
traffic operations on the arterial network would result in lower fuel consumption
and emissions. The road safety program would reduce accidents. DPWH road design
standards and contract documents for project works would also be revised to
include measures such as siltation protection, anti-erosion works, etc. to ensure
that designs and construction techniques are environmentally sound. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government that DPWH design
standards and contract documents for project civil works will be revised to the
satisfaction of the Bank by June 30, 1992.



- 29 -
4. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. Obiectlves
4.1         The proposed project would support the Government's development
objectives and assist in the integration of various sectors of the economy. More
specifically, the project addresses the objectives of the Government's road
development policies and plans in that it provides for improvement to and
periodic maintenance of selected high priority arterial highways in areas where
the existing infrastructure has deteriorated or requires improvement.   The
proposed road improvements would redress present transport deficiencies by
providing reliable and less costly transport services, allow a more efficient
distribution of consumer goods, agricultural inputs and produce, improve the
population's access to social and health services, and improve the local economy
in the project areas. The project would also provide for technology transfer by
improving quality assurance, traffic safety and road management systems. All
elements taken together would strongly influence the future development of the
sector.
B. Benefits and Beneficiaries
4.2         The proposed investments in arterial roads and the measures to be
implemented under the project to strengthen sector institutions and improve
management of the road subsector would have considerable benefits. The project
benefits most easily quantified on an ex ante basis are the savings in vehicle
operating  costs  and  road  maintenance  costs  expected  from  the  physical
investments. However, while benefits derived from the project's institutional
improvements, particularly from the RMS and the private sector participation in
national road maintenance, are difficult to quantify at this point, they would
be monitored by the DPWH in the course of project implementation in order to
develop performance monitoring indicators.
4.3         The benefits attributable to project road investments would accrue
to a large and widespread number of beneficiaries. Lower road transport costs
and time savings will benefit car and bus users as well as truck and bus
operators. Private users, such as individual car owners, bus passengers and
private firms using transport on their own account, would capture benefits
directly. In addition, the benefits accruing to Philippine trucking and inter-
urban bus companies, which are competitive, would be passed on to producers and
consumers through lower prices of goods and services.
C. Economic Analysis
4.4         Economic evaluations were carried out for individual road sections
included in the first year of the proposed road construction program. Sections
for analysis are homogeneous in terms of traffic flows and surface/type
condition. For the derivation of the economic internal rates of return (EIRRs),
cost and benefit streams were estimated over a period of 23 years, which is
considered to cover the average construction period (three years) and the
economic life of the road improvements, including periodic resurfacing of the
pavement. The quantifiable costs and benefits accruing from the proposed road



- 30 -
improvements include construction costs, right-of-way and supervision costs, and
vehicle operating cost (VOC) savings of passenger and goods vehicles; changes in
road maintenance costs are also taken into consideration. VOCs, comprising both
running and fixed costs, were calculated "without" and "with" the project road
improvements. VOCs were estimated on the basis of vehicle characteristics in the
Philippines and international border prices for traded goods; local equivalent
prices were used for the labor-related costs of vehicle maintenance, crews and
road maintenance.  Costs and benefits are net of taxes and are expressed in
constant end-1990 prices.
4.5         Traffic projections for the various .aubprojects are based on past
traffic trends and planned increases in the zones of influence. The expected
traffic growth takes into account normal traffic growth only and does not take
into account generated/induced traffic because most of the proposed roads have
already been in existence for a long period and actual traffic on these sections
is generally substantial, For major upgrading from gravel to paved surface, this
analysis is conservative.  The projected tre-ffic volumes imply annual growth
rates in the range of 4% to 6% depending on tne road section and its influence
areas.   These rates are conservative and are well below those that were
experienced in the project road segments during 1985-90.   Benefits due to
increased comfort, convenience and safety have not been taken into account.
4.6         Based on the most probable estimates of construction, equipment and
maintenance costs, the first year subprojects would yield weighted EIRRs ranging
from about 19% to 126%, giving an overall EIRR of 33% which is considered
satisfactory (Table 14). The sensitivity of the EIRRs was analyzed with respect
to changes in underlying cost and benefit parameters.   The results of this
analysis show that even under unfavorable assumptions, i.e., a combined 10%
increase in costs and a simultaneous 10% decrease of benefits, the overall EIRRs
remain between 15% and 104%, which are acceptable. Projects with EIRRs at the
lower end of the sensitivity range are in areas like Negros and Mindanao and were
selected in line with the Government's objectives for regional development and
poverty alleviation as well as its desire to ensure that works in these
disadvantaged areas are properly implemented.
4.7         The DPWH, with the help of consultants, has carried out a complete
inventory of the arterial highways, which indicated those sections requiring
improvement/rehabilitation and which have not yet received financial assistance
or a commitment of such assistance. This inventory would be updated annually to
enable review of the project scope on a rolling plan basis, and subprojects to
begin in 1993/94 will be subjected to economic evaluation using the same
procedures, methodology and criteria as for the first year's program, with EIRRs
of at least 15% required.   This arrangement and the methodology were agreed
during negotiations (para. 3.10).
4.8         Ex ante benefits could not be quantifiee for other project elements,
namely, technical assistance (e.g., the RMS, trafflc safety, strengthening the
environmental impact assessment capability, etc.j and training, which form an
integral part of the project as a whole and the benefits of which would permeate
the entire economy.



- 31 -
D. Proiect Risks
4.9         The main project risk is related to the Government's commitment to,
and the pace of, the institutional reforms to be supported. However, actions
already taken by the Government to decentralize its operations, increase private
sector participation in maintenance and reduce its maintenance staff indicate a
level of commitment warranting Bank support for expansion of the reforms.
Subsequent Bank-assisted projects are expected to follow up on the institutional
measures introduced under the proposed operation. The project is also subject
to risks associated with budgetary constraints and poor institutional
performance, although measures have been taken to mitigate possible problems by
ensuring an early start-up of the first year's works, engaging a consultant to
help coordinate project activities, seeking agreement with Government on timely
subproject preparation, improving contracting procedures and promoting technology
transfer in civil works design and construction quality control.
5. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
5.1         During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government
that it would:
(a)   formulate and adopt a three-year rolling arterial highway investment
program by March 31, 1992 in consultation with the Bank, and update
the program by March 31 of each subsequent year during the project
period in consultation with the Bank, applying appropriate economic
and technical criteria (para. 2.21);
(b)   regarding maintenance:  (i) progressively increase private sector
participation in road maintenance so that by December 31, 1994 about
80% of the maintenance budget is allocated for contracted works,
and, in consequence, adjust the number of DPWH maintenance staff in
accordance with a plan and timetable satisfactory to the Bank (para.
2.30, 2.35); (ii) recommend in its annual budget proposal an
adjusted cost per Equivalent Maintenance Kilometer to maintain in
real terms at least the 1991 routine maintenance budget for national
roads (para. 2.33); (iii) retain an item in its budget request for
periodic overlay works (para. 2.34); and (iv) by March 31 of each
year commencing 1992, prepare, in consultation with the Bank, the
maintenance program for the next fiscal year, including the program
and budget for periodic road overlays (para. 2.34);
(c)   develop and implement the first five modules of the Road Management
System by June 30, 1995 (para. 3.7);
(d)   select the project's 1993/94 civil works program by March 31, 1992
based on criteria acceptable to the Bank (para. 3.10);
(e)   by June 30, 1992, appoint a consultant to assist DPWH with project
coordination (para. 3.11);



- 32 -
(f)   undertake and complete a Study on Manpower Development and Training
and, by June 30, 1992, discuss the results thereof with the Bank
with a view to agreeing to a manpower development and training
program to be initiated by September 30, 1992 to the satisfaction of
the Bank (para. 3.15);
(g)   maintain the PM0 until project completion (para. 3.23); and
(h)   by June  30,  1992,  revise  DPWH design  standards  and contract
documents for civil works projects to ensure the environmental
soundness of the proposed subprojents (para. 3.40).
5.2         During  negotiations,  Government's  revised  local  procurement
procedures for civil works, goods and consultants were reviewed by the Bank, and
an understanding was ruached with t.he Government on necessary actions to render
these procedures satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.27).
5.3         Based on these assurances and understandings, the proposed project
constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$150 million equivalent to the
Republic of the Philippines for 20 years, including five years of grace, at the
Bank's standard variable interest rate.



- 33 -
Table 1
PHILIPPINES
HIGHWAY MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Public Investment PLogram--TransDort Sector. 1990-94
(In million 1990 pesos)
1990-94
Ongoing        Proposed
projects       projects        Total
Airports and airways                  4.26            5.85          10.11
(9.7)
Roads and bridges                    46.05           18.14          64.19
(61.3)
Ports                                 6.41            4.10          10.51
(10.0)
Railways                              3.89            0.04           3.93
(3.8)
Urban transportation                  0.97           14.19          15.16
(14.5)
Other transport                       -               0.76           0.76
TOTAL                        61.58          43.08          104.66
(100.0)
Figures in parentheses denote percentage of column total.
Source: Medium Term Public Investment Program, 1990-94, NEDA, December 1990.



- 34  -                           ~~~~~Tablek 2
Page 1
PHILIPES
HIGHWAY MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Polfcy Action Plan for Roads and Road Traanmort
Measures le no Taken by the Government j/
Polfcy Area: Descrfption                                     Executing         Status of meure/target
of Measures to be taken                                       agoncy           date for accomplishment
A. Road Infrastructure Mansaement
1.   Iq roey  Road Maintgence                                DPWH
1.  Increase budbet altocation for road mintenance
for aowroval by Conaress
1.1    Increase the Equivalent Maintenance                                Completed
Kflometer CENK) allocatfon by about 20
percent over its 1989 level in the 1990
budget.
1.2    Continue adjusting the ENK annually or at        -                 Continuous, beginming with
least mafntain its 1990 value in real                              1991 Budget Proposal
terms.
1.3    Prov;de an additional budget allocation for                        Continuous, begfming with
overlays and preventive maintenance in                             1991 Budget Proposal
addition to the ENK allocation and meke the
Bureau of Maintenance responsible for it.
2. Increase the role of the rCivate sector in road
2.1    Plan and inplament contract maintenance          DPWH
natfonwfda
2.1.1  Begin fntro&dction of contract maintenance                         Completed
wuder 1990 budget
2.1.2  Ffnalize draft fmpleamtation plan asimng                           Completed
at achieving 80X of maintenance works by
contract in 1994
2.1.3  Atlocate 50s  of maintenance budget for                            Completed
contract maintenance in 1991 and further
expend annually thereafter
3/     Action program agreed under a Road and Road Transport Sector Progrma asfested by the Asian
Development Bank (see ADS Report No. RRP. PNI 21176).



- 35                                             Table 2
Page 2
Policy Area: Description                                     Executing         Status of measure/target
of Measures to be taken                                       agency           date for accomplishment
2.2  Reduce DPWH labor force and equiRpent In           DPIH               1991-94
accordance with approved contract maintenance
plan
2.3  Undertake a study and prepare imptementation       -                 December 1991
plan for privatization of DPWI workshops,
taking into account the progress in contract
mintenance
3.  Enforce axle Load limit to Prevent overloading of
3.1  Make all 16 existing weighbridges                  DPWN              Completed
operational, including assignment of adequate
DPWH staff and LTO and CHPG officers, or have
LTO and CHPI delegate their respective powers
to DPWH staff
3.2  Start issuing quarterly reports on                                   Completed
enforcement including statistics on offenses
and penlties
3.3  Procure weighbrfdges for 8 additional              ^                 December 1991
stations and 64 portable loadameters to be
distribwted to OPWH Regional oftices and make
them operational
1I. Reclassify the Road Network
4.1  EL.ublish an :iter-Agency Steering Committee       DPOH              Completed
for road classification unider study
4.2  Complete road classification study                                    June 193 La
4.3  Submit to the President's office a draft                             March 1996 LS
Adeinistration Sill on the new road
classification
S. NowF IrnEort
111. Liberatize the Trucking Industry
5.1  Finalize the first draft of a bill                 DOTC              Completed
eliminating the T and TN classifications,
Intr.dicing one single class of trucks and
rescinding franchising and fare regulation
for the trucking indastry, and submit t. the
Cabiret
5.2  Introduce Adeinistratian Bill to Congress                            March 1991 La Draft bill
approved by Cabinet in Nay
1991.



Table -2
- 36-                                             Page 3
Policy Arm: Description                                      Executing         Status of measure/target
of Meosures to be taken                                       agency           date for accoaplishment
IV. Bsin Liberalization of Provincial Dus ncl Jeee
6.   Introduce policy of setting a fare range instead        DOTC
of xisting single fare policy, initially for a
one-year period, for provincial bus tronsport
services countrywide.
6.1  Comnee fare ronge scheme                                              Introduced December 1990 JA
6.2  Interim Evaluation                                                    June 1991--Delayed.
6.3  Introduce fare range polfcy for provincial         -                  June 1991 LA Delayed.
Jeepney operations
6.4  Evaluate results of fare range policy and                             September 1991 /a Delayed.
consult with Dank on further measures
7.  Suervise and facilitate a study on an action                               March 1991 - Dec. 1991 La.
progrm for further Liberalization of provincial
pasger transport services
8.   Introduce an Improved systems of setting transport      -                  December 1991 La.
fares subsequent to the findings wnd
recendations of the study under 7 above
V.  Abolish  the Cotmon Carrier Tax (CCT) and Reolace
It by a Road User Tax (RUT)
9.1  Finalize draft bill and sitmit to Cabinet          DOTC              Completed
9.2  Introduce Acdinistration Bill to Congress          -                 March 1991 LS Draft bill
approved by Cabinet in Nay
1991.
C. Rood Safetv
VI. gmabltsh a Coordinatina Institution
10. Prepare proposals for the creation of an Inter-          DPVII/            Coapleted (Presidential
Agenmy Roa  Safety Ceittee (composition, terms          DOTC              Adninistrative Order signed
of reference, etc.), nd submit to the President                           May 30, 1991).
for approval
VII. Plan Ead  lement Road Safety Prorram
11.1      Forulate a detailed medium and long-          DPUH/             July 1991 -- Delayed.
tem rod safety progrm                         DOTC
11.2      initiate first measus  to  mplement           -                 August 1991  - Delayed.
program



Table 
- 37                                              Page 4
Potfcy Aress Description                                     Executing         Status of measure/tsret
of Measures to be taken                                       agency           date for accompltshment
Vill. Ira=   "  nd Eend motor Veh1cle
IrnDct ion Svstem
12.1   Issue Departmental Order pertaining to           DOTC              Completed
motor vehicle inspection policies and MVIS       (LTO)
operation and administration
12.2   Mako the three motor vehicle Inspection                            Juno 1991
stations (MVIS) being constructed in Motro
Manila and Regions III ond IV operational
12.3   Take steps required for construction of one    -                   Septeahar 1991 La  In progress
NVIS in Cebu and two in Mindanao by nd of                          but delayed by late approval
1992                                                              of 1991 budget.
12.4   Estabifsh long-term plan to expand coverage    -                   September 1991 La  In progress
of motor vehicle  nispection system country-                       but delayed by late approval
wide and to all motor vehicles, including                          of 1991 budget.
establishment of criteria and procedures
for acceleration of private automotive
shops to serve as NVIS
D. Imort Policies Concern1na Road Tronsoort
13. Extend validity of special bus import program (up        DTI               Completed
to 1,000 second-hand buses) until June 1991             (301)
14. Extend vaidity of special import program for up          -                 Coopleted
to 3,000 second hand possenger cars for taxicab
operators unti end-1990
15.  Include a minimi  of 10 percent of vehicle spar.        -                 Completed
parts Item In the import liberalization program
agreed upon with the INF in 1989
16. Undertake a study on the medfum-teum requirements        OTI               March 1991 La Delayed, naw
for coemercial passenger and freight vehicles as a      (BO1):            date to be agreed.
basis for defining future domestic production and       DOTC
i1port targets.



- 38-                                              Page 5
Policy Ares: DOscription                                     Executing         Status of measuro/target
of Measures to be taken                                       agency           date for accoeptishment
E. Vehicular Air Pollution in Metro Nanila
17. Design medlum nd lton-terh pol1cies to reduce            DENR
vehicular air pollution in Motro Nanila on the          (END):
basis of on-going study                                 DOTC
17.1   Establish Inter-Agency Steering Comnittee        -                 Cosploted
for the Study
17.2   Supervise and facilitate work of                 -                 May 1991 to Janulary 1992 La
consultants undertaking the Study
17.3   Initiate fnplementation of Phase I Report        -                 October 1991 h
recomendt1ions
17.4   Draw up leplementation program based on          -                 January 1992
final findings of Study
LS   Updated.
Note:     S01 a Board of Investment; CHPG - Constabulary Highway Patrol Office; DENA a Department of
Enwironent and Natural Resources; DOTC = Department of Transport and Communications: DPWH a
Deprtment of Pu.blic Works and Highways; DTI a Department of Trade and Industry; EBD
Envirorment Management Bureau; LTO a Land Transportation Office.



- 39 -
Table 3
PHILIPPINES
HIGHWA  MAAEMN  POETy
Road Network by Length and Surface Tyce. 1989
_Congrete    . Asphalt             Gravel/earh       ---Ttal
Classification      (km)      (k) (km)          (M)     (km)      (%)     (km)      (%)
National roads      6,667     25      5,953      23    13,560      52    26,070    100
Provincial roads      803       3     2,563       9    25,808      88    29,174    100
City roads            658     17      2,000     50      1,324      33     3,982    100
Municipal roads    1,820       14     1,503      12     9,304      74    12,627    100
Barangay roads        309    0.3        583    0.7    84,703       99    85,595    100
Total       10.147       6    12.602           134.699    8i   157.448    100
Source: DPWH



PHILIPPINES
HIGHUAY MANAGENENT PROJECT
Condition of Arterial Roads - 1989 &
(km)
Pad                                                                           Unpaved
Good                    Fair                     Bad                SUi-         Good       Fair         Bad      Trait       Sub-
Category      Concrete    Asphalt    Concrete   Asphalt    Concrete   Asphalt            total                                                     total     Total
North-south
backbone           374         179       2,422        851          213       126        4,165            -        431        255           8        694     4,859
East igst
laterals            23         32          293        130            -          -         478            -       460         117           9       586      1,064
other roads         224         608       1,141      1,068           15        175       3,231            19     2,779         933        157      3,888     6,119
Subtotal            621        819        3,856      2,049          228       301        7,8t4           19     3,670       1.305         174     5,168    13,042        s
TOTAL (Romwed)                                                                                                                                             .13000        0
L2Omits urssurward  roads.   Total network  Is suaut 13,650 km.
Source: Arterial Roads Program, March 1990, D[*;H
I4'
0r
i-
0



- 41 -
Table 5
PHILIPPINES
ARTERIAL HIGHWAYS SECTOR PROJECT
Motor Vehicle Registrations. 1981-89
Utility"A                      Tractor-             Motorcyles
Year      Cars       vehicles   Buses    Trucks    trailers   Total    tricycles
1981     318,085    364,706   17,821   103,140    15,288    819,040    186,990
1982     342,049    385,310   17,358   106,874    17,146    868,737    218,443
1983     367,002    427,925   16,714   111,369    16,368    939,378    261,425
1984     360,722    416,721   15,279   102,071    17,431    912,224    252,333
1985     347,949    405,830   14,736    93,938    14,729    877,182    242,990
1986     356,688    416,554   14,974    95,218    13,773    877,207    288,625
1987     358,765    441,757   14,173    97,752    13,738    927,185    249,568
1988     376,646    475,099   15,083   108,027    14,726    989,581    280,902
1989     412,998    536,405   16,950   118,382    15,754  1,100,489    330,975
,&   Jeepneys, pickups, vans, etc.
Source: Land Transportation Office (LTO)



- 42 -
Table 6
HIGHWAY MUNASEREN PROJRCT
Revenues from Red Trg?suort and ExpenditureS en Rcads. 1981-89
( Million)
1981      1982      1983      1984      1985      1986      1987      1988      1989      1990
Revenues LA
Fuel tazes           4,499    2,842    3,063    5,305        7,195    8,345    9,487   10,831  11,914  /L           -
Motor vehicle
registration feee     505       541       577       568       876       926        921       985    1,103          -
Llcewse end
plate fees             47        28        29        80        79         64        65        72        72         -
O*tber revenues
98       125       126       141      161        191       235       244       272         -
Total            5.149    3.5S6   -3.795    6,.094    8.311    2 6M  10.708   12.132   1l3.61                  -
Ex!endttures LI
ConstructLon         2,948     3,694    3,909    2,514       3,182    4,180    4,679    5,772    8,645    11,395
Maintenance          1,139      1,229    1,158    1,252    1,346    1,531    1,580    1,790           1,783    2,920
Total            4-Q87    4.923    5.067    3.766    4.528    A.711    6.259    7.562   10.428   14.315
la   Exludes revenues from Import dutles on roads and road transport sector.
_B  Estimated.
LI   NatLonal Government expenditures only.
Sourcess Bureau of Internal Revenue, Land Transportation Office snd DPWM



- 43  -                                           Table 7
PHILIPPINES
ARTERIAL HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Cawarative Petroltug Proguct Prices To End Users In Selected AMien Countries
(US$/Galton - January 1991 Prices)
Item            Hong Kong   Indrnesia    Japan       Korea       Malaysia    Philippine   Thailand    Singapore
Gasoline,
preit.m          5.15        0.97        5.72        N.A.        2.12         2.57        1.88        N.A.
Gesolfne,
regular          N.A.        0.84        5.43        3.59        2.22         2.41        1.62        1.96
Diesel             3.19        0.44        3.02        1.10        0.84         1.24        1.00        0.74
Note:       Hong Kong and Japan unleaded  all others leaded for regular and diesel.  Japan unleaded for prumfui
al8o.
Source:     Energy Detente, Vol. XII, No. 15, August 31, 1991.



- 44 -
Table 8S
PHILXI2INES
BGML6Y tMAN8AEMENT PROJECT
ArterLal Uiahwavs Investment ProaraM. 1990-96
(P million)
MTPIP     PrograM
Approx.                               Plnaned Investments                               Total       ottal
length       1990       1991       1992       1993       1994       1995      1996      1990-      1990-
(km)                                                                                    1994       1996
Arterial highways
Baokbone              2,995       1,287      1,341      1,476        851        137          -          -     5,092      5,092
Laterals                 222          40        58         67        116         56          -          -       327        327
Others                 3,586      1,593      1,714      1,145      1,000        399        222         10     5,851      6,083
Subtotal             6.803       2.920                 2688       1.967        582       za          1Q    11.270    11.502
Arterial hLgbways
Backbove               1,438           -       708      1,029      1,150      1,254        351         95     4,141      4,587
Laterals                 899           -       334        467        544        664        279         32     2,009      2,320
Others                 2,788           -       719      1,139      1,522      1,060        404        346     4,440      5,190
Subtotal             L2I                    1.761      2.635      3.2 6      2.978     1.034        473    10.590    12.097
GRAND TOTAL                  21  IA  2-920       4.874     5,323      5.183      3.560      1.256        An     21.860    232599
ig  The remanlang 1,722 km are not Lncluded ln the program, beLng either in
good condltion ne4ding only preventive maintenance, or exist ai trac9k
for uhich no Lzprovesnt is scheduled at this time.
Souroes ArterilU Road Proaram, March 1990, OPuS, Government of the Philippines



PHILIPPINIES
NIIUY  IIAGNT PROMJECT
Arterial Hiahways Investment Programa 1990-94:
Oroad Reglonal Distribution
PMmical Traets (km)                                     Financial Resuirats  (P million)
Total                                                           Total
1990       1991       1992      1993       1994   1990-94       1990      1991       1992       1993       1994   1990-94
Bw5bom            -          -          -         -          -       -            -          - 
Latels            -        110        to?        82        103       402                  237        236        191        237       901
Others            -        123        206       311        264       90           -       258        429        550        412     1.69
Subtotal                       I                    Hz 306 495                                go          lt        649    LJ=
ckbore            -        124        103       104        131       462                  240        250        202        270       962
Laterals          -          6         25                    8        39          -        13         59           -        18        90
Oth               -         e1        111       208        213       613          -       16         233        463        520     1.360
Subtotat            211                  111        im      ILM 1.114               4                     652.
okbone            -        11         233       283        232       859          -       4S7        779        948        984     3,175
Later al          -         18         38        74        191       321          -        84        172        353        409     1,018
Others            -        124        238       341        251       954          -       296        477        SW9        128     1,412
Sabtotel            ZSmA                                      lam                   849     la7 2.134             JAl  L1
BOTE:    out of  bout 5,100 km of wuconitted  arterial highways requiring  itproveaent  (Table 10) about 4,500 km mill be improved during
the Five-Ver Plen period, 1990-94, the balance mill spill over to 1995-96.
Source:  Arterial Road Pragra, March 1990, DMPN, Goverguent of the Philippines.



HtGNIMY niE     PltOJECT
MINIMUM  DESIGN STANDARD  PHILIPPINE HIGHWAYS
AOT AVERAGE DAILY TRAFRC ON |UNDER 200    ?°°0-400 J      400 -10 1°°              0 OO - 2 000      MORE THAN_ 2000
OPENI"Or                 _, MINIMUM    OE9SIRA8LE   MINIMUM  lDESI ABLE   MINIMUM  I DESIRABLE
DESIGN SPEED         (km __     _ 1
FLAT TOPOGRAPHY               60         70          70         90           80         95    jI  90           100
ROLLI.G                      40         50         s6          8     60                80          70          90
AOUNTAINOUS                   30         40          40         50           s0          SO         60          70
RADIUS  (moire__                                                        220         320260
FLAT  TOPOGRAPHY              120    1160            16O        280         220         320         260         350
ROLLING                      s5      [ 6             120        220         120         220         160        280
MOUNTAINOUS  N                30         so          50          80          80         120         180         160
GRADE (PERCENT)
FLAT   TOPOR APHY                        6. 0        5.0         30          4.0        3.0         4.0         3.0
ROLLING                       a 90       7.0         6.0         50          50    |     .0          50         40
MOUNTAINOUS                  t IO       9.0         8.0         6.0         7.0        6.0          7.0        5.
PAVEMENT  WIDTH (mi)          4.0     5.5; 6.0             60           676                          6.70        730
SHOULDER    WI D TN Cm)       050        1.00        1.50        200         2.50        300              300
RIGHT Of WAY WIDTH (m)        20         30_               30                30          30                60
SUPERELEVATION  (m/rn)           QIO  (MAX.)            O.IOIAX.)              0.I10MAX.)              0.0I(MAX.)
NON PASSING SIGHT
DISTANCE (metre)
FLAT   TOPOGRAPHY             To         90          90         135    1   115          150       135           160
ROLLING       6               40         60          70         115    [    70          115          90         135
MOUNTAINOUS  6                40         40          40    1 60.             60    1     70    1     70         90
PASSING SIGHT DISTANCE (metr) l                          
FLAT   TOPOGRAPHY            420        490         490         615         560         645         615        675
ROLLING                      270        350         420    1  560           420         560         490        615
MOUNTAINOUS                   190       270         270    1  350           360    1  420          420         490
GRAVEL. CRUSHED GRAVEL  |ITLMINOUS MACADAM PAVE-   BITUMINOUS CONCRETE |  TUM410US CONCRETE
OR CRUSHED STONE SIT. PRES- MENT. DENSE OR OPEN GRA-  SURFACE COURSE    SURFACE COURSE,
ERVATIVE TREATMENT,9SINGI DED PLANT MIX SURFACE                         PORTLAN'I CEMENT   .-3
TYPE OF SURFACING   OR DOUBLE BIT.SURFACE      COURSE.81TUMINOUS CON-                         CONCRETE .AVEMENT
TREAMENT, TUMINOUS     CRETE SURFACE COURSE
MACADAM PAVEMENT.    I_!_I_I___
10
source: OPUIB, Design Cuidelines, Criteria and Standards



PHIUPPINES
H~Way Manageenwt Project
Proposd Frs-Yea  Progam
I - Cagay/in sbab.la        1. Santaop - Tuegarao                 22.90    122.90  Gravel Sad-VBed         AC           18.6    444.6          534.8        422      56
I - La WUion                 2. Resrlo - Pugp (Diversion           13.00    13.00  Crasl VBad               AC           64.7     85.3           100.3      2159      2526
Road to arces HINwy)
IV -  bSt tgs                3. Lips - Sto. Toms                   19.00    12.00 AC Fair/Poor              AC          126.9     18.0           23.2      11230    13548
(with exceptions)                           7.00 PCC Fair/Poor         AC Overlay
VII - Cebu                   4. Cebu North Road                    62.45     7.70 AC   - Fair           AC Over:..f      23.9     80.5           100.9      2396      2721
(Cebu - San Remglo,                         16.95 PCC  - Poor              PCC
with exception)                             0.80 PCC  - Fair          PCC Overlay
3.00 AC   - Poor              AC
34.00 DBST - Poor               AC
VI and VII                   5. Vallebermno-La Castellana          51.36    47.94 Gravel - VBad            OBST          20.5    108.1           140.2        130      190
NVgros Oriental & Occidental                                                 3.42 AC - VIad                 AC
X amd Xil                    6.  arneg - Kibae - Kabcm             100.8   75.0 Gravel - Destroyed         DBST          76.6    112.8           129.7        124      163 _
BukIidan and North Cotabato                                                 25.8 Gravel - Fair             DBST
IX - Za boansa               7. Pagadian - Zawhoanga               51.60    51.60 Gravel - Bad              AC           25.6    200.6          252.3        682      1019
del Sur                    (Buug - Kabasalan Section)
IX - Basiaton                8. Besilan Circzt.ferential Road      32.70   32.70 Gravel - VBad              AC           26.8    103.1          133.7        335      392
(Isabets - Naluso Sectfon)
XI - Davao City and          9. Davao City - Digos Road            51.93    24.75 PCC - Bad             AC Overlay       41.1    157.1           197.6      3210      4097
Davao del Sur                                                          27.18 AC - Bad                  AC
111. Puapna, Tarlac,         10. Highays daom"ed by Mt. Pinatubo  TED       TBD                            TBD          TBD      300.0 a/       344.6 aJ    -
Zambtles
TOTAL                                                   S05.74 7                                                     1 610.0        1.957.3
Key: AC asphalt concrete; OST Double Situanous Surface Treatment;  PCC Portland Cement Concrete:  AADT Average Anmuat Daily Traffic.
of    Tentative                                                                                                                                                      '.3
lb



RWULU
IlSi inm     r FPIBJE
hIalla Coat MaIaT
llUSi 100)
TI3                Va    It J111-Im  39    13S 2s 5-C  93    VW   S AlIAN-E  1994               14  IN-Ift  m9         VW 5t    J-    M         7 TM 11-81-     19917  TM  7Is  =-C  t18
LMW. FOEIUNM  Lota        ix.    1 W3   IT L 3M.LU I M133           L TU U.   KI   7913 U TU M   I LCAL 03131   TO8TLU.          A I'DI.  IM?  TMAIL    LMCU. 13111  TOUTU    11cU. 75311   TUT
1. ciai Misa mum
fira VW  pa                          30,211   43,73     ,4'    3,02  4,173  7,195    1,0     8,341439           6,"4    8,3414,39         6,044   8,341  14,30    1,044    8,346 349          3,02   4,1    7,195         0      0        0
Sbad Vw  Pra                         22,3s6    30,19   53,213               0      0    2,217  3,089  5,32      4,414    6,13 10,02    4,44   1,111  10,6u2    4,474    1,37310,40            4,414  1,378 10,52    2,27  3,08        5,32
Mitedbash                        52,588   n,12   2,2G       3,022  4,173  7,195    9,213 31,435 19,716    0,5318   14,S24 25,042   10,518  14,524  25,02   10,513   14,52425,042               10,351 17,841    2,237  3,389    5,326
bartclI        prlsi.                1,139    4,3182  12,521     570    307    st6       814    438  1,'2       I,4m       7M   2,254    1,128     97n   2,504    1,628       076  2,504      ,221.   657  1,78        14    433    I,252
1                     0,72s   77,    3t1,7       3,592  4,480  I01    9,09  13,873 026,9    11,          15,3332729    12,145   5,401   7,s        12145   15,4t0 21,541,       ,711 11,00  19,125    3,051   5       6,57
2. mi           611IIn8
T     utld as stme                     0  1,'           2,611  fII    202    M         248    421   06         24        421    669      248     421     669       129      219   3J4          0      0      0         0      0        0        C
Eqagm                                Im     3,325 3,00           0      0       0       44U   31 75             s      3,66   1,750       44     831     875                  0      0         0      0       0        0      0        0
tOM                   3,115    5,013  b,171        19    2M2    32        29   1253  3,544         335    2,084  2,419      291   ,253   1,54         329      219    34           0      0      0        0      0        0
3   nu ui1gos TO IM
t"dsiatlaCu         at            1,219    2,015   3,294       t3    331    494        244    415    o         244      413    US        33      31      494       322     207    39         122    207    32        122    207      329
LA Eq _p a fIar                       33 3,s4 3 ,1               0      0      0        21   3m      417        42       723              21     396     417                  0      0         0      0      0         0      0        0
_r  bauras IwadIqa                   9      I',59    2,53      141    240    38        235    39"   634        1         320    507      to      320     507       n4       160    254        94    160    254        0       0        0
bwlrmustalrnap.t                    215      4U       74        2      47     14        02  342  m               5        9      8        55       4     148       27        47     74        27     47      74        0      0        0
ToT                   2,515    5,n4    ,239        351   5ss    94        582  1,351  3,932        528    1,620  2,134      446   3,120   1,57        243      414   657        24      414    657      122    207      329
4.   tU  smims T tclip
s*di   fu 'm    trKsoulIdatry 1,204          f4 8,53          345     79222 m         301    162    44        301       62    463       303    312      463      157       84   241           0      0      0        0      0         0
Ttal d      co st     000           615,133   88,W7 153,9M       4,20   5,3    9,5u    10,26 134,139 24,907    13,147   19,179 32,321  13,184  17,93   31,120   12,U14   16,113 2,7           8,910 11,423 20,2    3,173  3,735    ,98 
Pbs Cadt.                           1,563    3,U39  31,490      423    5      95s    1,027  1,404  2,493    131,5    1,938  3,23         ,318   1,194  S3,12    1,27      3,132  2,879        19   1,3l   2,03J      337    3          91 
price  W.                          11,W    17,742  2,32         4n    320   n7          w07  3,68  3,02s 5      8357    3,025  4,982    2,089   3,70    5,m      2,568    4,154  6,m2       2,20  3,549  5,789         4  3,31      2,320=
m8m  "ET con  ()                    13,758  114,1  38,7l2       5,09   6,214 11,311   12,702 1,7   30,423    13,339   24,t22 40,441   16,591  23,433  0,029  31,509   2,3814 38,394    12,0  31,134 29,209    ,444  5,474    9,91 



- 49 -
Table 13
PHILIPPINES
HIGHWAY MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
Disbursement                       Disbursement Profiles (M)
IBRD fiscal year       in  semester      Cumulative              Philippines
and semester ending   US$ million   US$ million   %    All Sectors   Transport
June 30, 1992               0.0            0.0        0           3           2
122k
December 31, 1992           4.5            4.5        3           6           4
June 30, Y)3                4.5            9.0        6          14           7
December 31, 1993          11.5           20.5       13          18          13
June 30, 1994              11.5           32.0       21          26          19
1im
December 31, 1994          15.0           47.0       31          34          27
June 30, 1995              15.0           62.0       41         46           36
122k
December 31, 1995          15.0           77.0       51         54           43
June 30, 1996              15.0           92.0       61          66          52
L997
December 31, 1996          14.5          106.5       71          74          62
June 30, 1997              14.5          121.0       81          78          69
December 31, 1997          11.0          132.0       88         86           76
June 30, 1998              11.0          143.0       95          94          82
December 31, 1998           3.5          146.5       98         98           87
June 30, 1999               3.5          150.0      100        100           94
December 31, 1999                                                            98
June 30, 2000                                                               100



- 50 -                  ~~~~~Table 14
PHILIPPINES
HIGHWAY MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Economic Returns la
(%)
Most       Sensitivity Analysis
Road Sections                                probable   Lower /b      Higher &
(1992/93 program)                              EIRR     estimate      estimate
Santiago-Tuguegarao                            19            15             23
(123 km)
Rosario-Pugo                                   65             54            77
(13 km)
Lipa-Sto. Tomas                               126           104            154
(19 km)
Cebu North Road                                24            20             28
(62 km)
Vallehermoso-La Castellana                     21             19            25
(51 km)
M4aramag-Kibawe-Kabacan                        77             64            92
(101 km)
Pagadian-Zamboanga                             26            21             31
(52 km)
Basilan Circumferential Rd                     27            22             32
(33 km)
Davao City-Digos Rd.                           41             34            49
(52 km)
Highways Damaged by Mount               To be determined
Pinatubo Eruption
Weighted Average                              33
Lg   Detailed cost-benefit streams for each subproject are in the Project File.
,&   Assumes 10% increase in construction costs and 10% decrease in benefits.
jS   Assumes 10% decrease in construction costs and 10% increase in benefits.



- 51 -
Annex 1
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
ARTERIAL HIGHWAYS SECTOR PROJEC:r
Highway Maintenance by Contract
Background
1.    In 1987, a pilot project to test the viability of road maintenance by
contract was carried out by the Department of Public Works and Highways (DPWH),
assisted by a consultant, under an Asian Development Bank (ADB) project. Pilot
project activities were focused on the provinces of Batangas and Bohol. Following
satisfactory results, nationwide implementation of maintenance by contract began
in 1990.
Imnlementation Plan
2.    Maintenance funds are allocated as follows: 40% for periodic maintenance
and 60% for routine maintenance. In the past, about 75% of periodic maintenance
was contracted, representing about 30% of the total maintenance budget, but
routine maintenance was carried out entirely by force account. In 1990, with the
decision to introduce contract maintenance on a much larger scale, 40% of the
budget was  allocated  for contract maintenance,  including 9%  for routine
maintenance and 31% for periodic maintenanne. These amounts will be increased
under a five-year program as follows:
Percent of Total Maintenance Budget
By Contract                 Q1991              1992       1993       1994
Periodic Maintenance       31         32         33          34        36
Routine Maintenance         9         19         28          38        48
Total                  40         51         61         72         84
By Force Account
Periodic Maintenance        9          8          7           6         4
Routine Maintenance        5          41         3          22         12
Total                  60         49         39         28         16
3.    The expected maximum to be undertaken by contract is 84%, with the balance
of 16% to cover only the following: (a) administration: civil engineers, aids,
office help, janitorial services and service vehicles; (b) bridge maintenance:
labor, materials and equipment; and (c) emergency crews: labor, materials and
equipment.    Traditionally,  administrative  services  are partly  covered by
maintenance funds, amounting to about 2% of the budget. Bridge maintenance will,
for the time being, be undertaken by force account, as this requires a certain
degree of specialization which maintenance contractors do not as yet possess.



- 52 -
Annex 1
Page 2
Furthermore, bridge maintenance includes many labor-intensive activities, which
can serve as a buffer to absorb that part of the work force which has to be
retained because of their employment conditions  (see below).   The bridge
maintenance crews can also serve as emergency crews to act in situations which
are beyond the capability of the contractors or when emergencies cause damage to
which the contractors cannot respond immediately. About 25% of the existing work
force is expected to be deployed on bridge and emergency activities.
4.    Only limited equipment holdings will be required for the curtailed force
account operations.   This equipment,  as well as service vehicles for the
supervision of maintenance by contract, will be managed by the District and City
Engineers, preferably utilizing private repair and vehicle maintenance
facilities.
5.    Potential Problems.  Implementation of maintenance by contract faces two
potential problems.   First, the target of allocating 84% of the maintenance
budget to contract maintenance by 1994 may be difficult to achieve in small
cities and small island provinces where the budget and the scope of work are too
small to be attractive to prospective contractors. In such cases, DPWH will, as
much as possible, include routine maintenance tasks in the scope of periodic
maintenance contracts, which will make them more attractive to contractors even
in smaller cities and island provinces. Second, in some areas with peace and
order problems, contractors may be hesitant to participate, as this would mean
long exposure to risky conditions. Even with these problems, DPWH considers that
75%-80% of the planned program of maintenance by contract can be achieved.
6.    Procedures for Contract Maintenance.  Contract maintenance projects are
funded out of the maintenance allocation and are awarded as annual unit rate
contracts, which allow flexibility for variations in quantities. The contracting
process is undertaken by the District or City Engineer, targeting locally
available, qualified,  small-scale contractors.   The annual work program is
prepared by the implementing officers based on inspections, quantity standards
and traffic counts, which form the basis for estimating work quantities as well
as a projection of the works which will be required throughout the year. The
cost estimates are based on the prevailing rates for labor, equipment and
materials, and on performance standards, adjusted for the type of maintenance
works, the required materials and the cost of transportation. Indirect costs are
computed in accordance with existing rules and regulations.   Contracts are
prepared on the basis of quantities and unit prices. The prequalification, bid
and award process follows the usual procedures, in accordance with existing
regulations. Management of the projects consists of a system of trimonthly work
schedules, daily and weekly measurements and monthly summaries. The management
system is intended to provide the Government with full control over the
activities to be undertaken, as well as a day-to-day recording of
accomplishments. Progress monitoring is undertaken by the Regional Offices and
the Bureau of Maintenance on a monthly basis, to enable DPWH to immediately
follow up on any delays.
7.    The 1990 PrXgram.  The 1990 maintenance budget totaled P 1,022.6 million.
P 169 million of this amount or 16% of the budget was to be used for 251 combined



Annex 1
Page 3
routine and periodic maintenance projects undertaken by contract, with an average
contract amount of P 672,500. The pros am for contracted periodic maintenance
totaled about P 350 million or about a third of the budget. In total, almost
half of the maintenance budget was programmed to be undertaken by contract.
Reductions in the Existing Work Force
8.    The maintenance work force in the district and city offices comprises: (a)
permanent employees who are paid monthly and are entitled to retirement benefits,
etc., (b) floating personnel, with the same benefits as the permanent employees,
and (c) casual employees who are paid daily and not entitled to retirement
benefits. With the introduction of maintenance by contract over the period 1990-
94, only about 25% of the existing maintenance staff will be required for
administration and for bridge and emergency road maintenance.    Personnel
requirements over this period are tentatively projected to be about as follows:
Year                      18       1990    1991   122    1993    1994
Work force               13,300  10,545   8,610   6,855   4,920   3,075
% of existing
work force                 100      86       70      56       40       25
% of zaintenance budget
by contract                 30      40       51      61       72       84
% by force account            70      60       49      39       28       16
9.    The monthly paid work force was composed of 4,279 employees as of September
1989.   Considering the age of these employees,Ll about 15% will come under
compulsory retirement within the next five years.La In the group which will
reach 60 years of age, 22% will be eligible for voluntary early retirement.
Assuming that about half will avail themselves of this option, the monthly work
force in 1994 will be reduced by 26% to 3,160, about what is required after 1994.
The daily paid work force will, however, need to be laid-off.
In October 1989 the composit.on, age and position of the maintenance work force were surveyed in 103
of the 154 distrLets and cLties. Thli sampling, which La considered suffLeLent to assess trends,
indicated that the majorLty (about 6SI) of the daily paid work force were belov 40 years of age, while
the majority (561) of the monthly paid work force (permanent and floating) were 50 ears old and above.
Xonthly paid personnel must retLre at 65 years, and voluntary early rotIr amnt La available for those
60 and older. Retlrement benefits amount to one month's pay for every year of service plus accumulated
leave pay. Daily paid personnel are normally laid off at the age of 65 years or earlier, with no
retirement benefits although accumulated leave pay Is granted.



- 54 -
Annex 1
Page 4
10.   To ensure that the process of reducing the work force is transparent,
equitable and as humane as possible, a set of policies will be put in place
covering reduction of both permanent/floating and casual/temporary staff. An
Early Retirement Law (introduced in 1988 and effective to June 1989) is to be
reintroduced and a nationwide information campaign will be carried out to give
the concerned parties objective and correct information about their future
employment situation and possible benefits.
11.   A massive lay-off of casual employees will, as much as possible, be avoided
because it may lead to a situation that could halt or interrupt maintenance by
contract. The daily paid work force should be reduced through strict enforcement
of a policy forbidding new hiring of personnel and a gradual phase out of staff
through early retirement and early release of the youngest staff and those with
the shortest service since this group is in the best position to be absorbed by
the contracting industry.   Special consideration will be given to temporary
personnel who have served the Government for a long period.
12.   The above measures are largely based on existing rules and regulations, but
could be augmented by legislation to lower the compulsory retirement age to 60
years and the voluntary retirement age to 55 years. This would not only ease the
implementation of privatization in the public sector, but would also open
positions for the increasing number of unemployed younger people.
13.   To ease the transition to maintenance by contract and to provide immediate
employment opportunities for laid-off workers, maintenance by pakyaw (labor)
contract will be implemented on a trial basis as an intermediate step toward
payment by task contract.   Under this arrangement,  the labor component of
maintenance would be awarded by small pakyaw contract to the available qualified
work force in the locality, materials would be supplied through "materials only"
contracts, and equipment provided by the District. Implementation of this type
of project is very demanding on managerial and supervisory staff and would
require close coordination among the District Officer-in-Charge for Maintenance,
the work force, the materials supplies and the Area Equipment Services. This
type of system has been used in other countries but has proven to be less
advantageous than the normal unit rate maintenance contract. It functions more
effectively on secondary roads, where longer-term planning of activities is
possible, and the response time to defects are of less importance than on major
roads. A manual on maintenance by pakyaw contract has been prepared by DPWH
assisted by a consultant, and a number of pilot projects were begun in the latter
part of 1990.
14.   Existing Equipment Holdings. Equipment costs represent about 10-14% of the
total maintenance budget, but at present the requirements of the District and
City Engineering Offices cannot be met by the Area Equipment Services. A rough
estimate indicates that only 30% to 60% of required equipment can be provided due
to a lack of operating equipment, financial constraints, etc. An excess of
equipment is therefore not expected in the initial two to three years of contract
maintenance. A program will, however, be needed to reduce and privatize some
functions and assets of the Bureau of Equipment and the Regional and Area



- 55 -
Annex 1
Page 5
Equipment Services.   This will result in savings for the Government, which
currently subsidizes 80% of the operating cost of maintenance equipment.
15.   When contract maintenance is fully implemented, equipment requirements will
be minimal and would be the responsibility of the District and City Engineers.
However, in areas where the private contracting industry needs equipment, the
Government might consider leasing equipment to the private sector on a commercial
basis. This would also promote the participation of relatively small contractors,
who have only a limited amount of equipment, in the contract maintenance scheme.
Conclusions
16.   Labor Work Force.  The implementation of maintenance by contract during
1990-94 will necessitate a reduction in the labor work force which will be
addressed by DPWH as follows:
(a)    District and City Engineers' Offices will be instructed to reduce
their maintenance labor work force to conform to the number of
workers in the approved annual work program issued by the DPWH
Secretary in the memorandum dated February 7, 1989.
(b)    Districts and cities will comply strictly with the "Moratorium on
the Hiring of New Employees" in Department Order Nos. 42, 50 and
147, all series 1989.
(c)    On the portion of maintenance  to be undertaken by contract,
districts and cities will be instructed to undertake certain
maintenance activities through pakyaw contract, with the labor
contracted from the laid-off workers with materials furnished by
the Government.
(d)    To accelerate normal staff attrition through compulsory retirement
at 65, legislation is planned to be introduced to re-introduce the
Early Retirement Scheme, aimed specifically at the daily work
force.    Consideration  should also be  given  to  lo ering  the
compulsory retirement age to 60 years.
17.   Plans to scale down, phase out and privatize the functions and assets of
the Bureau of Equipment (BOE) and the Regional and Ar.a Equipment Services are
to be prepared and implemented. As an alternative to a total phase out, BOE and
the Regional and Area Equipment Services could become profit-oriented
organizations, using lease income to cover operational and financial costs. For
this, the BOE, Regional, and Area Equipment Services would need the freedom to
fix lease rates at competitive levels and to lease equipment to any party,
whether private or public. Similarly, the districts/cities will be free to lease
equipment from any source, private or public, through competirive bidding.
18.   Release and Holdina of Funds.  Release of the budget prior to the start of
the year is essential, particularly for contract maintenance projects by small
contractors whose operations are severely disrupted by lack of cash flow caused



- 56 -
Annex 1
Page 6
by delayed maintenance budget releases. According to the Implementing Rules and
Regulations (IRR) of Presidential Decree (PD) 1594, the Government cannot enter
into a contract unless the Certificate of Availability of Funds (CAF) has been
issued. However, the CAF can only be issued after the Letter of Advice of Sub-
Allotment has been received by the districts or cities concerned, and even then
the cash is not necessarily available, and the advance payment, as per PD 1594,
cannot be  released.    Under  such circumstances,  contractors  for contract
maintenance could not be expected to commence works promptly at the beginning of
the year.
19.   An additional problem is that funds for maintenance projects are now
included in the common accounts funds, making cash flow for contract maintenance
more difficult to ensure. When the available cash of districts and cities is
low, payment to contractors is often severely delayed, often beyond the 28 days
stipulated in the Condition of Contract. Further, payments to the contractors
are often made on a "first come first serve" basis, which is subject to
manipulation, providing an additional roadblock to smooth operations. DPWH will
recommend that maintenance funds be separated from the common funds, thus
providing better control of cash flow for contract maintenance.
20.   IRR of PD 1594.   During the initial years of cont:act maintenance,
interpretations of the IRR for PD 1594 governing local procurement of civil works
and goods, and the office practices used in applying the IRR, have varied
considerably from area to area, especially with regard to pre-qualification
requirements, bidding and award procedures, size and release of cash deposits,
advance payments, if given at all, and the mode and basis for release, means and
terms of approval of contracts and variations, time extensions, and solutions and
measures taken against contractors not fulfilling their obligations. While a
recent amendment to the IRR has eased some of these requirements, e.g.,
elimination of the cash deposit, variations in procedures still occur.   In
addition, interpretation and application of regulations of the Commission on
Audit (COA) vary considerably from area to area, affecting all DPWH projects.
21.   There is consequently a critical need to further rationalize, streamline
and simplify procurement procedures and to inform and train implementing officers
in the proper interpretation and implementation of said procedures. The Bank is
continuing to work with the Philippine authorities to improve procurement
procedures, and this will continue under the proposed project.



- 57 -
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
HIGHWAY MANAGEMENT PROJECT
ROAD MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
Draft Terms of Reference for the Development and Implementation of
An Integrated Computer-Aided Road Management System
Backgroun4
1.        The Government of the Philippines, intends to introduce a modern Road
Management System (RMS) to ensure a more effective and efficient use of its road
rehabilitation and maintenance funds.  At present, maintenance decisions are
largely based on (i) the judgement and experience of engineers and administrators
in the Department of Public Works and Highways (DPWH), and on (ii) varying, and
sometimes inconsistent, sources of road condition information; also, there is a
marked absence of factual information on the consequences of previous maintenance
decisions.    Furtb?r,  because of high  inflation,  reduced fundings,  and a
significant increase in the number of heavy vehicles, DPWH's Regional and
District Offices are falling behind in their attempt to maintain their highways
in a satisfactory condition.
2.        There is therefore a pressing need for an efficient system to plan
road rehabilitation and maintenance on rational engineering and economic grounds.
An RMS is a tool to support road organization managers in their function of
planning, budgeting and implementing pavement resurfacing, strengthening and
minor improvements of paved roads. It comprises principally a road database, a
road monitoring system and a decision model. The heart of the road database is
an inventory of road features, with the core data being that relating to the road
pavement and traffic loadings. Because of the substantial volume of data to be
analyzed, the database should be computer based. The purpose of the monitoring
system is to keep the database current particularly with data covering the
condition of the pavement surface.   Condition of the pavement surface is
determined at regular intervals both visually and by using road monitoring
equipment. As the roughness of the road is a major determinant in the level of
vehicle operating costs, it is usually the main economic-related indicator of
pavement condition.   Decision models are computer based mathematical models
which, using principally the inventory and condition data together with vehicle
operating costs and the costs of various levels of periodic maintenance and
rehabilitation works, can be used by road organization managers to develop future
annual and five-year programs.
3.        The system should also be capable in a subsequent phase of producing
computer-generated roadworks designs and quantities, and generate automatically
tendering documents for the roadworks. In addition, it should provide a means
of handling contract monitoring and contract drainage orders in a simple manner,
so that funds budgeted for each roadworks contract can be readily reallocated to
suit site conditions.



- 58 -
Page 2
GENERAL PRINCIPLES FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE RMS
Fundamental Structure
4.        The RMS shall be designed as an integrated system and cover the full
range of activities that the highway authorities must carry out to prepare and
implement maintenance rehabilitation works; i.e. policy evaluation and
optimization, works planning and budgeting, design, tendering and construction
monitoring.
5.        The RMS should include a series of standardized databases at each
administrative and executive level. The information in the databases would be
accessed and used at these different levels by means of three decision-support
subsystems of which the first would be developed in the present phase for the
management of road maintenance and rehabilitation works;
Mi)    A Planning and Programming System (PPS) in which roadwork policies
and intervention strategies can be evaluated and optimized, and
which would produce annual, medium-term and long-term programs and
budgets which minimize life-cycles costs through a series of three
modules for central planning, central programming and regional
programming respectively.
(ii)   A Design and TenderinF Sub-System (DTS) which, for the treatment
types determined as most appropriate in the PPM, would generate
designs and tender documents automatically and rapidly, following
annual network field surveys. The system should be able to handle
large programs of yearly maintenance works and should make it
possible to handle rolling programs of annual works in a practical
manner.
(iii)  A Construction Monitoring Sub-System (CMS) which should allow the
execution of maintenance and rehabilitation works to be constantly
monitored and at the same time handle contract change orders so
that, during contract implementation, funds budgeted for each
roadworks contract can be readily reallocated to suit site
conditions.
6.        Although  the DTS and the %MS will be developed  in a second,
subsequent, phase, the databases for the RMS should be developed in such a way
that additional data items, and additional analysis modules can be added easily
as works progress, and also in the future, a more complex RMS with broader
functions evolves.   The RMS will however already include in this stage the
functions necessary for management for maintenance and rehabilitation
bridgeworks.
Nulti-level System Compatibilitv
7.        The RMS should be developed in a way that allows all agencies
concerned with the network to use the same information and a similar analysis
system, even though the depth of analysis and the outputs, and therefore the



- 59 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3
specific reports required by each agency, may differ. The principle of system
compatibility and replication at different administrative levels is extremely
important. The system should allow simple and rapid resimulation, for instance
for a higher level of authority (including lending agencies, if any) which is
charged with approving changes in work programming, design or implementation
proposed by the agency responsible for the execution of the works.
Objectivea
8.        The principal objective is to rationalize the planning and budgeting
of periodic maintenance, and rehabilitation programs by the introduction of RMS.
9.        The work comprises five main tasks and products:
(i)   Establishment  of  a computer-based highway  information  system,
including road database, data entry facilities, and data reporting
facilities;
(ii)  Setting up of road monitoring procedures, including recommendations
on equipment, sampling rates and survey frequencies;
(iii) Development and installation of a model for development of a five-
year plan, including trend and budget forecasting;
(iv)  Development and installation of a model for central preparation of
rolling road works programs and budgets;
(v)   Development and installation in all regions of models for the
preparation of regional annual pavement and bridge works program.
SATURE OF THE SERVICES REQUIRED
10.         The Consultant shall provide a team of specialists, including highway
planners, systems analysts, highway engineers and economists. These specialists
will work with and assist counterpart staff from the DPWH to carry out the
following tasks:
A. Definition of Data Items and Dictionary
11.         The list of data items to be included in the database will be
identified, and should be generally consistent with current World Bank
guidelines.  In this respect, the data should be collected for the following
information groups:  road inventory, pavements, structures, traffic, finance
activities and resources. It is anticipated that the data could conform to an



- 60 -
Page 4
Information Quality Level (IQL) 1 of IQL3 for most items, and the Consultant is
to determine the appropriate level in consultation with DPWH.
B.  Road Monitoring Procedures
12.         The Consultants will develop standardized procedures to collect and
process data relating to pavement and bridge conditions, and traffic volume and
loading, in accordance with IQL3. These will cover the following:
(i)   Pavement Roughness:    Measurements are to be calibrated to the
International Roughness Index (IRI).
(ii)  Pavement Strength:  Measurements are to be made by non-destructive
methods, and two survey procedures are to be developed: (a) a
stratified sample survey of the entire network; and (b) detailed
surveys for project design to be conducted at project preparation
stage for major works.
(iii) Traffic: Including at least annual and seasonal-averages of daily
traffic volumes, percentage heavy vehicles, and passenger-car
equivalents, and truck-load damaging factors measured through sample
axle-load surveys, preferably by Weigh-in-Motion (WIM) methods.
(v)   Unit Costs: Costs are to be determined from an analysis of costs of
current road works contracts, in both financial and economic (without
taxes) terms.
C. Information System Database
13.         In addition to the databse for pavement management, the consultants
will design the information system to include other aspects of the road
organization's responsibilities, such as bridges, routine maintenance, traffic,
safety, costs, administration, construction, etc.   The software, language,
hardware, staffing and documentation would apply to all areas. These are as
follows:
(i)   The System Language Software:   (or database management system)
should be a well-supported commercially available relational
database system or equivalent, satisfying the requirements of all
functional areas, and likely to have continuing support or
compatibility in the future.
(ii)  Hardware: Selection of the hardware should be based on estimates of
the eventual database size, and the communication linkages between
the functional areas and between other agencies.   The need and
possibility for limited decentralization of the database, and
storing only the data needed for central-level analysis in the
InSmtIIn Smtm for Rood Nenent. Discussion Papers IIIU7 (and others under publicatton).
Inratructure wd Urban Doevetopnt Deaprtment, WorLd Bank, Washington DC 20133 (1990).



- 61 -
ANNEX 
Page 5
central database will be investigated by the consultants who will
make appropriate recommendations.
(iii) Staffing:  The consultant should develop recommendations on the
staffing and oversight of the information system, so as to promote
effective coordination and consultation between heads of all
functional areas in the road organization. The responsibilities for
maintaining and updating each data file should be clearly addressed,
and rules on updating should be established.
(iv)  Data Processing:  Applications software for entering, auditing and
storing the data from the various road surveys is to be developed,
including the users documentation. Manuals should be prepared for
collecting the data in a uniform, standardized and consistent manner
at all administrative levels engaged in the use of an RMS (viz.
national and regional levels); for Data Auditing; for the Data Entry
program; for maintaining and up-grading the databases; and for the
sorting  and processing of  the data prior  to analysis.    The
Consultant will ensure that training is provided in the use of all
these Manuals to the appropriate DPWH staff.
D. Development of a Decision Model
(i) Literature Review. A state-of-the-art report shall be prepared
on modern maintenance management planning systems used throughout
the world, including their most recent developments. Maintenance
planning and budgeting  systems,  as  currently  used  in  the
Philippines for national highways, shall be reviewed and
recommendations on the introduction of relevant planning
practices shall be made.
(ii) Pavement Deterioration Models. For the initial version of the
model, approximate pavement deterioration relationships for the
various types of pavements shall be determined taking into
account recent international information and such relevant local
information as may be available. With the available data the
Consultant will carry out an analysis to clarify environmental
factors in the pavement deterioration models for various
subgrades, and environmental zones for the classified pavement
model groups.
(iii) Maintenance Effect Models. Existing relevant research work on
the improvement effects of maintenance shall be reviewed and
compared with other relationships around the world. If field
trials are considered warranted, the trial sections shall be
identified by the Consultants in consultation with the DPWH. The
DPWH will provide funds for laying out such trial sections but
observance of the data, analysis and study to arrive at pavement
improvement functions will be by the Consultant at his cost.



- 62 -
ANNEX 2
Page 6
(iv)  Treatment  Standards.    The  rehabilitation  and  maintenance
treatments to be used in the proposed RMS must be agreed witb the
DPWH.  Unit costs for each treatment type should be assessed and
the material, labor and equipment resources needed per unit of
treatment should be determined.
(v)  _ubgrade and Environmental Clagssification.  The area covered by
the highway network shall be classified into various subgrade and
environmental zon-s. Classification systems shall be recommended
and agreed upon with DPWH and then a preliminary classification
for each road link shall be based on terrain evaluation and
discussions with state and regional officials.
(vi)  Maintenance Cost Model.   Surveys of maintenance costs/km for
various pavement model groups, environmental zones and subgrade
types at different ages since construction or overlay shall be
reviewed so that these costs can be derived over the analysis
period and included in the life-cycle cost analysis.
(vii)  Vehicle Operating Cost Models.   The vehicle operating cost
relationships with roughness for representative vehicle types
shall be obtained from a review of Indian and international
state-of-the-art studies.
(viii)  Vehicle Damage Factors and Growth.  The default values for these
vehicle damage factors and projected growth rates shall be
reviewed.
(ix)  Detailed RMS System Design and Programming.   The various RMS
pavement performance and cost models developed shall be used in
the RMS computer program to enable it to predict traffic,
pavement deterioration, pavement condition improvement following
treatment, vehicle cperating costs, and determination of the
effect on road users costs and total transportation costs of
alternative maintenance strategies.   The economic effects of
deferring maintenance should also be predicted. The RMS program
shall be developed to enable determination, in the first
instance, of the optimum economic maintenance and rehabilitation
strategies for the network assuming a 10-year life cycle.
Selected economic strategies giving estimated total works costs
for the network will then be used to periodically define the
five-year investment plan, trend and budgets. A second model
shall be developed, for use by central DPWH, for the preparation
of rolling road works programs and budgets.   For each coming
financial year a program of works shall also be determined in
each Region, and the physical boundaries and budgets for contract
packages fixed. The works program so determined shall comprise
clearly differentiated sub-programs of rehabilitation works and
periodic maintenance works. For road sections not identified as
requiring pavement strengthening, the most economic and



- 63 -
ANNEX 2
Page 7
technically appropriate treatment type is to be identified (e.g.
resealing,  routine patching,  etc.).   The  results  should be
presented on national, regional, and provincial basis.
EOUIPMENT
14.             The Consultant will advise the DPWH of the costs and source
(whether local or foreign) of all equipment to be procured for the project.  A
tentative list of equipment requirements and estimated cost is shown in the
Attachment 1.  The DPWH may arrange advance financing against a Bank Guarantee
for equipment considered essential. After procurement, such equipment will have
to be mortgaged to the DPWH for the duration of the project and, at the end of
the consultancy, shall be handed over to the DPWH in good working condition
together with any unused spare parts.
Schedule of Activities
15.             The provisional time schedule for implementing the RMS, assuming
the Consultants are fully mobilized by the end of June 1992, will be as follows:
-  1                  S~~~~~~~~ctSo                 Tlin«
1.                   Preparation of Data Dictionary                 jSep. 1992.
2.                   Road Monitoring (Equipment Procurement)
_______________________   (a) Clearance of tist of proposed eqipment  Sep. 1992
..______________________  (b) Induction of Equipment Procured         Sep. 1993
_______________________  Cc) Manuals for Survey Procedures            Dec. 1992
3.                   Database and Information System
(a) System Design                                p. 1992
(b) Data processing software and
documentation                                Mar. 1993
(c) lrplementatian & plot operation            Jun. 1994
4.                   Adopt decision model
(a) Select model                               Dec. 1992
(b) Complete inceptIon of model                 Jun. 1993
IS.                   Prot  **,"ratread and bridge
_ i.tenmwee and rehabititatfon E1ragrmn using RS  Jun.1994
L_U 



- 64 -
ANNE:X 2
Page 8
Reports
16.                      The following reports will be produced for Government and
World Bank information. The World Bank will be supplied with six copies in
English.
1.          Copy of the Road Inventory
2.          Consolidated Progress Report comprising the progress at
central level and in each Region at six month intervals
commencing 9/92.
3.          A set of final reports,  describing the information
system, data dictionary, road monitoring procedures and
decision model, including user's manuals for the
software.



- 65 -
Attachment 1
PHILIPPINES
HIGHWAY MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Provisional List of EauiRment for RMS
Cost
(US$ mil)
1.    Inventory data acquisition (automated or semi-
automated) device                                       0.6
2.    Pavement distress data recorder                          0.1
3.    Pavement roughness measurement device,                   0.3
4.    Pavement structural testing device(s)                    0.5
5.    Traffic counting/vehicle classification equipment        0.3
6.    Traffic loading, weigh-in-motion measurement
equipment                                               0.3
7.    Bridge inspection equipment                              0.6
8.    Computer hardware and software                           0.8
Total                                                    3Xt



- 66 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
HIGHWAY MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Outline Terms of Reference:  Consultant Team for Project Coordination),.
Construction Ouality Improvement and Road Safety
Background
1.        The Government of the Philippines has applied to the World Bank for
assistance in financing the Highway Management Project which includes
institutional development and road works. The project includes consulting
services, totalling about US$30 million, for the installation of a road
management system, road construction supervision, training, and other services.
Road works under the project comprise rehabilitation/improvement of some 1,100
km of the arterial national highways. The works will be divided into contracts
expected to range in cost between US$1.5 million and US$20.0 million equivalent,
and are expected to cost about US$161 million in total. Supervision will be
carried out by two groups of consultants, each group comprised of local and
foreign consulting engineers responsible for the northern and southern groups of
contracts, respectively. DPWH will coordinate project activities through its
Project Management Office (PMO). Under the proposed project, the PMO will be the
focal point of information relating to the progress of subprojects and of overall
project accomplishment.
Objectives
2.        The objective of these terms of reference is to retain a consulting
firm to provide a team of experts to assist DPWH staff with project coordination
and implementation of project components for construction quality improvement and
road safety. The principal objective of the assignment is to assist the PMO in
its prime responsibility to assure the orderly management of the Highway
Management Project and the resources committed to it, so that its objectives are
achieved on time and to cost.   In addition, the consultants will help to
strengthen the organizational structure and to further develop the PMO
construction management system which will be designed specifically for the
Highway Management Project but should be capable of encompassing all construction
activities undertaken by DPWH.
Services Required and Project Tasks
3.        Services to be provided will include: (a) advice to the PMO Director
and general project coordination; (b) contract management; (c) technical
coordination; (d) quality assurance; and (e) road safety. Project tasks will
include:
(a) Advise PMO and DPWH generally on all aspects of the management of the
project;



- 67 -
=NEX 3
Page 2
(b) Develop and introduce modern computer-based methods of project
planning, programming, cost control and budget forecasting to the
operating procedures of the PHO, and down the line of control through
the supervision organization to the individual contractors;
(c) Review and recommend improvements to construction management practices
including prequalification and tendering procedures, contract
documents, construction specifications, quality control procedures and
procedures for handing over the project after completion.  Prepare
standardized tender documents for DPWH.
(d) Prepare standard technical notes and operating procedures and a system
for updating them.
[e) Design and introduce an accounting system for the recording and
monitoring of accounts of all project activities, including the
disbursement of foreign and local funds provided under the World Bank
loan and through the national counterpart funds.
(f) Design and introduce modern computerized methods of recording and
updating the Bill of Quantities (BOQ) to accommodate variation orders
and other changes and routinely to input monthly executed quantities,
the application of the price adjustment formula, to produce regular
and uniform monthly payment certificates.
(g) Procure and install the computer hardware and software necessary and
give training at all levels of project implementation.
(h) Establish a system for regular collection of reliable data on
accidents occurring on the Philippine highway network. These data
will include, inter alia: (i) the exact location of the accident; (ii)
description and classification of the accident; (iii) road and traffic
conditions at the time of the accident; and (iv) weather conditions
at the site and time of the accident.
(i) Hake proposals for and implement remedial measures for identified
"black spots" and develop a monitoring system to evaluate the effects
of these measures.
(j) Recommend further actiens for increased highway safety in the
Philippines.
(k) Conduct seminars for contractors' and consultants' staff.
(1) Assist the PMO to pro.uce periodic reports required by DPWH Management
and the World Bank.
(m)  Assist the PMO to prodace a project completion report.



- 68 -
Page 3
All consultant team members will be required fully to transfer the necessary
skills to their counterparts, so that the project can continue to run smoothly
after their departure.
Staffing
4.        The following staffing specialties are required:
(a) Adviser to the PM0 Director
(b) Contract Management Specialist
(c) Technical Coordinator
(d) Quality Control Specialist
(e) Road Safety Specialist
Reports
5.        The consultant engaged as Adviser to the PM0 Director should produce
quarterly reports to be incorporated in the quarterly PM0 report. The consultant
will also produce sections of a project completion report as requested.



- 69 -
ANNMEX 4
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
HIGHWAY MANAGEKENT PROJECT
Strengthening the Environmental ImRact Assessment Capability
of the DeRartment of Public Works and Highways
Background_
1.        According to Proclamation No. 2146 dated December 1981, environ-
mentally critical projects and projects located within environmentally
critical areas fall within the Philippines$ Environmental Impact Statement
(EIS) System. To comply with the requirements of the EIS System, project
proponents must submit a Project Description and Initial Environmental
Examination (PD/IEE) ceocument to the Environmental Management Bureau (EMB) for
review. If required to do so by EMBes Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA)
review committee, the project proponent must prepare a detailed EIS wh.ich
forecasts the potential positive and negative environmental impacts that may
result from the project and measures to be taken to prevent, minimize, and/or
mitigate these potential adverse environmental impacts. Projects approved by
EMBKs EIA review committee receive an Environmental Compliance Certificate
(ECC) and may proceed to the implementation phase.
2.        The Department of Public Works and Highways (DPWH) has an annual
program of some 60,000 projects, but currently has no environmental unit
specialist dedicated to full-time environmental assessment or project review.
It appears that only 3-5 people at the DPWH currently have any level of formal
EIA training and these employees have other assignments and are diffused
throughout the Department. As a result of funding covenants imposed on the
Department by USAID, EISs have recently been prepared for the Department by
outside environmental consultants for a number of infrastructure projects.
These documents have been submitted for review to the EMB which, however, also
has limited capacity.
Plan for Strengthening EIA Cagability
3.        The following pl..i for strengthening the EIA capability of DPWH was
developed by DPWH with the assistance of an environmental consultant. The
program is a first phase to develop a strong central technical capability and
to begin expansion of that capability to regional offices. Due to a hiring
freeze, technical staff will be recruited from within the Department and
trained in the EIS process. Senior management as well as design, feasibility
study and construction project managers have also been targeted for
conferences, seminars and/or workshops to help develop environmental
awareness, support for the new environmental program, and to facilitate
cooperation and integration with other project groups.
4.        The emphasis of the program during the first year would be on
developing EIA capabilities at headquarters, thus creating program momentum
and establishing a technical critical mass. During the second year, the



- 70 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2
emphasis would be on strengthening the capabilities at headquarters while
concurrently initiating the development of EIA capabilities at regional DPWH
offices. During the third year the emphasis would be on sustaining the
central capability and expanding the regional capability.
5.        The environmental program is not intended to address DPWHIs entire
project backlog (which would in any case overload EMB), but only those
projects with a significant environmental impact. A screening and
prioritization process will therefore be developed and employed to identify
about 150 projects requiring PD/IEEs and about ten projects requiring detailed
EISs. These numbers will increase during subsequent years if DPWH's
environmental program is sustained and continuously strengthened. Although
this target does not comply fully with government environmental laws and
regulations, it ensures that the projects with the greatest potential for
adverse impacts receive attention. A conceptual environmental screening plan
has already been prepared.
6.        It is anticipated that most large projects will be foreign-funded
and that the engineering will be accomplished under the direction of an
international engineering consulting firm. Since large projects of this type
typically require an EIS, the production of the EIS will be included in the
consultant's terms of reference (TOR). DPWH's environmental group will be
responsible for developing the consultant's TOR and serving as EIS project
manager for the duration of the projects.
7.        The following table shows DPWHIs three-year training plan.  It is
based on the following considerations: (a) the Manila (central) office
typically is responsible for the largest and greatest number of projects; (b)
not all regional offices have the same annual project backlog; and (c) the
greatest number of staff with EIA experience and training are located in the
central office.
Central           Regional           Total
XYar        Office            Offices            Staff
1            20                0                  20
2            22               15                  37
3            25               80                 105
8.        The following three-year training and technical assistance programs
will be provided to select staff at the DPWH:
(a)  To ensure that the environmental program receives adequate support,
a conference will be held for senior DPWH management that provides
them with an awareness of and appreciation for the environmental
issues which may be associated with DPWH projects.
(b)  Assistance will be provided to senior management for drafting
mandates for implementation of the environmental program. These



- 71 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3
mandates will focus on defining the structure of the environmental
program, assigning specific responsibilities to avoid omissions and
redundancy, and integration of the program with the planning,
design, feasibility, and construction programs.
(c)  Project managers of feasibility studies will be the target of a
significant number of seminars and workshops because they have the
authority and discretionary powers to determine the degree to which
the DPWH's environmental program is implemented. Similarly,
tailored seminars will be provided to project managers for design
and construction.
(d)  Technical assistance will be provided to help develop guidelines
for the following:
(i) preparation of TOR for outside environmental consultants to
ensure that the methods, level of detail, and parameters
evaluated are consistent between projects and consultants;
(ii) screening and prioritization of DPWHIs project backlog to
ensure that the limited EIA resources are focused on projects
with the greatest potential for adverse environmental impacts;
and
(iii)  conducting EIAs and developing environmental management and
monitoring plans for the various types of DPWHIs projects.
(e) Since it is expected that EISs for all major projects will be
conducted by outside consultants, it is importait that select
environmental staff be trained in contracting, project management,
and technical review.
Staffing and Assiznments
9.        Short- and long-term technical assistance will be provided to help
train the technical staff and to help implement, sustain, and build the
environmental program. The following staff will be required during the three-
year technical assistance program:
(a)  Senior Program Advisor.  The advisor would be involved with the
design and implementation of the overall EIA program. His/her
involvement would be most intensive during the design, initial
training, and early implementation stages. Thereafter he/she would
be available for consultation in the home office; in-country
missions would be scheduled quarterly or on an as-needed basis.
(b) EIA Technical Committee. A committee will be formed comprising in-
country experts from the following technical disciplines: ecology,
biology, hydrology, EIA, and economics. This committee will be
consulted by the DPWH environmental staff for technical advice and
review on an as-needed basis.



- 72 -
ANNEX 4
Page 4
(c) Traillinj Manager. The training manager will: (i) review the
training program; (ii) meet with DPWH management, the technical
committee, and the Program Advisor to design the training program;
(iii) screen and recruit the required trainers; (iv) be responsible
for the training program planning and logistics; (v) oversee the
preparation of training materials; (vi) implement the training; and
(vii) review and modify the program as necessary.
(d) Training Specialists. Two training specialists will be required to
conduct the training, including the training of local counterpart
trainers.
(e) Database ExRert. DPWH also needs technical assistance to develop
an environmental database to accommodate environmental data of all
types as well as miscellaneous project information. The database
consultant will be responsible for conducting a needs inventory,
designing the database, programming input and output routines,
training, database refinement and maintenance, and answering users
questions as they arise over the initial period.
10.       The project will also finance equipment needed to strengthen the
Deqrartment's EIA capability. This equipment consists primarily of computers
for word processing, database management, and mapping; field instrumentation
for air, water, and soil quality measurements; and photocopy machine; and 4-
wheel drive vehicles for conducting site investigations.
11.       The program would require a total of 37 staff-months of expatriate
assistance for the five experts, spread over a period of three years.
Equipment is estimated to cost P 9.9 million in 1991 prices.



- 73 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
HIGHWAY MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Assistance to the Construction Indust,y Authority of the
Philippines: Outline Terms of Reference
A. Study to Streamline Preconstruction Activities
of Government Infrastructure Agencies
1.          Objectives.  The proposed study will have three objectives.  First,
it will document the process flow and specific tasks involved in the Government's
internal procedures for prequalification, bid and award, and payment processing
of infrastructure agencies in order to identify the constraints encountered in
the  performance  of  these  tasks  and  to  formulate:    (a)  a model  of  a
streamlined/standard process flow and duration for adoption by all infrastructure
agencies; (b) process control and monitoring tools to ensure performance of tasks
according to set standards; and (c) satisfactory working arrangements and
linkages with the various units, within and without the agency, that are involved
in the overall process. The second goal is to identify the informational and
documentary requirements required in the performance of the tasks and recommend:
(a) measures to eliminate duplication and limit the number of documents to the
least necessary; (b) alternative means for generating the required information
to facilitate the verification, validation, and processing of documents; and (c)
satisfactory linkages/set-up with external sources of data to ensure timely
provision of quality information.   The final objective is to determine the
training needs of personnel to improve their performance of tasks.
2.          Methodology.  The study will be organized around a seminar-workshop,
with participants drawn from the various infrastructure agencies.   Seminar
participants will identify problems, discuss measures undertaken by their
respective agencies to address the problems, and formulate a set of
recommendations to streamline their internal procedures. A consultant system
analyst will be engaged primarily to formulate the strategy for the conduct of
the seminar workshop, to facilitate discussions during the actual workshop, and
to evaluate and document all recommendations of the workshop group.
3.          ScoQe of Work and Timetable.  Pre-seminar workshop activities will
be undertaken by a research team, supervised by the consultant.   For three
months, the team will familiarize themselves with the internal process flow in
the Prequalification Bidding and Award of Contract (PBAC) and payment processing
sections of the seven major infrastructure agencies, identify/collate the
relevant rules, guidelines, policies, sample forms/documents and other possible
seminar materials; and attend to the administrative requirements of the workshop.
4.          The seminar-workshop will be live-in, week-long and intensive. Post-
workshop activities include consolidation of proceedings and recommendations
which will thereafter be sent to heads of agencies for comments. A final report
incorporating all comments will be packaged, published and disseminated to all



- 74 -
ANNEX S
Page 2
concerned agencies and sect.rs.  A final activity will be the generation of
feedback on improved/streamlined procedures after three months of implementation.
B. Expansion of the Construction Industry Databank
5.          Background.   A Construction Industry Databank  (CIDB)  is being
established under the Bank-financed Fifth Highway Project to assist the industry
in formulating effective policies, business and industry development plans and
decisions through the provision of timely,  accurate,  uz.. "ul  and adequate
informAtion. The CIDB was designed to consist of four main systems, namely: the
Contractors Licensing System (CLS); the Domestic Information System (DIS); the
Construction Technology Information System (CTIS); and the Overseas Information
System  (OIS).   The CLS will facilitate the processing and evaluation of
applications for contractors licensed by the Philippine Contractors Accreditation
Board (PCAB).  Computerization has been completed of procedures followed in
contractors licensing as well as the formation of databases containing general
information on contractors, applications received, contractors technical
employees, and financial information including capital structure, major assets
and liabilities and PCAB-computed net worth. The DIS is a data storage system
geared to the domestic construction industry and includes general information on
contractors and their specific financial situation, monthly wage rates,
construction materials prices, an equipment inventory by contractor and region,
market prospects, etc.   The CTIS keeps information on techniques used in
construction and related data while the OIS keeps data on the overseas
construction industry and the participation of local contractors in that
industry.
6.          Objectives.  A study will be carried out to develop new, efficient
and integrated systems for the organized storage and speedy retrieval of
information as well as for the processing and evaluation of contractors'
applications for registration and classification.
7.          Scope  of Work.  The study will focus on the following:
(a)   Contractors'  Prequalification  Information  System.    To provide
government agencies with the information required to determine the
capability of contractors, a database will be developed to provide
government tendering agencies with the following information: name
of contractor; awarded on-going contracts costing over P 1 million;
location of project and status of contract and/or performance
rating. The work will cover development of a storage and retrieval
system as well as systems for data collection and information
dissemination.
(b)   Contractors' Registration and Classification (ARC-C). To facilitate
the processing and evaluation of contractors' applications for
registration and classification by the PCAB, an on-line transaction
processing system for ARC-C will be developed, which will interface
with the otEer systems, especially the CLS.



- 75 -
ANNEX S
Page 3
(c)   Development of Project Cost and Estimating Program. The preparation
of project cost estimates requires up-to-date information on
construction materials prices, labor wage rates and equipment rental
rates prevailing in the project locality. This will be facilitated
by computering the required data, including development of an
application program with the capability of accessing data contained
in the construction materials prices, labor and employment, and
equipment subsystems of the DIS.
(d)   oherg.  With technical assistance provided under the project,
computeriLation of the CTIS will be completed and implemented, all
databases will be maintained, and systems' efficiency evaluation and
fine tuning will be carried out.
8.          Methodol=.  A  system development consultant will be hired to
supervise implementation of the various phases of the work. He/she will be
responsible for such activities as systems analysis and design; hardware,
software and peripherals configuration identification; computer program
development, database build-up and maintenance; parallel testing; systems
documentation; implementation; and system performance monitoring.
9.          An inter-agency committee composed of representatives from the CIAP,
other government agencies (e.g., the major infrastructure agencies and the
National Statistics Office) and private associations such as the Philippine
Contractors Association will be created mainly to assist the consultant in the
conduct of systems analysis and design; review the consultant's recommended
hardware configuration; and assist in the design and implementation of data
collection and information dissemination systems.  In systems analysis and
design, the committee will define systems objectives, information requirements
and  data  elements  involved,  actual  data  processing  procedures,  and
frequency/timing of request for systems output.
C. DeveloRment of a Construction Technology Information Center
10.         Backgound.    A  recent  study  indicated  that  the  rates  of
commercialization and/or utilization of new/indigenous construction technologies
developed by R&D institutions are still very low in the Philippines. A major
reason for this is inadequate promotion or information dissemination concerning
these  technologies.   To  address  this  problem, ClAP will establish  and
operationalize a Construction Technology Information Center (CTIC).
11.         Qbljectiv. This activity will ensure a continuous and timely flow
of construction technology information for government and private entities
involved in construction. It will: (a) operationalize the CTIC as the venue for
coordinating the generation, processing and dissemination of construction
technology information; (b) identify, package and implement new types of services
needed to ensure tl - continuous and timely flow of conmtruction technology
information; (c) develop effective and efficient systems for generating,
processing and disseminating construction technology information and other
systems necessary in the delivery of the center's services; and (d) continuously
operate the Center and make it self-sustaining by 1996.



- 76 -
Page 4
12.         Se of Work.  Under the Fifth Highway Project, the technology
information  needs  of  the  construction  industry  were  assessed  and
projects/programs to address these needs were developed and pilot-tested,
including systems for extensive information generation, processing and
disseminating. Under the proposed project, the projects/programs developed to
date will be made fully operational. Services to be provided will include: (a)
seminars on construction or building materials/components and methods/techniques;
(b) publication and dissemination of construction technology manuals and
catalogues, to include those on modular coordination for manufacturing, designing
ai.l construction purposes; and (c) networking services for document delivery,
information inquiry and access to other local and foreign databases.
Implementation of the projects/programs and systems will be monitored and
evaluated. Other construction technology information needs of the constituent
industries will also be monitored in order to develop other projects.   In
addition, training in information processing and dissemination will be provided
to staff members.
13.         M thodol=. The consultant and staff hired under the Fifth Highway
Project to develop and test programs to be carried out by the CTIC will be
retained under the proposed project, and additional staff engaged, to carry out
further  projects/programs.    Monitoring  and  evaluation  of  all  ongoing
projects/programs will be done semi-annually. Findings on each project/program
will also be reviewed during meetings among heads of various institutions
concerned. Monitoring of technology information-related needs will be undertaken
through meetings, dialogues, etc. Training staff will be on a needs basis.
D. Training in Construction Project Management
14.         Background.   For various reasons, construction projects in the
Philippines are often delayed and/or the quality of work is not totally
satisfactory.   To address problems in project implementation,  training in
construction project management will be provided under the project. The raining
will be on two levels: one for government agencies involving project supervisors
and field personnel; and another for private construction companies involving
their executives and field personnel.
15.         Okblctives. The proposed training is expected to improve the project
delivery performance of government agencies as well as the productivity of
private construction companies. Assistance under the project is specifically
designed to: (a) develop and update a training module suitable to the needs of
the target beneficiaries; (b) develop a pool of experts to facilitate the
training process and at the same time serve as consultants in trouble-shooting
project management problems; (c) ensure that government agencies and private
construction companies conduct the training program on construction project
management utilizing the developed module and team of experts; and (d) conduct
the training program for agencies and companies which do not have the financial
capability to do so.
16.         £Sg&  of Work.  The tasks included in this activity are to: (a)
identify the target groups for training and their problems and needs in all



- 77 -
ANNEX 5
Page 5
aspects of construction project management; (b) based on the preceding findings,
develop appropriate training modules, comprising discussion topics, methodology
of using required materials, a program schedule and trainer qualifications; (c)
train trainers; (d) since government agencies and private construction companies
will train their own staff, develop a system for replicating the training
program; (e) monitor and evaluate the entire program for at least three years;
and (f) undertake publicity campaigns promoting the training program.
17.           ethodQloC.  A Project Coordinator will be hired to supervise all
activities related to the training program. A consultant training expert in
Construction Project Management will also be hired to provide technical
assistance to the Project Coordinator on how to proceed with the needs
identification and analysis, module development, trainers' training up to the
monitoring and evaluation phase of the work.
18.         An Inter-Agency Committeo will be created to undertake training needs
identification and analysis.   Committee members will come from professional
associations, private construction companies and concerned government agencies.
Another Inter-Agency Committee will be created to undertake module development.
19.         For the trainers' training, two modules will be used:  one developed
by the members of the second committee mentioned above and another which is the
teaching module on how to teach the course on construction project management.
Graduates of the trainers' training course will:   (a) be part of a pool of
trainers/experts who could be called on to facilitate replication of the training
in other agencies and companies, and provide consultancy in trouble-shooting
problems ill construction project management; (b) train staff in their respective
agencies/companies; and (c) serve as links between CIAP and their respective
agencies/companies for information, maonitoring and evaluation purposes.



- 78 -
Annex 6
PHILIPPINES
HIGHWAY MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Project Monitoring Indicators
1.        Monitoring of project progress will be the responsibility of all units
concerned with the execution of the project. Monitoring will be synthesized and
coordinated by the Project Management Office (PMO), under the Undersecretary of
Operations. The Undersecretary has instituted a project monitoring system, with
monthly reviews with responsible officers.  This will be strengthened by the
system.of project planning, programming, cost control and budget forecasting to
be introduced in the PMO by the coordinating consultant (Annex 3).
2.        The outputs ot all project components will be monitored, using a
system to be developed by the coordinating consultant.   In particular, the
following items will be included:
(a) Annual condition survey of the arterial network;
(b) Progress of procurement and execution of civil works, including
financial control and forecasts;
(c) Annual cost of executing routine and periodic maintenance by force
account and contract;
(d) Percentage of maintenance works executed by contract (Annex 1,
para.1);
(e) Level of the DPWH maintenance workforce (Annex 1, para. 8);
(f) Monitoring of implementation of RMS following schedule in Annex 2,
para. 15;
(g) Completion of coordinating consultant tasks (Annex 3);
(h)  Completion of DrWH manpower developmint review by December 1991, and
agreement with the Bank on the training program to be implemented
under the project, including monitoring indices;
(i) Development of screening procedure for environmental assessment, and
by 1994 poduction of 15Q PD/IEEs a year and 10 detailed EISs a year;
and
(j) For the construction industry, completion of the studies listed in
Annex 5, and monitoring of implementation of recommendations.



- 79 -
Annex 7
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
HIGHWAY MANAGEMENT PROJECT
SuDervision Plan
Bank Sunervision Input
1.        The staff input indicated in the table below is in addition to regular
supervision at headquarters for procurement review, correspondence, and revl.ew
of reports, which is estimated at 14 staff-weeks during the first and second
project years and about nine staff-weeks thereafter.
A e/c< .c:>  o.t .c   .
0 Marc  1992 SuRervtakion-tMEssn
- Expedite start-up        Highway Engineer,            8
- Review consultant        Transport Economist,
procurement progress    Training Specialist
- Review civil works       and Construction
detailed design and     Industry Specialist.
procurement progress
:tor 1992/3 program
- Review progress of
studies for
construction industry
- Review conclusions of
DAP study on DPWH
human resources
* Agree arterial
highway investment
program for 1993/4,
and program
engineering and
procurement.
- Agree maintenance and
overlay program and
budget request for
1993.



- 80 -
Page 2
Sept. 1992     Servsion Mission            Highway Engineer,            8
- Review progress of       Training Specialist,
RMS study.              Financial Analyst,
- Review Implementation   Environmental
of agreed training      Specialist and Road
program.                Management Specialist.
- Review progress of
DPWH Environmental
Unit institutional
development.
- Review project
accounting system,
inspect Special
Account records, and
SOEs.
March 1993     Supervision Mission         Highway Engineer, and        7
- Inspect sample of        Construction Industry
1992/3 works program    Specialist, Transport
including quality       Economist.
assurance.
- Review engineering
and procurement for
1993/4 works program.
- Review progress of
RMS, training and
environment TA.
* Agree arterial
highway investment
program for 1994/5.
- Agree maintenance and
ovezlay program and
budget request for
1994.
Sept. 1993     Supervision Mission         Highway Engineer,            7
* Review progress of       Training Specialist
RMS, training and       and Financial Analyst,
environment TA.         Road Management
- Inspect ongoing          Specialist.
1992/3 works.
- Review project
special account and
SOEs.
March 1994     Supervision Mission         Highway Engineer,            7
Construction Industry
Specialist, Transport
Economist,
Environmental
Specialist



- 81 -
Annex 7
Page 3
Sept. 1994     Supervision Mission         Highway Engineer,            7
Financial Anaiyst,
Road Management
Specialist
March 1995     Supervision Mission         Highway Engineer,            6
Transport Economist
Road Management
Specialist
Sept. 1995     Supervision Mission         Highway Engineer             6
Financial Analyst
March 1996     Supervision Mission         Highway Engineer,            6
Transport Economist
Training Specialist
Sept. 1996     Supervision Mission         Highway Engineer             4
March 1997     Supervision Mission         Highway Engineer,            4
Transport Economist
Sept. 1997     Supervision Mission         Highway Engineer             4
Sept. 1998     Supervision and PCR         Highway Engineer             4
Mission



- 82 -
Anex 7
Page 4
Borrower's Supervision Input
2.        During implementation, DPWH and ClAP will provide the Bank with the
following information, periodically at agreed dates.
(a) Progress report on policy measures taken by the Government, including
the preparation of maintenance works executed by contract, and the
maintenance workforce;
(b) Progress report on development and implementation of the RMS,
including the items listed in the schedule of activities in Annex 2,
pg. 7;
(c) Quarterly reports of the coordinating consultant, including progress
on the tasks listed in the TOR (Annex 3); the progress of the
development and implementation of the data bank for road safety, and
the development and implementation of a black-spot treatment program;
and the progress of development and implementation of a quality
assurance program;
(d) Progress report on the development and implementation of the human
resources training program for DPWH;
(e) Progress report on the development and implementation of the
Environmental Unit in DPWH;
(f) Progress report on implementation of civil works subprojects,
including subproject planning, programming, cost control and estimated
costs up to completion, by contract, as well as physical
accomplishment and data on payment of contractors;
(g) Annual evaluation of the condition of the arterial network;
(h) Annual budget requests and allocations for investment and recurrent
budgets; and
(i) Progress of studies for ClAP.
3.        Coordination for supervision missions will be provided by the Director
of the Project Management Unit, who would assemble the data in para. 2 above, and
organize field trips.
4.        On arrival, a mission briefing will be chaired by the Undersecretary
of Operations.   Mission wrap-up meetings will normally be chaired by the
Undersecretary of Operations, with the participation of representatives from
CIAP, NEDA and DOF.



- 83 -
ANNEX 8
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
HIGHWAY MANAGEMENT PROIECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
1. Consultants Reports
Nathan Associates Inc., Philippine Transport Sector Review, Vol I: Findings and
Recommendations, Vol II: The Highway Subsector, August 1990.
Renardet/Hoff & Overgaard, Arterial Roads Study, Draft Final Report, August 1990.
DCCD Engineering Corp., Review of the Operations and Organization of DPWH .'.eld
Implementing Units, Inception Report, October 17, 1990.
R. Santiago, Transport Regulation in the Philippines, Policy Center on Energy,
Transportation and Telecommunications, September 3, 1990.
2. Government ReDorts
CIAP, Philippine Construction Industry in the 80s, Hay 5, 1990.
DPWH, Arterial Road Program: Rehabilitation, Improvement, Construction and
Maintenance, March 1990.
Govt. of the Philippines, Executive Order No. 124: Reorganizing the Ministry of
Public Works and Highways, Redefining its Powers and Function, and for Other
Purposes, January 30, 1987.
3.  IBRD Background and Implementation Reports
F. Sarno, The Philippine Construction Industry: Analysis and Terms cf Reference
for Its Improvement, October 1990.
Draft Terms of Reference: Preparation of a HJghway Safety Program
Supervision of Roa  Work Contracts
4.  ReRorts of Other Lenders
Asian Development Bank, Report and Recommendation of the President on Proposed
Loans and Technical Assistance to the Republic of the Philippines for the Road
and Road Transport Sector Program, September 27, 1990.
Asian Development Bank, Appraisal Report of the Fifth Road Improvement Project
in the Philippines, November 1990.



PHILIPPINES
HIGHWAY MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Organizatlon of the Department of Public Works and Highways (DPWH)
N    UAR                 8£W1R                 ASST.SECRETARY
MWSS MA                                      LEGISAIVE AFFAIRS
____________          WE~UDERSECEFAR          UND6OEAR                 4ESERTR ?ERSECRETARY
TEHICAL SERVICES           I      PRII                                          I                             14OPERA
__________i                                 j |Forgn|AsaIe  PWPoct) |        S       & M
ASST.SECRETARY  .       RftECTOR          DHeCTORS                DIRECTOIR               PROJ.MAGRS.       ASSTSECRETARY      ASSI 8ECRETARY
PFIu0  Se8oe       Sw,au d Debgn       Rqpob"Ol  RJ         0     g1±d1O                 PrMg Oces        AdIL & MwLMgt Ser.    Caat& Fin Mgt Sr.
PMo 4easUy Sade                                              Re&n V I                B P*t71   ASSTSEETARY               ASS| SEItrRY
|IECTOR             CIRECTO               CAR                   Ron 4                  AM                  Leg Ssi           Ma8. & kit 8
&Ww  of CauSuclon   bxetau .6Muhtau"c       RAS q*V1PW  afST.SECRETARY
WREcTOR            ORECTOR    I                                                                                                                Z
&"W -W Rm& $Region IEcoRegMon ixPoerIe.
ft*NCR                  Ri X                 &" - |Ua Pro l
-l Region t-A    r -I_ Reon Xl R___              Water d S  |
Region I   _ S          Relbh Xll    L        R          &
r    p_V  L                           Ikaina Poe
.1  o                                                 Pr4  c



41-J
v                                                                         -- - - - - - -- - - - - -   -- - - -- - - -                          LI I  M .
X.d
U ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~ .1?U:-1?1SU?W1 .Tr                                                                                          'IX1  *q
dVnw: 03o *J3UV
~4        stW1flU   wsa4dw s
W",~~~~~~~~~~U W U------------------------ #j 3t tItu9jVwM~ q
ir~~~~~~~~~~~~~
pad4 pig *
X ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~13U                                                                        _                                    PN39W  P!d *4I
93NId      duopd *w
.J3mIISR
~~~~~~v....... un
.~~~~ ....
3IflcIH3s NOllYlN3V431dI'4t
±O3fOId .L392VW4 AVM41H
S3NIddflIHd



F        tlaD                                ~~~~~~                                            ~           ~          ~~~2R  l22'  I214                    125*
Thlseophuoskeep   tedL.                           Sf                                  TRinnNom                 PPHILIPPINES
-tel8&m;s Tv  tHIGHWAY MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Fib-  - olfl Wo-ld8m
Crp. The d          -enonlens ned
cod the beeoundre, shoe,                                                      POq¢ 
-        PROPOSES FIRST YEAR PRORAM ROADS
pen of Tel Pro'S Wook IS.emp. G0DP                       iat  °                                                                  _-    COMMITTED ROADS IMPROVEMENI
oRtIvAoyam                                                            4O4O'1  -                                                         ARTERIAL -RHWAYS
nd.olenen noennr p =   nnol                                                    °                                                        OTT:ER ATIONAL ROADS
nook heoodonles.                                                   T*on,              E                                           A'n    t  INTERNATONA AIARPORTS
t  AIRPORTS
L-,                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PORTS
Ioonsmnot  f          Tu  /                                                   FERRIES
0,. Femnn8nlnt  I             p  tn
ednd      J      Cnbnn.on.                                       -   INTERNATTONAI BOUONDARIES
1                                         3emrmoO  U Ueg  r~~~~~~~~~~~~~oT.l Fr; I                                  0      40    T0    120          00
t I*^                     jeRm mC    e <wET RI                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                  ~       ~    ~~~0 23   40   SO00 ED    o  0-
Too                                                                          IQ MELnS
K0.                                          R~~~~~~~o>Xt  -;   -   oBho
MoonTFetoTIo  ^rEh    . 
;,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I, SmeFoooneboUZ
tlo de TnT    ?  elno     o
MINDORO'
E 0 0e =~~~0o                         TMe' 0eoo          d
,    3U0hEd  g                 dll * Cntn. m¢> tV~~
IS'                                 Shf lmd de rm mi d                             -iMASBATE              SAMAR
tlorunoNdh2W~~~~~~~~~                                                                 ~~~ 2? e EM  nobeIntn -ny
T-,  ,i-6 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~n.,Re,,
jT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1  ±                                                                                 ifR i,'fm=t 
Deio =              Ol,l E    TnEd
PANAr- ~  ~        ~       ~ ~ MIDAA
8-~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~le  Ub.,                                          oM n od M Tnde,  ,                     4;i-
.t                                    TlR1o                          IT'd'nO   -<      'w a    
Ai I    A    I I   A-/                                                                                  .     {                     Iwh
I i                                                                                             T D~ O                                                         'I SI AC7R
t2  2,2-                              IN.                                    iu; Pn.



