Document of
The World Bank  FILE COpy
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3046-YD1
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FOR A
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
April 29, 1981
rThis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their Official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizatIon.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1980         April 1981
Currency Unit           =          Yemeni Dinars (YD)         YD
US$1          =              YD 0.345              0.345
YDl          =              US$2.90               2.90
Fiscal Year
April 1 to March 31         (prior to 1975)
April 1 to December 31      (1975)
January 1 to December 31   (from 1976)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
HA         -            Highways Authority
fGB        -            International Competitive Bidding
ICU        -            Independent Construction Unit
MOC        -            Ministry of Construction
MOP        -            Ministry of Planning
PCLT       -            Public Corporation for Land Transport
PDRY       -            People's Democratic Republic of Yemen
UK         -            United Kingdom
UNDP       -            United Nations Development Program
USbR       -            Union of Soviet Socialist Republics
WFP        -            World Food Program
YAR        -            Yemen Arab Republic



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:               People's Democratic Republic of Yemen
Amount:                 SDRs 10.3 million (about US$12.5 million
equivalent)
Terms:                  Standard IDA
Project
Description:            The project seeks to promote the social, economic
and administrative integration of the country by
improving access to the towns of Ataq, As Said and
Nisab, in the presently isolated Shabwab
Governorate, through construction of a two-lane
paved road (92 km). This road is also expected to
stimulate agricultural production in the vicinity
of these towns. It would also strengthen PDRY'S
road construction capabilities (i)through about
130 manmonths of consultants assistance to the
Ministry of Construction (MOC) for improvement of
project preparation capabilities, management, and
operations of the MOC's construction units,
including the independent construction unit (ICU)
established under the project and (ii) through
training of MOC and ICU staff including about 90
manmonths of long and short-term overseas
fellowships. The principal beneficiaries of the
road construction would be road users and the
cooperatives, state farms and individual farmers
responsible for the marketed surplus of the
region's crops. The current level of activity in
the zones of influence is sufficiently high to
indicate that the road is economically justified
on the basis of the existing level of agricultural
production. The risks to the project such as
delay in the commencement or completion of road
construction are not significant as indicated by
the sensitivity analyses.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost;l/
Local    Foreign       Total
…US  $ Million--------
Establishment of ICU                               0.9         7.5         8.4
Construction of Naqabab-Nisab road (92 km)         7.2        18.6        25.8
Technical Assistance for MOC                       0.2         1.2         1.4 2/
Training                                           0.1         0.6         0.7
Base Cost                                          8.4        27.9        36.3
Physical Contingencies                             0.5         1.4         1.9
Price Contingencies                                0.4         4.2         4.6
Total Project Cost                                 9.3        33.5        42.8
1/  Not including duties and taxes from which the project is exempt.
2/  Including US$400,000 retroactive financing for project preparation.
Financing Plan:                                   Local       Foreign    Total
---------US $ Million…-----
Government                            9.3         -           9.3
IDA                                    -         12.5        12.5
Kuwait Fund                                      10.5        10.5
OPEC Fund                                        10.5        10.5
Total                                 9.3        33.5        42.8
Estimated Disbursements:                     FY82     FY83      FY84      FY85
---------IUS $ Million----------
Annual                           2.5       4.1      3.4       2.5
Cumulative                       2.5       6.6     10.0      12.5
Estimated
Completion Date:        December 31, 1984
Rate of Return:         About 16 percent.
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 2250-YDR of April 17, 1981.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IDA
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT
CREDIT TO THE PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FOR A THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit of SDRs 10.3 million (about $12.5 million equivalent) on
standard IDA terms to the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen (PDRY) to help
finance a Third Highway Project. The Government is discussing with other
external sources, the provision of $21.0 million equivalent under joint and
parallel financing arrangements toward the cost of the project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.       An economic mission to review the second Five-Year Plan 21 visited
PDRY in March-April 1979 and its report entitled "People's Democratic Republic
of Yemen: Special Economic Report--The Second Five-Year Plan (1979-83)"
(2683-YDR) dated January 25, 1980, was distributed to the Executive Directors
on February 6, 1980. An updating economic mission is now in PDRY. Its
preliminary findings will be incorporated into the President's Report for the
Al Mukalla Water Supply Rehabilitation Project, scheduled for Board
consideration in June, 1981. A country data sheet is attached as Annex I.
Development Objectives and Constraints
3.       Over the past decade, the Government of PDRY has consistently pursued
a strategy of developing the country within the context of a socialist
society. The principal objectives of the Government have been: (a) to
satisfy the basic needs of the population for food, essential consumer goods,
shelter, employment, health care and other social services; (b) to develop the
production capacity of the economy, especially in agriculture, fisheries,
industry, construction and minerals; (c) to strengthen the infrastructure
sectors, i.e., transport, power and telecommunications; (d) to raise education
standards, emphasizing technical and higher education; and (e) to increase
exports of domestic products.
4.       In pursuing these objectives, the Government relied primarily on a
strong public sector and on cooperatives. Major institutional reforms were
initiated with the nationalization of foreign properties in 1969 which brought
the bulk of the modern service activities in and around Aden (banking,
insurance, shipping, trading) under Government control. Subsequent investment
in manufacturing, power, construction and mineral exploration has given the
1/   Part I and Annex I of this report are identical to those in the
President's Report for the proposed Wadi Beihan Agricultural Development
Project, which is to be considered by the Executive Directors on the same
date as the proposed project.
2/   This plan has recently been revised (see paras. 6 and 7).



- 2 -
public sector a dominant influence over industrial activities. Two agrarian
reform laws enacted in 1968 and 1970 have fundamentally changed the land
tenure conditions, breaking up large feudal holdings. Simultaneously, new
farm organizations--state farms and production cooperatives--were created to
facilitate the introduction of modern cultivation and marketing techniques.
Fishing and consumer cooperatives were also established. More recently, two
of the remaining foreign-owned installations--the Aden Refinery (British
Petroleum) and an international communications facility (Cable and
Wireless)--were transferred by mutual consent to the Government of PDRY.
5.       Private enterprises have been allowed to exist mainly in trade,
manufacturing and construction. But the private sector was given a
subsidiary role and private enterpreneurs are expected to follow the lead of
the public sector. Cooperation between public and private enterprises is
encouraged in some areas, such as light industries, and a limited number of
Joint ventures are now active. Foreign private investors have been
encouraged to participate in oil exploration.
6.       Increasingly comprehensive economic and social planning is being
used as the principal tool to implement PDRY's development objectives. In
1971 the Government launched its first development program, covering the
three-year period 1971/72-1973/74. The program focussed largely on a number
of public sector projects which were to be carried out with the help of
toreign capital and technical assistance. It was followed by a more
detailed Five-Year Plan (1974/75-1978), which in addition to the investment
program, introduced specific targets for the major economic and social
sectors. Work on the Second Five-Year Plan (SFYP) originally envisaged to
cover the 1979-83 period had started in early 1979. However following a
recommendation by the Council on Arab Economic Unity asking Arab countries
to synchronize their five-year economic plans, the SFYP will now cover the
1981-85 period with 1979 and 1980 serving as transitional years. The
revised SFYP is expected to be approved very shortly. It consists of a
macro-economic framework, sector analyses and investment objectives. In
addition to infrastructure and productive sectors the Plan covers such areas
as foreign and domestic trade, manpower development, social sectors, and
production planning. While still relying on technical assistance from
foreign experts, the Government has substantially strengthened its own
planning capability. Plan preparation and execution has thus become
increasingly the responsibility of Yemeni staff in the Ministry of Planning,
in technical ministries, and in public enterprises and cooperatives.
7.       The latest available draft of the revised second Five-Year Plan,
which is to be finalized shortly,shows that the Government continues to
pursue the overall development objectives outlined in paragraph 3 above. It
proposes a total investment of $1,475 million (in 1980 prices) for 1981-85
of which 39 percent is allocated for infrastructure (including electric
power), 19 percent for agriculture and fishing, 11 percent for industry
including oil and mineral exploration, 4 percent for education, 17 percent
for housing, and 10 percent for other services. The Plan assumes that about
$1,050 million (71 percent) will be financed through foreign capital, and
the remaining $425 million from domestic resources. The Plan calls for an
overall growth target of 10 percent per annum with sectoral growth targets
of 14 percent for industry, 9 percent each for agriculture and fisheries,
and 11 percent for transport and communications.



8.       In implementing the Plan the Government faces a number of
constraints, the most important ones being limited natural resources,
insufficient technical and managerial skills, low levels of productivity,
and worsening labor shortages in the construction sector. A harsh climate
severely limits the area available for cultivation, although substantial
increases in agricultural output could be achieved through higher yields,
and by substituting cash crops for subsistence agriculture. The narrow
domestic market and few known raw materials limit the scope for industrial
development. These constraints are compounded by the rugged topography
which creates severe difficulties for internal transportation resulting in
increased domestic transport cost.
9.       Lack of adequately trained manpower is another major constraint.
The Government has tried to fill the gap with bilateral and multilateral
technical assistance, including UNDP which maintains a large program in
PDRY. In addition, again with foreign assistance (including IDA), a large
education and training program was launched and in recent years has become
increasingly technically oriented. Supported by scholarships for higher
education abroad and the establishment of technical training institutions in
PDRY, the country is now generating a growing flow of technically trained
people who could gradually reduce the shortage of skilled manpower.
10.      Low productivity in the public and cooperative sectors, including
the construction sector, is one of the principal problems faced by the
Government. The reasons for this can be traced largely to inadequate
incentive systems, weak management, shortage of trained manpower, lack of
spare parts, and inadequate maintenance. The revised Plan recognizes these
constraints and gives priority to measures aimed at increasing
productivity. In this context, the Government has recently been engaged in
the review of the structure of domestic prices aiming at selective price
increases as incentives for agriculture producers and fishermen. Following
this, farm gate prices of some agricultural products were raised by up to 50
percent in June 1979 and again in 1980 by a similar amount on a wider range
of products; and producer and consumer prices for fish were increased in
September 1979, and the consumer prices again in March 1980. These
increases in prices for produce marketed through state channels have been
accompanied by measures to permit farmers and fishermen, both as individuals
and in cooperatives, to sell a portion of their output on the free market
at prices substantially above state procurement prices.
Recent Economic Developments
11.      The Government's emphasis on the public sector has led to a rapid
increase in public spending. Priority was given to public investment which
increased from $4 million in 1970 to $173 million in 1978. The allocation
of investment funds appears to have been well chosen; half of all public
sector investments during the first Five-Year Plan (1974/75-78) went to the
commodity producing sectors with agriculture and fishing receiving 35
percent, and industry and mineral exploration 15 percent. A large share (32
percent) was invested in infrastructure (including electric power) while the
remaining 18 percent was spent for education and other social services. The
sharp increase in public investment was accompanied by a major expansion of
current government spending on education, health and other public services.



-4-
12.      High levels of investment and other public spending have
accelerated the rate of economic growth. GDP at constant prices grew at an
annual average rate of about 7 percent during 1973-78, compared with only 2
percent per annum during 1970-73. The major growth sectors were fishing,
industry, construction, trade, transport and government services.
Agricultural output increased only slowly, reflecting the productivity
problems mentioned above. More recently industrial production has picked up
mainly as a result of increased oil refining. GNP rose at a faster rate
than GDP (12 percent per annum during 1973-78) due to a rapid increase in
workers' remittances.
13.      bubstantial progress has been made in achieving a balanced income
distribution, and in the development of social services. State ownership of
production facilities and egalitarian wage/salary structures have reduced
income differentials in the growing public sector. Supplies of basic
foodstuffs and other essential consumer goods are readily available to the
urban population. School enrollment has risen sharply, and health services
have been significantly improved. However, large differences still persist
in the standard of living between urban and rural areas. Rural incomes are
estimated to be only about one-third of average urban incomes, although in
some regions rural incomes are supplemented by remittances from family
members working abroad. The basic reasons for rural poverty appear to be
low productivity of the agricultural and fisheries sectors and possibly
adverse terms of trade between these sectors and the rest of the economy.
Solutions to the problem can therefore only be found in tackling these basic
issues.
14.      To sustain the massive increase in public spending for development
(para. 11), the Government had to make a major effort in mobilizing
financial resources. With a low per capita income, there were severe
limitations on raising domestic resources. The principal instrument used in
mobilizing domestic funds was taxation and until recently containment of
Government employee salaries. However, these were increased in September
1979. New taxes have been introduced and tax collection improved. As a
result, total government receipts rose from a level of 12 percent of GNP in
1969/70 to 21 percent in 1978. Government revenue continued to increase in
1979, especially self-financing by public enterprises from their retained
profits which increased from $4.9 million in 1978 to $12.5 million in 1979,
and again in 1980.
15.      To supplement the insufficient domestic resources, the Government
turned for help to friendly nations and international agencies. Increasing
amounts of foreign aid were provided, largely by socialist countries, and
more recently by Arab nations. In addition, PDRY received support from
regional and international organizations, including IDA and the IMF. The
exact amount of all foreign resources put at the disposal of the country is
not known since some of the commodity aid has not been recorded either in
the budget or in the balance of payments. But, on the basis of identifiable
aid, it is estimated that aggregate disbursements including transfers rose
from an average level of some $8 million per annum during 1969/70-1971/72 to
about $131 million in 1978.



- 5 -
16.      The rapid expansion of the public sector, especially the growth in
investment, has induced a considerable flow of additional imports. The
value of imports has more than quadrupled since the beginning of the decade,
from an average of $89 million per annum during 1970/71 to an estimated $387
million in 1978, with further increases in 1979 and 1980. Besides the
devaluation of the US dollar, this mainly reflects price increases for
foodstuffs and petroleum products and the growing capital goods imports
necessitated by the country's ambitious development program. The growth in
import value has placed a heavy burden on PDRY's foreign exchange budget,
all the more so as the country exports relatively little and thus benefits
only marginally from price rises in the world markets.
17.      Indigenous exports, mainly fish and cotton, have been able to cover
only a minor share of the import bill. In 1978, they were estimated to be
about $18 million or some 5 percent of commodity imports. Much more
important than commodity exports are PDRY's invisible earnings which are
dominated by worker's remittances. The latter rose rapidly since the
mid-1970s, increasing from $56 million in 1975 to an estimated $320 million
in 1979, and to still higher levels in 1980. This has been due to rising
wage levels in the oil surplus countries, to some additional emigration, and
to new incentives which liberalized "own exchange" imports, allowed the
construction of private dwellings, and offered higher interest rates to
non-resident bank depositors.
Foreign Aid and External Debt
18.      Fast growing exchange earnings and increasing disbursements from
foreign aid (para. 15) have enabled PDRY in recent years to cover its import
requirements and to strengthen its foreign reserves. The latter rose from
$55 million at end 1975 to $212 million at end 1979, equivalent to almost
half of the imports of that year.
19.      The large inflow of foreign loans led to a rapid accumulation of
PDRY's external public debt even though part of the aid was provided in the
form of grants. Total debt outstanding (including undisbursed) as of end
1979 amounted to $915 million, of which $372 million was disbursed.
Bilateral sources accounted for $665 million or 73 percent of total
commitments with the USSR providing the bulk ($369 million), followed by
China ($142 million), other Eastern European countries ($104 million), Arab
countries ($48 million) and by Denmark ($2 million). Multilateral aid
amounted to $250 million including $175 million from Arab Funds, and $63
million from IDA. The average terms of all loans are highly concessionary
giving a grant element of about 58 percent. In addition, PDRY has received
about $180 million (until the end of 1979) in grant assistance, mostly from
Arab countries.
20.      The soft terms of PDRY's external debt has resulted in relatively
small debt service obligations. Debt service payments in 1979 were $5
million or 1.4 percent of total exchange earnings from exports of goods and
services (including workers' remittances). However, PDRY's debt service



- 6 -
obligations are projected to increase steadily in future years, which will
exert additional pressure on its balance of payments. Therefore, in view of
the above and the limited resources of the country, the Bank's assistance to
PDRY should continue to be on IDA terms. For the same reason, local cost
tinancing by IDA is justified.
21.      In 1969, under Nationalization Law No. 37, the Government
nationalized most of the foreign-owned enterprises (para. 4). This law
provided for compensation in the form of 20-year Government bonds bearing
interest of 2 percent. Twenty-five percent of the net annual profits of all
the nationalized companies were to be used for servicing the bonds. In
response, some of the foreign banks which were nationalized froze
substantial Yemeni deposits which they had transferred abroad. Immediately
after the promulgation of Law No. 37, the Government appointed a British
firm of accountants of international repute to audit the accounts of all the
nationalized companies and evaluate their assets. The audit report was
submitted to the Government in September 1971. Settlements were reached
soon atter with three of the foreign banks involved. Agreements were
finalized with three additional banks in 1977, with the oil companies in
late 1977, early 1978, and in 1979 and with a development finance companv in
mid-1978. Contacts with other former owners have been maintained with a
view to reaching mutually acceptable settlements. Dialogue with debtors
has, however, been very slow since they have only recently responded to the
Government's efforts to settle claims. The Government professes its desire
to reach a mutually satisfactory solution with all claimant companies, and
has expressed its willingness to consider such settlement outside the terms
of the 1969 Nationalization Law.
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS 1/
22.      IDA's lending program in PDRY supports the Government's long-range
economic objective of broadening the base of a service-oriented economy
centered around Aden, by developing the productive capacity of the other
sectors of the economy and promoting investments in the outlying regions.
Efforts have been directed towards projects in the transport sector, which
would not only help to integrate the disparate regions of PDRY, but, more
importantly, link production areas with the main markets. This will be
continued. IDA will also continue to assist in agriculture, including the
key risheries subsector, education, water supply and sewerage, petroleum
exploration and power. In addition new sectors being examined are industry
and health. Technical assistance and institution-building will continue to
be an integral feature of IDA projects in PDRY.
23.      PDRY joined the Bank in 1969 and IDA in 1970, but is not a member
of IFC. Assistance to PDRY commenced in 1971 and, after a pause of about
two years (February 1976 to February 1978) because IDA funds allocated to
PDRY for this period had been committed more rapidly than envisaged, resumed
1/ Part II is substantially the same as in the President's Report for the
Wadi Beihan Agricultural Development Project, which is to be considered
by the Executive Directors on the same date as the proposed project.



again in 1978. To date, IDA has had 15 operations in PDRY, for a total
commitment of $84.2 million. Of this total, $20.3 million has assisted the
transport sector, $27.3 million the agriculture and fisheries sector, $14.0
million the power and energy sector, $9.4 million the education sector, and
$13.2 million the water supply sub-sector. Project implementation in PDRY
is characterized by delays and in some cases cost overruns. Common causes
of delay have included the time required to arrange the required
cofinancing, difficulties in recruiting and retaining foreign advisors and
in attracting foreign contractors, inexperience in project mobilization, and
in recent years shortages of both skilled and unskilled manpower. But
projects are in almost all cases being properly implemented even if delayed,
and the difficulties faced are mitigated to a considerable degree by the
generally positive attitude of the officials responsible for project
implementation. Lessons learned from experience in earlier projects are
being taken into account in our follow-up projects. Annex II contains a
summary statement of IDA credits as of March 31, 1981, and notes on the
execution of ongoing projects.
24.      Future operations are both in the preparation and study stages.  An
agricultural development project in Wadi Beihan and a water supply project
for the town of Mukalla will be presented to the Executive Directors in
FY81. A second power project is under preparation, as is a third fisheries
project, a third education project and a follow-up agricultural project in
Wadi Hadramawt.  Project possibilities in health, industry and a second
petroleum exploration project are also under consideration. As in the
recent past, the costs of future projects are expected to be substantially
higher than the funds IDA can provide to PDRY. Therefore, efforts will be
continued to encourage other development agencies to join IDA in the
financing of suitable projects. From FY71 through FY80, IDA has been
successful in securing through its projects about $78 million of cofinancing
from other aid donors (UNDP $0.7 million, Kuwait Fund $15.3 million, Arab
Fund $34.2 million, Islamic Development Bank $5.5 million, Abu Dhabi Fund
$16 million, OPEC Fund $3 million, and EEC $3 million), thus helping to
increase the inflow of development aid to the country.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
The Economic Geography of PDRY
25.      Apart from the city of Aden (population 270,000), the 1.8 million
inhabitants of PDRY live in small communities in a few widely scattered
areas where water is available, and are separated from one another by
considerable distances of empty desert and arid mountains. Cultivated areas
account for only 0.3 percent of the country's total land area. The standard
of living is low (per capita GNP in 1979 is estimated at $500 principally



- 8 -
due to remittances) and the rural population is to a large degree
self-sufficient, depending on small-scale agriculture where water is
available.
26.      PDRY's transport system is limited, reflecting the country's severe
lack of resources and the limited economic development until recent years.
At independence in 1967 there were only about 200 kms of surfaced roads,
mostly in and around Aden. The rest of the country was served only by
low-standard tracks or by limited air services using unpaved airstrips.
Traditional dhows plied between Aden and Mukalla. Since then the Government
has concentrated a substantial part of the national development budget on
providing transport facilities to connect the nine principal populated areas
which are also of agricultural importance (see map). Roads have been the
primary means to connect these areas, since coastal shipping is handicapped
by shallow coastal waters and the lack of ports other than at Aden and
Mukalla; railways are impracticable due to the rugged terrain and low
traffic volumes; and aviation is relatively high cost.
27.      As a result of the expansion of the road network in recent years,
many parts of PDRY are becoming more accessible. Road transport accounts
for about 90 percent of both total passenger and freight traffic. There are
no railways. Transport services are either state-owned or under close
government regulation. Only the Shabwah Governorate (population 100,000)
and the Al Gheidah Governorate (population 70,000) still face major
transport difficulties. The proposed project primarily addresses the need
for better roads in the Shabwah Governorate.
Transport Policy, Planning and Coordination
28.      The Government continues to attach considerable importance to the
role transport improvements can play in promoting the economic, social and
administrative integration of the widely scattered populated areas of the
country. The allocation to transport under the First Five-Year Plan
(1974-78) was YD58 ($174) million, or 24 percent of the capital budget, and
transport projects actually absorbed 27 percent of total development
outlays. The provisional transport sector allocation for the second
Five-Year Plan (1981-85) is about YD93 ($270 million) of which about YD40
($116 million) may go to roads. This is 8 percent of planned total
expenditures.
29.      Three ministries are responsible for the main aspects of the
transport system: Construction (MOC) for roads, Communications for road
transport services and shipping, and aviation, and Planning (MOP) for
coordinating the planning of investments in the sector. Issues of road
transport affecting both the Ministries of Construction and Communications
are adequately coordinated informally by officials of the two ministries
concerned.



- 9-
Ports, Shipping and Civil Aviation
30.      The port of Aden handles almost all of PDRY's foreign trade.
General cargo traffic, though modest in absolute terms, is growing rapidly
after several years of decline. In 1975, IDA and the Arab Fund financed the
Aden Port Rehabilitation Project which is close to completion. The
country's only other general cargo port is Mukalla, where a new port is
under construction with the help of loans from the Arab Fund and the Kuwait
Fund. Coastal shipping plays a limited role because of the shallow beaches
and lack of harbors as does air traffic.
Highway bubsector
31.      The backbone of the PDRY highway network is the 620 km long coastal
road from Aden to Mukalla, which was started from Aden in the mid-1960s and
completed to Mukalla in 1977. One cther arterial road is paved, that from
Aden to Kersh on the Yemen Arab Republic (YAR) border (about 100 km) but is
in poor condition and is being upgraded (para. 36). The asphalt roads in
and around Aden and other short stretches mostly in the western governorates
bring the total length of asphalted roads in 1980 to about 1200 km, or 20
percent of the network. There are also some 255 km of cobblestone roads,
mostly in the Wadi Hadramawt. The rest of the network is made up of
unsurfaced tracks, estimated at about 4,400 km. Many of them are cut by
flash floods and dune movements at different times of the year, and with few
exceptions are only passable by four-wheel drive passenger vehicles and
trucks.
32.      Traffic volumes at 700-1,500 vehicles per day on roads in the Aden
area, less than 300 vehicles per day on other paved roads, and less than 100
vehicles per day on the tracks, are generally low even on the paved roads.
They reflect not only the difficulties of terrain and the long distances
between communities, but also the modest size of the vehicle fleet, 13,000
vehicles in 1977, and the generally low level of vehicle utilization. The
latter is due to the lack of adequate vehicle maintenance through shortage
of spare parts and skilled mechanics, and many vehicles are out of action
for long periods and/or scrapped after relatively short working lives. The
training of automotive mechanics under the IDA Second Education Project is
designed to help alleviate this serious problem.
Subsector Organization
33.      Responsibility for the road network is divided between the MOC in
charge of the construction and maintenance of the asphalted roads, and the
governorate authorities, who maintain the rest of the network and carry out
small-scale construction works. The MOC was reorganized in 1979 and
comprises four main departments: administration, engineering, the Highway
Authority (HA), and the General Directorate for Corporations (responsible
for the construction units). Road investment planning is carried out at two
levels in the MOC: (i) the Planning Unit, reporting directly to the
Minister, which advises on policy issues and is responsible for sectoral
planning in the MOC and for coordination with the MOP; and (ii) the Road
Planning Unit of the Highway Authority which is responsible for the more
technical aspects of project preparation and implementation.



- 10 -
34.      The MOC's engineering department carries out highway design on
smaller construction projects to the extent possible with its limited number
of qualified staff. In this task it has received valuable assistance from
two UNDP technical advisers. Major design such as the Mukalla-Wadi
Hadramawt road are carried out by consultants or a bilateral aid team.
Consultants,financed under the Second Highway Project, reviewed design
standaras and recommended that the maximum single axle-load limit be raised
from 8 to 13 tons, which is adequate for the country's needs and in
conformity with neighboring Saudi Arabia and YAR. The Government
promulgated the appropriate regulations in 1980, and has agreed to take the
necessary measures to ensure that the dimensions and axle loads of vehicles
using the Borrower's roads do not exceed limits consistent with the road's
cesign standards (Development Credit Agreement, Section 4.03).
35.      The Government undertakes all road construction by its own
construction units under the supervision of the Ministry of Construction.
These construction units were set up following unsuccessful international
tenders with high bids. The main reasons for the high bids have been
limited prospects for continuing work in PDRY, more attractive work in
richer neighboring gulf states and difficult local working conditions.
Furthermore, there are no private sector civil engineering contractors in
PDRY. The construction units operate independently, have their own
accounting system and are assisted by bilateral aid experts and management
consultants tor the more complex works. The quality of construction is
satisfactory and, as the units gain experience, it can be expected to
improve. The proposed project would assist in further strengthening their
construction capabilities. There are now four such construction units and a
fifth unit, wbich is of a somewhat different nature (see para. 43), was
established on March 24, 1981 for the construction of the project road
located in the central part of PDRY. These construction units would also be
entrusted at a later stage with the construction of the feeder roads and the
maintenance of the road network.
36.      Because of the shortage of domestically generated resources,
construction projects have had to be financed with extensive external
assistance, the Government often contributing less than 10 percent of total
project cost. The People's Republic of China lent an estimated $20 million
towards the cost of the Aden-Mukalla road. The Mukalla-Wadi Hadramawt road
was jointly financed by IDA ($15.5 million) and the Kuwait Fund ($15.3
million), while the Aden-Taiz road improvement is being financed entirely by
the Arab Fund at a cost of about $20 million for the section within PDRY
(Aden to Kersh). The Association is also financing the construction of
cobblestone feeder roads under its two agricultural projects: $1.9 million
under the Wadi Hadramawt project (1976) and $100,000 under the Wadi Tuban
project (1978). Other assistance has been received from the German
Democratic Republic, the USSR, Hungary and the World Food Program (WFP).
Maintenance
37.      As a result of a sustained effort over the last several years,
including a doubling in the allocation of funds for maintenance, the MOC is
now carrying out highway maintenance on the paved network at an adequate



- 11 -
level in money terms. The paved network is all relatively new and
deliberately designed to keep maintenance to a minimum. Maintenance on the
unpaved network, where there are blockages from dune movements and
infrequent localized flash floods, is carried out on an 'ad hoc' basis by
the individual Governorates, with some funding from the World Food Program
(WFP). Until recently the MOC maintenance teams have been organized
centrally, which inhibited prompt action. However, as the paved network
grows and the value of maintenance is better understood, the MOC is moving
to decentralize these activities. It is also considering entrusting
maintenance operations on a contract basis to the construction units under
its General Directorate for Corporations. Highway maintenance is adequate
and is being supported by other donors for the time being. But the
Government has indicated that it is interested in IDA assistance in
financing a road maintenance project at some point in the future.
38.      The MOC remains understaffed at all management levels.  Useful
on-the-job training was provided under the First Highway Project (1971 to
1974) and by bilateral technical assistance to the mechanical workshops,
while the Association under the Second Highway Project, UNDP and bilateral
sources have provided overseas fellowships for mid-level management and
specialized trade candidates. The results have been mixed because of
language difficulties and difficulties in finding suitably qualified
candidates. In 1977 the Government established a construction industries
training center under the supervision of the MOC. The proposed project
provides for continuation of training, this time particularly for
construction and maintenance supervisors and site managers, including some
overseas fellowships.
Road Transport Services
39.      Public passenger transport is controlled by the Public Corporation
for Land Transport (PCLT), an agency of the Ministry of Communications. It
operates the main bus services and regulates privately owned passenger
transport. Most government corporations and agencies operate their own
truck fleets. Common-carrier trucking is still predominantly in the hands
of private owner-operators, under regulation by the PCLT. The PCLT has also
recently established its own fleet of trucks, which it intends to build up
to take over all common-carrier trucking from the private sector. Rates and
fares are high because of high operating costs and overheads and the large
number of vehicles out of action for long periods. The Government is
considering recommendations to improve road transport services, made by
consultants financed by IDA under the Second Highways project.
Previous Transport Projects
40.      IDA has financed three projects in PDRY's transport sector to
date: the First Highway (Credit 240-YDR), Second Highway (560-YDR), and
Aden Port Rehabilitation (Credit 584-YDR). The first Highway project was
completed in December 1975 and was reasonably successful in attaining its
objective of organizing the Highway Authority and providing technical
assistance. However completion was about two years late, due to delays in
procuring equipment, partly because the Government was unfamiliar with the



- 12 -
Bank's Procurement Guidelines. There were also shortages of qualified
counterpart staff. The Project Performance Audit Report (PPAR)(dated March
13, 1978) concluded that continued effort was required over several
successive projects for institution building. The status of the other two
projects which are being implemented satisfactorily are referred to in Annex
II. Implementation experience, discussed elsewhere in this chapter under
the relevant headings, has been generally satisfactory despite difficulties
in attracting foreign contractors and qualified expatriate advisors. Delays
have resulted but their impact has been mitigated by the responsiveness of
the Yemeni authorities responsible for implementation. The lessons learned
from previous transport projects have been taken into account in the
proposed project, which would include substantial provisions for training
and technical assistance.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Introduction
41.      The proposed Third Highway Project was identified in a preliminary
feasibility study under the First Highways Project. The Second Highways
Project accordingly included a full feasibility study of a 300-km paved road
linking the main towns of the Shabwah Governorate. The first phase of this
study, completed in January 1978, confirmed that construction of the first
92 km was economically justified at that time. The Government requested
IDA's assistance in financing this road as an important link in the planned
primary network and the first priority after the Mukalla-Wadi Hadramawt and
Aden-Kersh roads now under construction. Simultaneously, technical
assistance needs were identified by supervision missions during 1977 and
1978, aided by the findings of the advisors to the MOC in highway economics
provided under the Second Highway Project. An appraisal mission visited
PDRY in June 1978. Reappraisal took place in October, 1980. Negotiations
were held in Washington, D.C. in March/April 1981. The PDRY delegation was
led by Mr. Al-Attas, Minister of Construction. A report entitled "Staff
Appraisal Report on a Third Highway Project in the People's Democratic
Republic of Yemen" (No. 2250-YDR, dated April 17, 1981) is being circulated
separately to the Executive Directors. A map showing the proposed highway
is attached to this report. Special conditions in the Credit Agreement are
summarized in Annex III.
Background
42.      As noted in the preceding paragraph there was a two-year hiatus in
the preparation of this project. This was because the cost estimates for
the project based on the original design standards doubled once detailed
engineering was completed in late 1978. The design standards called for a 6
meter wide road with an 8 percent maximum gradient, 80 meter curves and
bridges. Given its limited experience with internationally procured civil
works, the Government decided to call for bids, conducted according to IDA's



- 13 -
Procurement Guidelines, before firming up the financing plan. The six
responses were opened in February 1980 and all were substantially above the
updated cost estimates. The Government decided to reduce costs through
design changes in the project by increasing gradients and sharpening curves
and then negotiated with the lowest bidder, a national independent
construction unit organized as a contractor (para. 43). The result was a 35
percent reduction in costs. This process was completed in September 1980,
and the Government requested IDA to reappraise the project. The
construction standards proposed are appropriate for traffic safety, traffic
demand and the economic and social needs of the areas served. The
Government may make additional design modifications to reduce costs during
construction in the light of its initial implementation experience. The
Government has agreed to construct the project road in accordance with a
program that includes design standards agreed with IDA (Development Credit
Agreement, Section 3.04).
43.      Of the six original bidders, five were foreign and one, the lDw
bidder, was the construction unit to be established by the Government in the
bbabwah Governorate. It was included in the tender as an independent bidder
under conditions specified in the bidding documents which were approved by
IDA (see paras. 51 and 52 for additional information).
Project Objectives
44.      The proposed project would promote social, economic and
administrative integration of the country, by improving access to the towns
of Ataq, As Said and Nisab, and indirectly to the Wadi Beihan in the Shabwah
Governorate and by stimulating agricultural production in the vicinity of
the above towns. It would also help strengthen PDRY's road construction
capabilities.
Project Description
45.      The project would consist of:  (i) the establishment of an
independent construction unit for the Shabwah Governorate; (ii) the
construction of a two-lane paved road from the Aden-Mukalla highway at
Naqabah to Nisab (92 km) via Ataq, the capital of the Shabwah Governorate,
with a branch serving As Said; (iii) technical assistance to the MOC to
strengthen project preparation and implementation capabilities, and for
construction supervision and monitoring of the project road; and (iv)
training in all aspects of MOC operations, and in management and operations
of a road construction unit, including overseas fellowships.
46.      The project road would comprise a 92 km priority section of the 300
km road linking the main towns of the Shabwah Governorate and one of the
PDRY's four main agricultural areas with the rest of the country. The
existing road is a non-engineered track and is inadequate to serve traffic
demand. The road would link the three main towns of the central part of the
Shabwah governorate: As Said (population 17,000), Ataq (9,000) and Nisab
(22,000). The area served by the road has a good potential for cultivating



- 14 -
high-value cash crops including fresh fruit and vegetables for the Aden
market, provided that the transport obstacles can be overcome. The
International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) is financing an
agricultural project in the Nisab area, and IDA is proposing to finance the
Wadi Beihan Agricultural Development Project with an $8 million credit to be
presented to the Executive Directors in FY81.
47.      Under the technical assistance component, about 130 manmonths of
technical assistance would help to strengthen the MOC's project preparation
capabilities, its ability to review the investment, procurement and work
programs of all the construction units, and to improve management operations
within the units. The same team would also be responsible for construction
supervision of the project road, and would assist the MOC with project
monitoring (see para. 51).
48.      Training would cover project management, construction, planning and
management, workshop management, equipment operation and maintenance, survey
and road design, and cost accounting and control. It would also include
about 60 manmonths of postgraduate overseas training for MOC staff and about
30 manmonths of short-term overseas fellowships for qualified ICU staff.
The details of this training program were agreed with the Government at
negotiations.
Cost Estimates and Financing
49.      The project cost estimate, which includes $400,000 of retroactive
financing tor project preparation (see para. 53), is based on actual
contract prices as of January, 1981, taking into account the revised
construction standards, and the fee for the management consultants. The
cost of technical assistance is based on an average manmonth rate of
$i0,000. This is an appropriate cost for consultant firms in PDRY. A
physical contingency of 10 percent on the quantity related items is
estimated for road construction and consultants' services. Price
contingencies on foreign costs are compounded annually at a rate of 9
percent (1981), 8.5 percent (1982) and 7.5 percent thereafter; and on local
costs at a rate of 4 percent (1981) and 2 percent thereafter. The local
rates are low because strict price controls would be applied to the project
ouring the construction period. The total cost of the project exclusive of
auties and taxes, which are not applicable to development projects in PDRY,
is estimatec at $42.8 million with a foreign exchange cost of $33.5 million
and a local cost of $9.3 million.
50.      The foreign exchange cost of the project would be financed by the
proposed IDA credit of $12.5 million, a proposed Kuwait Fund loan of $10.5
million equivalent, and a proposed OPEC Fund loan of $10.5 million. The
Government would tinance the balance of $9.3 million corresponding to the
estimated local costs. Because of the shortage of local resources (see
para. 20), the Government continues to seek an increase in the Kuwait Fund
loan to finance part of the local costs. The OPEC Fund loan would parallel
finance the equipment purchases for the establishment of ICU and jointly
tinance part of the construction works. IDA and the Kuwait Fund would
jointly finance the construction works, the technical assistance and



- 15 -
training. The signing of the Kuwait Fund loan agreement and the
effectiveness of the OPEC Fund loan agreement would be conditions of
eftectiveness of the IDA credit agreement (Development Credit Agreement,
bection 6.01(a) and (b)).
Implementation
51.      Project implementation would be the responsibility of MOC through
its General Directorate for Corporations, responsible in turn for the
construction unit (ICU), legally constituted in March 1981, which would
construct the project road, and through the Highways Authority (HA) for
construction supervision. MOC would be assisted by consultants in the
supervision of the ICU and the otber construction units, in management and
operation of the ICU, in construction supervision and in project
monitoring. The Government has agreed to retain consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms of reference would be satisfactory to
IDA (Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.02). The ICU, for which the
construction of the project road would be its first operation, would be
managed and operated by qualified management consultants who were selected
in accordance with procedures satisfactory to IDA before they prepared the
ICU bid. The ICU would have freedom to act as a contractor in that it may:
(a) hire expatriate and local staff at competitive and incentive wage rates;
and (b) import construction materials, vehicles, equipment and spare parts
as needed. It would also be provided with adequate working capital and
equipment by the Government (Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.03(a)
and (b)). The ICU would also be responsible for the maintenance of the
project road, as well as for the construction and maintenance of any
economically justified feeder roads in the Shabwah Governorate that may be
built at a later date. Yemeni nationals would gradually assume the tasks
initially performed by management consultants. Therefore, close monitoring
of project implementation would benefit future operations of the
construction unit. Furthermore, monitoring of the effects of the road
construction on economic activity in the zone of influence would enable the
Government to decide the proper timing for construction of the road to
Beihan and any other feeder roads. Terms of reference for the consultants
were agreed with IDA at negotiations. The Government would be assisted in
this monitoring by the consultants referred to above. The Government has
agreed as a condition of credit effectiveness to enter into a contract with
ICU on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA (Development Credit
Agreement, section 6.01(c)). It is expected that the project road would be
completed by December 31, 1984.
Procurement and Disbursement
52.      Bidding for the civil works in accordance with IDA's "Guidelines
for Procurement" took place in February 1980. The lowest evaluated bid was
from the independent construction unit (ICU) for whom a bid was prepared by
qualified management consultants selected in consultation with IDA (see
para. 51). The same consultants who assisted in the preparation of the ICU
bid would be retained for management of the construction works (see para.
51). The equipment required to establish the ICU would be procured either



- 16 -
according to MOC procurement regulations or in accordance with the
guidelines of the OPEC Fund.
53.      Disbursements from the credit account would be made on the basis of
40 percent of the total construction cost of the Naqabah-Nisab road, 100
percent of the foreign exchange cost of consultant services for project
preparation, 50 percent of the foreign exchange cost of consultant services
tor technical assistance, 100 percent of the foreign exchange cost for
postgraduate training of MOC staff, and 50 percent of the foreign exchange
cost ifor training ICU staff. Retroactive financing, for expenditures
incurred after March 1, 1981 and in an amount not exceeding $400,000
equivalent would be made for consultants services to assist the MOC with
project preparation (Development Credit Agreement, Schedule l(paragraph 4)).
Benefits and Risks
54.      The proposed project is primarily designed to improve the one
access road, from the coastal region to the Naqabah-Ataq-Nisab area, and the
Wadi Beihan beyond, which is now in very poor condition. The economic
return from savings in transport cost alone is estimated at 16 percent. In
addition, agricultural production would be stimulated by the provision of
the paved road, but these additional benefits would constitute only a 10
percent increase in total benefits in about ten years.
55.      Most of these benefits would accrue in the first instance to:  (a)
the owners of vehicles, that is private owner-operators and government-owned
transport operators, trading and distribution companies, and (b) to the
cooperatives, state farms and individual farmers responsible for most of the
marketed surplus of the region's crops. As transport costs decline, the
Government's system-wide regulation of rates and fares would enable it, if
it so decides, to lower rates and fares so that vehicle operating savings
are passed on to public users of common carriers.
56.      The sensitivity of the economic return has been tested by assuming
a decrease of 25 percent in benefits, an increase of 20 percent in
construction costs, and a one-year extension (40 percent) in the
construction period. With these assumptions, the economic return would
still be 10 percent. The economic justification of the project is more
sensitive to a reduction in benefits than to an increase in costs. The net
present value of the project, at a 10 percent discount rate, becomes
negative either when transport cost savings are 43 percent lower or when
construction costs are 74 percent higher than estimated.
57.      It is not practicable to quantify the benefits of the "excess"
construction capacity that would be built up under the project but not fully
used during its life. The investment is however justified because
experience has shown that PDRY will continue to rely on its own construction
capacity to implement its roads investment programs at reasonable cost and
because the residual equipment and installations would be used to construct
other economically justified road projects in the Shabwah Governorate,
principally the continuation of the road to Wadi Beihan (160 km).



- 17 -
58.      Farmers in the road's zone of influence may not be willing to adopt
Government programs to promote cash crops in replacement of subsistence
crops, and the groundwater supply may prove disappointing. However, the
current level of activity in the zone of influence, as reflected in existing
traffic, is sufficiently high to indicate that the road is economically
justitied even if the projected benefits from agriculture are not realized.
Risks to the project such as delay in commencement or completion of road
construction are fairly small now that the contract for the work has been
awarded, and in any case are not significant as indicated by the sensitivity
analyses.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
59.      The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's
Democratic Republic of Yemen and the Association and the Recommendation of
the Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of
Agreement of the Association are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately. Special conditions of the project are listed in
Section III of Annex III. Additional conditions of effectiveness include
the signing of the Kuwait Fund loan agreement, the effectiveness of the OPEC
Fund loan agreement, and the completion of a contract by the Borrower with
the independent construction unit which is satisfactory to IDA (Development
Credit Agreement, Section 6.01(a), (b) and (c)).
60.      I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply witb the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
61.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
April 29, 1981
Washington, D.C.



- 18 -                                         ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
TAILI 3A
YC  FDR - scTM   ISDZCATORS DATA SHEtT
DT   ?DI                             RIRE UZ t GOUPS (WiIG)ITD AVUAjS
LAND AUA (TS        sQ.                                                                   - AoSt  iCst       ATZ)  _l
TOTAL            333.0                                                                INE
AaICOLTUIL        93.3                                  MOST RECENT          NRTS AFRICA A           .IDODL  INCONE
1960  /b    1970 lb ZSTIKAT! :b          XDDLE UST        LAIN AMUICA * CALISLAN
aN  PL  WcaITA (uSs)                      .           *-     500.0                 818.5                   1562.9
EtlIG  COnNIPTION PER CAPITA
(ULOCRAMS OF COAL ES VANT)          299.0       463.0      523.0                545.0                   1053.9
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, ID-1R (        MLLIOS)    1.3         1.5        1.8
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 28.0         32.1       34.3                 4s.7                     63.4
POruLATION PNOWCTIONS
POPULATION IN  EAR 2000 (N=I.IOhS)                       3.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIISU)                          6.0
YEA  STATIONARY POPULATION IS RVACMD                   2125
PEOPULATION DENS TT
PEN SQ. %N.                         4.0         4.5        5.4                 40.7                     28..
PU  SQ. n0. AalICULTJRAL  LAND     14.0        16.0       19.0                598.6                     81.7
POPULATION ACS TRUCTURN (PUrCET)
0-14 nRS.                          45.3        4.1       46.7                  44.0                     41.4
15-64 YS.                           52.0        53.2      50.7                  52.5                     54.7
65 Ins. AllD ABOVE                   2.7         2.7        2.6                  3.3                      3.9
POPULATION  C3B941 NATI (PNRCNT)
TOTAL                               1.9         1.9/c      1.9/c                2.6                      2.7
URBAN                               6.0         3.2        3.4                  4.5                      4.1
CRUDE 8T! RATE (PU  TnOUSAN)         54.0        54.0       41.0                 41.6                     34.8
CRUD   OLKAT  NATE (PER lWUSAJ)      30.0        26.0       21.0                 13.7                       8.S
GROSS 8POWC0TION RA                    ..         3.5        3.5                  2.9                      2.5
FALILY PLALIL
ACCEPTORS, ANUAL (TUNsue)            ..
USERS (trJT  or KAUIED W)            ..          ..         ..                 16.2
F0  AND NUTRITION
ODIE OF FOOD PFDELCTWiO
PM CAPITA (1969-11-100)           100.0        92.0   S2.0                     93.5                    106.9
PIm  CAPtTA suPLy OP 
CALORYES (P 5CN  or
RZQUIRMUTs)                      84.0        n1.0      91.0                 103.6                    107.4
PROTZENS (GUMIS PU DAY)            51.0         330       55.0                 69.8                     65.6
OP W1ICS ANINAL AM PUSE         18.0        110        18.0                 17.3                     33.7
CR11.0 (AGS 1-4) LCRTA         ATS   54.0        3B.0       31.0                  17.5                     8.4
ERALTI
LIE ZencTAICT AT   ?T! (TYUS)    36.0            40.0       46.0                 54.4                     63.1
LY1AT LIONTALITY NATt (PR TDOUSAND)                                                                       66.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OP
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                                     26.0                 62.3                     65.9
UBA.                                                      30.0                 82.9                     80. 4
RURAL                                                      5.0                 45.1                     44.0
ACCESS TO tECRT   DISPOSAL C ENT
a POPULATION)
TOTAL                                                        .                                          62.3
Um                                   ..          ..         ..                   ..                     79.4
IIRAL                                                                                                   29.6
POPULATION PU  PEISICIN                 ..    32380.0    7411.0                468*    7                1849.2
POPULATION PU1 NOSDIG PZtS0N                               65. .60             1751.5                   1227.5
POPULATION Pn HSPITAL 53D
TOTAL                            1134.0       978.0      660.0                635.3                    4S0.3
RURA                                 ..          ..         .
AD1ISSIONS PU   OSPITAL BED
NOUSING
AVIRAGE 5125 OP ROOSESDLO
TOTAL                                ....                   .
tlUAll                               ...
1URAL
AVYAGI %UlZ@U OP P3505 PM NOON
TOTAL                                ..          ..         ..
RURAL                                 ..
ACCZSS TO ELZCTRICITY (PECENT
a DULLINGS)
TOTAL                                                     22 0/d
UBA                                  ..           ..        ..
RURAL                                ..          ..        L6/d



- 19-                                           ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
TASLE 3A
YZMILN PDR - SOCIAL LNDICATORS DATA SdtET
Y'ESER POE                          3ILRECK GROUPS (WEIGaTZD aVE3A;53
- NOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
N055T ECESI          PDRTE AFRICA 6           4IDDLE LNCOHE
196t0  /b    1970 lb ESTIMATE /b        KLDOL1 EAST        LATIN AMERICA & CAlIsEEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLSMDT RATIOS
PRIMARY:      AL                   3.0        61.0       77.0                 76.4                     99.7
MALE                 20.0        96.0      99.0                  92.2                   101.0
FEKALE                5.0        24.0       54.0                 39.9                    99.4
SECONDARY:  MtAL                   5.0        10.0       26.0                 33.3                     34.4
.MALE                 8.0        15.0      39.0                  41.9                    33.5
FEMALE                2.0         4.0      13.0                  24.2                    34.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (2 OP SZCONDAMY)   5.0          3.0       2.0                  9.S                     3S.7.
PUPIL-FEACHER RAXTO
PRISiARY                          29.0        31.0       30.0                 39.2                    30.5
SECONDARY                         21:.0       20.0       23.0                 25.1                    14.5
ADULT LITERACY SATE (PERCENT)          ..         ..       27.1/4               39.7                     76.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PU THOUSAND
POPULATION                         9.0         1.0        7.1                 15.3                    43.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        54.0         54.0      59.0                139.6                   245.3
TV RECEIVERS E  TOUSAND
POPULATION                         2.5        15.0       19.0                 29.0                    S6.2
4EWSPAPU (-DAILY GEWIAL
INTEREST') CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   ..         1.0         ..                 22.2                    63.3
C DIEMA ASNUAL AM CZDANE PU CAPITA   ..           2. A       ..                  2.8
LABOR FORCE
TOSAL LAUIR  OILCE (THOUSANDS)     342.2       395. 1     433.1
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   4.2         4.8        5.0                  9.6                    22.2
AGRICULTURZ (PERCENT)             70.0       6S.7        60.0                 47.0                    37.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                14.6        17.6      21.0                  23.8                    23.5
PARTICIPATION RAtE (PERCEZT)
TUrAL                               28.2         27.4      26.6                 26.1                    31.5
KALE                                53.4         51.5      49.8                 47.4                    48.9
PEMAL                                2.3          2.7       2.7                  4.7                     14.0
ECONOHIC D MPENDEHT RATIO              1.7          1.8       2.0                  1.9                      1.4
INCOME DISTRIZUTtON
PERCENT oi PRIVATE INComZ
3ECZIVtD SS
IGCHEST 5 PRCENT OF HOUSErOLDS      ..          ..
NICEEST 20 PERCZET 0P HOUSESOLDS    ..          ..
LOW!5S 20 PCENT OF WUSEOLD          ..          ..         .
L0VEST 40 PERCZEN  01 HOUSZEOLDS    ..          ..
POVERTY TARGET GIOUPS
ESTIMATED ALSOLUT  POVERTY INCME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ....                   ..262Q.5
RURAL                               ..          ..      140.0                140.4                   I90.8
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVEUT INCCU
LEVEL (U0S PU CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..       90.0                202.1                   474.0
RURAL                               ..          ..       87.0                122.2                   332.5
ESTIMATED POPUATION BEW  ABSOLUTE
POVE1TT INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URIAN                               ..          ..         ..                 22.1
RURAL                               ..           ..      20.0                 33.1
Not available
Not applicable.
POlES
/a  rhe Sroup averages for _ch  nIdCIatOr re poplsation-segbti   d arItbtaec am..  Coerage of comtrieg
o_g the indicators depends on availabilit of dare and to net uniform.
/b   Unless othervise noted, data for 1960 refer to any yewr betwe  1959 and 1961; for 1970  betawee  1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate betwen 1974 snd 1978.
/c   Birth and decth rates erg crud. estimet-.  The netural rate of increase does not agree with oboorv7d
population growth rate; /d percent of opullation; /a age 10 year. an over.
Most recent estlat. of GNP per capita ia for 1979, *11 other data r-e as of April.  1960.
October, 190



- 20-                                                                     ANNEX I
Page 3 off 5
DEFINITONS OF SOCIAL.trorS
Inter.  Althoug.h she date errocanon                                   I,'eegnral   jde  the tireo ial  n    elbe,i-hedea  le oored t has they sa rch  Iltlr-
taetnalyrrpaehoebecuseof  he   athf   Isadrie    e  ntaeadrret    sdhrdlffees  owtete  Ir coi tite  t he d---.  Th. data are, oa..-
NIels...e.. cefo1 to decrbecrer  nIagludl t  <t                      rda, end ohersoreire  certaf  aej- dofferercee             ... h ...e..cu.ti..
ThrfrI        euoper    l   ceeooteuorrhubierr-oouittyred  (201~..  l tutrgtrrtcaseht   iteaetg    Oc-tethosetygr-
latha'lf  fteceflaI                nnbedt  fo  tatinicto.    lne  h  onrerag .ihl.duriten    t  Irhe,ditoedetd  atth                                      'talh. lti
data  ad Isitutiora,   sutir  atet he---- eneol d atrltadccgeo   a   tlaotaibe                                ht  attie   ere rty!"   usflOboaaig  h    su
ofoteOtodioaorratstieeeenaetecouotryeridreOe--r-e htn-pe
Log  Dfi(rooea   soe)                                                                 orta tt  ecF  osclt    Fcut itellod od                   fee  1   estttt  pty
Intel- Totl autace  rea ceoro lag  and aea aid lrleod   aicc  .  ettasa   uailisd  fos a  edlol achol siutinheiteleve
MrtduItuel       IInter  i   gic,     uroerscadtacrrlyo  cra..tp                               eulterFeNuan.Faen    FFlaitdbiedb  tae aIdett
forrne,petora,aretcdkioetgader  otoiealln;dO daa.             alsafealeeauaerorea,pertca  teresa                             P,  b   -Idaaesenea.
... ......                        :efatn  tedanrl  e     ttl   ee   admel-Faeete    tea.
an  hnc.perose,rauelga   adhyn-  toes  cdgethrl                             ae-            cuee  a   aetnlycafdb      pylts(u  by...    ad sedtri                    sss t
teoty   It.tP gr,sP      t       -os   kbotlertper l. arit   lII, 19l00,  Lo 9700..             unse   Pisle,ec)  bc2ftrin-ttee    rdtiea   gad 
data.                                                                                             lImited Feege of ceirl  ailtIs                 FeetetaIna   Peeee  sebeeh beer-
F    byLAt . .P   ....... iAfi lhC d Iospitels  laid-neirural bynahitse  u I adca  sa                                                                          N.aelyce
Tra   iultn,ti-ctItlitl     eo  JulyB Z                  17   2 (t,,I  790   ia   19605,       adivoens   nadl  e italtne    f  dlea    N  at d.-iatt1egee
dae                                                                                         fidns boeptal  lidd bytep        ~     ro   es
difGfereUMTs eiUttloEa  ofIT uransne  say. elfei   cobparahiity  of daa                      ffhSl
aeetgontrrles    900. liy. ati  978 daa.                Onarse liaeof Oouabnld leranaa  ar                    yetuahridl 1-betel. leb ha - a   eci-I
Iaultbo      loit                              ....eeoldca...e.o  a --1  a.pt jdvielaeiaaieslith-ertr
fdae      ppuatl   byaeadar  i   cIn    raity;  etdtet0 lt 197                 atee.97         th    oncol   o          at tiftio   by rroa. p"l-(.   y.-i.                  J
fertiity aoordtg to  iococ  leAe cod rer  aly 1   90 r 1a 70to   .ef.d c.       ,oetlebiit   rreto d978T                  iaal    ate d     ~.i rtt. ad earalg 
teb   outf  I  teneelgedat  o  tes  nreoubta Insofentelt         Canrtbaalde11laseth   lerec tyIthiia daecr  a  errate
andfetIit   -trei ..r.            rjett ELurofe.                                               n   meapl, uj,  anidd rura  dthilitgbreepattbue
Itabinnay eor blstn d-Itaeso yr ff-   -PutO. there          ty an  donh.eoc
Paneinetayt   Thi0 Ia aCh_iee   onlp.  aftec f-r-i I rIsa    eln   O                    dutdtrl t  t:erna
the rcrlaceeert lvel of itit tel rproinctint. cute   bet  so  getralo        Fn her  echro  -o Al. .alc ed, re           dle-ros   toal  -ble sadjteals
eatbeated  ot the hast  ofte- rjctdil      roy   lrc   n          copolathir             p     -ies d t foo-a     pooltnt;otp      ll   aceaatilca  sd 
alas hee heeorsschrd.                              d. I1
fee.h9  Is   . aeiutoo-  larsd    he foptd  eeoe  o           giclue  levl-oldt.                                         -- fd1i.
Furleto  Iroeh ltate-            II,o t  -dttlh -.. indsua I gtnh rte  oftte    ei-        ED rAIsaNyedarndylneatoddbtbfeotaheaics
year Fupelattuas ftc  iNhi-Ni, INNI-(0. ard  1971-79.                             onrresyntdtte levels.g--iP  Ad-.t.  E.l11-. ~ cw
lei-oIon 190th,  ibO-l. , hti itOO.aecrerr    f  oP                                                                           dltpplto   ae   5pa                      f n    v
paplthne  191.o97,  sad19               --dta  ch-itic-yIthspeotot                                                                                      .-. ...~f                t
ieta erru ci             d ter-iereg   f ou-aber  fl da I_er  e touarr all1  tear So           all irany oshlo
rI  t   er;coiy0irot  crgcao  c 0ll,l ll,ut I.h77l-ffS
h ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~ru                                  -hratogeie  rut.l to1perdb-o-stad  ofppeain;solds   ut
Pfhtrtt-ckntroidtoy...idraecoc                 -efrnocol-  lunol-   ltov                    .r.rs  to talec .. ,dsaoresityer tpttc yrllei-                            ceac
all nerciad asset..p.Ir uets.-cur  ornP.gcr,,ebocfa  touanIpFOj-Ot  eoidseuoloess   Strester
btdeu o   mod Frdoctin   rsn cadre lih7-llh) --       Ire f-o  pe  cd  Ieay     rl          in  of  daiy  gterl ltenatascPape  dl-ette   a. e  sendne  Fde
ratiova   eceseg  crodocr pric lro.htn   AOt-il ..,h  -. ari    -ldo-i               Ard.I enbileor.ire.e.(bl  1    -                                          ,i-
-ar h1 t0c  necolo ho otoit(Arocri1of    b:ri-oicc             -..            d-.,Ifttoorrpc..i.   ,d 
erreruct voloal9vofve   foducc Isad 11h7                  o  .src tro.piri                  .ubcIrtIOt
(c dy-   c llob  .It  at dln   coosI.u  dyat..rd..o,...i t-                        T7j  ao    oo  yhue.e  -hoolely  olepror    aida
ftrostv.uodchotueeivetoor.   Ireteuclh pee.lche...lsit  ford,  irco,.~
hocushoid  lend;  iti-hI. 1970, ar   1007 dat .                                  Mtlultueff-ordtt)  1- labo-frc   i  feig    fotety,bsia   end
If  hlld-b ... I.,  ge (IS-44 Y-1.)                               frhtog  e pereatageofhtotl labodfort; ISNI  itlibeA-i-i  dabs
quirinetr  on  li  ounroereathilbedhr  110provde  orgAt...t197   atd               li1918 data.e -I.    Pi, ..    
tOOD lanaRITON f9   ru   rrrlroer   e   a   t   igeco   tra   t                                 atoet         dar  I. ..r...t   total sale   andfa la-ar                      ..riao
trite lf    nen   of dP- a-ichpe II trati  hul  b  e196971 ta0   pr l. ..ete etnd- .....raeIe   rtrtdust                                     la    n   eml   ao "mtorca p--
aelcars  lnescthaoohte  otlb  g-asdoetona   cr1ycioetdlltrdarP
Ya..,oet  teucaa   o   h    nll   rtrdh -Airise   Id                                   eotege  i ttl,elgadfeae   oudro   it..                     all..tag...  cpn ey
hnl   rdhre;litihi,  97  And 1977datai.                                             190-17.so   05Iae-Teear   ll    alO-    nltrta   slets
Pe ooie  roet ecitfrg  titlat    ilurFfier   epl        fodde         ae-e  etor.r.        e  tha C pnpltlot, aYi..,a  tis       ,rs.  A fe  Peti
Ps'.I~~~~~~~~~~~ssar    tuatossooa
rbredfto   eiucieat  pute   i  grs   er  ay191-A,  97  so  107  at.              rotsi Oszaety tti   -tato  f pposttt  ods I  ad  I ed-vd
chld(ae  1-4)L totliytt   rnthuad      noldatsrttrzn    t                                        t  tettll tfrs
sge  rou I'1-4 far.I he0 fldrtichagseu;fr -oat de-lor-w, t
-p-e dat  de-id     fuele  tbes;   -i,p197-  sd INTO d- sa.                               tt-digtlI -,E.O
Pecnag   f    -nnt   .ac.. dhos  inc- b end t.I.d  -..ct.d.        rtha
ofag dp t toesn   l"        pp..ice -fth.                                                     etcaedAttlt-Fusrr-nomebeell-lenosto   - r                                  -edre l-
Aceht   aeAtr(eoa rif t1orulad19a7 I--ttl-                  rta.    a  rrl-0                 AhnS     t   porylem   tace  i.  ha  ro--c Iee    ea   hc      tte
Nuhco   eple I ttl,uf        a,an,riadIih   esaele aceet  sate.                           Indxutrtrta-lyefaut  da   lu    sertlne-Lbfqorateb
taerseh s- ha I      ran pttete   tren-c,spbc,   en s2 atert  elle f         -              Eslend edtn Frosat  (cran Lee   i)te    aie   pi- aa                       ad  ne -
bld. eecoerariulhlec1  tha  the hocet i .. oI  -e het  f  he                                etl  tt    ad7 etNErdlidt  -ot  f  loa   itott  ea
do too  bane to  epetdaditpnnrorilooare  Fartpl. sO -tre 1ic   It  esIty  obd       andd.  I rura  I--Feoa  of- papu-aIna(ra   a    ta)tnasa lt    or
dIIIpdel. as-pe dnetecsn I btcest          I  depplaoa    te9 rse I         t-                                                  toNsO   sadItSTl Isa IdIOAs
pnslma   Ioldeab  cllctonan  uapea.  ts  o  tttonrsnett                            eiaei  eal'ae  edFrjeti   apPt=                 e
MA huaIK     oretandset-teecr-tsnb-.oohteneu    -rha,e odhrehed                                                                                                           - li
IIb,  trnteardBilahc           -.  baeieotAy.l...b,f..    flf                   11,l..t2                                               -         0ld =



ANNEX I
- 21 -                                   Page 4 of
PDRY: ECONOMTC INDICATORS
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
1978
USS mln       _
GNP at market prices                      792          100
Gross Domestic Investment                 240           30
Grcss National Savings                    171           22
Exports of goods & NFS                     93           12  Annual Rate of Growth (x!
Imports of goods & NFS                    427           54       (constant prices)
1973-78           1978
GDP at factor cost                        497          100        7              14
of which:
Agriculture & Fisheries               78          16        3              -1
Industry 2/                           62          12       10              27
Infrastrtcture 3/                    126          25       16              12
Trade, Real Estate, Finance          124          25        7               3
Other Services                       107          22        4              14
GOVEPNMIENT FINANCE
(in millions Yemeni Dinars)               1974/75 4-  1975       1976   1977    1978
Total receipts Ž1                         23.1       17.0      32.1   43.4    56.0
Current expenditures                      27.6       25.6      39.2   47.4    61.4
Curtent deficit                           -4.5       -8.6      -7.1   -4.0    -5.4
Development expenditures                  20.7       19.1      39.2   56.9    59.9
Overall deficit                          -25.2      -27.7    -46.3  -60.9   -65.3
Borrowing from Banking System             11.4       10.1      15.6   18.5    17.4
Ocher Assets and Accounts                -15.0       12.5      -2.0   -1.4    -6.7
External Financing                        28.8        5.1      32.7   43.8    54.6
MONEY AND CREDIT                             1974       1975     1976   1977    1978    1979
(million Y.D., Outstanding,  end Period)
Money and quasi-money                       55        67        98      140      168      217
Bank credit to Government                  24         37        62       72       87     110
Bank credit to non-Gov't. Sector -         19         24        31       49       59      61
1/ Provisional.
2/ Includes petroleum refining and mining.
31 Includes electricity and water, construction, transport and communications.
41 The fiscal year was April I-March 31 until March 31, 1975 when it became April 1-
December 31, 1975 and thereafter is on a calendar year basis.
5/ Includes current & development revenues fromn domestic sources and self-financing
of public enterprises.
6/  Includes the change in the Balance of the Development Fund (- - increase).
7/  Includes public sector agencies.



- 22 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (US$ million)        1974   1975   1976   1977   1978
Exports '1                                   8      8      26      25      18
Imports /1                               -190   -179   -268   -364   -387
Trade Deficit                            -182   -171   -242   -339   -369
Non-factor Services, net                    22      17     24      18      17
Factor Services, net                        48     59    122    187    265
Workers' Remittances                    (41)   (56)  (115)  (180)  (258)
Investment Income                       (7)    (3)    (7)    (7)    (7)
Current Account Deficit                  -112    -95    -96   -134    -87
Official Transfers                           1     10      46      55      36
Official M & LT Capital, net                60     47      72      70      94
Gross Disbursements                    (60)   (48)   (74)   (71)   (95)
Repayments                               (-)   (-l)   (-2)   (-1)   (-1)
Miscellaneous Capital (Incl. errors
& omissions)                            43      25              28     43
Change in Offfcial Reserves
(- w increase)                           8      13    -27    -19    -86
Memo Item:
Gross Official Reserves (end year)          68     55      82    101    187
DERCHANMIlSE EXPORTS                               Average 1977-78
USS Million Percent
Fish & Fish Pr^ducts                             12          60
Agricultural                                      5          25
Industrial              -                         1           5
Other                                             2          10
20         100
EXTERNAL DEBT (DECEMBER 31, 1979)                US$ Million
External Public Debt Outstanding                   915
Of which:  Disbursed                             372
Debt Service Payments in 1979                         5
Debt Service Ratio (Exports of Goods   2/
and Services, Including Remittances) -           1.4 Percent
RATE OF EXCHANGE
Prior to December 1971              As of December 1971          From February, 2973 todate
US$ 1.00- YD 0.42                   US$ 1.00- YD 0.38             US$ 1.00   0.34
YD 1.00 - US$ 2.40                  YD 1.00 - US$ 2.61            YD 1.00 - US$ 2.90
/1   Net of re-exports.
/2   Based on preliminary estimates of exports of goods and services.
April 19, 1980



- 23 -
ANNEX II!
Page 1 of 6 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
IN THE PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
A. statement of IDA Credits
(As of March 31, 1981)
-   Million ----
Amount
Credit                                                                (less cancellations)
No.           Year    Borrower        Purpose                       IDA      Undisbursed
Two credits fully disbursed                                          5.1
370-1 YDR       1973       PDRY       Fisheries                      1.6             .03
494-  YDR       1975       PDRY       Education I                    5.4            0.8
560-  YDR       1975       PDRY       Highways II                   15.5            1.4
584-  YDR       1976       PDRY       Aden Port Rehabilitation    3.2               0.9
615-  YDR       1976       PDRY       Wadi Hadramawt Agric. Proj  7.0               1.3
768-  YDR       1978       PDRY       Wadi Tuban Agric. Proj         5.2            3.9
829-  YDR       1978       PDRY       Power                          5.0            3.5
865-  YDR       1978       PDRY       Education II                   4.0            4.0
932-  YDR       1979       PDRY       Fisheries II                  10.0           10.0
1038- YDR       1980       PDRY       Aden Water Supply             13.2           12.4
1050- YDR       1980       PDRY       Petroleum Dev. Assistance   9.0               8.9
Total                                   84.2            47.13
of which has been repaid
Total now held by IDA                   84.2
Total undisbursed                                       47.13
NOTE; Exchange adjustment not included.
1/    This Annex II is identical to those in the President's Reports
for the proposed Wadi Beihan Agricultural Development and Al Mukalla
Water Supply Rehabilitation Projects.



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 6 pages
C. Projects in Execution 1/
CR. No. 370-YDR        Fisheries Project:  $3.5 million Credit of April 12,
1973; Effective Date: February 14, 1974; and $1.6
million Supplementary Credit of February 6, 1975;
Effectiveness Date: February 14, 1974; Closing Date:
September 30, 1981
The project is now nearing completion. The major component, the fish
cold store and freezing facility at Mukalla became operational, after a
two-year delay, in June 1978. The delay was primarily due to the difficulties
encountered in tinding a suitable project manager and cost overruns requiring
supplemental financing, which was approved by the Association in January
1975. The smaller receiving station at Shibr is now fully operational, and
the 100 fishing vessels financed under the credit have all been delivered.
CR. No. 494-YDR        Education I Project:  $5.4 million Credit Approved July
12, 1974; Effectiveness Date: February 5, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
This credit is assisting the Government in making qualitative
improvements in the educational system and in meeting priority manpower
needs. Implementation is proceeding satisfactorily but is about two years
behind appraisal estimate due to (i) initial delays in declaring the credit
effective and in the negotiations of contracts with UNESCO and the consultant
architects; (ii) more recent delays arising from curricula revisions affecting
design completion; and (iii) shortages of labor and materials which have
delayed construction. Five of the ten institutions, including two previously
completed extensions, were ready for the 1980-81 academic year. The remaining
institutions are expected to be completed by mid 1981. About 95 percent of
the equipment has been received, and together with furniture, is being
delivered and installed in project institutions as they are completed. To
permit final disbursements for construction and to allow the technical
assistance program to operate using credit funds, the Closing Date has been
extended to December 31, 1981.
CR. No. 560-YDR        Second Highway Project;  $15.5 million Credit of June 20,
1975; Effectiveness Date: September 17, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982.
This project is financed jointly with the Kuwait Fund for Arab Econo-
Development. Since international competitive bidding for the construction
element of the project produced no responsible bids, arrangements were made
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



-2-
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6 pages
for the works to be carried out by a government construction unit which is
assisted by the UK Crown Agents. Because of the remoteness of the project
area and the concomitant logistic problems, the severe shortage of domestic
skilled manpower and the lower than expected output from construction
equipment due to particularly harsh construction conditions, implementation of
the civil works is about three years behind appraisal estimates. However,
considering these difficulties, construction of the road (358 km) started in
March 1976 is making satisfactory progress and is approximately 60 percent
complete. Likewise, total project cost is now estimated to be about 25
percent over the appraisal estimate as a result of the extra quantities of
rock that had to be excavated, the additional drainage and protective works
needed because of floods and the general increase in the price of construction
equipment and materials. Construction and road maintenance equipment have
been procured. Consultants (Dorsch-Germany) have completed the economic
studies and the final engineering of the Naqabah-Beihan roads. Consultants
(Sotechni-Italy) have completed the technical assistance component and the
overseas training program has been completed with six Yemeni engineers having
completed 9-12 months training courses (4 in the UK and 2 in West Germany).
The project is expected to be completed by December 1982.
CR. No. 584-YDR       Aden Port Rehabilitation Project:  $3.2 million Credit of
September 8, 1975; Effectiveness Date: February 3,
1976; Closing Date: March 31, 1982
The project which is being cofinanced by the Arab Fund for Economic
and Social Development is assisting the PDRY Government in rehabilitating the
port of Aden to reattract traffic passing through the reopened Suez Canal.
The project provides for (a) the procurement of floating craft, cargo-
handling, workshop and navigation equipment, spares and stocks; (b) rehabili-
tation of the slipway for the National Dockyard Company; and (c) technical
assistance. All equipment except some navigational items have been received
and most are already in use, although there has been a substantial delay in
the rehabilitation of the slipway. A cost accountant and a marine engineer
have been appointed. There was a savings of $850,000 in the purchase of
floating craft and IDA has agreed that this can be used to purchase containers
handling equipment required for the port.
CR. No. 615-YDR       Wadi Hadramawt Agricultural Project:  $7.0 million Credit
of April 22, 1976; Effectiveness Date: September 16,
1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project aims at increasing agricultural production on about 8,100
ha of irrigated land in the Wadi through the adoption of improved cultural
practices and the provision of agricultural equipment and supplies, cons-
truction of feeder roads and extension services. It also includes provision
for a date packing plant and a rural water supply component, and funds for a
hydrogeological survey and feasibility study for increased groundwater use.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 6 pages
The date packing plant has been completed, the rural road component is
progressing satisfactorily, but the pace of village water supply works has
been slow. The hydrogeological survey and feasibility study have since been
completed and form the basis for a second phase project aiming at intensi-
fication of irrigation on about 3,700 ha.
Initial problems, with staff recruitment and retention, delayed
execution of the project by about two years. High cost of labor, inefficient
tractor services, marketing restrictions, and pricing policy of the agricul-
tural produce have been impediments to increased production. Government has
recently taken steps to improve its agricultural pricing and subsidy policy,
and has also contracted a consultant's study (financed under Credit No. 768-
YDR/Wadi Tuban Agricultural Project) on agricultural prices, taxation and
subsidy with a view to improving these policies. The increased availability
of the agricultural machinery purchased under the project and improvement in
pricing and marketing policy of the agricultural produce would assist in
achieving the project's objectives.
CR. No. 768-YDR       Wadi Tuban Agricultural Project:    $5.2 million Credit
of March 22, 1978; Effectiveness Date: April 25, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project seeks to improve agricultural production on cooperatives
and state farms through an increased use of inputs, improved practices and the
construction of an improved groundwater irrigation network. Inputs and farm
machinery are to be provided through credit. An expatriate project manager is
under recruitment but all other technical assistance staff is now on post. A
water management study is nearing completion and an agricultural prices,
taxation and subsidy policy study is underway. Construction of a village
water supply scheme is well advanced and survey work for feeder roads was
started. The Arab Fund, which cofinances this project, approved its loan of
$6.1 million in February 1980. With a total area of 7,000 ha, the project has
36,000 principal beneficiaries, while the water supply scheme would benefit
about 6,000 persons.
CR. No. 829-YDR       Wadi Hadramawt Power Project:  $5.0 million Credit of
July 14, 1978; Effectiveness Date: September 18, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project is providing an impetus to agricultural development in
Wadi Hadramawt by electrifying all irrigation water pumping in the Wadi
through the erection of a 16-MW diesel generating plant and the construction
of about 1,000 km of related transmission and distribution networks.
Institution-building objectives would be achieved through technical assistance
comprising training of the power company's (PCEP) personnel, and consultants'
services for a tariff study, and a power development study. Soil testing of
the project site has been completed, the contract for equipment and materials
has been awarded and erection of the plant, although one year behind schedule
because of skilled manpower shortages, is underway. The tariff study is
completed and discussions with Government on implementation of its
recommendations as well as on the power company's manpower development program
are at an advanced stage.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 6 pages
CR. No. 865-YDR       Education II Project:  $4.0 million Credit Approved
December 14, 1978; Effectiveness Date: June 18, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project will assist the Government in establishing three
vocational training centers (VTCs) which would be the forerunner of VTCs to be
constructed in other parts of the country to train urgently needed skilled and
semi-skilled workers. The project consists of construction of an industrial,
an agricultural and a commercial training center, and the procurement of
furniture and equipment. Arrangements for fellowships to be financed from
bilateral funds have been completed. Construction of the commercial VTC in
Mukalla started in June 1980, about 11 months behind the appraisal estimate
due to delays in designs and tender, and is now expected to be completed in
Summer 1982. With IDA's approval, two existing schools are being converted
into agricultural and industrial VTCs in lieu of constructing two new VTCs.
These conversions should be completed by mid-1982. Furniture and equipment
are under acquisition. Satisfactory curricula have been developed.
CR. No. 932-YDR       Fisheries II Project:  $10.0 million Credit and $3
million EEC Special Action Credit of August 10, 1979;
Effectiveness Date: April 3, 1981; Closing Date: June
30, 1987
The project seeks to increase income and economic well being in the
Sixth Governorate, which is one of the poorest and most remote regions of
PDRY, and consists of the construction of a fisheries-cum-general cargo port
together with supporting infrastructure at Nishtun; the construction of fish
receiving, processing and storage facilities together with the development of
an efficient system for exploiting fish; and the construction of a 19 km road
to provide a link between the new port and the nine fishing villages which
would supply fish under the project. The project also includes technical
assistance comprising consultants' services to assist with project implemen-
tation and operation; experts to assist the Ministry of Fish Wealth in fleet
management, cold store operations and export marketing; and a national study
to assess nutritional deficiencies for a possible future IDA-financed
project. Bids were invited for the construction of the port and related shore
facilities, were opened on April 7 and are now being evaluated. Construction
is expected to get underway within the next 6 months.   The Government has
appointed the project manager, who is a well qualified individual.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 6 pages
CR. No. 1038-YDR       Aden Water Supply Project:  $13.2 million Credit of July
11, 1980; Effectiveness Date: March 27, 1981; Closing
Date; December 31, 1985
The project, which constitutes the first construction stage of a
long-term water supply master plan, seeks to increase the critically short
supply of potable water, and meet the maximum demand up to 1987, in Aden, the
capital and largest urban area in PDRY, and to rehabilitate the existing
system which is fast deteriorating. It provides for the expansion of the
distribution network into the poorer districts of Greater Aden to allow
low-income residents to be directly connected to the public system. The
project also provides for technical assistance aimed at improving PWC's
management capability. Initial implementation proceeding satisfactorily.
CR. No. 1050-YDR       Petroleum Development Assistance Project:  $9.0 million
Credit of July 11, 1980; Effectiveness Date; November
19, 1980; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
The project is supporting the Government's efforts to intensify the
search for indigenous oil/gas reserves and assist in improving its planning of
the petroleum subsector by strengthening the Petroleum Exploration
Department's (PED) capacity to carry out and supervise geophysical surveys and
interpret their results. It includes (a) a 15-montb seismic survey to provide
a loose grid of key reconnaissance seismic profiles over a large portion of
the onshore area prospective for petroleum and natural gas in PDRY; and
(b) technical assistance to PED for project management services, data
evaluation to promote exploration acreage to foreign investors, and training
of PED's staff. The primary objective is to uncover prospects sufficiently
attractive to oil companies to undertake exploration in PDRY. Initial
implementation proceeding satisfactorily.



- 29 
ANNEX III
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:  Timetable of Key Events
(a)    Time taken by country to prepare              4 years, 6 months (April
project                                         1976 to October 1980)
(b)    Agency responsible for preparation            Ministry of Construction
(c)    First Bank mission to consider project    July 1977
(d)    Appraisal missions                            June 1978, and
October 1980
(e)    Negotiations completed                        April, 1981
(f)    Credit effectiveness                          By December, 1981
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
No special actions needed.
Section III: Special Conditions in the Credit Agreement
1.     Conditions of Effectiveness
(i)    the signing of the Kuwait Fund loan agreement (para. 50);
(ii)   the effectiveness of the OPEC Fund loan agreement (para. 50); and
(iii)  Government to enter into a contract with the independent
construction unit which is satisfactory to IDA (para. 51).
2.     The Borrower has agreed to:
(i)    take the necessary measures to ensure that the dimensions and axle
loads of vehicles using the Borrower's roads do not exceed limits
consistent with the road's design standards (para. 34);
(ii)   construct the project road in accordance with a program that
includes design standards agreed with IDA (para. 42); and
(iii)  provide adequate working capital and equipment for the independent
construction unit (ICU) (para. 51).






___________________________                                                                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD 13831R
I                                                                      )~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oANRYIS
l ~ ~      ~        ~        ~ ~            * - PEPW               or4cAT aPa   OF. YEME   .                                                    7L:2 -:2 '                             - ::nc4.>t,e'M-   
-W                                    A AT                  RNPR                             IIIQIl¼?S
"    mIll,  ASIA~P    m
Q                   .                                                                ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~vr   . l-
1  ---;-,21-
YE' 4oV~S  ARASCAN SP                                                      a  -,                                        P'
_K. \ 0 f d d , t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ T  . a P;';z^t, =;  E 7    =      . <tTt          ;=.     '.'     - -, .  -   . ~:. =  ~
M'LES-'o  2y)              '~J                     .' '
ls,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Xw          j-Y/       aura,   .                                                                                Sh 08R
t r
Chior
A-  :                                        0                                        9Th                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AL GHEIDAH
~~~P                                                              Haur ~~~~/  Ul     brT                                   Qisu
/ oOshabwahsh i
5:- :~AIPPA  Nuqub/  -Gauh  AMATQsn
Ki                                                               Bir Jl;iyGh I/SHABWA aW                                                                               P   RO  QAS FOR CONSTRUCTION
I44dw~~~~o                    sihun ~~~~~.       Atoq                                                                        ____  PRIMAARY ASPHALT ROADS
N isat          Khgmer                      Mu  I       anu_ c r                                   ASPHALT ROaDS UNDER CONSTRUCTION
As stma.,         Azzon            Burum ----------  48'   50-                      _ . _   PAVEL ROADS BOUNDERCONSTRUCTION
." i"  eiffo'ah                                             - - - - - -     TRACKS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  !AN RCK 
140                                                              ua a                                                                                                    W
-~~~    Lawdor  /  -  S*r All ~~~~~~~~~~~~~AGRICULTURAL AREAS
ABYAN       4AyI.ITRAINLARRT
:2~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~-                                                                                                           AIRTP! I5EIIO SCHEDULED FLIGHTS
C        Sip  ~~                -. Duk   ..       ShU5~KM INOHR PORT
c'-~~~ TU BAr'1 ~~Zirjtar                      G        ZF O        A      EN......GOVERNORAT~E BOU:NDAFIIES
/%trAIs                                                                                                 S~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ GoVERNORATE CAPITALS
4400   ~~~~~N               41141151l                                                                                     -.- ITERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES






IBRD  15175
TURKEY\   >                  iU.                                                                                                                     50.                                                                       AUGUST 1980
L FS2' RE                                                       PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
tSRAEL~< IRAQ\. I R AN                  20'ID -SSSEDB                                                                                                                                                                               20'
IDA-ASSISTED PROJECTS BY SECTOR
r; NEUTRuS~'~ A,TT                                                 PROJECTS
Gulf    - E A H E A 1 N                          Agriculture
ARE os   SAUD[    %.AE(r             - -                             4.     Fisheries
-    X ~    ARABIA    j  §/;:\;  \::Petroleum  Exploration Assistance
SUDAN                       ;         SEA - .  Education                                                                                                                               '
SEVAIA                                      Highways 
JEtHIOPIA  -                                  *      ~~~~~~~~~~~~Power Statior,s7
Tr-nsmission  Lines                                                                                           a                        O M       A     N
U  Water Scipply                                                                                   s
'I     Port Development                                 /                      -
fA    fts  ,_-,    7-/Is                   1I
<r    j  ~~HGHAYSMHTEA1LIU ISl 197
>1\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5                                                                    Sir i ir URsURV i
55EE, ;                                                                                                          \  l   w__ n^tadorie
FISHERIES 1                    1973                                                                    V 
t6~~~~~ ~EDUCATION I                              1975
HIGHWAYS II                    1975                                                                                                                          A
ADEN PORT REHABILITATION       1970                                                                                                                                           istu
WADI HADRAMOUTAGRICULTURE    1T
WAOt TUBASAGRICULTURE           1976
WAI DARAMOUTPOWER            tots
WATCEHRNSUPPLY ENGINEERING &    1978
THICAL ASSISTANCE
EDUCTIO   I17                                                                                                                                                              EXISTING FEATURES:
PETROILEUM DEVELOPMENT         IOS                                                                                                                                 10      Governarate Capitals
ASIEN WATER SUPPLY             1990                                                                                                                                        Ntoa    dio
F'fM E N  ARAB REF,                                                                                                                                                       Primary______I
V                                                                                  - - - -  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Governorate Boundaries
Inteseaitioal Boundaries
KrshKLM'TA
SftO.nd.ntO,rmflsu.,50p0  .aaooO.E 0ASASOba4iEO
46                                                                             5 



