                                  Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                     Report No: ICR 495




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                 (IBRD-45090)




                                     ON A

                                     LOAN

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 44.5 MILLION
                                       TO

                                   ROMANIA

                                    FOR A

             MINE CLOSURE AND SOCIAL MITIGATION PROJECT




                                  June 29, 2007




Sustainable Development Department
South East Europe Country Department
Europe and Central Asia

            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

      (Exchange Rate Effective - October 31, 2006)


          Currency Unit = Romanian New Leu (Plural Lei)
              RON 1.00 = US$ 0.42
              US$ 1.00 = RON 2.36


                   FISCAL YEAR
              January 1 ­ December 31

        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
CGMC         Central Group for Mine Closures
INS          National Institute for Statistics
IT           Information Technology
GOR          Government of Romania
MCSMP        Mines Closure and Social Mitigation Project
MEC          Ministry of Economics and Trade
MIS          Management Information System
MLSS         Ministry of Labor and Social Solidarity
MOWFEP       Ministry of Water, Forests and Environmental Protection
MOIC         Ministry of Industry and Commerce
NAD; AZM     National Agency for Development and Implementation of the
             Programs for Reconstruction of the Mining Regions
NAMR         National Agency for Mineral Resources
NIS          National Institute for Statistics
PIU          Project Implementation Unit
QPR          Quarterly Progress Report of NAD
TMCP         Technical Mine Closure Plan
REPA         Romanian Environment Protection Agency
RSDF         Romania Social Development Fund
SDS          Social Development Strategy
PIP          Public Information Point
SEA          Sector Environmental Assessment
SMEs         Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises

                Vice President:        Shigeo Katsu
             Country Director:         Anand Seth
              Sector Manager:          Maninder Gill
            Task Team Leader:          Mark Woodward

                                              ROMANIA

           MINE CLOSURE AND SOCIAL MITIGATION PROJECT




                                  TABLE OF CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 9
 3. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................... 14
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 19
 6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 21
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 22
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 23
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 24
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 29
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 32
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 34
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 36
 Annex 7. Borrower's ICR ............................................................................................. 37
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 59
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 61
 MAP

A. Basic Information

                                                                     Mine Closure & Social
Country:                Romania               Project Name:
                                                                     Mitigation Project
Project ID:             P056337               L/C/TF Number(s):      IBRD-45090
ICR Date:               06/29/2007            ICR Type:              Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     SIL                   Borrower:              ROMANIA
Original Total
                        USD 44.5M             Disbursed Amount:      USD 44.5M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
Ministry of Economy and Commerce
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date            Process          Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review:        11/18/1997    Effectiveness:         01/27/2000        01/27/2000
Appraisal:             03/01/1999    Restructuring(s):                        10/24/2003
Approval:              08/31/1999    Mid-term Review:       11/14/2005        10/20/2001
                                     Closing:               06/30/2005        10/31/2006


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Highly Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                  Moderate
Bank Performance:                             Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                         Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings              Borrower                Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory          Government:            Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory          Implementing
                                              Agency/Agencies:       Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                  Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory          Performance:           Satisfactory


C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                              QAG Assessments
      Performance              Indicators             (if any)              Rating

Potential Problem Project No                  Quality at Entry
                                                                    None
at any time (Yes/No):                         (QEA):


                                              i

Problem Project at any                       Quality of
                         No                                      None
time (Yes/No):                               Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                         Highly Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                           Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                             7                   7
Micro- and SME finance                                      16                  26
Mining and other extractive                                 61                  41
Other social services                                       16                  26


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Environmental policies and institutions                   Secondary         Secondary
Improving labor markets                                    Primary            Primary
Public expenditure, financial management and
                                                           Primary            Primary
procurement
Regulation and competition policy                         Secondary         Secondary
Social risk mitigation                                     Primary            Primary


E. Bank Staff
        Positions                      At ICR                      At Approval
Vice President:          Shigeo Katsu                    Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:        Anand K. Seth                   Andrew N. Vorkink
Sector Manager:          Maninder S. Gill                Hinderikus Busz
Project Team Leader:     Mark C. Woodward                John E. Strongman
ICR Team Leader:         Mark C. Woodward
ICR Primary Author:      Bekim Imeri



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The development objective of the project is to support the Governments efforts to reduce
the burden on the national budget by permanently closing uneconomic mines in a socially
and environmentally sustainable manner and to provide support to the modernization of
the sector's administrative framework. This objective would be achieved through support
for the following three components:(i) closure of 29 uneconomic mines and the
environmental remediation of mine sites; (ii) financing of social mitigation initiatives to



                                            ii

help diversify the local economy in support of the Governments restructuring program for
the mining sector; and (iii) technical and institutional assistance for modernizing the
administration of mineral rights

  The project aims at:(i) developing effective procedures for a technically and
environmentally sound approach to the formal closure of uneconomic mines, (ii)
identification of measures that would be most effective in mitigating the social hardships
resulting from the restructuring of the sector, and assistance in creating diversified
employment opportunities for redundant labor, and (iii) strengthening the agencies
involved in restructuring the sector and introducing a modern mining licensing system.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)




(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target      Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value         Values (from        Revised        Achieved at
                                              approval          Target        Completion or
                                             documents)         Values         Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Number of mines closed and environmentally remediated
Value
quantitative or 0                        29                                31
Qualitative)
Date achieved 05/01/1999                 06/30/2005                        10/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 2 :   Amount of budget subsidies for production, capital investment and exploration
Value                                                       US$100         US$80 million in
quantitative or US$144 million in 1999.                                    2005 not inccludig
Qualitative)                                                million        redundancies
Date achieved 05/01/1999                                    06/30/2005     12/31/2005
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 3 :   Number of jobs created/sustained by the project
Value
quantitative or 0                                           20,000         21.600
Qualitative)
Date achieved 05/01/1999                                    06/30/2005     06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 4 :   Amount of budget subsidies for voluntary redundancies, social mitigation, mine
                closures and environmental remediation
Value           0                                           US$50 million US$83 million


                                              iii

quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved 05/31/1999                                      06/30/2005    12/31/2005
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 5 :   Progress in the implementation of a modern mining licensing system (a) Legal
                Study, (b) Mining Cadastre and Minerals Title Registry
Value
quantitative or 0                         Completion by                     Completed
Qualitative)                              Sep 30, 2003

Date achieved 05/01/1999                  09/30/2003                        09/30/2003
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target      Formally       Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value          Values (from                      Achieved at
                                               approval          Revised      Completion or
                                             documents)       Target Values    Target Years

Indicator 1 :   Establishment of a national agency for the closure of uneconomic mines with
                legal, financial and managerial autonomy
Value
(quantitative                                                               Established
or Qualitative)
Date achieved                                                               05/31/2003
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 2 :   Preparation of a time bound program for the closure of uneconomic mines and
                phasing out of subsidies
Value
(quantitative                                                               Completed
or Qualitative)
Date achieved                                                               05/31/2003
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 3 :   Number of borrowers obtaining micro-enterprise loans
                                                                            3,910 of which
Value                                                                       715 small
(quantitative   0                                             2000          businesses
or Qualitative)                                                             3,195 family
                                                                            enterprises
Date achieved 05/01/1999                                      06/30/2005    03/31/2006
Comments



                                                iv

(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 4 :  Number of businesses established through the Enterprise Support Program and
               Workspace Centers

Value                                                      New            New businesses:
(quantitative                                              businesses:    ESP 1,078, WSC
or Qualitative)                                            ESP 1,078,
                                                           WSC 100        100

Date achieved                                              06/30/2005     03/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 5 :  Number of beneficiaries from training and employment incentive schemes
Value
(quantitative  0                                           5000           7412
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 05/01/1999                                   06/30/2005     03/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
               Completion of the Sectoral Environmental Assessment and implementation of its
Indicator 6 :  recommendations (a) SEA, (b) Environmental regulations/procedures for the
               mining sector
                                                                          Basic study
                                                                          completed.
                                                                          Addendum signed
                                                                          07/29/02 to extend
                                                                          study
Value                                                                     Environmental
(quantitative                                                             management plan
or Qualitative)                                                           for Lupeni min and
                                                                          mill completed;
                                                                          monitoring and
                                                                          cleanup program
                                                                          for mill
                                                                          recommended
Date achieved                                                             07/29/2002
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 7 :  Number and value of sub-projects implemented under SDSMC.
Value                                                      100 projects,
(quantitative  0                                           value          112 projects,

or Qualitative)                                            $5,000,000     US$ 2,117,626

Date achieved 06/30/2004                                   06/30/2006     03/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)




                                              v

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                       Actual
No.    Date ISR
       Archived              DO                    IP              Disbursements
                                                                   (USD millions)
 1    12/29/1999         Satisfactory          Satisfactory                   0.00
 2    06/30/2000         Satisfactory          Satisfactory                   0.41
 3    12/27/2000         Satisfactory          Satisfactory                   0.78
 4    06/26/2001         Satisfactory          Satisfactory                   1.68
 5    12/21/2001         Satisfactory          Satisfactory                   3.18
 6    03/19/2002         Satisfactory          Satisfactory                   3.57
 7    06/27/2002         Satisfactory          Satisfactory                   4.20
 8    12/03/2002         Satisfactory          Satisfactory                   5.67
 9    06/17/2003         Satisfactory          Satisfactory                   9.28
10    12/19/2003         Satisfactory          Satisfactory                 14.62
11    06/24/2004         Satisfactory          Satisfactory                 19.07
12    12/21/2004         Satisfactory          Satisfactory                 24.72
13    06/07/2005         Satisfactory          Satisfactory                 27.71
14    11/10/2005         Satisfactory          Satisfactory                 32.84
15    07/27/2006      Highly Satisfactory      Satisfactory                 40.90
16    10/30/2006      Highly Satisfactory      Satisfactory                 42.90



H. Restructuring (if any)

                           ISR Ratings at   Amount

Restructuring    Board      Restructuring Disbursed at   Reason for Restructuring &
   Date(s)     Approved                   Restructuring
              PDO Change                                    Key Changes Made
                              DO      IP    in USD
                                            millions
  10/24/2003                   S       S       12.96




                                         vi

I. Disbursement Profile




                           vii

Introduction

The former communist regime in Romania sought to achieve economic self sufficiency.
One consequence of this policy was that mines were opened all around the country
without consideration of their viability. By the latter part of the 1990s, when the Mine
Closure and Social Mitigation Project (MCSMP) was prepared, many of these mines had
become a significant drain on resources but stopping production was expected to produce
significant adverse environmental and social consequences. The MCSMP was therefore
designed to support the Government's efforts to reduce the burden on the national budget
by permanently closing uneconomic mines in a socially and environmentally sustainable
manner. This was to be accomplished through a set of activities designed to provide
environmental remediation at mine sites, mitigate the social impact of stopping
production, and build related capacity within the National Agency for Mineral Resources.

Despite the slow startup recorded in the project's disbursement profile, the project has
been very successful in achieving its objectives. With one exception all key performance
indicator targets have been surpassed.                In addition a Poverty and Social Impact
Assessment (PSIA) carried out in 2005 validates this conclusion.                              Furthermore,
considerable savings were achieved on technical mine closure1 activities. This meant not
just that two more mines than originally envisaged could be closed, but also that more
social mitigation activities could be carried out. Not only were additional funds added to
the social mitigation component, but also an additional sub-component was added. The
project was extended by 15 months so that these new activities could be completed. In
addition, over the course of implementation the approach was improved to put greater
focus on former mining communities. This is the case both with respect to mine closure,
where the implementing agency learned that community collaboration improves impact,
and social mitigation, where it was found that often the more significant social impact is
not on the ex-miners, who benefit from severance packages, but on others in their
communities. As a result both the activities of the project and their impact ended up
being broader than originally envisaged.

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative)

1.1. Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country and sector background, rationale for Bank assistance)

Country and Sector Background: Harnessing energy and mineral resources had been the
cornerstone of Romania's economic development strategy since the 1950s. Not only was
economic self-sufficiency a key national priority under the previous regimes, the country



1It should be noted that technical mine closure, or simply mine closure, does not refer to stopping
production at a mine. Rather it refers to the decommissioning and reclamation of a mine site after
production has ceased. In other words, it seeks to return a mine site to a condition in which it can have
other uses with environmental impacts eliminated or mitigated.




                                                     -1-

also had vast reserves of mineral resources. This resulted in a much larger mining sector
than was economically justified under market conditions and extensive budgetary support
was required. In 1989, when output reached its peak, there were 278 mines in operation.

About 90% of all mining activities in Romania were carried out by six state-owned
National Mining Companies whose status was converted from state-owned enterprises to
national joint stock companies during 1998/99. There was also a state-owned salt mining
company and a state-owned mineral water company. In addition, there were nine
technical and research Mining Institutes (MRTIs) that provided mine design and
engineering services and eleven joint stock exploration companies. However, all MRTIs
were converted into joint stock companies in 1998 and two of them had been privatized.
As of 1996, government subsidies to the sector were about 385 million USD. In order to
stop vast loss of funds, the Government decided to: (i) stop all of the activities done in
dangerous working conditions or where reserves were close to being exhausted;
(ii) reduce the labor force in the sector; and (iii) increase investments in mines considered
to be economically viable.

This resulted in massive layoffs of workers and precipitated a sharp decline in general
economic activity in the mining regions, adding to the unemployment in these regions in
the midst of a sharp overall economic decline and instability. In response to this situation,
in 1998, the Government adopted a comprehensive strategy to:
     · put the mining industry on a sound commercial footing;
     · phase out the Government's direct involvement and seek private sector
        investment;
     · ensure that mining activities were carried out in an environmentally sustainable
        manner; and
     · provide comprehensive support to: (a) mitigate the social hardships caused by the
        closure of uneconomic mines; and (b) revitalize the economies of the mining
        regions.

Romania's CAS goals for 1999-2001: The Bank's country assistance strategy for
Romania had four major objectives: (a) to promote structural reforms and private sector
development; (b) to alleviate poverty and develop human capital; (c) to promote reform
of the public sector; and (d) to protect the environment. The proposed project was to
contribute to these objectives as follows:
     · Promoting Structural Reforms and Private Sector Development. The project was
        to provide support for (a) the development of a modern mining licensing system
        to help facilitate private investment into the mining sector; (b) the institutional
        strengthening of the agencies involved in the closure of mines, the environmental
        remediation of mine sites, and the management of licensing system; and (c)
        preparation and implementation of studies regarding legal reforms, subsidies,
        additional mine closures, SOE reform and environmental improvements.
     · Alleviating Poverty and Development of Human Capital. The project was to:
        (a) provide technical assistance to National Agency for Development and
        Implementation of the Programs for Reconstruction of the Mining Regions
        (NAD), which is the agency established to coordinate efforts to revitalize affected



                                              -2-

        mining regions and organize social mitigation for mining communities; and
        (b) help finance NAD's support to specialized agencies and service providers to
        help them create jobs and assist ex-miners and other unemployed in the mining
        regions in finding alternate sources of income.
    · Promoting Public Sector Reform. The project was to support establishment of a
        Department of Mines to administer the mining sector within NAMR, which has
        become responsible for administering the mining sector in addition to the
        petroleum sector.
    · Protecting the Environment. The project was to support: (a) the preparation of a
        comprehensive Sector Environmental Assessment, which would create baseline
        data for the mining regions, identify the main environmental issues arising from
        mining activities, and define priority areas for future environmental remediation
        efforts; and (b) financing of the environmental remediation of the specific mine
        sites whose closure was to be supported under this project.

Bank Rationale for assistance: While the government had a policy framework for
mining reform, it had no clear action plan for implementation of the restructuring
framework. World Bank assistance provided much needed technical guidance and
operational support in this context especially given that Romania was a transition country
with little experience in implementing large scale restructuring reforms. In comparison
with similar processes of mine closures in Western European countries, in Romania the
changes in the mining industry led to major social problems that exacerbated the
problems associated with the transition to a market economy. As a result, there was a
need for a more comprehensive approach to assist the government efforts to restructure
the sector in a manner that not only addressed long-term issues but also produced some
visible results in the short term especially in alleviating the adverse social effects from
the reforms.

1.2. Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
approved)

The development objective of the project is to support the Government's efforts to reduce
the burden on the national budget by permanently closing uneconomic mines in a
socially and environmentally sustainable manner and to provide support to the
modernization of the sector's administrative framework. This objective would be
achieved through support for the following three components: (i) closure of 29
uneconomic mines and the environmental remediation of mine sites; (ii) financing of
social mitigation initiatives to help diversify the local economy in support of the
Governments restructuring program for the mining sector; and (iii) technical and
institutional assistance for modernizing the administration of mineral rights. The project
aims at: (i) developing effective procedures for a technically and environmentally sound
approach to the formal closure of uneconomic mines, (ii) identification of measures that
would be most effective in mitigating the social hardships resulting from the restructuring
of the sector, and assistance in creating diversified employment opportunities for
redundant labor, and (iii) strengthening the agencies involved in restructuring the sector
and introducing a modern mining licensing system.



                                             -3-

1.3. Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key
Indicators, and reasons/justification
The PDO and Key Indicators were not revised.

1.4. Main Beneficiaries
(original and revised, briefly describe the "primary target group" identified in the PAD
and as captured in the PDO, as well as any other individuals and organizations expected
to benefit from the project)

Primary beneficiaries within mining regions consist of current and ex-workers in the
mining sector. While miners and ex miners are the primary target group, the entire
population living in the targeted mining communities benefit in the long run by the
improved environment, economic conditions, and the social and environmental
mitigation measures.

The restructuring in the sector has also affected non-mining workers since demand for
secondary industries and services has decreased. In addition the mining regions suffered
severe declines in the quality and quantity of social services. Although such elements of
social care as education and health are nominally free of charge, the deteriorating state of
these services and under-funding has led to deterioration of the living conditions of the
population. Thus, in general the mining communities should be considered as
beneficiaries as well.

Other key stakeholders: Within the mining regions, NAD has catalyzed the formation of
Local Consultative Committees (LCC) consisting of local government functionaries, and
representatives of public agencies, local entrepreneurs, mine management, labor unions,
and NGOs. The LCC is a useful interlocutor between the Government and mining
communities. Other key national stakeholders have also benefited as part of the
institutional strengthening component which endeavors to provide support to the
modernization of the sector's administrative framework.

1.5. Original Components (as approved)
The activities to be funded under the project were: (i) closure of 29 uneconomic mines
and the environmental remediation of mine sites; (ii) financing of social mitigation
initiatives to help diversify the local economy in support of the Government's
restructuring program for the mining sector; and (iii) technical and institutional
assistance for modernizing the administration of mineral rights.

Component 1: Technical mine closure activities and environmental remediation of mine
sites.

This component was designed to help the Central Group for Mine Closures (CGMC) to
effectively close and do environmental remediation of the 29 mines that have ceased
operations. Because Romania did not have regulations to clarify procedures for the
physical closure of mines, CGMC used technical assistance in preparation of the
specifications for the closure and environmental remediation. The consultants had to



                                             -4-

assist CGMC in selecting the contractors and later in auditing the work of the contractors.
The consultants and the auditors involved CGCM in all steps for all 29 mines.

Component 2: Social mitigation activities for the mining regions that suffered from the
restructuring of the sector.

The second component under this loan was designed to (1) enhance Government's efforts
to lessen hardships resulting from the cessation of production in mines and (2) to test the
effectiveness of a social mitigation strategy in Romania. The component includes:
    -  Enhancing the Effectiveness of NAD. NAD being a newly formed agency with the
       mandate to deal with the consequences of the mine closure needs to build its
       capacity. This subcomponent was not budgeted under the loan but the program
       was financed through DFID.
    -  Micro-Credit Fund for the Mining regions. The fund was to respond to the need
       for micro-credit to encourage micro-enterprises in the environment where credit is
       constrained by hard to meet collateral requirements The funds were implemented
       by NGO micro-finance institutions.
    -  Establishing Workspace centers and Enterprise Support Program. Start-up
       businesses were to be supported through business incubation centers. These
       centers will be established in 14 mining regions as initial target. The buildings at
       closing mines will be transferred to local government and will be dedicated to this
       purpose. Consultancy services will be provided by one or more NGOs specialized
       in enterprise development.
    -  Employment and Training Incentives. One of the major constraints identified for
       re-training under the World Bank Labor Redeployment Project was that the
       training offered did not guarantee jobs or was not always relevant to the kinds of
       jobs available. Building on the existing mechanism, the project was to underwrite
       the cost of on-the-job training by providing entrepreneurs willing to hire
       unemployed people an employment and training incentive of US$500 per person
       recruited for one year. The entrepreneur was to be responsible for providing on-
       the-job training.
    -  Social Dialogue and Public Information Centers Program. NGOs were to be
       contracted to assist NAD in community outreach and social dialogue. This was to
       include support for the public provision of pre- and post-redundancy services and
       career counseling to unemployed workers in the mining regions. The NGOs were
       to assist NAD and CGMC regarding stakeholder consultations for the 29 mines to
       be closed. With the help of the consultant, the project was to design a public
       information strategy to facilitate communication with primary beneficiaries and
       other stakeholders in the mining regions. The consultant was also to produce
       materials for NAD, in accordance with that strategy.
    -  Management Information System and Social Impact Monitoring System. The
       subcomponent was to establish a Management Information System to track social
       outcomes of the redundancy process and carry out annual monitoring and social
       impact assessments through an independent consulting firm. The function of the
       firm was to support NAD in its monitoring activities.




                                             -5-

    -  Vehicles. The subcomponent was to purchase four-wheel vehicles and a mini bus
       to support NAD's field activities.

Component 3: Institutional strengthening

The objective of this component was to strengthen NAMR so that it could effectively
carry out its responsibilities for the administration and regulation of the 1998 Mining
Law. The following sub-components had been approved for the institutional
strengthening component.

    -  Mining Cadastre Control and Mining Title Registry. This subcomponent was to
       finance establishment of computerized mining cadastral control system. It was to
       include procurement of computer hardware and software compatible with the
       system already existing in NAMR in order to develop the geological and mineral
       resources database. Training and consulting was to be provided to NAMR to
       receive applications and register all licenses, permits and other transactions in the
       official cadastral file.
    -  Exploration and Exploitation concession inspection. The Mining Law mandates
       NAMR to inspect mineral license and permit areas in order to ensure proper
       conduct of the operators, from exploration through exploitation to official closure,
       in accordance with the law and its norms and regulations. To facilitate this,
       NAMR mining inspectors were to be given training (including study tours)
       focused on exploration concession and mine-site assessments. The purchase of
       on-site monitoring and communications equipment was also included in this sub-
       component.
    -  Study of Mining Law associated Laws and Regulations and Institutional,
       Arrangements including collection of mineral fees, taxes and royalties. The
       subcomponent was to provide legal analysis, consulting and training to NAMR
       staff regarding the legal procedures and linkages with other legislation and
       regulations of the various provisions of the Mining Law, concession contracts,
       competitive bids, environmental guaranties, joint ventures, license transfers and
       other transactions. The study includes an assessment of institutional arrangements
       for the sector including the provision of data and maps to potential investors. It
       also includes a survey of how private sector investors perceive the mining legal
       and institutional frameworks. Financial consulting and in-house training will
       focus on the ability of NAMR professionals to assess, approve and collect royalty
       submissions, fees, guarantees and other financial transactions.
    -  Mining Sector Environmental Management. Through this component consulting
       and training was to be provided to NAMR environmental management specialists
       and REPA mining sector personnel. The main elements of this sub-component
       were to: (i) design appropriate environmental rehabilitation regulations and
       manuals for the mining sector; and (ii) improve the professional capability of
       NAMR inspectors and environmental specialists, and REPA to assess and monitor
       the submissions from applicants and license holders, as required by the Mining
       Law.




                                            -6-

    -   Mining Sector Investment Study. This subcomponent was to provide assistance for
        a mining sector investment study. The study aimed to promote private investment
        through advertisement in international mining related journals and on the Internet.
    -   Mining Sector Environmental Assessment. This sub-component was to carry out a
        comprehensive assessment of the environmental issues in the mining sector (SEA).
        The assessment would establish priorities and provide appropriate monitoring
        procedures and cost estimates for environmental remediation. The NAMR was to
        hire consultants for the preparation of this assessment and closely involve
        MOWFEP and MOIC in all phases.

Component design related to Development Objectives
The design of components is in line with the Project Development Objectives and the
components directly address Romania's efforts to restructure the mine sector. The
components are designed to focus on three main issues - modernization of the legislation
and improving capacity of the regulatory bodies, environmental issues, and addressing
the social hardships that resulted from layoffs. In addition the project is in line with
Romania's commitments towards decreasing subsidies in the sector as part of reform
efforts. It is important to underline that the design of the project supports institutions that
will ensure sustainability of reforms.

Incorporated Lessons
Lessons learned from implementation of the two ongoing Romania energy sector projects
as well as the labor redeployment program were incorporated into project design. The
Labor Redeployment Program component of the Employment and Social Protection
Project highlighted the fact that nationwide programs are by nature dispersed and cannot
deliver the concentrated attention and effort necessary to make social mitigation in a
specific high priority sector a success. Lessons from micro credit programs in other ECA
countries also point to the advantages in using a specialized agency. Hence, dedicated
institutions such as NAD were established for the project.

The project also benefited from Bank experience in other countries. The Bank is helping
finance similar mining restructuring programs in Ukraine, Poland, and Russia. While the
approach taken under each of these operations differed, they all had the following
objectives: (a) to assist the Government, where required, in the closure of uneconomic
mines in a environmentally sound manner that protects above all the health and safety of
the people that remained in the affected mining areas; (b) where closures occurred, to
cushion the social hardships, the decline of living standards and the deterioration of social
assets, such as hospitals and schools; and (c) to encourage the creation of a fiscal, legal
and administrative structure that would attract private investment.
Other key lessons incorporated into the project were:
    -   The MCSMP project is structured in a way so as to enable easy transfer of know-
        how by embedding PIUs staffed with experienced consultants within the agencies
        involved in the implementation of the reforms, i.e., NAD, CGCM and the NAMR.
    -   Recognition of the importance of local organization capacity led to the creation of
        regional units of the NAD.
    -   Reliance on specialized agencies for coordinating micro-credit programs.



                                              -7-

    -   A comprehensive approach to the mine restructuring program.
    -   The mine cadastre subcomponent builds on the existing petroleum-oriented
        computer capabilities and database development in NAMR.


1.6. Revised Components

While the project objectives were not changed, some components were revised as a result
of the learning that took place during implementation. As described below, the additional
sub-components were financially supported by the savings that occurred in the Mine
Closure component.

Mine Closure Component Adjustments
The estimated budget for the closure component was 27 million USD whereas closure
cost for the initial 29 mines was set at 12 million USD. Part of the savings - 4.5 million
USD - was used to finance the closure of two more mines - Dalja and Somova. The
implementation of the closures was slightly different from the other mines because the
PIU-CGMC and the design institutes produced closure plans and contract documents for
these two additional mines without consultant involvement. As a result the project
duration increased from 3 years to 5 years.

Social Mitigation Component Adjustments
The most significant change in the social mitigation component was the inclusion of an
additional subcomponent - the Social Development Scheme ­ which extended the
activities of the Romanian Social Development Fund (RSDF) to the mining regions. This
was an efficient way to add community-driven local development projects, (small
infrastructure, community based social services, and income generating activities) to the
project as RSDF had already acquired considerable experience (notably under the IBRD-
funded Social Development Fund APL) in implementing such activities. The scheme
started in 2004 and continued until the end of the project. USD 5.55 million was allocated
to this sub-component and activities were only implemented in the targeted mining
regions.

The Micro-Credit Program was also revised ­ an additional USD 1.5 million was
allocated to enable the expansion of the program within the targeted regions. The scheme
was designed to respond to the need for micro-credit in an environment where accessing
capital typically involved strict collateral requirements. The program used two
contractors ­ CHF and CDE ­ in order to cover all five mining regions. CHF operated in
two regions and focused on lending to enterprises; CDE operated in the other three
regions and employed a group based lending approach with a focus on individual
entrepreneurs. The program design was subsequently altered to allow the two micro-
credit agencies to operate in each other's areas since both agencies had different client
groups - CHF targeted businesses and CDE focused on communities. So the end result of
the adjustment was to expand the target area of the two approaches.




                                            -8-

The eligibility criteria for the Employment and Training Incentives Scheme was revised
to include not just former miners with marketable skills but also relatives and other
unemployed people in the region as this was seen to be an effective way to contribute the
overall socio-economic development of the region. An additional sum of USD 1.85
million was reallocated for this scheme even though there were no changes in the
implementation arrangements.

There was a minor adjustment in the Public Information and the Social Dialogue sub-
component. Initially, one agency was contracted to carry out the required activities in all
five regions, however, due to poor performance of the contractor, NAD terminated that
contract and assigned the public information tasks, by means of contract amendments, to
the consultants already contracted for Workspace Centers' Management and Enterprise
Support, with prior approval by the Bank.

Institutional Strengthening Component
This component did not change significantly. Additional IT equipment was purchased
and installed in the regions in order to provide better access to the central database and
GIS. An environmental management plan was piloted in Jiu Valley following the
recommendations of the sector environmental assessment. The pilot included purchasing
of goods and training for a mobile laboratory for environmental monitoring, water
pollution and subsidence monitoring.

1.7. Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding
allocations)

In October 2003, a significant financial reallocation took place in the project - US$11.7
million savings from the mine closure component were reallocated, mostly towards social
mitigation activities. The savings occurred as a result of using competitive international
bidding procedures for mine closure packages. Overall, almost US$20 million were
reallocated to the social mitigation component from both contingencies and savings under
the other components.


2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1. Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their
mitigations identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)

The project was identified in March 1998. At that time the Government was preparing a
program for the technical closure of 174 uneconomic mines and, to this end set up a
Central Group for Mine Closures (CGMC) within MOIC to take over and close the
mines. The project filled a critical need in establishing and testing effective mechanisms
for mine closure and the mitigation of social and environmental impacts. The project was
intended as a pilot that would pave the way for future closures. As such (and as noted in



                                            -9-

section 1.5), the project drew extensively on experience in mining sector restructuring in
Ukraine, Poland, and Russia as well as with the energy sector and labor redeployment in
Romania.

By today's standards the Project Development Objective was a bit vague in stating that
the project would "provide support for the Government's efforts to reduce the burden of
mining on the national budget". However this vagueness is mitigated by the further
precision, "by closing uneconomic mining capacity in an economically, socially and
environmentally sustainable way" which is monitorable and easily attributable to the
project. Since the project objectives were interlinked with Government's strategy for
mine restructuring, the project design paid particular emphasis to the learning process to
identify and address key issues in mining strategy development and thereby better inform
broader scale interventions.

The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) provided an overall risk rating of "substantial",
based on an assessment of 11 different risks focused primarily on issues of commitment,
capacity, and institutional environment. In the Romanian environment at that time these
risks were appropriate.     Mitigation measures were spelled out in some detail and
subsequently acted upon. One may note that, as anticipated in the risk analysis, it did
take time to build adequate institutional capacity, something that is reflected in
disbursements that were initially slower than anticipated. Both because of the anticipated
risks and because the project was conceived as a first step in a much broader program of
restructuring the mining sector, the project emphasized building the capacities of the
institutions implementing the components. Since these institutions were (and are) part of
government structures this capacity is expected to outlive the project.

From the start participatory processes were built into project activities. Indeed the PAD
could be considered best practice in including a matrix that indicates the participation of
key stakeholders in project preparation along the three dimensions of participation:
information sharing, consultation, and collaboration.     Project preparation included a
Social Assessment of Mining Sector Restructuring, which is summarized in the PAD.

In light of the above quality at entry may be considered satisfactory.

2.2. Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status,
and actions taken, as applicable)

While the first and the third components were implemented as per the original design,
there were significant changes in the implementation of the social mitigation component,
and the Bank team flagged the risk that this component might not fulfill the intended
objectives during the midterm review.

One of the primary factors affecting the implementation of the social mitigation
component was the weak capacity of NAD. NAD was established in 1997 as a legal
public institution subordinated directly to the Government. It was established in response



                                            -10-

to the crisis facing the mining industry and was meant to be an agency that would
facilitate negotiations between mining unions and the Government and most of the
employees in the agency come from the mining sector. NAD, therefore, had limited
capacity to review implementation of the national strategy for energy and its effects on
the mining sector; to review and implement the regional development plans for the
mining areas; to review of the mines closure programs and implement the program for
the reconstruction of the (affected) mining regions; and the management of programs and
internal and external funds for the reconstruction of the mining areas.

NAD also underwent frequent re-organizations. From its establishment until 2004, NAD
had undergone 6 internal reorganizations. In 2000, NAD's status was changed and it
became a public institution subordinated to the Ministry of Industry and Resources which
was subsequently replaced by the Ministry of Economy and Commerce. Given the weak
capacity and evolving organizational status of the implementing agency responsible for
the social mitigation component, the project not only needed to test measures to achieve
results but also simultaneously build capacity of NAD. Testing the measures required an
organization with experienced staff and well-functioning systems for management and
monitoring and evaluation. The project addressed all these issues by establishing a PIU
staffed with experienced consultants within NAD in order to ensure effective project
delivery and transfer know how from experienced PIU professionals to NAD.

In order to assess the impacts of the social mitigation component, the project
commissioned annual external impact evaluation studies. As a result of the findings from
the evaluations, the component was revised and strengthened to include a social
development sub-component (as discussed in section 1.6 above).

2.3. Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
All three implementing agencies produced annual reports highlighting their progress in
terms of outputs and outcomes.

Since the social mitigation component was the most complex aspect of the project there
was a strong emphasis on developing a robust M&E system that would provide
information on the effectiveness of the different measures which could then be
incorporated within the large scale mine sector restructuring program. The NAD-PIU
assigned specialized staff to develop the system as well as to build capacities to monitor
and evaluate different measures undertaken by the agency. The project invested in a
management information system, which is part of the M&E system. All the regional
offices of NAD had IT equipment that enabled connections to the central database. Data
for each indicator was collected at the local level from the regional offices and then
submitted to the central level. Since 2001, NAD-PIU has produced quarterly reports
which not only reported on the indicators defined by the measures but also on indicators
related to the social-economic situation in the mining region.




                                            -11-

2.4. Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)

The project triggered the environmental safeguard policy. The project was expected to
have positive environmental impact by building environmental management capacity and
undertaking physical improvements and environmental remediation of the mining sites.
In parallel, a mining Sector Environmental Assessment (SEA) was undertaken, with
assistance from consultants. The study: (i) reviewed the status of the existing
environmental legal, regulatory and institutional frameworks and recommended actions
for improvement; (ii) undertook an analysis of the impacts of sector activities on the
environment and the communities; (iii) estimated the costs of environmental
rehabilitation of areas in which the mines would be closed; and (iv) established
appropriate environmental policies and monitoring procedures. The Project was classified
as category B because the work was to be performed by experienced international
contractors selected through international competitive bids.

All activities within the mine closure component involved necessary due diligence in
relation to environmental issues.

The Activities were implemented in four phases and DIFD sponsored technical assistance
for all the four phases.

Phase 1      Reviewing of the Technical Mine Closure Plans (TMCP) for each mine.

Phase 2      Assisting in the introduction of World Bank contracting procedures by direct
             support for preparation of the contract documentation and assistance to the
             PMU and PIU-CGMC with the contract tendering procedure.

Phase 3      Conducting audits of each of the four mine groups during closure contract
             implementation.

Phase 4      Conducting a final audit on completion of the works.

In the Phase I, after the desk review, the DFID funded consultant was required to do a
field assessment of each of the 29 proposed mines to be closed. The site assessments
focused on technical and environmental issues and the TMCP. After the site assessments,
the consultant commissioned the design institutes to carry out a more comprehensive
technical and environmental risk assessment. In addition, the stakeholder consultation
process was reviewed with all parties, including the Ministry, statutory bodies and local
communities.

In the Phase III, quarterly audits were carried out during the closure works for all groups.
The mine sites were audited to ensure that the technical and environmental issues were
being addressed adequately and meeting all required contractual obligations. The sites
were audited by the DFID technical advisor, consultants, representatives of the design
institutes, the contractor and the engineer. The audits not only looked at the technical,



                                            -12-

environmental and contractual aspects of the closure but also at the interaction between
the contractor and the local population. Reports were produced after each audit to enable
the PIU to follow up on specific issues identified during the audit. The audits served as a
tool for knowledge sharing as well as for monitoring and evaluation and resulted in the
timely identification of potential issues.

2.5. Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed
by present operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and
institutional capacity, and next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)

The MCSMP took several steps to ensure that operations and maintenance would be
satisfactory and institutional capacity would be sustained. The project addressed larger
institutional issues as well as issues of day to day management with respect to the post
completion phase.

At the institutional level, the main concern was to develop institutional capacity to sustain
activities beyond the project duration. While the CGMC successfully carried out the
closure of 31 mines, the project also produced a manual for mine closure procedures
based on the international best practice. The manual was produced by the PIU in
collaboration with DFID sponsored consultants. The mine closure manual was produced
and issued by Ministerial order (2001) and this formed the legal basis for the closure of
all public mines in Romania. Additional annexes were produced later which included
updated information that applied to private mines as well. Since January 2002, the
manual has been applied to closure designs and civil works for 20 mine sites under the
CGMC mine closure administration. An important part of the closure procedures are
social mitigation and consultation requirements and these have been incorporated in the
legislative framework for mine closures giving NAD greater authority to fulfill its
mandate.

Under the social mitigation component, activities aim to augment the Government's
efforts to bring economic relief to mining areas that have been affected by the cessation
of production in mines and to test the effectiveness of a comprehensive social mitigation
strategy in Romania. At this point, it is not realistic to expect that NAD will be able to
carry out the social mitigation activities without help of experienced consultants. For this
reason the second mine closure project has been designed to further support the social
mitigation activities (now more broadly conceived as socio-economic regeneration)
providing additional technical assistance and continuing to contract out some activities to
other agencies.

The follow-on, US$120 million Mine Closure, Environmental and Socio-Economic
Regeneration Project (P087807, which went to the Board on December 16, 2004) is a key
part of "post-completion operation". This project expands on the first project through
three components:
    · mine closure and environmental rehabilitation, supporting the technical closure of
        20 additional sites;



                                             -13-

    · socio-economic regeneration, which continues the social mitigation activities
       launched under the first project but with greater attention to community (as
       opposed to individual) needs, including measures to build the planning capacity of
       municipalities and to link with the funding that is becoming available from the
       European Union through accession; and
    · institutional support, which finances project management.

Sustaining Reforms
The third project component, institutional strengthening included a number of activities
intended to support the process of reform of the mining sector. These activities fed into
two significant vehicles for reform that have now been implemented. The first was the
Mining Industry Strategy for 2004-2010. The second was a set of legislation that provides
a solid basis both for implementing sectoral reform and for all mine closure activities
(both within and outside the project). The project thus leaves behind a solid legacy of
practices and standards that help the country converge with the ecological requirements
of the European Union in the mining sector.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1. Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)
As part of Romania's accession to the European Union (EU), the Government committed
to reduce the high level of subsidies to mining, which amounted to over USD150 million
in 2003. In April 2004 the Government approved the 2004-2010 Mining Sector Strategy
aimed to reform the sector and respond to EU accession rules that required the
Government to eliminate subsidies for all mines other than coal by 2007 and for coal
mines by 2010. This requires additional downsizing of the mining sector from 57,738 in
January 2004 to 26,650 workers in 2007, and imposing hard budget constraints on mining
companies. Environmentally sound mine closures and socio-economic regeneration to
reduce the unemployment rate in the mining regions are a prerequisite for achieving these
program objectives. Therefore, by addressing the environmental and social implications
of taking uneconomic mines out of production the project supported the Government's
EU accession related activities.

A new Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) was adopted in May 2006, shortly before the
project closed. The CPS is centered on supporting the Government's EU accession and
integration agenda. In this context it makes reference to the need to properly manage
environmental standards to meet EU requirements as well as for targeted poverty
reduction measures to ensure that the benefits of growth reach the entire population.
Thus, in addressing these goals, the project remained as relevant to the Bank assistance
strategy at closure as it did during preparation.




                                             -14-

3.2. Achievement of Project Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details
on outputs in Annex 2)

The main development objective of the project is considered to be achieved as (with one
exception related to subsidies, discussed below) all the key performance indicators of the
project have been surpassed (see data sheet).
Although the project did nothing directly to decrease subsidies, the level of subsidies for
the operation of mines has decreased from USD 144 million to USD 100 million over the
course of the project. The amount of other budget subsidies for voluntary redundancies,
social mitigation, mine closures and environmental remediation was however increased
to USD 50 million (this is the exception with respect to achieving the project's KPI
targets mentioned above). Nonetheless, these numbers can be interpreted as a reduced
burden to the national budget because the operational subsidies are recurrent whereas the
subsidies for redundancies and the environment and social measures are one-time
expenditures that contribute to the permanent closure of the mines in a socially
sustainable way and the phase-out of operational subsidies.

The mine closure component led to the closure of the 31 mines which resulted in the
permanent cessation of all operational subsidies related to the mines that had stopped
operations but had not yet been technically closed. The component also resulted in
environmental remediation for the mines.

The social mitigation component created and sustained2 about 25,000 jobs. This is
equivalent to about 30% of the total number of miners laid-off by the 1998 decision, but
it should be noted that not all jobs went to ex-miners.

The objectives of the social mitigation measures were: (1) to augment the Government's
efforts to bring economic relief to mining regions that have been affected most seriously
by the cessation of production of mines; and (2) to test the effectiveness of a
comprehensive social mitigation strategy in Romania. In 2005, a social impact report
captured trends that suggested a revival of social capital and social cohesion in
communities in the mining areas, albeit at a very low level. The financial status of the
laid off workers had also improved since 2001, both in absolute and relative terms. While
they still had the lowest earnings, the income gap between them and the other inhabitants
of the mining areas has been significantly reduced. In 2001, a redundant person's income
was about 16% of the average monthly income in the mining areas and his household
income was 27% of the average. In 2005, a redundant individual earned 50% of the
average monthly income and his/her household income was 64% of the average.

All measures contributed to the achievement of the intended objectives - providing access
to capital through the micro-credit schemes; business consultancy and know how through
the Enterprise Support Services scheme; labor market training through Employment and


2 Generally when the project staff refer to sustaining a job this means that the job was not created under the
project but that without the support provided by the project it would have been lost.




                                                     -15-

Training incentives Scheme, and services provided to business entities through Business
Incubators provided value added services that promoted income generation. Of course
these results should not be attributed exclusively to the project. By this period Romania
had entered a period of significantly stronger economic growth and revival of
employment that contributed to the improvement of conditions in the mining
communities. Nonetheless, the relative isolation of many of these communities coupled
with their former monoindustrial nature suggests that without the project it would have
been more difficult for economic revival to reach these areas.

In the Institutional Strengthening Component, the most significant achievements were:
adoption of the new mining law, establishment of modern IT based mining cadastre and
title registry, and sectoral environment assessment followed by its implementation. In
addition NAMR received training in private sector investments; training and equipment
for the exploration and exploitation concession inspection. These are attributes of modern
mining licensing system and support the shift of the state's role away from management
and towards regulation of the sector.

The one area where the results of institutional strengthening have been somewhat less
than expected is (as alluded to in section 2.2 above) with NAD, which at project end still
remained significantly weaker than anticipated. Nonetheless, NAD has achieved all the
outputs established for it at the beginning of the project. And it can be argued that what is
particularly important for this organization is to be able to monitor and evaluate
implementation of various measures in the mining regions, which is something that NAD
continues to do effectively.

3.3. Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms,
least cost, and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)
The economic analysis shows that employment downsizing of the loss-making mining
industry combined with re-employment of workers in productive private sector activities
makes a significant contribution to the mining regions and the country's overall economy.
The contribution is due to the overall productivity increase caused by the sector's workers
taking up jobs outside the industry as well as by avoiding economic loses in nonviable
mines when employees in such mines are laid off. The economic rate of return is
estimated to be 50 percent.

3.4. Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)

Rating: Highly Satisfactory
Given that the design of the project was closely aligned with the Romanian
Government's mine restructuring strategy and the project development objectives were
achieved, the outcome rating is highly satisfactory. The results from the economic
analysis also demonstrate the overall project efficiency and cost-effectiveness.




                                            -16-

3.5. Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

Poverty Impacts
The socio-economic problems in the mining areas resulted not only from the restructuring
in the mining industry but also from the macro-economic changes in Romania as a
consequence of transition.

Since the main rationale for the social mitigation activities was to diversify the economic
opportunities in the affected mining regions; the MCSMP interventions did have an
impact on poverty alleviation through employment creation and income generation.
Evidence from the social impact assessment suggests that there was less extreme poverty
involving physical want and hunger. However, although the poverty situation was
improving in the mining regions, standards of living had not been restored to the pre-
1997 levels.

Gender Aspects
Women have been proportionately more affected through downsizing in terms of direct
job loss than men. When mining sector restructuring commenced in 1997, women were
16 percent of the workforce; by 2004, their proportion had declined to 7 percent.
Furthermore, mining sector restructuring has affected the welfare of women in multiple
ways--through employment, increased burden of domestic responsibility, intra-
household tensions, and the impact of migration induced by mine closure. The Poverty
and Social Impact Assessment (PSIA ­ cf. section 3.6 below) carried out in the context of
the project in 2005 concluded that gender-blind programs, such as those under the
project, do not reach women equitably and that despite the disproportionate adverse
impact of restructuring, the programs under the project had not reached out to women
effectively. This led to increased emphasis on the part of NAD field staff to reach out to
women. More significantly it led to building greater emphasis on reaching women and
addressing their particular needs under the follow-on project.

Social Development

As confirmed by the Social Impact Monitoring (SIM) report done in 2005, one of the key
manifestations of the project's social development impact was improved social capital in
the mining regions. Social capital is an indication of the social cohesion of the
community, and has been shown to have positive outcomes for health, political
participation, educational achievement and crime. Following the initial shock of the mine
restructuring process, there was a sharp decline in social capital between 2001 and 2004.
However, from 2004 onwards, there has been a revival of social cohesion and trust across
the mining communities, something that has been facilitated by the project's social
mitigation activities.




                                           -17-

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional
development)

The restructuring of the mining sector in Romania meant a radical change in the role of
state institutions from being production and output oriented to functioning more as
regulatory bodies. Given that the agencies involved lacked the necessary experience, the
project was designed to assist in strengthening the capacity of the CGMC, NAD and
NAMR in the closure of mines, social mitigation and the promotion of mining
concessions to private investors. The project successfully established CGMC and built up
its capacity to carry out closures based on international best practice. The capacity of
NAMR was also enhanced enabling it in its efforts to attract private investments in the
mining sector. NAD's role in the project was to coordinate and implement the social
mitigation program. During project implementation NAD directly implemented some
project sub-component and outsourced others. There has been an evident evolution of
NAD over the course of the project. Partly this is a result of the learning experience that
NAD got through annual impact assessments, which is demonstrated by the fact that after
the first assessment NAD started independently producing quarterly M&E reports. And
while NAD remains significantly weaker than expected, by the end of the project it was
able to meet all of its planned outputs.

3.6. Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)

Rather than carrying out a beneficiary survey, in 2005 a Poverty and Social Impact
Analysis of Mining Sector Reform in Romania was undertaken. This PSIA was
conceived as an analytical input to inform policy advice and the design of the follow-on
lending operation to help the Government implement its Mining Strategy. The PSIA
consisted of a series of tasks, including an ex-post quantitative analysis of household
survey data to assess the welfare impact of the ongoing mining project.

The welfare impact analysis of the MCSM confirms that the project has been well
targeted geographically. Employment probability improved from 38 to 47 percent in
program localities, and there is a visible decline in the pessimism prevalent within mining
localities. Among the key findings of the PSIA are the following:

    · Compared to the initial target of 10,000 jobs the project was able to create over
        13,000 and sustain another 6,448.
    · In terms of outcomes, mining localities are not better off than non-mining
        localities but given that they had been much more severely affected by sector
        restructuring, which is not surprising, but it is also noticeable that improvements
        in mining localities are evident.
    · Women have been disproportionately affected by mining sector reforms but have
        not benefited from compensatory programs to the extent that they should.




                                             -18-

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Moderate
The risk, at this time, that development outcomes with respect to mine closure will not be
maintained is low. Key success factors include:
    · The project has strong ownership from the Government of Romania. The
         Government approved the mining strategy in 2004, for which implementation
         costs are about 1.2 billion USD, and this is equivalent to 5 annual losses from the
         sector (subsidies and liabilities). The strategy is designed to eliminate losses and
         prepare viable mining projects for private investment. The Government has also
         scaled up the pilot phase of MCSMP ( 45.5 Million USD) to larger scale program
         supported by the World Bank. The project worth in total is 149 Mil USD out of
         which 120 is IBRD loan and the rest is counterpart and donor funding.
    · Romania will benefit from substantial inflow of resources through structural funds
         following its accession to the EU in January 2007.
    · As a result of capacity built during the pilot phase, implementing institutions
         (CGCM, NAMR) are better prepared to manage and sustain the reforms.
With respect to social mitigation the risk is moderate. This is due to the relative weakness
of NAD described above.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

5.1. Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)

Rating: Satisfactory
The Bank's performance during identification, preparation and appraisal was satisfactory.
During identification it undertook an extensive review of activities related to
restructuring of the mining sector that were being supported by other donor agencies. The
Bank also ensured that the project design was fully aligned with the Government efforts
to restructure the sector. The project team assessed the capacity of the various agencies
and was able to develop institutional arrangements with three core agencies - CGMC,
NAMR and NAD.

In addition, the Bank positioned itself pro-actively early in the process and was a key
participant in the dialogue on "Methodological Norms for applying the Mining Law". A
social assessment was also initiated and used as input to the design of the social
mitigation measures.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: Satisfactory
The Bank's performance during the implementation of the project was satisfactory. The
Bank team undertook regular supervision missions to review project progress and discuss



                                              -19-

key issues with the borrower. In addition, special emphasis was given to monitoring the
social mitigation component, especially during the first two years of the project. There
were no outstanding fiduciary and safeguards issues and all project implementation
problems were resolved effectively. Relevant project documentation (Aide-Memoires,
ISRs, etc.) provided comprehensive updates and were prepared and submitted in a timely
manner.

In January 2006 the World Bank's Inspection Panel received a complaint alleging that the
Bank had violated its procedures thereby causing harm to inhabitants adjacent to one of
the mine closure sites. The Bank responded proactively, working with the Project
Management Unit to address the concerns of the complainants. The Management
Response prepared by the Task Team argued that there was no merit to the allegations of
procedural violations. At the same time it included an action plan to address legitimate
stakeholder concerns regarding the closure activities (concerns which were not a result of
any procedural violations). As a result of the Management Response, the Inspection Panel
came to the positive conclusion of recommending to refrain from issuing a
recommendation for a period of six months during which the action plan would be
implemented. Thereafter, the Panel recommended that the Request for Inspection be
closed. The World Bank's Board of Executive Directors agreed to both recommendations.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
Given that both quality at entry and supervision are considered satisfactory, overall Bank
performance is also considered satisfactory.

5.2. Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory
The Government of Romania was very committed to the project and was actively
engaged in the design and preparation process.

Ownership and commitment were demonstrated by the rapid establishment of the agency
responsible for mine closures despite the fact that there was some resistance toward this.
The counterpart team devised a creative solution by setting up the CGMC within the
Ministry of Industry and Commerce.

In 2002, NAD was put under the umbrella of MOIC which resulted in a more dynamic
team and strengthened cooperation between the PMU and the NAD-PIU. However,
budget constraints severely limited staff mobility which adversely affected project
implementation.

The midterm review recognized the pivotal role NAMR and CGCM played in ensuring
the smooth implementation of the first and third component. However, the second
component on social mitigation did not progress as envisaged due to the lack of
cooperation between the agencies (NAD, PMU and NAD-PIU) and limited capacity of



                                            -20-

NAD. This was mostly attributed to lack of leadership experience within NAD and not
enough empowerment to NAD to carry on its mandate.

The satisfactory resolution of the Inspection Panel case discussed in section 5.1 (b) above
would not have been possible without the proactive intervention of the Project
Management Unit. The PMU worked closely with the Bank's Task Team to provide all
the necessary information for the Management Response. More importantly, the Project
Director held a series of meetings with the complainants and other stakeholders to jointly
define appropriate responses to stakeholder concerns. As a result the complainants asked
the Inspection Panel to drop the case, complementing the PMU and Bank's
responsiveness to their concerns.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

              Implementing Agency                                 Performance
         1. CGMC                             Highly Satisfactory
         2.NAD                               Moderately Satisfactory
         3.NAMR                              Satisfactory

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
The Government demonstrated ownership and commitment to achieving the development
objectives at all stages of the project and complied with its fiduciary responsibilities.
Based on the above, overall borrower performance is rated as satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)

Some wide general application lessons to be learned by this project are

A. The target group should be broadened in order to encompass those affected by
the spill over effects of the restructuring. The planned job creation target of 10,000
jobs has been exceeded. However, based on the PSIA the welfare impacts of mine
restructuring differ across different stakeholders. Laid-off miners are not the only people
affected by mine restructuring. Although households headed by laid-off miners
experience the largest immediate decline in household welfare, those employed from
other sectors in mining localities also face significant decline in household welfare. In
addition, those from secondary industries do not receive the generous severance benefits
that mine workers do and were not considered the primary target of social mitigation
programs, in effect, leaving them even worse off. Based on this analysis, broadening of
the target group was introduced midway during project implementation.

B.   Active labor market measures are more effective when complemented by
investments in regional development. These measures have greater impact when
accompanied by more holistic support for local social and economic development.



                                             -21-

Regional development requires complementary efforts from local government, local
communities, and sectoral agencies. Without efforts to improve the business
environment, strengthen links between mining communities and local government
agencies, and rehabilitate local infrastructure and social services, the socioeconomic
regeneration that the Government desires will not materialize. Because of considerable
variation among mining towns; in order to respond to local needs, these programs have to
adopt a learning process approach to permit tailoring to the local context. This requires
investment in capacity building for local communities and local governments.

C. Holistic regional development requires mobilization of diverse institutional
settings. Partnerships with other agencies that can provide services and resources to the
mining regions support the achievement of results more effectively and efficiently. The
role of agencies such as NAD should focus on its core mandate of mobilizing partner
organizations for activities where they have a comparative advantage, such as the Social
Development Scheme for Mining Regions implemented by the Romanian Social
Development Fund, the micro-credit program administered by NGOs, and pre-layoff and
retraining services provided by the National Employment Agency.

D. Mobilizing and involving local government authorities and communities in the
mine closure process achieves better results. Active stakeholder participation reduces
conflicts which can hinder the closure process and results in better use of rehabilitated
sites to address community priorities.

E.    Establishing clear guidelines and a framework for mine closure supports
consistency and quality of mine closure. As part of the mine closure operations the
project helped developing Mine Closure Guidelines which were frequently updated as
new lessons were learned. Having guidelines facilitated the closure of additional mines
not included under the project.

F.    Strengthening the capacity of institutions to environmentally monitor the
operational plans should be part of the activities. Operating mines that are properly
monitored allow better closure plans to be drafted.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
None

(b) Cofinanciers
None

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)
None




                                           -22-

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                Appraisal      Actual/Latest
         Components           Estimate (USD    Estimate (USD      Percentage of

                                 millions)         millions)        Appraisal

MINE CLOSURE                      31.69             18.15           57.26%
SOCIAL MITIGATION                 18.75             38.08           203.09%
INSTITUTIONAL                      2.8              4.56            162.89%
STRENGTHENING
SECTOR STUDIES                     0.49             0.45            91.22%
OTHERS                             2.19             0.45            20.37%

          Total Baseline Cost     55.92             61.68           110.31%
Physical Contingencies             5.62               0                0
Price Contingencies                 0                 0                0
          Total Project Costs     61.54             61.68           100.23%
Project Preparation Fund           0.50             0.08            15.40%
Front-end fee IBRD                 0.45             0.45            100.00%
   Total Financing Required       44.50             44.50           100.00%




(b) Financing
                                             Appraisal Actual/Late

         Source of Funds          Type of    Estimate    st Estimate Percentage
                                Cofinancing    (USD         (USD    of Appraisal
                                              millions)    millions)
Borrower                                       12.8         11.765     91.91%
UK: British Department for                      4.2         5.414     128.90%
International Development (DFID)
International Bank for                         44.5         44.499    100.00%
Reconstruction and Development




                                      -23-

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

The three components of the MCSMP produced the following outputs which contributed
to fulfillment of the Project Development Objectives.

Mine Closure Component

Permanent closure and environmental remediation of 31 mines
The main output of this component was the permanent closure of 31 (29+2) mines and
environment remediation of each site. The mines chosen for the project had ceased
operation many years before but had not gone through a proper closure procedure. There
were delays at all stages of the closure process and as a result the mines were not fully
closed by 2003 as originally planned ­ the mine closure process was completed in June
2006. The use of the international competitive bidding for closure of mines resulted in
cost savings that were used to finance the closure of two additional mines. The two
additional mines were closed without the help of international consultants. There was a
post monitoring period of two years for each mine site.

Capacity Building: CGCM to manage overall process, Design Institutes or prepare more
acceptable Technical Mince Closure Plans, Other Contractors to monitor the mine
closure process
Another output produced by this component was capacity building in the country for
mine closure procedures. The PIU-CGMC has been strengthened to a competent team
with hands on managerial experience of working on the requirements of the design
process of closures as well as a detailed knowledge of employing and administering
FIDIC type contracts. The technical capabilities of the Design Institutes were
strengthened by the process of identifying and improving where the closure designs were
inadequate. The capacity of the Design Institutes and the Monitoring Companies were
equally important in the process. While international consultant collaborated with the
design institutes to apply industry best practice, they are now able to achieve an
acceptable level of closure design as independent agencies. The capacity building process
also resulted in the strengthened technical capability of the companies that monitor or
supervise the closure contracts.

Framework for Mine Closure ­ Manual for Procedures for Mine Closure
The original intention was to have a manual that would act as guide book for mine
closures based on best industry standards. The guide was to be unofficial and easily
amended or enlarged. The Manual was produced by the CGMC-PIU in collaboration with
DFID consultants supporting the Mine Closure Procedures. The Mine Closure procedure
Manual was produced and issued by Ministerial order (2001) and this has formed the
legal basis on which all public mine closures have taken place. The Manual was updated
with additional annexes on closure of private mines and annexes for consultation.




                                           -24-

Social Mitigation Component

Micro-Credit Scheme

The Micro-Credit Fund was designed to respond to a need for micro-credit and to
encourage micro-enterprises in an environment which was severely constrained by
unrealistic collateral requirements. The rationale behind was that the availability of the
credit would result in the formation and survival of more micro-enterprises. The scheme
provided small loans of up to 10,000 USD. The scheme was implemented by two
specialized microfinance agencies. A total of 4,467 loans in the total amount of
US$13,127,840 had been made by November 2006. The average size of loans to
individual businesses was US$6,833 and the average size of loans though the group based
lending scheme was US$1,923. The total number of beneficiaries was 4,467 (924 to
businesses and 3543 to individuals). The scheme had a repayment rate of 99% and was
able to create 602 jobs and sustain 10,997 jobs.

Enterprise Support and Workspace Centers Management
The program was designed to provide consultancy for start up businesses through at 14
workspace centers. Provision of enterprise support services started earlier, while
management of the centers was contingent on completion of buildings rehabilitation. The
enterprise support services were provided till December 31, 2004, while workspace
centers management services were provided till December 31, 2005. The management of
the centers was handed over to NAD Regional Offices at completion. 4 contracts for
management of 10 workspace centers were initiated under the new loan. By November
2006, the 10 centers that were established by MCSMP supported 86 business and
sustained employment for 502 persons.

The enterprise support part of this program included training sessions, counseling,
consultancy advice and guidance. The outputs of the program exceeded the benchmarks
that were established. Results achieved were as follows:
11,054 consultations provided (benchmark was 4500);
1,078 new businesses initiated (benchmark was 604);
6, 185 new jobs created by beneficiaries of enterprise support assistance (benchmark was
3838);
80 reference points established (benchmark was 80)

Social Development Scheme for Mining Communities (SDSMC)
The program was not originally a part of MCSMP - it was included within the social
development window of the social mitigation component in 2003. The Romania Social
Development Fund implemented the program using a community-driven development
approach. By June 2006, RSDF was able to complete : 71 projects for small infrastructure
in the amount of US$ 5.182.075; 10 subprojects for income generating activities in the
amount of US$ 397.939; and 12 projects for social services in the amount of
US$ 384.600. As the component was not originally foreseen there was no benchmark in
the PAD but is was estimated to finance 100 local subprojects. As the average value of
the subprojects was higher than estimated, the entire US$ 5 million was contracted within



                                            -25-

the 93 grant agreements for the above mentioned 3 categories of subprojects proposed by
RSDF.

Employment and Training Incentives Scheme (ETIS)
The scheme was designed to underwrite the cost of on-the-job training by providing
entrepreneurs who were willing to hire laid-offs from mining sector an employment and
training incentive of $500 (originally) per person recruited for one year. The entrepreneur
was responsible for providing on-the-job training. The rationale for this program was that
it would encourage employers both to hire redundant miners and to train them in real jobs.
Monitoring data indicated low availability of former miners to take up employment under
the scheme for wages much lower than they used to get from the mining sector. After one
year of implementation the scheme was amended to enable recruitment of former miners'
family members as well and to increase the incentives amount to $720. In 2003 the
scheme was further amended as to allow recruitment of any unemployed living in the
scheme's operation area, and to increase the incentive amount to $960. As of December,
2006 the number of beneficiaries from the training and employment incentives scheme
was 13,547 (of which 6,135 under the follow-on project). Payments made under the
scheme amounted to $5,448,539 (of which $1,137,567 under the follow-on project).

Social Impact Monitoring and Evaluation
Under the Social Impact Monitoring sub-component of MCSMP, technical assistance
was provided to NAD by consultants to conduct routine monitoring, prepare quarterly
progress reports, and carry out annual independent impact evaluations in mining regions.
Quarterly progress reports continued to be regularly produced by NAD which were then
published on NAD website and sent to the Bank.

Public Information Campaign and Social Dialogue
Under the Public Information and Social Dialogue sub-component of MCSMP, technical
assistance has been contracted to assist NAD in establishing and operating a network of
public information points (PIP) in the mining regions. The initially contracted Consultant
failed to perform adequately, so NAD terminated the contract and assigned the public
information task to the consultants contracted for enterprise support services. These
consultants identified partner organizations and developed partnership networks, under
which more than 100 PIPs have been established in mining regions. They have also
designed and produced public information materials (such as booklets, leaflets, posters,
journalistic material etc.) aimed at supporting NAD in carrying out an effective public
information strategy within mining communities affected by restructuring. NAD has
proceeded with preparation of their own public information strategy, which includes the
further development of PIP networks established by the consultants.

Management Information System
Technical assistance for implementation was assigned by Minister's Order to the Institute
of Management and Informatics (IMI) at MEC. The execution of the contract for supply
and installation of information system was completed and the operational acceptance
certificate was issued to the Supplier by the end of 2003. By the end of the project not all




                                            -26-

regional offices were able to provide monitoring data in electronic form because NAD
was not able to provide all with cable internet connections.

Institutional Strengthening Component

Mining Cadastre Control and Mineral Titles Registry
Through this component the project developed the geological and mineral resources
database. On-the-job training, consulting and training was provided to NAMR to receive
applications and register all licenses, permits and other titles transactions and
notifications in the official cadastral file. The result of this sub-component is
development of a computerized Mining Cadastre and Mining Titles Registry System,
including a national geologic database from existing records and digital information on
mineral resources. The system is designed to develop and promote solid minerals
concessions under a mining concession system. The database is an Oracle based database
which includes the Mining Book; the Cadastre and Title Registry subcomponents, the
NAMR's Index; and the Mining Information System which includes the data from new
licenses. The equipment is installed both in NAMR headquarters as well as field offices.
In addition a GIS enabled web site was developed and connected to the NAMR database
which provides up to date and extensive information to potential investors and an easy to
use application which allows the license holders, subcontractors or data custodians to
input all the data information required.

Mining Law, Institutions and Fees, Taxes and Royalties
The project played a significant role in revising the mining law. The new mining law was
adopted by the Parliament of Romania on March, 2003. The project provided (a
comprehensive review of mining and associated legislation and regulation and
institutional arrangements in order to improve the financial provisions and the ability to
assess and better collect the taxes and royalties.

Sector Environmental Assessment Study
This study on the environmental effects of past, present and projected future mining
activities was done in participatory manner by including all relevant Government
authorities.

This study became the basis for the environmental remediation programs associated with
mine closures. It was led by a steering committee which included specialists from
NAMR, Ministry of Waters Forests and Environmental Protection and Ministry of
Industry and Commerce. The SEA study was finalized in October, 2001. Environmental
impacts and issues associated with privately owned, as well as with non-operational (i.e.,
already closed or abandoned) mines and a pilot action plan for an underground coal mine
were also added to the study.

The Pilot Environmental Action Plan for Lupeni mine was a recommendation of the
Sector Environmental Assessment and it resulted in improvements in environmental
management in the Jiu Valley. Specific activities related to this pilot were: waste dump
stabilization and management, soil and ground water management. In order to fulfill the




                                            -27-

management of the monitoring activities mobile laboratory for environmental monitoring,
water pollution control and subsidence monitoring were purchased.


Mining Sector Environmental Management
The objective of this program was to enhance the capabilities of the Romanian authorities
in the field of mining sector environmental management. Under this sub-component, the
project organized training programs on environmental issues specific to the mining sector,
study tours to familiarize with specific European Union environmental and mining
legislation and specialized environmental training programs overseas. The main
deliverable of the sub-component was the Environmental Management Manual and
related codes of practices to be used by the mining operators and regulators.

Exploration and Exploitation Concession Inspection
All 20 local inspectorates of NAMR were fully equipped with new hardware
infrastructure (local network, computers, printers, copiers), from the "Mining Cadastre
and Titles Registry" program. This was supplemented by the "Exploration and
Exploitation Concession Inspection" program. This allowed NAMR's local inspectorates
to have access to the database thus enhancing the capacity of the local field offices.

Private Sector Investment
The sub-component provided training to NAMR staff in technical and financial
evaluation of offers as well as in communication, presentation and negotiation.


Subsidy Study
The project delivered a subsidy study in 2003 based on which the government prepared a
plan for closure of the remaining uneconomic mines whose operations were still being
subsidized by the state.




                                            -28-

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)

The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) presented a cost-benefit analysis summary,
focusing on the social costs and benefits of the project. The analysis here takes essentially
the same approach, but looks at incremental costs and benefits (i.e., it compares the with
and without project scenarios ­ see table below). To carry out such an analysis it is
necessary to make a number of assumptions (which are summarized below and/or in the
following table). In order to make such assumptions this analysis relies on a paper
prepared in the context of the Poverty and Social Impact Assessment (PSIA) of the
mining sector (see Annex 5) in 2005, entitled "Cost-Effectiveness and Cost-Benefit of
Three Major Romanian Employment Generation Programs".

The principal costs are severance payments and the expenditures under the project. The
analysis is based on the assumption that there would have been 25 percent fewer layoffs
without the project.

The principal quantifiable benefits from restructuring of the mining sector and specific
project activities are avoided economic losses per unit of labor in nonviable mines and
the incomes from jobs created under the social mitigation activities. The estimate of
avoided economic losses is derived from the number of layoffs in the mining industry
times the unit economic losses generated by employees in nonviable mines closed under
the project estimated in the report cited above. This unit economic loss corresponds to the
estimated negative value added generated by economically nonviable mines which were
receiving state subsidies.

Jobs created under the project come from four of the social mitigation sub-
components - micro-credits, workspace centers and enterprise support, employment and
training incentives, and income generating activities under the social development
scheme - and have been regularly reported by project management. In principle, as these
jobs were all created as a direct result of project activities, none of them would have
existed in the without project scenario. Of course other jobs were created in the mining
regions as a function of the improved economic environment in the country; they are not
included in either the with or the without project scenarios. However, given economic
growth, it is possible that some of the jobs created under the project would have been
created even without the project. Therefore the analysis makes the conservative
assumption that 40 percent of these jobs would have been created in any case and then
performs sensitivity analysis using different percentages. The report estimates the
average wage in such jobs and that 30 percent of them are not maintained for more than a
year. Here we make the assumption that jobs that are maintained will only continue for an
average of four years. This analysis does not attempt to quantify the benefits from what
project staff refer to as "sustained" jobs, i.e., jobs that would have been lost without the
project, since, given economic growth, many of these jobs might well have been
"sustained" without the project and this offers a more conservative approach.

A number of more difficult to quantify benefits are not included in the analysis. They
include: increased tax revenues from employment, savings on social payments, and the


                                             -29-

multiplier effect on service providers in the former mining communities. Indeed the PSIA
found that stopping production has a greater impact on service providers than on the
former miners. The latter benefit from substantial severance packages and unemployment
benefits, whereas the former lose sales. But the indirect benefits to service providers from
the creation of new jobs are difficult to quantify. Also not quantified are other social
benefits from the project, such as the benefits from infrastructure created and the learning
and innovation resulting from the community-based, demand-driven approach under the
social development scheme sub-component.

It could be argued that the most significant benefit of the project is the political benefit of
social mitigation. Miners have been a powerful political force in Romanian politics and
social mitigation makes it easier to justify laying off redundant workers. For this reason,
and because the PAD justified the project partly in terms of making it politically possible
to stop production at uneconomic mines, the economic analysis assumes that fewer
miners would have been laid off without the project. Nonetheless, it may be credibly
argued that the redundancies would have been declared in any case since ending
subsidies to the sector became a condition for EU accession (after the project became
effective).

For the purposes of this analysis we have taken all mining sector redundancies during the
project years, not just those that occurred at mines closed under the project. The analysis
therefore reflects the impact of the project on the entire sector.

The environmental and social benefits of technical mine closure are substantial but more
difficult to quantify. The most significant benefits are hazard risk reduction, restoration of
sites to productive and/or social use (e.g., agriculture, industrial production, and in one
notable case a mental health hospital), and non-use values associated with the
conservation of the environment. While these benefits have not been quantified,
nonetheless the costs of mine closure are included in the analysis below. It should be
noted that considerable cost savings were achieved under the mine closure component
(only 57 percent of the estimated funds were disbursed while an additional two mines
were closed) through competitive procurement practices. This suggests that the mine
closure activities have been highly cost effective.

Under these assumptions the analysis shows a substantial IRR of 50 percent. The
sensitivity analysis shows that the IRR remains substantial even if one assumes that a
much higher number of jobs would have been created without the project. However,
given what has not been quantified, these figures should be treated as only indicative.
Clearly the non-quantified benefits are substantial and strengthen the argument that the
project was economically justified.




                                             -30-

Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary
Years                               2000       2001       2002       2003       2004       2005       2006       2007       2008       2009       2010
Benefits
Avoided Economic Losses         2,710,136  4,984,265 11,851,711 21,188,097 31,817,927 42,714,133 56,537,816 56,537,816 56,537,816 56,537,816 56,537,816
Incomes from Jobs Created               0          0  1,113,218  2,455,271  3,824,714  3,318,569  3,301,910  2,522,657  1,349,444     38,871          0
Without Project Benefits        2,710,136 4,984,265  12,964,929 23,643,368 35,642,641 46,032,702 59,839,726 59,060,473 57,887,260 56,576,686 56,537,816
Avoided Economic Losses         3,613,515  6,645,687 15,802,281 28,250,796 42,423,903 56,952,177 75,383,754 75,383,754 75,383,754 75,383,754 75,383,754
Incomes from Jobs Created               0          0  2,783,046  6,138,178  9,561,784  8,296,422  8,254,775  6,306,643  3,373,611     97,177          0
With Project Benefits           3,613,515 6,645,687  18,585,327 34,388,974 51,985,687 65,248,599 83,638,529 81,690,397 78,757,365 75,480,931 75,383,754
Incremental Benefits              903,379 1,661,422   5,620,398 10,745,606 16,343,046 19,215,898 23,798,804 22,629,924 20,870,105 18,904,245 18,845,939
Costs
Severance Payments              3,771,491  3,164,733  9,556,904 12,992,741 14,792,729 15,163,424 19,237,372          0          0          0          0
Without Project Costs           3,771,491 3,164,733   9,556,904 12,992,741 14,792,729 15,163,424 19,237,372          0          0          0          0
Severance Payments              5,028,655  4,219,644 12,742,538 17,323,655 19,723,639 20,217,898 25,649,829          0          0          0          0
Project Costs                     566,231  1,760,981  3,493,279  8,131,899 13,192,080 11,892,117 16,103,443  6,536,166          0          0          0
With Project Costs              5,594,886 5,980,625  16,235,817 25,455,554 32,915,719 32,110,015 41,753,272  6,536,166          0          0          0
Incremental Costs               1,823,394  2,815,892  6,678,914 12,462,813 18,122,990 16,946,591 22,515,900  6,536,166          0          0          0
Difference                       -920,016 -1,154,470 -1,058,516 -1,717,207 -1,779,944  2,269,306  1,282,903 16,093,758 20,870,105 18,904,245 18,845,939

NPV                           36,281,884
IRR                                 50%

Assumptions
Jobs Lost                           2,045      1,716      5,182      7,045      8,021      8,222     10,431          0          0          0          0
Cumulative                          2,045      3,761      8,943     15,988     24,009     32,231     42,662     42,662     42,662     42,662     42,662
Jobs Created                                              2,967      4,467      4,990        148
Jobs Created w/o Project             40%
Jobs Maintained                                               0      2,077      5,204      8,697      8,800      6,724      3,597        104          0
Cumulative Jobs                                           2,967      6,544     10,194      8,845      8,800      6,724      3,597        104          0
Project Costs                     566,231  1,760,981  3,493,279  8,131,899 13,192,080 11,892,117 16,103,443  6,536,166          0          0          0
Jobs maintained at 70% for 4 years
Wage of job created                   938
Avoided Economic Losses             1767
Severance payments                  2459
Discount rate                        0.07

Sensitivity Analysis

 Proportion of Jobs Created
  that Would Have Been
Created Without the Project      IRR
            0%                   77%
            20%                  62%
            40%                  50%
            60%                  39%
            80%                  30%




                                                                                   -31-

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

          Names                       Title             Unit    Responsibility/
                                                                   Specialty
Lending



Supervision/ICR

Carmen Elena Arhip      Operations Officer             ECSIE-
                                                        HIS
Bogdan Constantin       Sr Financial Management
Constantinescu          Specialist                     ECSPS

Anis A. Dani            Adviser, Social Policy          SDV
Bekim Imeri             Social Scientist               ECSSD
Ana Otilia Nutu         E T Consultant                 ECSSD
Benedicta T. Oliveros-
Miranda                 Procurement Analyst            ECSPS

Jan Pakulski            Sr. Social Development & Civil ECSSD
Wolfhart Pohl           Sr Environmental Spec.         ECSSD
Lucian Bucur Pop        Senior Social Development Spec ECSSD
Christopher Gilbert
Sheldon                 Sr Mining Spec.                COCPO

Maythinee Sriboonruang  Program Assistant              COCPO
Hiwote Tadesse          Senior Program Assistant       ECSSD
Doina Visa              Operations Officer             ECSSD
Michael Wireman                                        ECSSD
Mark C. Woodward        Senior Social Development Spec ECSSD

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                   Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

Stage of Project Cycle                                     USD Thousands
                                  No. of staff weeks     (including travel and
                                                           consultant costs)
Lending
  FY98                                                235.77
  FY99                                                237.96
  FY00                       10                       40.61
  FY01                                                0.00
  FY02                                                6.39
  FY03                                                0.00
  FY04                                                0.00



                                      -32-

 FY05                                0.00
 FY06                                0.00
 FY07                                0.00

                  Total:10           520.73
Supervision/ICR
 FY98                                0.37
 FY99                                0.00
 FY00                   49           125.04
 FY01                   32           102.19
 FY02                   30           126.61
 FY03                   24           103.69
 FY04                   21           91.42
 FY05                   19           71.20
 FY06                   25           105.09
 FY07                   15           42.91

                  Total:215          768.52




                             -33-

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(if any)
The Bank undertook a Poverty and Social Impact Analysis during the preparation of
the Mine Closure, Environmental and Socio-Economic Regeneration loan. The PSIA was
designed through a consultative process with MEC and other stakeholders including
stakeholder workshops organized In October 2004 and May 2005. The objective of the
PSIA was to examine three sets of distributional impacts

    · Between mining and no- mining households and communities;
    · Across the gender divide; andAmong the employees of different mining
        companies to explore the role of political economy.

The tasks undertaken included (i) an ex-post quantitative analysis of household survey
data to assess the welfare impact of the ongoing mining project; (ii) secondary analysis of
sector-wide and economy-wide data and qualitative research on the gender impacts of
mining sector restructuring; (iii) a comparative study of three pairs of mining and non-
mining towns to assess the impact of sector restructuring on local communities and local
government agencies ability to maintain local infrastructure and social services; (iv)
comparative analysis of the budget of mining companies; and (v) a cost-effectiveness
study to compare the efficiency of active labor market interventions.

With regard to the impact of the sector restructuring the findings are that:

        · Laid-off miners experienced the largest welfare decline, the estimated
            probability of a drop in living standards being 73 percent for former miners,
            compared to 58 percent for other unemployed persons and an average of 40
            percent for all households.
        · Despite a decline in living standards, laid-off miners are probably not the
            worst off since they had higher income levels to begin with and also received
            special severance payments of 12- 20 months wages denied to other sectors.
        · While laid-off miners benefit from social protection and various budget
            subsidies, those employed outside the mining sector are unlikely to receive
            any compensation despite the fact that their living standards are significantly
            affected by mine closure.
        · Severance pay entitlements are restricted to public sector employees but other
            program benefits can be extended to all affected persons, including those
            affected by second-order impacts within the mining regions.

The impact analysis proves that the project has been well targeted geographically. The
probability of reemployment improved from 38 to 47 percent in program localities, and
there was a visible decline in the pessimism prevalent within mining localities. Compared
to an initial target of 10,000 jobs under the MCSMP, AZM has created over 13,000 jobs,
with another 6,448 jobs created or sustained by the micro-credit program. In terms of
outcomes, mining localities are not better off than non-mining localities but given that
they had been much more severely affected by sector restructuring, this is not surprising,




                                            -34-

and improvements in mining localities are evident. It also found that public awareness
about NAD's programs needed to improve.

With regard to gender analysis women have been disproportionately affected by the
mining sector reforms but have not benefited from compensatory programs to the extent
they should.

The PSIA concludes that development interventions need to tailor programs to local
opportunities. The comparison of mining and non-mining towns provides clear evidence
that mining towns are generally in much worse state than non-mining towns. However,
there is considerable diversity in economic performance and resilience of the towns
affected by restructuring. The non-payment of taxes or tax arrears is typical of mining
companies and has a marked impact on the ability of local authorities to maintain local
infrastructure and finance social services. Furthermore, financial needs to rehabilitate
local infrastructure are typically larger than the resources that would be available to local
authorities even if the mining companies paid all local taxes. Local authorities are also
concerned about the deteriorating condition of local infrastructure, which makes mining
localities even less attractive to potential investors. Mitigating the adverse impacts of
mining sector restructuring needs to complement active labor market measures with
investments in local infrastructure to create the enabling conditions for enterprise
development. Accelerating socio-economic regeneration requires investment in
community capacity building. The demonstrated value of such investments by NAD in
pilot areas needs to be scaled up rapidly.




                                             -35-

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)
No workshop was organized on completion.




                                      -36-

Annex 7. Borrower's ICR

                               Mine Closure Component

1. Assessment of project's objective, design and implementation

The development objective of the Mine Closure and Social Mitigation Project has been to
support the Government's efforts to reduce the burden on the national budget by
permanently closing uneconomic mines in a socially and environmentally sustainable
manner and to provide support to the modernization of the sector's administrative
framework. The following three components have been set up in order to pursue these
objectives:
   · The Mine Closure component ­ physical closure of 29 uneconomic mines and the
       environmental remediation of mine sites;
   · The Social Mitigation component ­ financing of social mitigation initiatives to
       help diversify the local economy in support of the Government's restructuring
       program for the mining sector; and
   · The Institutional Strengthening component ­ technical and institutional assistance
       for modernizing the administration of mineral rights

   1.1 Key Performance Indicators

   The key performance indicators for the Project have been the following:
       · Number of mines closed and environmentally remediated;
       · Amount of budget subsidies for production, capital investment and
           exploration;
       · Amount of budget subsidies for redundancies, social mitigation, mine closures
           and environmental improvements;
       · Number of beneficiaries from employment and training incentives scheme;
       · Number of small businesses able to access credit through the project;
       · Number of Businesses established in workspace centers,
       · Number of people from mining communities who are economically
           rehabilitated, either through new jobs created in mining areas or through
           successful relocation;
       · Completion of studies and implementation of findings;
       · Progress in the implementation of a modem mining licensing system; and
       · Amount of exploration and investment by private investors in the mining
           sector.

       1.2 Project design and implementation


The project has been implemented by three agencies:

   (i)     the Central Group for Mine Closures (CGMC) within the Ministry of
           Economy and Commerce (MEC);



                                          -37-

    (ii)   the National Agency for Mineral Resources (NAMR); and

    (iii)  the National Agency for the Development and Implementation of Programs
           for the Reconstruction of the Mining Regions (NAD).

Each agency established a Project Implementation Unit (PIU). A Project Management
Unit (PMU) provided overall coordination of the three PIUs. Each PIU was adequately
staffed and headed by a Director responsible for the overall coordination and
management of its component of the project who reported to the Head of the PMU.

Each PIU has been responsible for:

    (i)    its own procurement, including preparation of bid documents and entering
           into contracts for civil works, goods, and consultant services; and

    (ii)   progress monitoring, evaluation and reporting. In addition, the NAD PIU has
           been responsible for partnership building with NGOs and the international
           donor community and local community outreach and for a micro-credit
           program and an employment and training incentives scheme.

Due to the limited experience of available staff in dealing with these responsibilities, the
CGMC and NAD PIUs had expatriate consultants to assist them in managing, monitoring
and evaluating the progress of the components. These consultants were employed and
financed by DFID through a grant.

To ensure proper project implementation and coordination between these three separate
implementing agencies, the Project Management Unit (PMU), which includes the
Project's Financial Management Systems (FMS) Group, oversaw the progress of project
implementation and handled all financial aspects of the project, including accounting,
financial management, auditing and reporting.

2. An evaluation of the Borrower's own performance during evolution and
    implementation of the project, with particular attention of lessons learned

2.1 The Strategy of the Mining Industry

The Government of Romania expressed its commitment to restructure the mining sector
by phasing out State involvement in mineral exploration. The Mine Closure and Social
Mitigation Project provided technical assistance for this important task by selecting an
experienced consultant to develop the Study for subsidies and business plans in the
mining sector.

The objectives of the Study were: the development of a 10-year actions plan for phasing
out subsidies in the mining sector; re-allocation of subsidies to the closure and
environmental rehabilitation of non-viable mines and investment in mines with viability
potential;   development     of     10-year   business    plans   for   national    mining
companies/societies; proposals to attract investments to the mining sector.

Based on this Study, the Government developed the Mining Industry Strategy for 2004-
2010 that was approved by GD no. 615/2004. To facilitate the implementation of this
Strategy a rigorous monitoring of subsidy utilization for different purposes has been
performed by the Government and results have been shared with the Bank on a regular



                                            -38-

basis by including the subsidy monitoring in the follow-up Mine Closure, Environmental
and Socio-Economic Regeneration Project (MCESERP).

2.2 Legislation

In order to ensure the adequate legislative framework required for the proper
implementation of the project, the following regulations have been developed and
promoted:

        16 Government Decisions

        4 Government Ordinances

        47 Orders of the Minister of Economy and Commerce and NAD President

        3 Laws

However, the lack of required laws and regulations and especially the long periods of
time required for approvals and promotion of the new legislation incurred significant
delays in the project implementation.

Following the successful implementation of best industry practices and FIDIC Conditions
of Contract in the closure works under the Project, a team led by PIU and PMU
specialists prepared a comprehensive set of standard documents (conditions of contract,
technical specifications, method of measurement and bill of quantities) to be used under
all mine closure contracts in Romania. The documents were approved through a
Ministerial Order thus making them compulsory for all future closure contracts. These
new procedures in line with international practice were disseminated to all main actors
(contractors, engineers, designers, authorities) through a series of training sessions and
workshops organized under the auspices of the Ministry.

2.3 Transfer of knowledge

One of the main achievements of the Project under the guidance of the DFID-appointed
Consultants was the transfer of knowledge to the CGMC staff, designers, contractors and
engineers. Based on the new knowledge it was possible for the Ministry specialists to
develop a Mine Closure Manual that introduced the best international practices in the
field of mine closure and environmental remediation that became mandatory for all mine
closures in Romania.

One important lesson learned is that the proper understanding of international practices
for mine closure and environmental remediation works by designers, contractors and
engineers is crucial for the successful outcome of mine closures.

As showed by the experience gained during the implementation of the Project, it is
important to continue the transfer of knowledge especially to designers, contractors and
engineers.

2.4 Community consultation

According to international best practice, consultation of stakeholders in the communities
with mine closure works is one of the key steps in the proper design and implementation
of the closure and environmental remediation works. Before the start of the Project, the




                                            -39-

authorities used to give little regard to the actual needs and concerns of the local
communities.

One of the main outcomes of the Project has been to introduce active community
consultation measures in the design and implementation of the mine closure works in a
systematic manner. As a result, the main stakeholders have been involved in the process
and the closure works have been performed in a manner acceptable to the respective
communities. Some points of concern for the locals have been mitigated by including
their proposals in the design of the works.

It is expected that the community consultation process would gain in significance and
relevance in future mine closure works funded by either the State budget or the World
Bank. In order to achieve this objective, the employment of a community consultation
facilitator is expected under the new Mine Closure, Environmental and Socio-Economic
Regeneration Project (MCESERP).

3. Evaluation of the performance of the World Bank and other partners (DFID)
    including effectiveness of the relationship with attention to lessons learned

The World Bank

The Project benefited from the close supervision of the Bank which proved to be very
effective in providing support for:

    · the promotion of legislation needed for the project implementation
    · the development of the Strategy for the Mining Sector
    · the approval of the annual budget from counterpart funds

    · the development of terms of reference, environmental management plans and
        bidding documents

    · the dissemination of information related to the project through participation of
        Bank's representatives at various workshops for assignments under the project

DFID

Given the lack of local experience with the technical closure of mines and the related
environmental remediation of abandoned mine areas, the Project relied on the use of
DFID co-financed international consultants with extensive experience in these disciplines.
The consultants prepared the technical specifications of bidding documents, audited the
closure and remediation works and certified that the works were executed using the best
international practices.

The outcome of the Mine Closure component has been:

         · the successful closure of all 29 mines initially included in the project plus 2
             additional mines that were funded from the savings made in the Project;

         · the successful transfer of knowledge to the CGMC staff, designers,
             contractors and engineers that made possible for the Ministry specialists to
             develop the Mine Closure Manual.




                                           -40-

Lessons learned:

    · efficient transfer of knowledge from consultants strongly experienced in
        international practices for mine closure and environmental remediation works is
        very important for the successful outcome of mine closures;

    · the involvement of international consultants helps building credibility.


                                  Social Mitigation Component

I. Assessment of the project's objective, design, and implementation

a. Project's objectives

According to the World Bank project appraisal document3 (PAD), the overall economic
purpose of the social mitigation component of MCSM was to help former miners and
others people living in the mining areas to find alternative employment and to help to
diversify and revitalize economic activity in the mining areas. The two objectives given
for the social mitigation component of the overall project were "(1) to augment the
Government's efforts to bring economic relief to mining areas that have been affected
most seriously by the cessation of production of mines and (2) to test the effectiveness of
a comprehensive social mitigation strategy in Romania" (p32).

The Social Mitigation Component was aimed at supporting the Government's efforts to
revitalize depressed mining areas through investments for support of small enterprises,
re-training and job creation through a more diversified local economy. To this purpose,
special emphasis was put on strengthening the National Agency for Programs
Development and Implementation for the Reconstruction of the Mining Regions
(currently National Agency for Development of the Mining Regions - AZM), building its
capacity as a coordinating and facilitating agency dedicated to social mitigation and
revitalization of the mining regions.

Since the first phase the mining sector reform had generated massive collective layoffs,
particularly in the Jiu Valley and Gorj County, where the largest numbers of miners were
employed, the social mitigation component was mainly focused on assisting these
redundant former miners, as well as those who were likely to become redundant as a
result of further rounds of mine closures, and other residents in the mining areas whose
livelihoods are affected by the mine closures to overcome difficulties and to cope with
the changing socio-economic environment. However, compared to the physical closure
of mines, it was assumed that social mitigation programs would require a longer gestation
period and longer duration for successful implementation.



3 World Bank Project Report NO: 19347-RO, Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed Loan in the
Amount of US$44.5 million equivalent to the Government of Romania for a Mine Closure and Social
Mitigation Project, August 6, 1999.




                                                -41-

In the context of the assessed size of the problem, the formal responses financed directly
under the MCSMP were not designed to be sufficient to address those needs, but were
instead designed to test a number of instruments that might, if considered successful,
subsequently be repeated on a larger scale. Therefore, while undertaking an evaluation of
project implementation it is important to bear in mind that it was conceived only as a first
step in the Bank's support of the restructuring of the Romanian mining sector.

With due consideration of the above, one could assert that the project objectives, as far as
the social mitigation component is concerned, have been realistic and appropriate.

b. Project's design

By its very design, the social mitigation component was conceived to provide some
urgently needed initial steps in capacity building for AZM and identification of measures
that would be most effective in mitigating the social hardships resulting from the
restructuring of the sector, and assistance in creating diversified employment
opportunities for redundant labor, that could be deepened and broadened in a subsequent
operation. Additionally, one should note that the social mitigation component was
designed to finance complementary activities not covered by the Labor Redeployment
Program (LRP) administered by MOLSSF.

The project established mechanisms for employment promotion to assist those who lost
their livelihood as a result of mining sector restructuring. These included: (a) micro-
credit schemes for the mining regions to be administered by NGOs as intermediary
micro-finance institutions; (b) the establishment of workspace centers as business
incubators in buildings at the mines to be closed in the 14 mining regions, where AZM
has its offices; (c) an enterprise support program; (d) employment and training incentives
scheme; and (e) public information and social dialogue.

By their very nature, these programs needed to be flexible and iterative and required
intensive supervision. To this purpose, AZM had to establish and maintain a special MIS
for the social mitigation component, with a comprehensive database of unemployed
redundant mining sector workers and identity cards to track their participation in
rehabilitation activities, while routine monitoring of project outputs had to be conducted
by AZM personnel. Under the project, an independent research consulting firm has been
contracted to conduct annual impact evaluations and prepare annual independent social
impact monitoring reports.

The social mitigation component has also included procurement of equipment and
vehicles for strengthening AZM implementation capacity.

A Project Implementation Unit (PIU) responsible for the implementation of social
mitigation component was established within AZM. The PIU was headed by a Director
who was responsible for the overall coordination and management of its project
component and who reported to the Head of the PMU. The PIU was assumed to have



                                             -42-

qualified and experienced staff, while the Government provided assurances that it will
provide budgetary financing satisfactory to the Bank. The PIU had to provide quarterly
progress reports to the Project Management Unit and was responsible for: (i) its own
procurement, including preparation of bid documents and entering into contracts for civil
works, goods, and consultant services; and (ii) progress monitoring, evaluation and
reporting.

In addition, the PIU at AZM was responsible for partnership building with NGOs and the
international donor community and local community outreach. However, the experience
of project implementation has proved that these responsibilities were not properly
assigned to the PIU, as far as it was incorporated within AZM, whose management had
actually the prerogative of representation, while at local level this prerogative was
delegated to AZM regional offices.

Due to the limited experience of existing staff in these responsibilities, the project
provided for expatriate consultants to assist the PIU at AZM in managing, monitoring and
evaluating the progress of the component.

Substantial technical assistance, co-financed by the British DFID, was envisaged to
develop AZM's capacity to implement the Social Mitigation component of the project,
consisting of consultancy services to develop AZM's management and administrative
capacity and to train the staff of AZM to implement the social mitigation program.

At the time of project preparation AZM has a staff of 72 (22 in Bucharest, 50 in its 14
regional offices), which was expected to grow to 117 when full-scale implementation will
have commenced.

The overall design of the project as described above would have ensured suitable
implementation of the social mitigation component, provided that suitable allocation of
resources in terms of staff, equipment, premises and operating costs would have been
timely ensured, and that an institutional environment (including bylaws) enabling the PIU
to actually exert its responsibilities as foreseen in the project design would have been in
place.

The PIU experience with project implementation suggests that the project design as
described in PAD and enforced by the Loan Agreement would have rather been suitable
for implementation by a non-governmental organization than by a governmental agency.

c. Project's implementation

The implementation of social mitigation sub-components had a slow start up. Staffing of
the PIU was completed during the summer 1999 and major efforts were done by these
staff, with support by the Bank and by a DFID financed consultant, to develop the
bidding documents for procurement of consultants services and equipment that would
allow proper implementation of sub-components. Thus, for most sub-components bidding
documents had been prepared and sent to the Bank for clearance by the end of 1999



                                             -43-

(Management Information System, Social Impact Monitoring, Micro-credit Scheme,
Enterprise Support and Workspace Centers Management, Public Information and Social
Dialogue, ETIS ­ initially designed for implementation by NGOs, Office Equipment for
NAD-PIU, and Vehicles). In most cases TORs had been approved by the Bank and
Requests for Expressions of Interest published in Development Business by end 1999.

Delays in actually contracting the services and effective implementation of programs
occurred starting with the year 2000, being mainly determined by revisions of TORs/TS,
discussions on short lists, re-advertising REOI/ITQ, selection of locations for WSCs,
ensuring legislative framework, underperformance of consultants, budget shortfalls, lack
of suitable logistics and suitable staff strength by AZM.

Thus, the Social Impact Monitoring Consultant noticed that in 2002 the only components
of the AZM Social Mitigation Program which had achieved any outputs were ETIS and
the Enterprise Support program (and the latter had then only just started). Likewise, in
their Aide Memoire relating to the Mid Term Review in October 2001, the Bank's
Mission noticed that "After a slow start up, progress on the social mitigation component
is improving but there are major concerns that the development outcomes are not likely to
be fully achieved unless AZM's management is strengthened and changes are made to
the legal framework...".

Only by the end of 2003 one could say that most of the Social Mitigation Programs were
in operation or in the last stages of preparation

The Social Mitigation sub-components which should have a direct economic and social
impact were the following:
·           The Employment and Training Incentives Scheme

·           The Micro-Credit Scheme
·           The Enterprise Support and Workspace Centers Management program

·           The Public Information and Social Dialogue program
·           The Social Development Scheme for Mining Communities (SDSMC)

In addition to the above programs financed directly from the project, we should subsume
to this category the Social Development Scheme financed by DFID and implemented by
AZM.

It is therefore their implementation which is being analyzed here in the first instance in
order to evaluate the overall effectiveness of the Social Mitigation Component. In order
to establish in total what might have been expected from them, against which actual
progress might be compared, they are each analyzed below. In each case assumptions
about the purpose, rationale, targets and progress to date are presented as far as they can
be determined from the information acquired through the social impact monitoring
program.




                                              -44-

The Employment and Training Incentives Scheme (ETIS)


The Employment and Training Incentives Scheme was designed to underwrite the cost of
on-the-job training by providing entrepreneurs who were willing to hire laid-offs from
mining sector and ancillary sectors with an employment and training incentive of $500
(originally) per person recruited for one year. The entrepreneur was to be responsible for
providing the on-the-job training. The rationale for this program was that it would
encourage employers both to hire redundant miners and to train them in real jobs which
should give them a much better chance of securing permanent employment, either with
the participating employer or with another requiring the same skills. However, based on
the feedback provided by monitoring data, which indicated a quite low availability of
former miners to take up employment under the Scheme for wages much lower than they
used to get from the mining sector, after one year of implementation the Scheme was
amended as to enable recruitment of former miners' family members as well and to
increase the incentives amount to $720. Likewise, in 2003 the Scheme was further
amended as to allow recruitment of any unemployed living in the Scheme's operation
area, and to increase the incentives amount to $960, which was further increased to
$1,200 in 2006 .

The operating manual that AZM was to formulate by the end of December 1999 was to
include guidelines and procedures for the Training and Employment Incentive Scheme.
AZM was then to implement the scheme in accordance with those guidelines and
procedures. The manual was actually finalized in 2000 and enacted by Government
Decision, being subsequently amended in 2002, 2003, 2004, and 2006. Implementation
started in November 2000, but contracts signing started in early 2001.

The initial financing under the project was sufficient for 3,000 jobs and an additional
AZM investment was enough to cover 2,000 more. Adding back the 10% contingency
allowed for in these figures produced an initial overall target therefore of 5,500 jobs to be
promoted through this measure. However, as above said, after a while the amount
offered per job had to be increased $720 and later to $1,200 (because of an increase in the
national minimum wage) which meant that the funds initially available would not cover
all the jobs originally anticipated.

The number of beneficiaries from the training and employment incentives scheme was
specified as an output indicator. The value of this indicator as of December 31, 2006 was
13,547 (of which 6,135 under SER), which exceeds the initial target. Payments actually
made under the Scheme by that date amounted at $5,448,539 (of which $1,137,567 under
SER).

The outcome anticipated from the training and employment places was that the
beneficiaries of that training and employment should find permanent employment. Since
a final evaluation of ETIS under MCSMP has not been undertaken so far and the annual
evaluation reports that were expected from the program team have not been produced,
one cannot assess this outcome. However, the mid term evaluation of ETIS carried out by
the SIM Consultant in 2003 revealed that "Most (94%) of the employers surveyed said



                                           -45-

that they did intend to retain at least some of their new employees after the end of the
supported year (those surveyed indicated that overall they intended to retain 66% of those
left in employment at the time of the survey, which represents 50% of those originally
hired). However it is not clear how many people are, in practice, retained or how many
do find other permanent employment."

The Micro-Credit Scheme

The Micro-Credit Fund was proposed to respond to a need for micro-credit to encourage
micro-enterprises in an environment which was severely constrained by unrealistic
collateral requirements. The rationale behind it was presumed to have been that the
availability of the credit would result in the formation and survival of more micro-
enterprises which would in turn have an impact on economic development in the area,
provide income for their owners, and employment for other people.

It was acknowledged in the project appraisal that an assumption critical to the success of
this scheme was that there were improvements in the institutional and regulatory
environment to improve access to credit for small enterprises. In order to deliver this
scheme this it was originally agreed that the Government would, by the end of 1999,
formulate criteria for the selection of credit providers and that AZM would submit, by the
same date, an operating manual to include guidelines and procedures, and would then
implement the scheme in accordance with those guidelines and procedures. AZM was
then to implement the scheme in accordance with those guidelines and procedures.

The guidelines and procedures for operating the micro-credit scheme have been actually
approved by the Government in December 2000, while the implementation started by the
end of 2002 with contracting the credit agencies.

Although contracts were being implemented and the chosen contractors had established
operational offices in all the 5 mining zones by the end of 2002, the first half of 2003 was
in effect the inception period for the scheme and it only come into full operation towards
the end of that year.

In terms of outputs, it was originally expected that the Micro-credit Fund would provide
loans to 2,000 borrowers in two cycles during the project period, which was planned to
end in December 2004. The number of people obtaining these loans was therefore
specified as an output indicator and the timescale for this was taken to be the end of
December 2004.

Despite its late start, by the end of November 2006, a total of 4,467 loans (924 to
businesses and 3543 to individuals), in total amount of US$13,127,840 had been lent,
which exceeded the target. The average size of loans to individual businesses was
US$6,833 and the average size of loans though the group based lending scheme was
US$1,923, By the end of March 2006, all the five contracts had completed the first phase
(25 months), during which the credit agencies could receive financial support from AZM
for running the Scheme (Areas 1, 2, 3, and 4 in January 2005, while Area 5 in April
2005).



                                             -46-

As regards outcomes, from the above purpose and rationale it can be deduced that the
anticipated result of these loans would be that there would be more successful small
business starts and that the impact of this would then be more employment and other
economic benefits. As well as making some finance available, the objective of the
scheme was also seen as being to raise credit awareness and demand and to lever in other
sources of money. The intention was that it should be commercial not social and the
scheme was to be self-supporting after two years.

An evaluation of the Micro-credit Scheme has not been undertaken so far, so that one
cannot assess the extent to which the anticipated outcomes have actually been in place.
However, as revealed by the quarterly monitoring reports, it seems that the Scheme has
reached only to a little extent laid offs and their families, as well as other categories of
unemployed, which suggests that the Micro-credit Scheme is rather a good instrument to
support economic regeneration of mining communities than a mean for individual
rehabilitation of redundant miners. Worthy to mention in this context is that only about
600 new jobs have been created by beneficiaries of the Scheme, while almost 11,000 jobs
have been sustained, mostly in the form of supporting income generating activities at
households' level. It is to be expected therefore that the Scheme would better reveal its
potential in support of mining communities under the follow-up SER project.

The Scheme has already become self-supporting, having achieved almost 100%
repayment rate so far and having lent much more money than received from the project.

The Enterprise Support and Workspace Centers Management program

The Enterprise Support and Workspace Centers Management program was planned to
provide additional support for start-up businesses through the provision of premises and
the pooling of management services at business centers. Like the Micro-Credit Scheme,
the rationale behind it was presumed to be that the availability of the workspace and the
provision of enterprise support services would result in the formation and survival of
more small businesses which would in turn have an impact on economic development in
the area, provide income for their owners, and employment for other people.

The enterprise support provided was likely to include training sessions, counseling,
consultancy advice and guidance. All of the types of business support listed above would
be implemented through a mix of information provision, one-to-one advice, training and
consultancy. It was expected that an integrated service would be offered, based on the
principle of single and easily accessible points of contact which would also be expected
to link to and make use of other types of support available within the areas, including the
workspace centers when they became operational, and the Credit Agency administering
the micro credit scheme. Each centre was anticipated to provide space for around 30
businesses.

The targeted values for the enterprise support output indicators (not stated in the PAD,
but included in the contracts with ESWCM Consultants) were: 4.500 consultations
provided; 604 new businesses initiated by beneficiaries of consultations/support



                                            -47-

measures; 3,838 new jobs created by companies that have received services; and 80
reference points established within mining regions. The values actually achieved by the
end of the program (December 2004) were as follows: 11,054 consultations provided;
1,078 new businesses initiated; 6, 185 new jobs created by beneficiaries of enterprise
support assistance; and 80 reference points established. Except for the last one (in which
case it was actually a matter of costs included in contracts), achievements under all
indicators have exceeded the targets.

As regards outcomes, similarly to the Micro-credit Scheme, the anticipated results of
these services would be that there would be more successful small business starts and that
the impact of this would then be more employment and other economic benefits. Since no
program evaluation has been undertaken for this program either, assessment of outcomes
cannot be done based on the existing monitoring data. However, from our monitoring
reports and from the final annual independent social impact monitoring report presented
by the SIM Consultant it came out that the five years picture of entrepreneurship in the
mining areas does appear to suggest that there was a slight but sustained growth in
business starts. It would therefore seem that, in this field, something was having an effect.
While this growth is unlikely to be all due directly to social mitigation programs, these
programs and other economic programs may, just by their existence, have contributed to
the emergence of a culture which is to some extent at least more positive about enterprise.
Indeed it could be argued that, if the employment needs of the mining areas are
eventually addressed to a satisfactorily degree, it will be due to a combination of factors
from which it will not be possible to disentangle individual efforts.

In the case of workspace centers, following numerous field trips and long discussions,
decision was taken and endorsed by the Bank that only ten buildings would be included
in the program instead of 14, as initially envisaged. It was initially estimated that the
design would be completed by September 2002, repairs and furniture would be
completed in stages during 2003 and the Centers would be fully functional by December
2003. This has not actually happened.

While designs had been completed for all the buildings by the end of 2003, the works
have actually required much more time than initially expected. AZM has analyzed,
through the Technical Economic Council, and AZM General Director approved requests
for contract modification, submitted for each building, between August 2003 to
September 2004, containing supplementary works, new solutions (roofs, heating plants,
heating system, windows, structure, etc.) cut offs.

The Engineers reviewed the circumstances invoked by the Contractors and determined
contract variations and extensions of time. Engineer's requests have been approved by
the Employer. Additionally, a civil works expert audited all the works executed to the
WSCs and certified all variations. Based on the technical audit, amendments for
variations and for time extension have been approved and signed. All contracts had been
completed by the end of December 2005 and are now under the defect liability period.




                                           -48-

By the end of 2004 only eight of the ten centers had been fully refurbished and the other
two were partly refurbished.       Out of the eight centers, however, only seven were
functional. One of the remaining three became functional during 2005 and the other two
in 2006.

Since December 31, 2005, when contracts for workspace centers management by
consultants ceased, all buildings had been transferred to the AZM regional/local offices
from the areas where they are located and are now in the process of being transferred to
the newly selected WSCM consultants according as the contracts with these consultants
become effective.

However, some additional works have been identified by AZM personnel and based on
the engineer's and consultant's inputs are under the drafting process as follows. These
regard: accesses for persons with disabilities; additional parking areas; fencing of sites;
rain water management; fire fighting additional means; waste management facilities;
additional lighting for curtilage; other small works.

The outputs targeted for this program were the establishment of centers, including
workspace, and the provision of services in each of the 14 mining areas. The single
output indicator referred to in PAD was the number of businesses established in the
workspace centers, but AZM has also monitored the number of employees hired by the
incubated businesses for activities carried out therein. As of December 31, 2006, 97
businesses had been established in the workspace centers, with 517 employees working
therein.

Expected outcomes were improvement of business start up opportunities in the mining
areas close to workspace centers and additional employment opportunities for local labor
force in those areas. In consideration of the late start of business incubation by WSCs, it
is too early for attempting an assessment of these outcomes.

The Public Information and Social Dialogue program
Under the Public Information and Social Dialogue sub-component, one or more NGOs
were to be contracted to assist AZM in community outreach and social dialogue. This
was to include support for the public provision of pre- and post-redundancy services and
career counseling for workers in the mining areas. The NGOs would assist AZM and
CGMC regarding stakeholder consultations for the mines to be closed. The project
would also finance a public information consultant to design a public information
strategy to facilitate communication with primary beneficiaries and other stakeholders in
the mining areas. The consultant would also produce materials (such as booklets,
pamphlets, posters, journalistic material etc) for AZM, in accordance with that strategy.
The materials would be disseminated by AZM and made available at the Public
Information Centers at AZM's regional offices.

The expected outputs for the public information program were the development of a
public information and communication strategy for AZM, establishing public information
centers at AZM Headquarters and its regional offices, and production and dissemination



                                            -49-

of information materials, while for the social dialogue program the expected outputs were
functional partnerships with relevant agencies carrying out social mitigation policies in
mining regions as well as with other stakeholders, at both central and regional levels.

The outcomes should then be increased awareness among mining communities regarding
the necessity and perspectives of the mining restructuring process, improved feeling of
ownership among these communities with regard to project's intervention measures and
improved capacity to cope with socio-economic transformations incurred by the
economic restructuring in general and by the mining sector reform in particular, as well
as better participation of stakeholders in the design and implementation of the
intervention measures.

Unfortunately, these programs did not work properly. On the one hand, significant delays
occurred in contracting and implementing the technical assistance for AZM. These
related to long discussion on the TOR for selection of Consultant (initially with the Bank,
but thereafter with the DFID selected Consultant who had a pretty different approach
than the PAD on this sub-component), to discussions with the Bank on the composition
of short list, which required re-advertising the REOI, to controversies between
PMU/PIU/AZM and the Bank on opening a single offer, on technical evaluation matters
and so forth. On the other hand, once technical assistance had been contracted, which
also included setting up of public information centers and production of information
materials, a series of missed deadlines in performing the services by the consultant have
occurred, which finally led to termination of the contract, but after several attempts to
amend the initial contract. Following contract termination, successful negotiations with
the Enterprise Support Consultants took place during the first quarter of 2004 for taking
over some public information tasks for a ten months period, with the result that public
information activities started in summer 2004. More than 100 public information points
(PIPs) were set up all over AZM operating area, including at its regional offices, and lots
of information materials have been produced and disseminated among both entrepreneurs
and people adversely affected by mining sector restructuring. Unfortunately, a small
number of PIPs have survived after ceasing of Consultants' support, while AZM had
neither necessary capacity, nor necessary resources to support such a network and to
produce the required range of information materials. This program is being continued
under the MCESERP with support by consultants financed under the project.

Under the above circumstances, the evaluation of the SIM Consultants in their final
report was as follows: "It does seem that in 2004 progress was at last made in
implementing this program, although it is now a little late to provide pre- and post-
redundancy services and career counseling for those workers made redundant in earlier
years. While the anticipated outputs from the program are not to be directly job-related,
they might have had a beneficial impact on other social mitigation components by
helping to enhance their effectiveness. However no direct job-creation effects were
expected and none have so far been forthcoming."




                                           -50-

Social Development Scheme for Mining Communities (SDSMC)

SDSMC was not initially included in the project design. It has been included following
discussions with the Bank's missions during the year 2003, as a social development
window for the social mitigation component, to be implemented by the Romanian Social
Development Fund (RSDF). The objectives, intended beneficiaries, eligibility criteria,
and type of sub-projects to be financed by the proposed RSDF sub-component to benefit
the settlements adversely affected by mining sector restructuring have been agreed upon
by NAD, RSDF and the Bank's mission from July 2003. These agreements were
reflected in the Operational Manual submitted to the Bank for final approval. Starting
with July 9, 2004, when the addendum to the Subsidiary Agreement was concluded
between the Ministry of Public Finance, NAD and the Ministry of Economy and
Commerce, RSDF became the implementing agency, using the community-driven
development approach, for the SDSMC within part B ,,Social Impact Mitigation" of the
,,Mine Closing and Social Impact Mitigation" Project. The same principles and main
procedures used under the second phase of the Social Development Fund Project were
also used for SDSMC.

It was expected that SDSMC will be able to commit the entire $5 million by June 2005.
A project extension was required in this respect, which was agreed by the Bank. A total
of 229 proposals were received 79% for small infrastructure, 8.8% for income generating
activities and 12.2% for community based social services subprojects and 93 subprojects
were financed. Other small infrastructure applications (23), though in compliance with
Fund's requirements, were postponed because of the insufficiency of the available funds.

By the end of June 2006, the situation of RSDF administered sub-projects was as follows:
71 grant agreements signed for small infrastructure subprojects, in amount of
US$ 5.182.075; 10 grant agreements signed for income generating activities subprojects,
in amount of US$ 397.939; and 12 grant agreements signed for social services
subprojects, in total amount of US$ 384.600. The total funds contracted by RSDF for
sub-projects by June 31, 2006 amounted at US$ 5.964.614, out of which US$ 5.000.000
from the Loan and US$ 964.614 from the Government contribution. The overall amount
contracted and spent by RSDF under the project by June 31, 2006 was US$ 6.713.072,
out of which US$ 5.549.999 from the Loan and US$ 1.163.073 from the Government
contribution.

The SDSMC is continued under the MCESERP in 99 mining localities, as approved by
Project Coordinator, based on a revised operational manual. The implementation of the
scheme has started by contracting the 23 postponed subprojects evaluated under MCSM
Project with the continuation under the MCESER Project.

Social Development Scheme financed by DFID (SDS)

The Social Development Scheme (SDS) was an instrument designed to respond to
medium and short term community needs leading to addressing actual social problems, as




                                          -51-

well as preparing the communities for the development of long terms measures. The
projects' size (required funding) should be up to 5000 GBP (average: 3000 GBP).

Its main objectives were to: a) support social development and build social capital in the
communities most affected by mining industry restructuring; and b) contributing to
poverty alleviation in the mining regions, thus meeting the objectives of the Romanian
Anti-Poverty Strategy.

The rational of financing this program in addition to the already designed social
mitigation sub-components was that, in the context of mining industry restructuring, the
communities having mines on their territory or having provided labor force for this sector
faced social problems arising from the dependency on the infrastructure and incomes
generated by the former mining mono-industrial economic environment, such as the lack
or massive reduction of community income, of transportation infrastructure, of health
care services, of training and education services, of common infrastructure, of social
services for children, youth and the elderly, of cultural and traditional actions, as well as
of environmental protection.

Priority was given to projects whose beneficiaries, in total or in part, belonged to the
following groups: redundant miners & their families, unemployed, poor families or those
in difficulty, children, particularly homeless, orphans, children from poor families, young
people.

The program was implemented in two phases: I - January 2002 - March 2003, with total
funding of 150 000 GBP (53 projects financed in the operation areas of 8 AZM regional
offices)

Periods of implementation:

I PHASE:
Duration: January 2002 - March 2003
Total fund: 150 000 GBP
Operational area: 8 NAD's Regional Offices
SDS was implemented for a period of 6 months in for pilot areas covering area of 4 NAD
offices: Targu Jiu, Petrosani, Deva, Alba (January ­ June 2002) and after the satisfactory
evaluation over June-July, was implemented in other 2 mining regions: Voivozi and
Rodna (Oct.-Dec.2002). 50 000 GBP was allocated during January ­ March 2004 for the
financing of a special programme intended for social mitigation of 3 mining areas
seriously affected by mines closures: Balan, Baia Borsa and Brad.
Financial management of SDS was supported by IMC Consulting Ltd.

II PHASE:
Duration: November 2003 ­ July 2004
Total fund: 200 000 GBP (63 project financed)
Operational area: all NAD's Regional Offices (the most affected communities)
Financial management was supported by DFID Office within British Embassy



                                            -52-

Experience to date:
Over the period January 2002 ­ July 2004, 207 project applications were submitted to the
Regional Offices. Of these, 140 were approved by the Local Evaluation Committees
(LAC`s) and submitted for final approval to the NAD and DFID (IMC Consulting Ltd.).
Of these 140, 116 received final approval and were financed.

As already mentioned in the section regarding project's design, by their very nature, these
programs needed to be flexible and iterative and required intensive supervision. These
were to be done through social impact monitoring and management information system
sub-components, the second one including a comprehensive database of unemployed
redundant mining sector workers and identity cards to track their participation in
rehabilitation activities. Under the social impact monitoring sub-component, an
independent research consulting firm has been contracted to conduct annual impact
evaluations and prepare annual independent social impact monitoring reports.

Although inter-related, these two sub-components have had quite specific histories of
implementation, and therefore should be dealt with separately for the purpose of this
report.

Social Impact Monitoring

Unsurprisingly, this was not the dearest sub-component to AZM management, nor was it
to AZM staff responsible for data collection and reporting. Therefore, while contracting
of the independent research consulting firm went smoothly (being actually the first
contract for consulting services signed by AZM under the project), routine monitoring by
AZM of programs' implementation and of socio-economic indicators for a relevant
sample of mining localities, to be reported on in the quarterly progress reports (QPR),
raised problems from the beginning. On the one hand, it was claimed that collection of so
many indicators proposed by the Consultant in the template of the QPR exceeded the
potential of AZM responsible staff in terms of human resources and time budget, and that
availability of data with local authorities was in many cases questionable. This was sorted
out during the Mid Term Review, when indicators that had been not collected by most of
the regional offices were dropped out. On the other hand, it was about a misleading
philosophy on monitoring the programs' implementation, both at the level of AZM
management and among AZM personnel, according to which routine monitoring of
programs' outputs was not integral part of program's implementation, being instead the
responsibility of AZM monitoring and evaluation unit or even of the monitoring and
evaluation officer at AZM-PIU. It should be pointed out in this regard that AZM
monitoring and evaluation unit have never been suitably staffed, in spite of repeated
intervention by the Bank's supervision missions, for most of the project's life being
staffed with only one junior sociologist. There also has been a case when the general
director of AZM considered that the PIU should not interfere in monitoring issues
relating to programs under direct implementation by AZM, such as ETIS and ID Cards,
imposing a kind of embargo for data transfer to the PIU.




                                            -53-

However, despite all difficulties emerging from the philosophy above referred to and
constraints relating to AZM staff strength, quarterly progress reports have been produced
regularly, yet missing data sometimes for certain localities or mining regions.

The SIM Consultant's annual independent reports have been regularly produced and
submitted to AZM. These reports included comments and recommendations for the
attention of AZM management but one cannot assert that much attention was paid to
those recommendations. They were translated into Romanian and posted on AZM web
site in both Romanian and English languages. Programs' independent evaluations were
not included in the social mitigation component's procurement plan and, except for the
case of ETIS mid term evaluation carried out by the SIM Consultant, such evaluations
were not commissioned, although proposals in this regard did exist.

Management Information System (MIS) and ID Cards

Technical Specifications and even bidding documents for AZM management information
system had been prepared with Bank's assistance before the start of project
implementation, so that it would have been possible to have it in place at the very
beginning of project's implementation. According to its initial design, it should have
included both necessary equipment and software and technical assistance for AZM for
implementing and running the program. Unfortunately, the contents and even the
philosophy of this program was several times reconsidered, so that finally the MIS
package consisted of procurement of equipment and software (including some training),
while technical assistance for implementation was assigned by Minister's Order to the
Institute of Management and Informatics (IMI) at MEC. A separate package was
extracted from project's allocation for MIS to be used for procurement of the equipment
necessary for production of ID Cards.

The execution of the contract for supply and installation of information system was
completed and the operational acceptance certificate was issued to the Supplier by the
end of 2003.

Data entry forms for all sub-components were developed by IMI and made available on
the server administered by IMI, while the Supplier developed an application for
downloading and saving locally the data entered onto the central database by AZM
regional staff.

Electronic data input onto the central database by both AZM personnel at regional offices
and contracted consultants had started, and IMI developed an application for tracking the
process of data input onto the different sections of the central database. However, AZM
was unable to ensure cable connections to Internet for the regional offices using dial-up
connections because of both technical and financial constraints. This made it impossible
entering by all regional offices and processing on the central server of the information
needed for the quarterly progress reports. Although under consideration, the solution for
off-line filling in of the data entry forms has been not implemented by the end of the
reporting period. Besides, proper functioning of the MIS for the purpose of monitoring



                                           -54-

the social mitigation component of the project required employment of an IT specialist by
AZM, which was not properly achieved (upon the Bank's diligences in this regard, such a
position had been created within PIU but shortly canceled by the Government afterwards
while reducing the PIU staff strength from seven to five positions).

The ID Cards program did not function properly either. On the one hand, because of the
time lag between massive layoff and the start of this program (2001), a quite complex
equipment would have been needed to fill in the registration forms and to issue the ID
Cards at the residence place of former miners along with liaising with local employment
agencies that might have had information on their current status, which was not accepted
by the Bank. Additionally, the technical solution opted for by AZM management to use
scanners instead of digital cameras for copying and transferring the beneficiaries' photos
on the ID Cards proved to be unfeasible, since besides being time consuming would have
required computer skills that AZM staff did not have. On the other hand, collecting the
data for filling in the registration forms and entering these data electronically onto the
database for almost 70,000 people proved to exceed the potential of AZM staff.

II. Evaluation of the Borrower's own performance during the evolution and
implementation of the project

AZM was established in 1997 as a "public institution, with legal status, subordinated to
directly to Government" (Emergency Ordinance 64/1997) in response to the crisis facing
the mining industry. This was changed in 2000 when it became a public institution
subordinated to the Ministry of Industry and Resources (Emergency Ordinance 68/2000).
It is now subordinated to the Ministry of Economy and Commerce, which has replaced
the Ministry of Industry and Resources.

The mandate given to the NAD by was broad and included inter alia: to review of the
implementation of the national strategy for energy and its effects on the mining sector; to
review and implement the regional development plans for the mining areas; to review of
the mines closure programs and implement the program for the reconstruction of the
(affected) mining regions; and the management of programs and internal and external
funds for the reconstruction of the mining areas.

Government Decision 69/1998 extended the mandate further giving the NAD the
responsibility for: the elaboration of proposals regarding Governmental strategies and
policies and local programs for the restructuring of the mining areas; the attraction of
internal and external funds for the financing of reconstruction programs in the mining
areas; and, the management internal and external funds destined for the financing if
reconstruction programs in the mining areas.

To evaluate the performance of the implementing entity for the social mitigation
component of the MCSMP, we recall on findings and conclusions of successive
supervision missions of the Bank, which have been actually assumed by both Ministry of
Economy and Commerce and AZM, and on the independent institutional assessment
carried out in 2004 by an international expert.



                                           -55-

Since its Mid Term Review, in October 2001, the Bank had expressed "major concerns
that the development outcomes are not likely to be fully achieved unless AZM's
management is strengthened and changes are made to the legal framework for (a) micro
credits (specifically Government Decision 1365/2000 and Ordinance 40/2000); and (b)
the Employment Training and Incentive Scheme (ETIS) (Government Decision
1005/2000 and Ordinance 11/2000)"

During its July 2003 supervision mission, the Bank expressed again "concern about the
continued erosion of AZM's implementation capacity and raised questions about its
ability to fulfill the responsibilities envisaged for it under the new Mining Sector
Strategy". Moreover, during the mission, a governmental decision (Nr. 738, dated July 3,
2003) had been published further reducing public staff. This included a reduction in the
staff strength of the PIU at AZM from 7 to 5, while the GCMC PIU has been listed as
having 7 positions, compared to existing 6 staff, while the PMU has 6 positions. The
mission stressed that this will undermine implementation of the social mitigation
component of the project which was just reaching its peak. MEC was advised to take this
up urgently to resolve this matter. This was reiterated by the Bank's mission from March-
April 2004: "Since the social mitigation component had increased to 60% of the loan size,
and the number of contracts to be supervised was much larger than could be reasonably
handled by the staff of the PIU, the last mission had recommended restoring the PIU's
staff strength to seven. The Mission is greatly concerned about the risk to contract
supervision by insufficient capacity." However, the staff strengths of the PIU at AZM has
never been restored.

Likewise, the Bank's mission from February 4-11, 2004 noticed that "Inadequate
Management and Coordination has re-emerged as a problem at AZM, while staffing
issues at the AZM PIU have not been resolved: First, AZM continues to suffer from
internal management problems, especially tensions between management and regional
office staff. Secondly, AZM has been unable to ensure effective collaboration with other
organizations ­ including Ministry of Labor, Social Solidarity and Family (MLSSF), the
National Agency for Employment and Training (NAET), the Agency for SMEs, and
Ministry of Interior and Public Administration. ... The mission recommends
organizational restructuring of NAD, including modification of the governance structure
of NAD, as necessary to avoid placing the entire program at risk."

An institutional assessment study was commissioned by AZM in 2004, in agreement with
the Bank, to inform its possible restructuring and strengthening, focusing on the role,
functioning, structure and governance of AZM. The study examined also alternative
organizational structures and governance arrangements to increase its effectiveness and
sustainability.

First of all, the Consultant noticed that AZM had undergone (by the time of assessment)
6 internal reorganizations in its 7 year life and that a highly significant factor applying to
all forms adopted was the neglect (in organizational terms) of strategy development and




                                             -56-

planning activities. Furthermore, the structures put in place lacked coherence in terms of
the AZM's mandate and have been unnecessarily complex.

The study also highlighted that "Systems within the AZM, do not allow for staff to be
rewarded and promoted for good performance relating to the realization of parts of the
AZM's mandate. The systems, in place, reward inertia and encourage risk aversion on
the part of NAD staff. In such an environment, staff will naturally prioritize internal,
routine work over more demanding activity which will involve them in working on new,
innovative initiatives or with other stakeholders. Key areas of the AZM's mandate suffer
as a consequence of this risk averse culture, these include policy initiation and advocacy,
strategy and program development, and work involving collaboration with other socio-
economic stakeholders."

Another key area of concern regarding the capacity of AZM to successfully implement
its mandate referred to staff recruitment and training. The Consultant concluded that
"The staff of AZM has been drawn excessively from the mining sector and consequently
there are insufficient numbers having relevant experience in program and project
management and in local/community development. Furthermore, there has been very
little training provided in areas which are most relevant to the existing mandate of AZM
e.g. strategy development, project and program management, local economic
development, facilitation of community development, partnership working and
networking. The DFID support to the AZM in the form of the training project
implemented by IMC Consulting Ltd. did not address the needs of NAD staff, and in
particular, the Regional/Local Office staff gained little from this. The training, which
AZM is able to provide from its own budget, will not solve this problem since it
addresses few of the needs arising from the AZM's mandate."

Based on the conclusions of the institutional assessment and considering four possible
institutional models to be followed by AZM (a public institution having its own legal
status, subordinated to the Government; an autonomous public institution; an institution
of public interest having its own legal status; and a private institution having its own
legal status, recognized as having public utility), the Consultant recommended
reorganization of AZM as an autonomous public institution. He argued that the creation
of a governing structure for the new institution would give the GoR the opportunity to
ensure that the new institution will have the: transparency, legitimacy, and widespread
participation form stakeholders within the sector at central and local levels. However, he
warned that "it would be desirable to negotiate a transfer from the State Budget, in the
form of a lump sum, taking the organization out of the annual bidding contest which
surrounds the budgetary decision making process, and necessary to attract an increased
amount to facilitate an increase in the overall level of salaries".

This solution has not been implemented so far, the AZM being instead reorganized again
in 2005, with the status of governmental agency under the supervision of the Ministry of
Economy and Commerce, and with regional structure better adapted to the regional
development plan.




                                            -57-

III. Evaluation of the performance of the Bank and other partners (such as the
DFID), including the effectiveness of their relationships

The World Bank' project team was certainly close to the project implementation unit
over the whole duration of the project and provided substantial support and advice from
the very beginning. This included expertise advice for preparation of TORs/TS and
bidding documents for sub-components that constituted pre-conditions for the approval of
the Loan by the Bank's Board and/or for Loan's effectiveness. However, one should
admit that it was not a quite easy task for the Bank's team to harmonize the technical
approach of the PIU with the often political approach of AZM management.

Besides numerous supervision missions undertaken by the Bank's project team on site,
permanent communication via e-mail and direct support from the Bank's Office in
Bucharest have been prerequisites of the strict observance by an emerging team of
Bank's procedures in the implementation of the project, yet not sufficient for a successful
implementation, as emphasized above. However, maintenance of prior-review
procedure's incidence for most of procurement steps over the whole duration of the
project did not prove to by the right solution, at least after the PIU staff had acquired
necessary expertise, resulting in lost of effort and unnecessary time lags between
procurement steps. Additionally, as far as the decision on short lists' composition is
concerned, experience has shown that knowledge of local context may be a better ground
than knowledge of the international consultancy market.

As regards DFID financed technical assistance, the experience of project implementation
suggests that it has not ensured best value for money. One could assert that the start of
this assistance after most of social mitigation sub-components had been designed and
TORs/biding documents had been prepared and even cleared by the Bank was the main
cause of subsequent delays occurred in project's implementation as a result of additional
discussions, and of ineffectiveness of the assistance provided. This would not have
happened however if the DFID selected Consultants had an understanding of the project
consistent with the PAD. Additionally, if an input of circa $5 million from DFID would
have been considered from the beginning for financing of technical assistance for the
social mitigation component, at least sub-components such as public information and
social dialogue, social impact monitoring, and management information system (as
regards technical assistance), which altogether incurred to AZM expenses under the
project of less than $1 million, would not needed to be budgeted from the Loan.




                                           -58-

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

In 2004 the Evaluation Department of the Department for International Development
(DFID) commissioned an Evaluation of DFID Country Programs, which included an
evaluation     of     DFID's       support     to     mining     sector     reform    (cf.
http://www.dfid.gov.uk/aboutdfid/performance/files/ev655.pdf).      Following     is  the
assessment of project implementation in relation to its impact that concludes this
evaluation.

Timeliness

The social mitigation component would have been most necessary after the large
redundancies of 1997. Coming three years later, much of the earlier dire social
consequences have withered away naturally. A smoother implementation would have
helped the project having results earlier but this lateness was basically a problem of the
World Bank loan agreement, for which DFID bears no responsibility.

Duplication of other initiatives

Given the unique position of DFID as a close partner of the World Bank but also running
a bilateral programme of an EU Member State, it was in an excellent position to help
integrate the World Bank and EU programmes. Instead, we could find only one reference
to a meeting of the project where representatives of the European Commission
Delegation also attended. Many of the interventions implemented by AZM were similar
to Phare programmes (SMEs, Ricop, Human Resources). The EU-funded Mining
Affected Regions Reconstruction (MARR) programme (dedicated to mining regions) is
mentioned in the project memorandum. Actually there has been no apparent effort at co-
ordination and
there has been some duplication of activities. There has also been a level of duplication
even with World Bank-sponsored programmes implemented by the Unemployment
Agency (ANOFM) ­ e.g. the unemployment agency offers micro-credits at more
favorable rates than AZM and also provides business counseling for start-ups.

Apart from cannibalizing their business, these duplications have another disadvantage.
Much of the energy put into the project (i.e. consultants' time) has gone into preparing
rule books for the different interventions. By synergy with other programmes, much of
this effort could have been saved, and re-directed. For example, when WB will allocate
the extra funding for SDS-type projects, the SDS procedure designed by IMC will be
replaced with the one of RDSF (Romanian Fund for Social Development), which is
compatible with WB rules. In addition, according to the consultant, the EU is not
interested in working with AZM, as it does not fit its regional development system. Of
course, facilitating the integration of the projects of two large donors (with resources
hugely superior to DFID's), both coming with highly formalized procedures, is no easy
task.

Project design and management



                                           -59-

DFID had only a limited success at influencing the WB project (as its strategy paper
would demand). By contrary, it was the World Bank which has prevailed on all
differences of opinion save one ­ the only major contribution of the consultant / DFID to
the design of the project is SDS. This situation has not always been in favor of the project
­ e.g. the consultant was probably right in opposing the workspace intervention in the
form it was requested by the WB. Moreover, the outlook of the World Bank was very
much focused on objectively identifiable outcomes. DFID and the consultants were more
interested in developing the capacity of the Romanian stakeholders, even if the results
were more difficult to gauge. Over the medium term, it is quite possible the British
approach would have been more beneficial.

There are a number of reasons which explain this inability of DFID to exert its influence,
even when this would have benefited the project. Firstly, DFID had to get involved in a
project after it had already been designed. The failure in communication between DFID
and WB, which resulted in ToRs not sufficiently adhering to the WB memorandum, have
made things even worse. Finally, there is also a management factor here. The WB staff
dealing with the project was highly stable and competent. DFID had a high turnover of
UK based staff, who, in addition, were not all qualified in the area of the project. The
environmental expert on mine closure was hired only after the project had commenced,
and the adviser on social development was replaced in the middle of the project and came
with a radically new approach. That is why we had a very clear picture of what and how
the World Bank wanted to achieve through this project, while DFID vacillated from
increasing the capacity of AZM to abandoning it and looking for other partners. A
solution to increase the capacity of DFID to leave its mark on projects would be to have
UK-based specialists in certain areas (e.g. mining, social mitigation etc.), responsible for
the similar projects in a number of countries17. The day-to-day running of a certain
project could, however, be devolved to the local staff who have a better understanding of
the country where it operates and is closer to events. Finally, this set-up should be in
place from the very beginning and actively engage with the Romanian and WB partners
in the design of the project.

Apparently this was the set up of the project. However, by consulting the correspondence
of the project we have found only limited and disconnected interventions of these
advisers. In addition, the frequent change of correspondent has bewildered the Romanian
partners and the consultant, who were left with the impression of instability in DFID staff.




                                            -60-

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

  1. Project Concept Note, April, 1998
  2. Project Appraisal Document, Mine Closure and Social Mitigation Project
      August, 1999
  3. Wardel Armstrong Report ­ Assistance to the Central Group fro Mine
      Closure March, 2005
  4. Institution Assessment and Organizational Development, Interim Report of
      NAD, July 2004
  5. NAD, NAMR and CGCM annual reports (2000-2005)
  6. NAD Quarterly Reports
  7. Annual Social Impact monitoring Reports (2001-2005)
  8. Poverty and Social Impact Analysis of Mining Sector Reforms in Romania,
      June 2005
  9. Aide Memoires, Back-to-Office Reports, and Project Status
      Reports/Implementation Status Reports
  10. Project Appraisal Document, Mine Closure, Environmental and Socio-
      Economic Regeneration Project, November 2004
  11. Cost-Effectiveness and Cost-Benefit of Three Major Romanian Employment
      Generation Programs, 2005




                                       -61-

