Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 19347-RO
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$44.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE
GOVERNMENT OF ROMANIA
FORA
MINE CLOSURE AND SOCIAL MITIGATION PROJECT
August 6, 1999
Energy Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective August 12, 1999)
Currency Unit = Leu (plural Lei)
1,000,000 Lei = US$ 74.07
US$1 = 15,937
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CGMC       -    Central Group for Mines Closure
DFID      -    Department For International Development (UK)
EU      -    European Union
FMS      -    Financial Management Systems
ICB     -    International Competitive Bidding
IS     -    International Shopping
LACI    -    Loan Administration Change Initiative
LCC      -    Local Consutative Committee
LRP     -    Labor Redeployment Program
MFI    -    Micro-Finance Institutions
MIS     -    Management Information System
MOWFEP        -    Ministiy of Water, Forests and Enviromnental
Protection
MOF      -    Ministry of Finance
MOIC      -    Ministry of Industry and Commerce
MOLSP      -    Ministry of Labor and Social Programs
MTRIs    -    Mining Technical and Research Institutes
NAD      -    National Agency for Programs Development and
Implemencation for the Reconstruction of the Mining
Regions
NAMR       -    National Agency for Mineral Resources
NBF      -    Non World Bank Financing
NCB      -    National Competitive Bidding
NGO      -    Non-Government Organization
NMC      -    National Mining Company
NS     -    National Shopping
PIU     -    Project Implementation Unit
PMRS      -    Project Management Reporting System
PMRs      -    Project Management Reports
PMU      -    Project Management Unit
REPA      -    Romanian Environmental Protection Agency
SA     -    Special Account
SEA      -    Sector Environmental Assessment
SMW      -    Social Mitigation Program
SOE      -    Statement of Expenditures
Vice President:          Johannes Linn
Country Director:          Andrew Vorkink
Sector Director         Hossein Razavi
Sector Manager:           Henk Busz
Task Team Leader:           John Strongman



Romania
Mine Closure and Social Mitigation Project
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
Date: August 6, I999                                 Team Leader: John Strongman
Country Director: Andrew Vorkink                      Sector Director: Hossein Razavi
Project ID: 56337                                     Sector Leader: Henk Busz
Sector: Mining                                       Program Objective Category: PV
Lendinglnstrument: SIL                                Program of Targeted Intervention:   []  Yes  [X] No
Borowoe er:Rmana Ministrycureny                                  X]ofnleFinance     peif
Resonibe ageniod(eas):Ceta Gruo ie Closu ares M     ainistr ofFnusryad Trd;aioa Agnc fIOR-Pogamse
CommitScia                                    0.7        36         50          44         0
Goemnn                                                       12                  0.               12 I.8  gM|  
IBRDnt(USCmua                                            44.5    1
Projectimpment aion (peario: 5 yea  rStand   Va                 [ ]  Fixed           [X s  LlBR-seds|
EProecte iefeatione daterio: Oo   3E                                     c      a
Ep Ctedefecitmenessfeae: Octobe 31l99Epce  lsn  ae  ue3,20



Romania
Mine Closure and Social Mitigation Project
TABLE OF CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective .................................................................1
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators ...................................1
B. Strategic Context .................................................................2
1. Sector-related CAS goal supported by the project .......................................................2
2. Background, main sector issues and Government strategy ..........................................2
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices ...............................7
C. Project Description  Summary .................................................................8
1. Project components .................................................................8
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project .....................................9
3. Benefits and target population ................................................................                            10
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements ..................................................1....... I 
D. Project Rationale ................................................................                                                     15
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ........................................... 15
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies ....... 16
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design .......................................... 16
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership ................................................. 18
:5. Value added of Bank support in this project .............................................................. 18
E. Summary Project Analyses .................................................................18
1. Economic ................................................................                                                  18
2. Financial ................................................................                                                 19
3. Technical ................................................................                                                 19
4. Institutional ................................................................                                             20
5. Social ...........................                                                                                         20
6. Environmental assessment ...........................                                                                       20
7. Participatory approach ...........................                                                                         21
F. Sustainability and Risks ............................                                                                                 22
1. Sustainability ...........................                                                                                22
2. Critical risks ...........................                                                                                 23
3. Possible controversial aspects ...........................                                                                 24



G. Main Loan Conditions ................................................                                                25
1. Effectiveness Conditions ................................................                                  25
2. Other Conditions ................................................                                          25
H. Readiness for Implementation ................................................                                        25
I. Compliance with Bank Policies ................................................                                       26
Annexes
Annex 1. Project Design Summary .27
Annex 2. Project Description .29
Table A. List of Mines included under the Project .35
Annex 3. Estimated Project Cost .37
Annex 4. Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary .38
Annex 5. Financial Summary .40
Annex 6.  Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements .41
Table A. Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements .43
Table B. Procurement Plan .44
Table B 1.  Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review  ....................................... 46
Table C. Procurement Information .47
Table D. Allocation of Loan Proceeds .48
Annex 7.  Project Processing Budget and Schedule .49
Annex 8. Documents in Project File .50
Annex 9. Statement of Loans and Credidts                                                 .51
Annex 10. Country at a Glace .53
Annex 11.   Financial Management Action Plan ................................................                           55
Annex 12.   Social Assessment of Mining Sector Reconstruction ............................................. 56
Attachment: Government Strategy and Restructuring Program of the
Romanian Mining Sector ................................................                           58
Map IBRD 30443



A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
The development objective of the project is to support the Government's efforts to reduce the burden on the
national budget by permanently closing uneconomic mines in a socially and environmentally sustainable
manner and to provide support to the modernization of the sector's administrative framework. This objective
would be achieved through support for the following three components:
* closure of 29 uneconomic mines and the environmental remediation of mine sites;
* financing of social mitigation initiatives to help diversify the local economy in support of the
Government's restructuring program for the mining sector; and
* technical and institutional assistance for modernizing the administration of mineral rights
This project is conceived as the first step in the Bank's support of the restructuring of the Romanian mining
sector. As such, this project aims at:
*  developing effective procedures for a technically and environmentally sound approach to the
formal closure of uneconomic mines,
*  identification of measures that would be most effective in mitigating the social hardships resulting
from the restructuring of the sector, and assistance in creating diversified employment
opportunities for redundant labor, and
*  strengthening the agencies involved in restructuring the sector and introducing a modern mining
licensing system.
It is important to recognize that the proposed project constitutes only the first phase in the restructuring of the
Romanian mining sector and is, by its very design, essentially a mine-focused regional social mitigation
project. It provides some urgently needed initial steps in capacity building for sector institutions that could
be deepened and broadened in a subsequent operation. In the implementation of the Mine Closure
Component, contractors will have every incentive to use as much local labor as is technically feasible. The
funds allocated to this component will thus primarily benefit local labor and the communities where this
work is carried out. As such, this component will complement the one-time financial support the Govermnent
provided to miners taking voluntary redundancies. It also will enhance the professional capabilities of the
recently established Central Group for Mine Closure (CGMC). The Social Mitigation Component will
support the Government's efforts to revitalize depressed mining areas through investments for support of
small enterprises, re-training and job creation through a more diversified local economy. In the areas where
mines are to be closed, this will be complemented by short-term employment for the labor-intensive mine
closure and environmental remediation program.  It will strengthen the National Agency for Programs
Development and Implementation for the Reconstruction of the Mining Regions (NAD), building its capacity
as a coordinating and facilitating agency dedicated to social mitigation and revitalization of the mining
regions. These measures will complement the Government's efforts to attract investors to the mining regions
through fiscal incentives. Thirdly, the Institutional Strengthening Component will support modernization
of the administrative framework for the sector and will enhance the professional staff capabilities of the
National Agency for Mineral Resources (NAMR). As noted above the Mine Closure and Social Mitigation
components include support for strengthening CGMC and NAD respectively. In view of the urgency to
achieve results on the ground, CGMC and NAD will be supported by technical advisors.
Key performance indicators are:
* Number of mines closed and enviromnentally remediated;
* Amount of budget subsidies for production, capital investment and exploration;
* Amount of budget subsidies for redundancies, social mitigation, mine closures and environmental
improvements;
* Number of beneficiaries from employment and training incentives scheme;
* Number of small businesses able to access credit through the project;



-2 -
*  Number of Businesses established in workspace centers,
*  Number of people from mining communities who are economically rehabilitated, either through
new jobs created in mining areas or through successful relocation;
* Completion of studies and implementation of findings;
*  Progress in the implementation of a modem mining licensing system; and
*  Amount of exploration and investment by private investors in the mining sector.
B: STRATEGIC CONTEXT
1. Sector-related CountryAssistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (seeAnnex 1):
CAS document number: 16559-RO    Date of latest CAS discussion: June 3, 1997.
The Bank's country assistance strategy for Romania has four major objectives: (a) to promote structural
reforms and private sector development; (b) to alleviate poverty and develop human capital; (c) to promote
reform of the public sector; and (d) to protect the environment. The proposed project contributes to these
objectives as follows:
Promoting Structural Reforms and Private Sector Development. The project will provide
support for (a) the development of a modem mining licensing system to help facilitate private
investment into the mining sector; (b) the institutional strengthening of the agencies involved in
the closure of mines, the environmental remediation of mine sites, and the management of
licensing system; and (c) preparation and implementation of studies regarding legal reforms,
subsidies, additional mine closures, SOE reform and environmental improvements.
* Alleviating Poverty and Development of Human Capital. The project will: (a) provide technical
assistance to NAD, which is the agency established to coordinate efforts to revitalize affected
mining regions and organize social mitigation for mining communities; and (b) help finance
NAD's support to specialized agencies and service providers to help them create jobs and assist ex-
miners and other unemployed in the mining regions in finding alternate sources of income.
*  Promoting Public Sector Reform. The project will support establishment of a Department of
Mines to administer the mining sector within NAMR, which has become responsible for
administering the mining sector in addition to the petroleum sector.
*  Protecting the Environment. The project will support: (a) the preparation of a comprehensive
Sector Environmental Assessment, which would create base line data for the mining regions,
identify the main environmental issues arising from mining activities, and define priority areas for
future environmental remediation efforts; and (b) financing of the environmental remediation of
the specific mine sites whose closure is supported under this project.
2. Background, Main sector issues and Government strategy:
BACKGROUND. Romania has sizeable reserves of metals (gold, silver, combined metals, copper) as well as
salt, uranium, lignite and hard coal. However, the selection of the reserves for development has been poor
and the mining conditions are difficult. In its drive for economic self-sufficiency, the previous regime
decided to develop all deposits where this was technically feasible. The relatively high wages of the mining
industry attracted labor from all over the country. The state-owned mining companies directed their efforts
primarily to increasing production, irrespective of costs and environmental consequences. This resulted in a
much larger mining sector than was economically justified and extensive budgetary support was required. In
1989, when output reached its peak, there were 278 mines in operation. At that time, the mining sector
provided a livelihood for almost 10% of the population and covered about 17,500 hectares of land.



-3 -
In 1998, the production of major minerals in Romania in terms of metal content of different products was
about 1.8 tons of gold, 20,300 tons of copper, 18,000 tons of lead, 30,500 ton of zinc, 238,800 tons of iron
ore, 24.2 tons of molybdenum, 23.2 million tons of lignite, 341 million tons of brown coal, and 4.6 million
tons of hard coal. Copper, lead, and zinc were produced in concentrate form. About 90% of all mining
activities in Romania are carried out by six state-owned National Mining Companies (NMCs). (see Table 1)
whose status was converted from state-owned enterprises to national joint stock companies during 1998/99.
There is also a state-owned salt mining company and a state-owned mineral water company. In addition,
there are nine technical and research Mining Institutes (MRTIs) that provide mine design and engineering
services and eleven joint stock exploration companies. The NMCs used to be obliged to use the services of
these institutes and exploration companies, who had no incentive to maximize efficiency since they were
subsidized by the State. As a result, the NMCs were often obliged to develop uneconomic and risky
deposits, adding to the drain on the State budget. However, all MRTIs were converted into joint stock
companies in 1998 and two of them have been privatized. They now operate on a commercial basis. In 1998
the six NMCs received total subsidies of about US$176 million, including about US$119 million in
production subsidies.
Table 1: Romanian Mining Companies in 1998
Name           Main Products  Number   Sales    Losses    Total
of Em-   (MUS$)  (MUS$)  Subsidies
________________ ployees  _(MUS$)
Societatea Nationala a  Lignite, brown    10,145  61.7     47.3      19.7
Carbunelui - Ploiesti  coal
Compania Nationala a   Brown coal,     23,496    160.8    295.8      43.4
Huilei - Petrosani      hard coal
Compania Nationala a   Lignite         23,124    318.4    106.7      14.0
Lignitului Oltenia - Targu
Jiu     _            _
Compania Nationala Min-  Copper, lead,    17,174  99.2     85.3      46.1
vest - Deva             zinc, gold, iron
ore, molybde-
num
CompaniaNationala Re-   Copper, lead,    13,460    102.7    0.4      43.8
min - Baia Mare        zinc, gold, iron
ore
Compania Nationala a   Uranium          3,728     20.5      3.5      9.4
Uraniului - Bucuresti
Total of 6 companies         _          91,127    763.3    539.0    176.4
Exchange rate - 8,500 LEI per 1 US$ in 1998
Source CGMC, MOIC.
In 1996, Government support to the mining industry for production subsidies was about US$385 million. To
stop the hemorrhage of funds, the Government decided to: (i) stop all mining activities in mines that operated
in dangerous working conditions or where reserves were close to becoming exhausted; (ii) reduce the labor
force in the mining industry by offering miners generous separation packages of up to 20 months of wages
(Ordinance #22); and (iii) increase investments to modernize production in mines that were considered to be
potentially profitable. In 1998 production subsidies were reduced to US$119 million and are expected to be
further reduced to US$100 million in 1999, as shown in Table 2.



- 4 -
Table 2: Annual production subsidies for the mining sector from 1990 to 1999
Year       Subsidy (MUS$)
1990           528.4
1991           295.5
1992           489.9
1993           386 9
1994           331.5
1995           402.5
1996           384.9
1997           145.5
1998            118.9
1999           100.0 est.
Source: CGMC, MOCI.
By December 1998, about 83,000 miners (out of a total of about 173,0000) left the industry. About 70,000
had accepted the voluntary redundancy package and another 13,000 left because of retirement or because
their service enterprises were spun off from the mining company The number of mines in which production
was stopped stood at 160 as of March 31, 1999. However, of the remaining 118 producing mines no more
than 35 are likely to be economically viable.
T-he layoff of so many workers precipitated a sharp decline in general economic activity in the mining
regions, adding to the unemployment in these regions. Despite promises of active labor redeployment and
investment measures for the mining regions made to the labor unions when the redundancy package was
negotiated in August 1997, efforts to mitigate the social hardships of layoffs and to stimulate the economies
of the mining regions have been quite inadequate. By January 1999, labor unions began to foster serious
unrest and marched on Bucharest. The Government has contained this unrest for the moment and is keen to
expedite social mitigation measures to help relieve the pressure in the mining regions. It recognizes that
solutions have to be found outside the mining sector. Even if the Government succeeds in attracting private
investments for mining ventures, those will only be able to absorb a fraction of the workers laid off from
public mines.
THE GOVERNMENT'S STRATEGY. In response to this situation, the Government issued in 1998 a
comprehensive strategy for restructuring the mining sector (see Attachment). In this strategy statement, the
Government made a commitment to:
*  put the mining industry on a sound commercial footing;
* phase out the Government's direct involvement and seek private sector investment;
*  ensure that mining activities are carried out in an environmentally sustainable manner; and
*  provide comprehensive support to: (a) mitigate the social hardships caused by the closure of
uneconomic mines; and (b) revitalize the economies of the mining regions.
IMPLEMENTATION ISSUES. In implementing this strategy, the Government faces several major issues:
*  Completing the permanent closure of at least 174 mines in an environmentally acceptable manner;
*  Undertake social mitigation actions for 50,000 of the 70,000 workers who took voluntary redun-
dancy from the mining sector and who are in the active labor market but have been unable to find
employment;
*  Preparing for and undertaking a further round of mine closures and mitigate the social consequences
for the miners that are employed at those mines;
*  Preventing further environmental harm caused by presently operating mines and set priorities for
reducing the stock of historical environmental liabilities;
*  Strengthening the CGMC, NAD and NAMR so that they are able to implement the closure and
reform programs competently;



-  -
*  Improving the legal and fiscal regime and removing obstacles to mine closure and private
investment;
*  Progressively reducing subsidies for operating losses, employee social allowances, detailed
exploration and new investments and phasing them out to exploration enterprises by the end of 2000
and to mining enterprises by the end of 2001 and increasing subsidies for mine closure,
environmental remediation and social mitigation, while gradually phasing out all subsidies;
* Reforming and privatizing, where feasible, or closing down the state owned exploration companies;
*  Developing and implementing a reform program  (including financial restructuring) for the
coal/lignite National Mining Companies taking into account the phasing out of subsidies, so that low
cost mines/companies can be privatized and uneconomic mines/companies closed;
*  Developing and implementing a reform program (including financial restructuring) for the non-fuel
minerals National Mining Companies so that low cost mines/companies can be privatized,
unexplored lands and undeveloped deposits offered to the private sector, and uneconomic
mines/companies closed.
Each of these issues is discussed in more detail below.
CLOSURE OF UNECONOMIC MINES. The Government has instructed the Ministry of Industry and Trade
(MOIC) to prepare a time-bound program for the 'technical closure' of 174 uneconomic mines and the
environmental remediation of the surrounding areas. To facilitate this process, the Government has set up a
Central Group for Mine Closures (CGMC) within MOIC which will take over and close the mines. MOIC
has asked for the assistance of the World Bank and other international donors to assist in the effort to close
uneconomic mines. MOIC has prepared a time bound program for the final technical closure of 174
uneconomic mines and the environmental remediation of the surrounding areas.. MOIC is under pressure to
implement this program as quickly as possible, since the mining companies have to provide "care and
maintenance" for mines in which production has been stopped, but which have not been permanently
"technically closed and properly environmentally rehabilitated." This is a specific provision in the 1998
Mining Law, which requires that staff be at hand to maintain services such as ventilation to avoid the build-
up of methane, and the pumping of water to avoid the flooding of the mine, incidents that could endanger
neighboring mines. The annual costs of such 'care and maintenance' are substantial: for 1999, the
Government has budgeted Lei 108 billion (about US$7.2 million) at May 1999 exchange rates for this
purpose. The UK Department for International Development (DFID) will provide about US$0.85 million in
co-financing to provide specialist expertise for technical assistance for CGMC.
SUPPORT TO PEOPLE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY MMNE CLOSURE. The loss of employment for 70,000
miners resulted in a sharp decline of economic activity in mining areas, since the redundancies triggered
further unemployment in local service industries. Although miners who opted for voluntary redundancy
received attractive financial compensation, the depressed macro-economic environment provided little
alternate opportunities for employment. The Government is pursuing a two-pronged strategy to mitigate the
social hardships caused by the closure of uneconomic mines. It consists of: (a) assistance to miners and
others living in mining areas to find alternative employment; and (b) revitalizing economic activity in the
mining regions through fiscal incentives and support to potential investors and new entrepreneurs.
To coordinate these social mitigation efforts, the Government established the National Agency for Programs
Development and Implementation for the Reconstruction of the Mining Regions (NAD). The establishment
of this specialized agency was one of the conditions for voluntary redundancy negotiated with the labor
unions in August 1997. NAD works with local governments and communities, mining companies and trade
unions to provide accurate and timely information on social support measures available to the unemployed in
the mining regions. It has local offices in 14 of the mining regions. Although NAD has 72 of its projected
117 staff in place, it currently lacks the resources and the institutional capacity to carry out its mandate
effectively. The Government's strategy calls for strengthening the capacity of NAD to operate in cooperation
with the Ministry of Labor and Social Protection (MOLSP), other private sector and Govemnment agencies,
NGOs, and the National Council for Regional Development. Over the past year, NAD has gradually been



-6 -
strengthening its staff capacity and has successfully organized broad-based Local Consultative Committees
(LCCs) in the 14 mining regions.
With the assistance of the LCCs, NAD has been able to develop proposals and attract substantial resources
for public works from the Labor Redeployment Programn (LRP) administered by MOLSP for the mining
regions. The social mitigation program (SMP) is designed to finance complementary activities not covered
by the LRP - micro-credit, work spaces at restored mine sites to be business incubators, on-the-job training
and social dialogue. NAD has identified buildings at mine sites in 14 regions to be renovated for work
spaces. The Government has approved the transfer of building properties at closing mines in two regions to
the state private ownership of MOIC and has provided assurances that the latter will make selected buildings
available to NAD for the establishment of business workplace centers for social mitigation. The Government
has requested further technical assistance for NAD and the additional finances for the social mitigation
program coordinated by NAD. The British Department for International Development (DFID) is providing
about US$3.4 mnillion in co-financing to provide expertise for technical assistance to NAD.
ENVIRONMENTAL REMEDIATION. Although Romania has a new regulatory framework to address
environmental impact issues, the administration of these regulations is fragmented and environmental
agencies lack the capacity to monitor the implementation of environmental remediation measures. In order
to deal effectively with the environmental degradation that has occurred in mining areas, the Government's
strategy proposes to carry out an environmental impact assessment, see page 21. This assessment, which
would be carried out by suitably qualified and experienced international consultants, would cover the entire
mining sector, and would become the basis for the environmental remediation programs associated with mine
closures.
INSTITUTIONAL REFORM AND CAPACITY BUIDING IN THE MINIG SECTOR. NAMR takes the lead as
sector 'administrator and regulator', coordinates the enforcement of laws and regulations in the mining
sector, monitors environmental liabilities, provides geological information and issues licenses for the
development of mineral resources. The Government recognizes that NAMR presently lacks the necessary
expertise and capacities to fully carry out these responsibilities and has asked for technical assistance under
the proposed project.. More specifically, the Government plans to:
*  Strengthen and rationalizing the mining cadastal function of NAMR, to properly administer exploration
and exploitation concessions, especially an accurate mapping system and comprehensive mineral
resource assessment files;
*  Strengthen the environmental monitoring function of NAMR and to enhance NAMR's capacity to
coordinate sector-specific environmental policies and regulatory instruments with central authority at the
Ministry of Environment;
*  Assist NAMR in the development of a management information system (MIS), with compilation and
cataloguing of mining data for monitored dissemination of such information to private sector and public
institutions.
LEGAL AND REGULATORY REFORMN The Parliament passed the new Mining Law in March 1998.
Regulations to implement this law were also issued by Government throughout 1998. This Law, together
with norms and regulations, forms the legal foundation for the Government's efforts to restructure the mining
sector. The Law contains several positive features in that it requires that all exploration and mining activities
be based on licenses or concessions. National Mining Companies are required to apply for licenses in areas
they are currently active in and relinquish all other areas. Areas relinquished by the mining companies will
be redemarcated and offered through competitive bidding to Romanian and foreign investors However, the
Mining Law has several limitations, two of which are likely to affect the attractiveness of mining in Romania
in the short term. The first limitation is caused by the provisions which establish the necessity for
competitive bidding for exploration licenses. It would be more attractive to have an open scheme based on
the principle of "first come, first served" and to limit the bidding processes to those specific properties where
the amount of information available justifies it. The second problem refers to the provisions which establish



-7 -
the confidentiality of the NAMR mineral resource database, which should be designed to be more open to
public access. Other weaknesses of the law relate to the security provided to the investor and the
transferability of the concessions. Given the importance of an effective legal, regulatory and institutional
framework for the sector, technical assistance will be provided to review present arrangements. It was
a,areed that NA. LoLjether with relevant entities, will complete a review of the Mining Law and
assoc-iated laws and regeulations and mining sector institutional arrangements and by December 31. 1999.
review with the Bank the findings and actions to be taken.
sUBSIDIEs. In 1998 there were US$ 166 million of production-related subsidies to cover operating losses,
employees social allowances, investment and care and maintenance expenditures for National Mining
Companies and US$10 million of subsidies for mine closure and social mitigation. The Government is
committed to progressively increasing the share of subsidies for mine closure and social mitigation and
reducing the share of production-related subsidies but does not have a specific plan to accomplish this. This
is a complex and politically sensitive task because of the likely need to downsize or close some mining
enterprises and the need to ensure that good mines and operations are not used to cross-subsidize loss making
mines and operations as production related subsidies are reduced. A highly contentious issue will be the
amount of budgetary funds allocated to finance exploration and investment budgets for state mining
enterprises. It was a*reed that MOIC will prepare and review with the Bank, by March 31. 200. and
implement thereafter takitag into account the Bank's comments a timetable tor phasing out subsidies
together with a time-bound action plan for reducing the share ef production-related subsidies (to cover
operating losses. emDloyee social allowances, exyploration expenses and investments) and increasing the
share of subsidies for mine closure, environmental protection and remediation, and social mitization. The
project will provide technical assistance for this important task.
MIINING COMPANY REFORM AND PRIVATIZATION. The Government's strategy statement explicitly
commits to: (i) phasing out State involvement in mineral exploration, and (ii) the privatization of the
National Mining Companies. The Government has already converted these enterprises into national joint
stock companies. The exploration and engineering service enterprises have also been converted into
independent commercial companies, which need to sell their services to all interested mining companies on a
commercial basis in order to survive. However, the Govermnent has not yet made a final determination of
how many mines and operations are economic, what will be involved in mining sector reform and how the
economic mines can be privatized. It was agreed that MOIC will prepare and submit to the Bank. by
March 31, 2000, a reLorm program for National Mning Companies and state-owned exploration
companies, includingz a five-year business program for each company and, thereafter, implement the
program taking into account the Bank's comments. The project will provide technical assistance for this
important task. This program would address the impact of the reduction of operating subsidies, the
introduction of measures to avoid profitable operations being used to subsidize unprofitable operations and
financial restructuring of debts that cannot be repaid. It would examine the linkages of the metal mines to
downstream processing plants and industries in Romania and linkages of the coal/lignite mines to power
plants.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The most pressing issues the Government faces in carrying out such a massive restructuring effort are to: (a)
close mines and reduce subsidies to the mining industry; (b) mitigate the social hardships in the mining
regions caused by the layoffs of miners; and (c) make the remainder of the mining sector attractive to private
investors. Considering the rather lengthy delays in the implementation of other projects in Romania, this
project has been designed as a pilot project that would meet two urgent priorities:
Financing for the physical closure and environmental remediation of a first group of 29
underground mines where operations have been stopped. The Bank would also assist in attracting
additional financial support from other donors for closure of additional mines.



* Technical assistance for the:
*  physical closure of mines;
*  environmental remediation of closed mine sites;
*  social mitigation for adversely affected people;
*  economic revitalization of affected mining regions;
*  creation of a new mining licensing system;
*  assessment of the environmental performance of the mining sector;
*  preparation of a plan to reduce production-related subsidies and increase the share for mine
closure, social mitigation and enviromnental protection subsidies, while gradually phasing
out all subsidies;
* preparation of a restructuring plan for state-owned mining and exploration companies in the
light of the changes in subsidies; and
*  studies of key regulatory and institutional reform measures necessary to implement sector
reform and attract private investment.
Given the lack of local experience with the technical closure of mines and the related envirornental
remnediation of abandoned mine areas, the project will rely on the use of international consultants with
extensive experience in these disciplines. These consultants, who will be co-financed by DFID, will prepare
the technical specifications of bidding documents and certify the implementation of the mine closures and
environmental remediation activities, which will be carried out by contractors with solid experience in this
type of work. Operational management and financial control will be delegated to the senior international
technical specialists and contractors, in order to minimize the risk of implementation delays. By establishing
credibility, this is also the most effective approach to obtaining financial support from other donors.
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost breakdown):
The project consists of a mine closure component, a social mitigation component and an institutional
strengthening component. The 29 mines selected for final closure under the project were chosen on the basis
of contiguity (to enable packaging into a small number of contracts) and the fact that they were underground
mines. The latter require major environmental remediation, in which the Romanians do not have experience.
Hence, this component would have an important demonstration effect for the Romanian Government, as does
the social mitigation component. Only 688 miners still work in the 29 mines to be closed undertaking care
and maintenance work. Hence, the social mitigation component covers far more than just assistance to the
workers in these mines or those mining areas. Project costs are summarized below:
Table 3: Estimated Project Costs and Bank Financing
Component                  Category       Cost Incl.    % of    Bank-      % of
Contingencies  Total  financing    Bank-
(IS$M)              (US$M)  financing
Mine Closure Component                                    34.78     56.5%     26.49     59.5%
Closure works                          Works              33.14               25.85
Technical Advisor                      Service            0.85                 0.00
Training                               Services           0.54                 0.44
Equipment and Vehicles for CGMC PIU    Goods              0.25                 0.20
Social Mitigation Program                                 20.78     33.7%     13.84     31.1%



-9 -
Component                  Category      Cost ncl.     % of    Bank-       % of
Contingencies  Total  financing    Bank-
(US$M)              (US$M)  financing
Technical Advisor                      Services           3.40                 0.00
Micro credit                           Credit             4.29                 3.93
Workspace Centers                      Goods/Works        4.92                 3.78
Enterprise Support Services            Services           2.01                 1.65
Employment and Training Incentives.    Incentives         3.02                 1.87
Public Information & Social Dialogue   Services           1.45                 0.88
MIS & Social Impact Monitoring         Goods              1.47                 1.21
Vehicles                               Goods              0.22                 0.17
Institutional Strengthening
Support to NAMR                        Services/Goods     3.07       5.0%      2.52      5.7%
Study Component
Subsidy and NMC Studies                Services           0.54       0.9%      0.44      1.0%
Miscellaneous                                             2.37       3.9%      1.21      2.7%
PMU/PIU Operating Costs                Misc.              1.71                 1.40
Auditor                                Services           0.22                 0.17
Front End Fee                          Misc.              0.445                0.00
Totals                                                    61.54               44.50
2. Key poicy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
* OBJECTIVES. In line with the project's development objective of reducing the burden of the
mining sector on the national budget by closing mines in a socially and environmentally
acceptable manner and laying the foundation for opening the sector to private investors, this
project aims to: (a) provide technical assistance to strengthen the institutions involved in the
closure of mines and associated social mitigation; and (b) further adapt the sector's regulatory and
institutional framework to the requirements of a market economy.
* INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING. Since the process of the restructuring of the mining sector has
just recently been initiated by the Government, the agencies involved lack experience in the
closure of mines, social mitigation and the promotion of mining concessions to private investors.
This project is designed to assist in strengthening these capabilities in CGMC, NAD and NAMR.
*  SUPPORT TO THE UNEPLOYED. The project will also establish mechanisms for employment
promotion under the social mitigation program to assist those who lost their livelihood as a result
of mining sector restructuring. These include: (a) micro-credit schemes for the mining regions to
be administered by NGOs as intermediary micro-finance institutions; (b) the establishment of
workspace centers as business incubators in buildings at the mines to be closed in the 14 mining
regions, where NAD has its offices; (c) an enterprise support program; (d) employment and
training incentives scheme; and (e) public information and social dialogue. By their very nature
these programs will need to be flexible and iterative and will require intensive supervision.
Compared to the physical closure of mines, they will require a longer gestation period and longer



- 10-
duration for successful implementation. These activities are not covered by any existing programs.
Despite valuable collaboration on public works, MOLSP lacks the field presence necessary to
sustain such an intensive program. Hence, the Bank's assistance to NAD is critical to the future of
the mining communities.
*  LEGAL AND REGULATORY REFOM   The project would assist NAMR together with relevant
entities in the review and revision of the legal and regulatory framework for: (a) the closure of
mines, in particular the regulations for the environmental remediation of mining areas that are no
longer used for mining purposes; and (b) reducing barriers to private investment in the sector.
*  BUIDI1NG OF PARTNERSHIPS. Taking into account the Government's preference to use grant
funding for technical assistance, the Bank is facilitating the Government's access to grants. The
project promotes partnerships at: (a) the sectoral level, with international donor agencies for the
social mitigation and mine closure programs; and (b) the implementation level, with NGOs and
service providers for sub-components of the social mitigation program. The DFID will be
providing an estimated UK2.5 million pounds sterling (US$4.25 million equivalent) over three
years in technical assistance to NAD and CGMC under parallel co-financing arrangements under
the project. The EU allocated ECU 2.1 million in 1998 from the EU-Phare program for regional
development studies and quick response measures in the most-affected mining regions: Jiu Valley
and Gorj County. Another ECU 10 million (ECU 4 million for SMEs and ECU 6 million for
infrastructure development) has been earmarked in 1999 from the EU-Phare program for these two
regions.
3. Benefits and target population:
X  PRojECT BTENEITS. An important benefit of the proposed project will be a boost to employment
in the economically depressed mining regions, as close to 80% of the estimated expenditures for
mine closures are for the environmental remediation of the associated mining areas. For economic
reasons contractors are expected to use local labor extensively. Thus, the physical closure program
is equivalent to a large temporary public works program. Further stimuli for the economic
recovery of these regions will come from the support - from the Bank as well as other donors - for
the social mitigation program. This will help the Government to deal constructively with the
politically volatile situation that has been created by the sharp reduction of mining outputs and the
layoff of about 70,000 miners. Other short term benefits are: (a) reduction of financial losses by
the closure of uneconomic mines and reduction of state subsidies; (b) improvement of an efficient
licensing system for the industry; (c) efficient public mining institutions in charge of regulating
and monitoring mining activities; (d) establishment of comprehensive environmental guidelines for
the protection of the mining environment; and (e) creation of alternate income generating
opportunities in the mining areas to help stabilize those seeking to emigrate from mining areas
with lesser alternatives.
*  The induced benefits over the longer term are: (a) possible private sector investment in both
existing and future exploration and mining operations, resulting in a strong and sustainable mining
industry consisting of internationally competitive metal mining operations and low cost lignite and
coal operations; (b) diversification of income generating opportunities in the areas heavily
dependent on mining to minimize adverse impact of sector restructuring; and (c) better
environmental control of the mining industry.
*  TARGET POPULATION IN THE MaNING AREAS. The local benefits from mining have historically
been proportionately larger than the size of the local mining labor force. Miners were privileged
with higher wages and non-wage benefits as compensation for difficult working conditions. Their
incomes thus supported a significant secondary service economy in the mining areas. Restructuring
of the mining sector, initiated through voluntary redundancies starting in August 1997, has had a
negative ripple effect on the involved local economies, particularly in the Jiu Valley and Gorj
County, where the largest number of miners were employed. Benefits will also accrue to other
residents in the mining communities who have also been affected by the related downturn in the
local economy through possible participation in diversified enterprise development activities.
Women will be targeted especially through the micro-credit and enterprise support programs.



NGOs will be active partners in the micro-credit, enterprise support, and social dialogue sub-
components of the social mitigation program. Other targeted beneficiaries are: (a) national and
provincial mining authorities; (b) small to medium scale local and foreign ancillary industry
entrepreneurs; and (c) local service providers.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Project implementation period: The mine closure component will be implemented over a period of three
years starting September 1, 1999. The social mitigation component is expected to take five years. The
project completion date will be December 31, 2004 and the Loan closing date will be June 30, 2005.
Implementing agencies: The project will be implemented by three agencies comprising: (i) the Central
Group for Mine Closures (CGMC); (ii) the National Agency for Mineral Resources (NAMR); and (iii) the
National Agency for Programs Development and Implementation for the Reconstruction of the Mining
Regions (NAD). Each agency will have a Project Implementation Unit (PIU). A Project Mangement Unit
(PMU) will provide overall coordination.
Project administration: Each of the three implementing agencies would has a Project Implementation Unit
(PIU) responsible for the implementation of their respective components. Each PIU is headed by a Director
who is responsible for the overall coordination and management of its component of the project and who
reports to the Head of the PMU. The PlUs have qualified and experienced staff. The PIUs will provide
quarterly progress reports to the Project Management Unit. Each PIU will be responsible for: (i) its own
procurement, including preparation of bid documents and entering into contracts for civil works, goods, and
consultant services; and (ii) progress monitoring, evaluation and reporting. In addition, the NAD PIU will be
responsible for partnership building with NGOs and the international donor community and local community
outreach and for a microcredit program and an employment and training incentives scheme. Due to the
limited experience of current staff in these responsibilities, the CGMC and NAD PIUs will have expatriate
consultants to assist them in managing, monitoring and evaluating the progress of the components. CGMC,
NAMR and NAD have each appointed a PIU director with satisfactory experience and qualifications and
have established a PIU with staff and initial equipment satisfactory to the Bank. The Government has
provided assurances that it will provide budgetary financing satisfactory to the Bank for the PMU, the three
PIUs, and the counterpart financing requirements.
Project Coordination and Financial Management Systems: To ensure proper project implementation and
coordination between these three separate implementing agencies, the Project Management Unit (PMU),
which includes the Project's Financial Management Systems (FMS) Group, will oversee the progress of
project implementation and handle all financial aspects of the project, including accounting, financial
management, auditing and reporting. During project preparation it was agreed that this Project Management
Unit will report to the Minister of Industry and Commerce in his position as a cabinet member. The
Government has issued clear and binding instructions to all relevant entities that they shall report to the
Minister of Commerce and Industry in all matters related to the preparation and implementation of the
various components of the Project. The Government has appointed a PMU Director with satisfactory
experience and qualifications and has established the PMU, including the Project's Financial Management
System Group, with initial staff and equipment satisfactory to the Bank. The Directors of each of the three
PIUs report to the PMU Director. Contracts will be co-signed by the Director of the relevant PIU and the
Director of the Project Management Unit. The PMU Director provides general coordination of project
implementation, administers the Special Account, and ensures that both the Bank and the Government are
regularly appraised of the progress of the three project components.
A brief analysis of each implementing agency follows:
* Central Group for Mines Closure (CGMC): This Group was created by ministerial decree within
MOIC in 1998 to be responsible for mine closures and associated environmental rehabilitation. It is
located in Bucharest and currently has eleven employees with experience in mining. It is expected to



- 12 -
employ additional staff with expertise in legal, economic, and environmental rehabilitation disciplines. If
its activities increase sufficiently when the pace of mine closures picks up it is expected to be converted
into an autonomous agency. Being new, it has limited experience regarding mine closures and
environmental rehabilitation. While it will require technical assistance to implement this component, it
has started the process of closing other mines using existing Romanian mine closure procedures. In
addition to the funds to be provided under the project, technical and financial assistance will be received
from UK DFID as well as other donors to help in the training of its staff. For 1999, 308 billion lei
(US$20 million) was allocated to CGMC from the State budget through MOIC budget, of which Lei 200
billion for mine closures and environmental remediation and Lei 108 billion for care and maintenance,
to close an approximate number of 20 mines, included in the mines closure program, financed from the
State budget The government has provided assurances that CGMC may close several mines using one
single contract. It was agreed that CGMC will prepare and submit bv March 31. 2000 a mine closure
procedure manual for the project. The procedures for closing mines not included under the project will
be updated using the manual.
* National Agency for Mineral Resources (NAMR): This agency was created by the Government in
1993 and is responsible for the administration of all activities in the mineral sector. Its initial purview
was the petroleum sector, but under the new Mining Law of 1998, it became responsible for monitoring
and regulating the activities in the mining sector as well. It is expected to review and approve documents
for mines to be closed, issue licenses for mining exploration concessions and promote private sector
investment in the mining sector. It reports directly to the Prime Minister's Office. It has a staff of about
120 people consisting of petroleum engineers, geophysicists, mining engineers, and economists, drilling
engineers, lawyers and environmental specialists. The Chairman is supported by a vice president and
four general directors who oversee the activities of the staff. Its headquarters is located in Bucharest (66
staff), with 22 regional offices in the petroleum and mining areas of the country (54 staff). Under the
Bank-financed Petroleum Sector Rehabilitation Project (Loan 3723-RO), NAMR developed a
comprehensive geologic database with the assistance of consultants. In order to facilitate the monitoring
and regulation of mining activities, the computer facilities for the geologic/petroleum data base would be
expanded and upgraded. Under the project, NAMR would be responsible for: (a) developing and
maintaining a computerized database for the mining sector; (b) implementing a mining exploration
promotion program; and (c) developing a mining and cadastral book (Mining Book).
* National Agency for Programs Development and Implementation for the Reconstruction of the
Mining Regions (NAD): NAD was created as an autonomous agency in February 1998 for the purpose
of facilitating social mitigation and development programs in the mining areas, based on an agreement
between the Government and the mining labor unions when the terms of the voluntary redundancy were
being negotiated. The creation of NAD stems from the recognition that many of the mining regions are
currently heavily dependent on the mining industry. NAD's role is justified on the following grounds.
Firstly, without special attention diversification of the local economy will not take place and laid-off
workers will not be able to move to other occupations. The majority of mining sector workers were
brought in and settled in the mining areas from other regions, half of them in the Jiu Valley and Gorj
County alone, where alternate economic opportunities were not developed. The depressed Romanian
economy and housing constraints prevent labor mobility from the mining regions. Secondly, NAD has
collaborated well with MOLSP and already demonstrated that without its local organizational capacity
MOLSP would not have been able to achieve what it has done so far. During the past year, NAD's field
presence enabled the mining communities to organize themselves into Local Consultative Committees
and effectively tap resources available for public works from the LRP administered by MOLSP. This
source is drying up because the mining regions have already drawn 60% of the funds disbursed by LRP,
while MOLSP would like to distribute its resources nationwide. However, disbursements by MOLSP
have been very slow in other regions where NAD does not have a field presence. Thirdly, MOLSP does
not offer the social mitigation services being proposed by NAD. Finally, NAD will function as a
coordinator and enabler of social mitigation activities, most of which will be undertaken by other
agencies and service providers including MOLSP.



- 13 -
NAD operates under the auspices of the Prime Minister's office. It has a staff of 72 (22 in Bucharest, 50
in its 14 regional offices), which is expected to grow to 117 when full-scale implementation commences.
Romania had no prior experience in social mitigation. NAD has received technical assistance from the
Bank for strategy and organizational development and has benefited from study tours to the U.K.
Substantial technical assistance, co-financed by the British DFID, is envisaged to develop NAD's
capacity to implement the Social Mitigation component of the project. NAD's mandate includes: (i)
facilitation and promotion of social mitigation measures in Romania's mining cominunities; (ii)
dissemination of information on Government policy and actions towards social mitigation to miners in
the mining regions; (iii) promotion of participation and information exchange among stakeholders; (iv)
facilitation of business development in affected regions including enterprise support and enabling local
access to capital for enterprise development; (v) coordination of government and donor support in
affected regions; and (vi) systematized social dialogue and social impact monitoring of mining sector
restructuring. NAD management recognizes that Romania has limited experience in the above activities.
Technical assistance is being provided by DFID for consultancy services to develop NAD's
management and administrative capacity and to train the staff of NAD to implement the social mitigation
program. In addition, it was agreed that the Government will. bE December 31, 1999. formulate in
agLreement with the Bank criteria for the selection of credit providers, and will issue necessary licenses
to at least three qualified NGOs that will be allowed to act as Micro-credit Finance Institutions, to be
selected to administer the micro-credit sub-component of the social mitigation component. It was also
ggreed that NAD will prepare and submit by December 31, 1999 an operatinmna saisfctor to
the Bank including guidelines, procedures, and documents for (a) the micro credit program and (b)
the training and employment incentive scheme and will implement the micro-credit program and the
incentive scheme usinga those kuidelines, procedures, and documents.
Procurement and Disbursement. Except for NAMR, the other two entities are not familiar with the
procurement procedures of the Bank. Therefore, initiatives are being taken to assist the staff of the PLUs of
CGMC and NAD in the preparation of selected tender documents, bid evaluations, etc. for the first year of
project implementation. In parallel, training is being provided for their procurement staff. Initial bidding
packages have been prepared. With regard to mine closure, the technical specifications and bid documents
for mine closure and environmental rehabilitation will be prepared by a qualified procurement firm to be
hired by CGMC. These specifications will be reviewed by the Bank prior to implementation of the bidding
process. Annex 6 contains a summary of the arrangements covering procurement of civil works, goods and
consultant services, as well as disbursements. Because expertise in the closure of mines and environmental
rehabilitation is absolutely critical for the success of this program, selection of the foreign consultant or firm
will be on the basis of quality alone. This consultancy would also be required to assist CGMC in the
evaluation of the bids and the selection of the international contractor that would effect the mine closure and
environmental rehabilitation. Similar procurement assistance would be provided to NAD for its procurement
requirements. NAMR would be expected to prepare its own bidding documents for all items to be procured
under the project. The Bank would review all bidding documents. All civil works and procurement of
goods, whether under ICB, LIB or NCB, will be subject to prior review by the Bank. It was ageed that the
Government. through PMU. will submit to the Bank. by June 30 of each year startine in 2000. a
procurement and disbursement Plan for the project components during the next fiscal year. and agree
with the Bank on these Plans by September 30 of each year. By November 30 of each year the
Government will include counterpart funding for CGMC. NAMR and NAD in the pro osed Budget for the
next fiscal year. in accordance with the aereed Procurement and disbursement plans.
Planning and Budgeting. An estimate of the project cost is provided in Annex 3. Each PIU, with the
assistance of the technical consultant will prepare annual budgets and work plans for each activity. CGMC,
NAMR and NAD have prepared estimates of counterpart financing requirements for the year 2000 They
will also prepare estimates of the funding required from the Government's budget and call on counterpart
funds as project implementation progresses.
Accounting, Financial Reporting and Auditing Arrangements. The Financial Management System Group
will be headed by a Financial Controller who will be responsible for all FMS aspects under the project. A



- 14-
Finance Manager and a Manager of Audit report to the Financial Controller. The Finance Manager is
responsible for all accounting and financial management matters, and the Manager of Audit is responsible for
all internal control and audit matters. The overall responsibility for the FMS lies with the Financial
Controller, including staffing and equipping the unit.
In addition to operation of the Special Account, FMS would, among other things, mean maintaining the
books of accounts in respect of the project, preparation and dissemination of financial information through
statements and reports, as well as, making arrangements for the timely audit of these financial statements.
The project financial statements will be prepared in accordance with International Accounting Standard. The
financial and accounting system will be computerized. There are several software packages available in the
market which would meet the FMS requirements and which could be customized to meet the specific needs
of the Project. Software modules for preparing Project Management Reports (PMRs) to meet the Bank's
Loan Administrative Change Initiative (LACI) requirements will be developed using available software in
the market. It is expected that at least three personal computers would be required for this purpose, which
would be financed under the Loan. Assistance of a qualified accounting firm will be used for designing and
installing the computerized accounting system with required customization for the PMU. This firm is also
helping with the preparation of the chart of accounts and accounting procedures manual.
Chart of Accounts and Accounting Procedures Manual. The chart of accounts will be linked to the
category schedule of the Loan Agreement and the program of activities so as to provide the necessary
information for the preparation of the quarterly project monitoring report. The accounting procedures
manual will include a detailed section covering the accounting function for the component; the overall
responsibilities for the chief accountant and the bookkeepers; the desired education and experience of the
staff, the reporting formats for the quarterly accounts; the chart of accounts, monthly general ledgers closing
procedures; internal control procedures; and guidelines for the operation of the banking and payments
system. Each procedure manual will be prepared by the financial controller under the guidance of the project
financial management specialist. Updates to the manual will be carried out periodically during project
implementation. It was greed as a Conditon o    ectiveness that the PMU will establish a finani
mangg,gment system satisfactory to the Bank. This system will encoqmpass a reliable accounting syse
with documented procedures, chart of accounts, procedures manual, timely reporting and rood internal
controls satisfactory to the Bank. It was further agreed that under a time-bound action plan this syse
will evolve into a full-hedged Pro;ect Management Reporting System satisfactory to the Bank bv
December 31. 2000.
Disbursements and Special Account. Once the loan is declared effective, the PCU will maintain one
Special Account (SA) for the whole project in a Romanian bank, satisfactory to the Bank, in which the
proceeds of the loan will be deposited for each component. The SA would be managed on behalf of the three
PIUs by the FMS Group within the PCU. Traditional disbursement procedures will apply. The size of the
SA for the first 12 months will be about US$4.0 million; thereafter the size will be determined by the
forecast of project expenditure as indicated in the Quarterly PMRs. All bank accounts associated with this
project will be reconciled on a quarterly basis.
Audit Requirements. The annual audit of the project accounts for each component will be carried out by a
firm of independent auditors to be appointed by each entity for its own component of the project. The audit
will be carried out in accordance with International Auditing Standards.  It was agreed (a) that the
Government will, by December 31, 1999 appoint independent auditors with qualifications and terns of
reference satisfactory to the Bank for the purpose of uditing h Project account, and (b) that the
Government will submit to the Bank no later than five months after the end of each fiscal year the
independent auditors rorts of the proect accounts These will include an opinion on the status of the
operation of the SA together with a management letter, together with comments of MOF and the PMU on
the matters raised in the management letter and proposals for implementing those recommendations. Each
entity should ensure that the accounts and supporting documentation are kept in sufficient detail to facilitate
the auditing of the project accounts and project supervision



- 15 -
Project Oversight. Project oversight is provided by the PMU Director who holds regular meetings with the
heads of the PIUs on the progress of each component. Furthermore, the PMU Director is responsible for
ensuring that both the Government and the Bank are kept informed of the progress of all components of the
project and for providing policy guidance, facilitating coordination and overseeing project implementation.
The Bank's supervision team will also provide oversight and quality control. A review of the progress of the
project will be conducted at the end of each year, a mid-term review will be undertaken by September 30,
2001 and an Implementation Completion Report will be prepared six months after the final disbursement of
the credit. It was greed that the Government and the Bank will undertake a mid-term review of th
ProLect by September 30. 2001.
Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements. The mine closure and environmental rehabilitation of the
mine sites are highly sensitive activities with respect to population, health and safety. They must be carefully
planned, designed and carried out to maintain a high degree of authenticity. In order to keep a tight schedule
during project implementation a project Management Information System (MIS) suited to the project will be
designed by a specialist, appointed by PMU, to serve as the key project-monitoring tool. Each PIU will be
responsible for monitoring progress against specific performance and impact monitoring indicators. These
will include detailed benchmarks covering the progress of procurement activities, implementation of
contracts, institutional arrangements, and utilization of funds and disbursements.
Social Mitigation is an activity whose success will depend on its responsiveness to local conditions. By its
very nature this requires an efficient social impact monitoring system and beneficiary participation for
regular feedback into program implementation. NAD will establish and maintain a special MIS for the social
mitigation component, with a comprehensive database of unemployed redundant mining sector workers and
identity cards to track their participation rehabilitation activities. Routine monitoring of project outputs will
be conducted by NAD. Under the project, an independent research consulting firm or institute will be
contracted to undertake monitoring and evaluation, prepare half-yearly progress reports, and conduct an
annual impact evaluation.
D: Project Rationale
1 Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Three alternative project designs were considered. The first alternative was to support the Government's
restructuring program for the mining sector as part of an adjustment operation. A second alternative was to
design a traditional investment operation that would provide more direct support to the agencies involved in
carrying out the restructuring program. A third alternative was to design the investment operation as an
adjustable program loan.
The first alternative had the advantage that it would have provided the Government relatively quickly with
access to urgently needed financial support. However, it would have made it more difficult to provide the
technical assistance for the strengthening of the agencies involved in the implementation of the restructuring
program. As indicated, one of the main issues the Government faces in this effort is the lack of experienced
implementing agencies. While an adjustment loan would focus on strengthening the policy and regulatory
environment - through appropriate conditionality - and thus facilitate private investments in the sector, it
would not be the most effective instrument to address the Government's concerns about the lack of
experience of its agencies with the closure of mines, environmental remediation of mining areas and the
implementation of effective social mitigation. Since these are the top priority at this stage, a decision was
taken to make this an investment operation.
Both the second and the third option, a traditional investment loan versus an adjustable program loan, were
considered. However, in view of the absence of a clear Government strategy on sector restructuring and the
need to move quickly with this first operation, it was decided that a traditional investment loan would be the
best vehicle.



- 16 -
In addition to the type of lending instrument, considerable attention was given to the project implementation
arrangements and whether to have one PIU or three. Following extensive discussion it was concluded that
because of the sector institutional structure it is not feasible to have a single PIU. Therefore, NAMR, NAD
and CGMC will each have their own PIU, while coordination is provided by the PMU.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing
and planned):
Sector issue                   Project           Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation    Development
Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
Restructuring and Rehabilitation of the  Oil and Gas Rehabilitation  U     S
Petroleum Sector                    Project
Financial Sector Restructuring, Price  Financial and Enterprise    HU     HU
Liberalization and Restructuring and  Structural Adjustment
Privatization of Enterprises
Power Sector Rehabilitation         Electric Power Sector  U               S
Rehabilitation Project
Labor Redeployment Program          Employment and Social    S             S
Protection Project
Other development agencies
EU-PHARE                            Social Mitigation
EU-MARR                             Social Mitigation
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
In designing this project the lessons learned from implementation of the two ongoing Romania energy sector
projects as well as the labor redeployment program were applied. In energy sector projects, the Bank attached
conditionalities to its investment loans that exceeded the more limited purpose of the projects. Such broad
conditionalities, related to sector restructuring and privatization, should in future be attached to sectoral or multi-
sectoral adjustment lending operations. Lessons learned from the Labor Redeployment Program component of the
Employment and Social Protection Project and applied in the design of the proposed project are that nationwide
programs are by nature dispersed and cannot deliver the concentrated attention and effort necessary to make social
mitigation in a specific high priority sector a success. Lessons from micro credit programs in other ECA countries
also points to advantages in using a specialized agency. Hence, dedicated institutions need to be established, such
as NAD. The Bank is helping finance similar mining restructuring programs in the Ukraine, Poland, and Russia.
While the approach taken under each of these operations differed, they all had the following objectives: (a) to assist
the Government, where required, in the closure of uneconomic mines in a environmentally sound manner that
protects above all the health and safety of the people that remained in the affected mining areas; (b) where closures
occurred, to cushion the social hardships, the decline of living standards and the deterioration of social assets, such
as hospitals and schools; and (c) to encourage the creation of a fiscal, legal and administrative structure that would
attract private investment. The Bank has also considerable experience with mining sector technical assistance
reform operations to create an enabling environment for private sector mining investment in countries such as
Bolivia, Ghana, Mexico, Peru, Argentina, Mongolia and Tanzania.
The following lessons can be drawn from the above projects, most of which are still under implementation:



- 17 -
* STRONG COMMITMENT ON THE PART OF TIE GOVERNMENT IS ABSOLUTELY ESSENTIAL. Mining, in
particular underground mining, is a difficult and dangerous profession that creates its own culture. The
wages and social benefits of miners tend to be higher than those of comparative professions. Miners are
typically organized into powerful unions and strikes can severely disrupt economic activity, as has
happened in Romania. The success of mining sector downsizing efforts depends therefore on the
commitment and strength of the Government to follow through with politically sensitive reforms. This
commitment to reform by the highest levels of Government needs to be fully supported by the agencies
assigned to implement such restructuring programs. In Russia and Ukraine the results have been
discouraging, mainly because Governments lacked the resolve to implement the required policy reforms
and to exercise the necessary control to keep the reforms on track.
*  ADEQUATE FUNDiNG   While the actual physical closure of mines is relatively inexpensive,
environmental mine site remediation and compensation and social mitigation programs to lay off miners
can be extremely costly. Thus, the success of restructuring programs in the mining sector depends
critically on the availability of counterpart funds. Lack of funds and/or ineffective transfer mechanisms
can be a major cause of project implementation delays and the reason why projects do not fully achieve
the intended results.
* IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES MUST BE EFFECTIVE. It is clearly difficult and politically sensitive to
implement a project that leads, at least initially, to massive layoffs and a general decline of regional
economic activity. Implementing agencies, therefore, need to be staffed with highly respected
professionals that have the confidence of the miners, the trade unions and local authorities, in addition to
the full support of the Government. Experience with similar operations in other countries is usually
helpful, and the proposed project provides extensive training and consultancy services to learn from
similar restructuring efforts around the world.
* PROJECTS REQUIRE SPECIALISED AND CLOSE SUPERVISION. Almost none of the agencies involved in
the implementation of restructuring programs has any previous experience with the various tasks
involved. This is one of the main reasons why most Governments seek Bank and other external
assistance. However, this adds, at least initially, to the need to use specialized consultants and to the cost
of supervising the implementation of projects.
* IMPORTANCE OF LOCAL ORGANIZATIONAL CAPACITY. The experience of the Labor Redeploy-
ment Program has demonstrated the value of local organizational capacity in making nationwide pro-
grams effective. Without NAD's field presence, MOLSP would not have been able to disburse most of
its LRP funds. Enhancing NAD's technical capacity to implement and coordinate a social mitigation
program will be a significant factor in alleviating the crisis created in the mining regions.
* RELIANCE ON SPECIALIZED AGENCIES IS ESSENTLAL FOR MICRO-CREDIT PROGRAMS. The experience
of micro-credit programs in ECA (e.g. Bosnia, Albania) demonstrates the value of relying on specialized
agencies with outreach capacity and technical skills to administer micro-credit programs. This is not a
role which is easily performed by the formal banking sector. Public agencies can play a more useful role
in supervising micro-credit programs than in implementing them.
* NEED FOR SOCIAL lMPACT MONITORING. Previous experience demonstrates that regular social impact
monitoring, intensive supervision and flexibility in project design to adapt to local and changing
conditions, is critical to the success of social mitigation activities.
* A FUTURE RESTRUCTURING PROGRAM MUST BE COMPREHENS1VE. The proposed project supports
primarily mine closure, social mitigation and institutional restructuring. However, as a building block
towards sector restructuring it will also assist in preparing a sector environmental assessment, analyzing
the need for regulatory improvements, and preparing a subsidy strategy and an associated state
exploration and mining company reform and privatization strategy. It is expected that the present project
will be followed by a more substantial Bank-financed project to support the Government in
implementing a comprehensive mining sector reform program. Such support must cover legal reform,
institutional reform, social and environmental reform, enterprise reform and privatization
simultaneously. The aim is to create an integrated environment enabling a country to establish a positive
international profile for the mining sector that attracts private investment.



- 18 -
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Government's strong commitment to the project objectives of closing the 29 mines and strengthening the
sector administration is evidenced by the steps it has taken so far:
*  Preparation of the October 1998 Strategy Statement;
*  Approval of the technical closure and environmental remediation of 174 mines;
*  Implementation of Ordinance #22, allowing voluntary reduction of the labor force by 70,000
miners;
*  Enactment of a new Ordinance for Disadvantaged Regions enabling the Government to provide
fiscal incentives to investors in the mining regions;
*  Creation of NAD as the agency to implement social mitigation measures in the mining regions;
*  Enactment of a new Mining Law and associated norms and regulations, which opens the door to
private investment;
*  Expansion of NAMR's authority to include administering the Mining Law; and
*  Establishment of the PMU and PIUs.
S. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank has the world-wide experience to assist the Government in ensuring the success of this operation.
The Bank's involvement would facilitate implementation of the project in a timely and efficient manner. It
would also ensure that the Government maintains its focus on the objectives of the project. NAD has already
been able to leverage over US$2 million in funds from the Labor Redeployment Program administered by
MOLSP for social mitigation measures in the mining regions. The Bank's involvement would have a
catalytic effect in attracting additional funds and support from bilateral donors, particularly for the
implementation of the social mitigation measures. This would enable the Borrower to gain experience in
dealing with such situations, which will continue to arise through mining sector as well as other industrial
restructuring. It would also provide further encouragement for private sector investment.
E: Summary Project Analysis
L. Economic (see Annex 4):
[X] Cost-Benefit Analysis:
The proposed project will create few new assets. Its primary purpose is to reduce the losses to the economy
generated by the mining sector and thus reduce the need for further expenditures from the budget for: (a) the
costly 'care and maintenance' of uneconomic mines, in which operations have ceased but which have not
been formally closed and whose sites have not been properly remediated; and (b) the mining companies'
increase in liabilities to creditors. The total direct budgetary support in 1998 to the six state-owned mining
companies amounted to amounted to Lei 1,499.6 billion (US$ 176.4 million) as shown in Table 4.
Table 4 - Subsidies to the Six State Minin2 ComDanies 1998-1999
US$ millions
Year        Production    Employees social     Capital     Environment    Total
Allowances       Allowance    Improvement
1998          115.0            29.7             21.4          10.3        176.4
Proposed 1999      72.6            24.9             17.8           9.9        125.2
Note: Lei figures converted to US$ at the following exchange rate per I US$ - 8,500 LEI in 1998; and
10,000 LEI in 1999.
Source: CGMC, MOIC.



- 19 -
The level of subsidies for the mining sector in 1998 was 0.44% of the Gross Domestic Product (GDP), 2.28%
of the total state subsidies, and 13.22% of the Government budget deficit.
The project would assist the Government in designing a subsidy program that gradually phases out subsidies
to the mining industry. This would be achieved through an initial increase in subsidies for voluntary
redundancies and social mitigation measures, while reducing subsidies for exploration, production and
investments. The project provides, in addition, other important socio-economic benefits. They include:
*  Final technical closure of underground mines increases safety of production in neighboring mines;
*  Mine site environmental remediation enhances the health and safety of the population in the area;
*  Many mine site remediation add to the land available for agricultural and recreational uses;
*  New jobs created by social mitigation measures will assist in revitalizing the regional economies that
have been depressed by the massive layoffs of miners; and
*  Support for geoscientific research will identify new exploration and mining potential attractive to
both local and foreign investors.
The lack of reliable statistical data for the activities supported by the project makes it difficult to estimate an
overall economic rate of return. However, as part of project monitoring and evaluation, an appropriate
methodology for an in-depth semi-quantitative assessment of the economic and financial benefits of the
closure and environmental remediation and social mitigation activities would be developed. While an
economic rate of return is not presented, the project is the least cost approach to meeting the objectives of
closing the mines in an environmentally sound manner and providing social mitigation initiatives to support
unemployed workers in the mining communities.
2. Financial Analysis and Fiscal Impact (see Annexes 4 and 5): NPV=US$ 8.0 million; FRR= 16.5%
FINANCIAL ANALYSIS. Annexes 4 and 5. The financial rate of return has been calculated by taking the
labor cost and related benefits as savings and the severance payments, social initiatives, institutional
strengthening and mine closure works as costs. The calculation does not attempt to quantify the benefit of
the microcredit and incentive schemes which, if taken into account, would increase the rate of return.
FISCAL IMPACT. The losses of the National Mining Companies will be further reduced as a result of the
mines to be closed under this project. The subsidies and national mining and exploration companies studies
should ensure that subsidies are phased out in an orderly manner and that the share of subsidies for social
mitigation, mine closure and environmental protection is progressively increased and the share of subsidies
to cover operating losses is progressively reduced.
3. Technical:
In line with the main objectives, this project will:
*  provide expert technical assistance for the preparation of appropriate mine closure and
environmental remediation plans;
*  strengthen CGMC to implement an international bidding process, select experienced contractors
and supervise implementation of the mine closure and environmental remediation programs;
*  assist CGMC in gaining a deeper understanding of the environmental issues and, more specifically,
the remediation measures that would need to be adopted to protect the health and safety of the
people remaining in the mining areas (see Section 6 below).
*  The SEA will, inter alia, provide the necessary inputs for the development of environmental
regulations for the mining sector including the closure of mines;
*  support the creation of an institutional and regulatory framnework to attract and sustain private
investment into the mining sector. Specifically, assistance will be provided to strengthen NAMR,



- 20 -
the lead agency responsible for the administration of mineral rights, taxes, royalties and license
fees and their collection.
4. Institutional:
Project Management: The experience and implementation capacity of the sector agencies is limited.
However, through the appointment of the PMU Director, and provision of expert technical assistance, the
institutional capacity of these agencies would be upgraded to the level necessary for the implementation of
all aspects of the project.
Stakeholder Involvement: At the local level, NAD has facilitated the formation of Local Consultative
Committees (LCCs) consisting of members of the local administration, mine managers, local entrepreneurs,
labor unions, and NGOs. The LCCs play an important role in NAD's outreach to the mining communities,
help to identify and prioritize projects, and provide feedback to NAD about the social mitigation program
(see also Section 7 (b) below).
5. Social:
The social issues include the high unemployment in the mining areas due to the recent voluntary redundancy
program launched by the Government in September 1997. In 1997, 74,000 mining sector workers left the
industry, and another 9,000 left in 1998.  Sector restructuring is expected to lead to additional
unemployment. In most of the mining regions, mining was the dominant economic activity. Redundancies
in the mining sector have had substantial adverse impacts on the local economy. Although redundant
workers received generous severance payments, promised support for re-training and job creation was not
forthcoming. The resulting discontent led to major strikes during the winter of 1998-99.
In order to address social issues, the Bank provided assistance the Government in 1998 to undertake a Social
Assessment. The Social Assessment examined the social impact of restructuring, the measures undertaken
to deal with these impacts, the coping behavior of redundant workers, the opinions of mining communities
about the layoff process, and alternative development possibilities. It established a baseline for social impact
monitoring that would identify the main social issues in addition to the unemployment problems, and
recommended necessary actions to be taken. NAD, the agency established to focus on implementing social
mitigation measures, lacks experience, expertise and funds. During project preparation, assistance has been
provided to NAD to develop and implement a strategy for addressing the social issues. NAD is expected to
focus on providing avenues for retraining the miners in other economic activities; facilitating the
accessibility of funds to entrepreneurs to undertake investment in mining regions; and providing information
to miners on job opportunities within the mining areas as well as in other regions.
6. Environmental assessment: Environmental Category   [ ] A   [X1 B   [I C
The project is expected to have a positive impact on the environment by building professional expertise in
the country for environmental management at the national level and within the mining regions, and the
physical improvements of mine site environmental rehabilitation. Existing environmental remediation
guidelines in Romania are inadequate to address the above issues comprehensively. Therefore the design
and implementation of the mine closures and environmental remediation program of the areas around the 29
mines to be closed would be performed by experienced contractors under terms of reference to be reviewed
by the Bank. In parallel, a comprehensive Mining Sector Environmental Assessment (SEA) will be
undertaken, with assistance from consultants, as part of the project. The study would: (i) review the status of
the existing environmental legal, regulatory and institutional frameworks and recommend actions for
improvement; (ii) undertake an analysis of the impacts of sector activities on the environment and the
communities; (iii) estimate the costs of environmental rehabilitation of areas in which the mines would be
closed; and (iv) establish appropriate environmental policies and monitoring procedures, including the
implementation of consultation procedures, training requirements and programs. It was ag'reed that NAMfR.
to-gether with relevant entities, will prepare and submit to the Bank. for its review and review by other



-21 -
stakeholders. a mining Sector Environmental Assessment by March 31, 2000 and an action plan to
implement these recommendations and promptly thereafter implement the action vlan. NAMR will take
the lead regarding the SEA. The work will be supervised in close cooperation with MOWFEP and MOIC.
The project will provide technical assistance for this important task.
Environmental category (B) is justified for this project by the fact that: (i) the environmental remediation will
be performed by experienced international contractors who would to this work in line with industry
standards; (ii) an internationally known environmental auditor/firm would be selected, under terms of
reference to be reviewed by the Bank, to assist CGMC to certify that the remediation has been done
satisfactorily; and (iii) an SEA would be undertaken simultaneously to establish the environmental standards
and guidelines to be followed for future mine closure activities. The project would have a positive impact on
the environment by ensuring that the integrity of the ground water system is maintained, polluted land is
returned to economic use, and the environmental management capacity of the institutions (CGMC, NAMR,
MOIC and MOWFE) that are involved in monitoring environmental protection in mining areas is
strengthened
7. Participatory approach:
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups: Primary beneficiaries within the mining regions con-
sist of current and ex-workers of the mining sector who will benefit from the improved economic viability of
the mining sector in the long run and the Social Mitigation Program (SMP) in the short- and medium-term. In
some mining regions, such as Gorj, women have been targeted for redundancy by mine management as their
role was considered less vital to the industry. Sector restructuring has also adversely affected non-mining
workers in mining communities due to the reduced demand for secondary industries and services and in-
creased competition for scarce jobs. At the same time, the increasing trend towards decentralization of re-
sponsibility for social assets and services to local governments has placed an added burden on local govern-
ments which weakens the quality of social services to the communities in the mining regions. On the other
hand, in the long run mining communities will benefit from elimination of subsidies for operating losses and
care and maintenance of non-functioning mines, since this will free up budgetary resources for productive
investments and essential social services. The SMP will assist the Government in dealing with the adverse
impacts and in attracting investment to benefit key stakeholders in the mining regions.
b. Other key stakeholders: The participation process has operated at three levels. Within the mining re-
gions, NAD has catalyzed the formation of Local Consultative Committees consisting of local government
functionaries, and representatives of public agencies, local entrepreneurs, mine management, labor unions,
and NGOs. The LCC is a useful interlocutor between the Govermnent and mining communities. The LCCs
review identify opportunities for investment and determine priorities for project development. They have
been instrumental in preparing the projects financed by the LRP, in formulating proposals which are part of
the EU's regional development plans for Jiu Valley and Gorj County, and in designing the SMP. At the
analytical level, key stakeholders have been consulted through a systematic social assessment process meas-
uring the impact of mass redundancies and investigating priorities for social mitigation. At the national
level, donors, NGOs, labor unions, research institutes, and staff of relevant government agencies have par-
ticipated in two seminars to discuss mining sector restructuring and to consider proposed social mitigation
measures. The SMP design responds to the various inputs received from this wide range of stakeholders.
The status of consultation and collaboration with different stakeholders is summarized below.



-22 -
Stakeholders          Info Sharing       Consultation     Collaboration
Ministry of Finance             Yes                Yes               Yes
Ministry of Labor and So-       Yes                Yes               Yes
cial Protection
NAD, CGMC and NAMR              Yes                Yes               Yes
NAD field staff                 Yes                Yes               Yes
Local government                Yes                Yes               Yes
Local communities in           Yes                Yes              Planned
mining areas
NGOs                           Yes                Yes              Planned
Independent Research con-       Yes                Yes             Planned
sultants
Local service providers         Yes                Yes             Planned
Mass media                      Yes                No              Planned
European Union                  Yes                Yes             Planned
UK Department for Inter-        Yes                Yes               Yes
national Development
(DFID)
Although lacking its own program funds in 1998, NAD has been quite effective in coordinating and attract-
ing additional resources helping local communities identify and local governments prepare micro-projects for
donor financing. In each of the 14 mining regions, NAD has organized LCCs as a mechanism for social
dialogue with mining communities. As a result, 79 of the 202 active measures financed by the Bank-funded
Labor Redeployment Program administered by MOLSP (almost 40% of committed LRP funds) have been
undertaken in mining areas. NAD has also been pursuing vigorously other financing sources, particularly the
EU and the DFID. The DFID is expected to co-finance the project providing grant financing for the entire
technical assistance sub-component for NAD. The EU is already providing parallel financing for small and
medium enterprises and infrastructure investments in the Jiu Valley and Gorj County, the mining areas most
affected by restructuring.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
*  REQUIRES FURTHER IMPLEMENTATION PLANNING AND CONTINUED FINANCIAL SUPPORT.
Although the Government is currently committed to the downsizing of the mining sector, it is also
aware that this is a costly undertaking that will continue to require sizeable budgetary support for
years to come, in addition to the assistance the program receives from multinational and bilateral
donors. A timetable for phasing out subsidies will be prepared under this project.
*  REQUIRES CONTINUED POIMCAL SUPPORT. Government will face resistance from vested
interests to reducing subsidies to cover operating losses and replacing them with subsidies for mine
closure and social mitigation. By increasing the latter kind of subsidies, Government will provide
direct support to deal with the health and safety problems caused by the destructive mining
practices of the past. It will also benefit unemployed miners, who have already received more
financial compensation than other workers when they lost their jobs. This should help build
miners' union support for the program.
* REQUIRES THAT THE SOCIAL MITIGATION PROGRAM QUICKLY SHOWS TANGIBLE RESULTS.
Support for the restructuring program is predicated on the assumption that it will be effective in



-23 -
revitalizing the depressed economies of the mining regions. Few miners have been able to relocate
successfully from the mining regions so far. Since little would be gained from a massive relocation
of miners to other parts of Romania, the Government is primarily focused on creating alternative
employment opportunities in the mining regions.
REQUIRES COMPETENT INSTITrUTIONS AND FURTHER REGULATORY REFORM. The institutional
framework remains very complex and NAMR, NAD and CGMC each report to a different
authority. Although significant first steps have been taken through the new Mining Law, further
reform is needed and technical assistance for this will be provided under the project.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in thefourth column of Annex 1):
Mining sector restructuring is a very difficult task as demonstrated by experience in many other countries
and will not be an easy task in Romania. The main project-related risks are outlined below, together with
measures to minimize them. In particular, the project includes several highly innovative social mitigation
initiative for which there is very limited or no prior experience in Romania and progress in implementing
such initiatives will be carefully monitored and support provided as necessary to make corrections or
improve implementation. It should also be noted that project implementation could also be adversely
affected in the event of significant deterioration in Romania's macroeconomic situation. While almost all of
the risks are considered to have a modest rating on an individual basis, the likelihood of a combination of the
risks occurring cannot be discounted, therefore given the many and varied risks faced by the project, it is
given an overall rating of substantial risk.
Risk                            RiskRating  Risk Minimization Measure
1. Government's continued       M           Development of a satisfactory Government strategy for the
commitment to sector reform.                 mining sector. Technical assistance will support the
Government to develop more specific strategies to address
mnine closures, social mitigation, institutional
improvements, regulatory reform and restructuring and
privatization of National Mining Companies.
2. Considerable time may be needed  M        The Government has been successful in attracting well
to build up adequate institutional           qualified and experienced staff to the senior positions in the
capacity to manage and regulate the          PMU and PIUs. Technical assistance will be provided in
sector.                                      phases and prioritized so as not to overload the relevant
Government departments. Special training has already
been provided on Bank procurement procedures. The
technical advisors to NAD and CGMC will have shared
responsibility for successful implementation and will work
closely alongside local counterparts.
3. Commitment to mine closure and  M         CGMC has been established with a clear and transparent
implementation of environmental              mandate and has already started work on closing other
rehabilitation may weaken.                   mines not included under the project. The technical
advisors should help maintain CGMC's the resolve to close
mines promptly and effectively.
4. The institutional environment  M         Development of micro-credit law introduced as
continues to hamper access to credit         conditionality of PSAL
for small enterprises



- 24 -
Risk                            Risk Rating  RiskMinimization Measure
5. Project staff do not have the  S         While there is only limited or little experience with these
necessary experience to successfully       types of initiatives in Romania, project staff have been
implement the various social                selected with the most relevant experience available. NAD
mitigation measures (micro credits,         will prepare an operating manual specifying the rules and
employment and training incentives,         guidelines for the micro credit program and the training and
workspace creation etc.) in the             employment incentives scheme. Study tours and training
Romanian context.                           will be provided. Strong support will be provided by the
technical advisors and through related assistance from other
donors. The social area will be given very high priority in
during project supervision and a social specialist in the
Resident Mission will be strongly involved in providing on
the spot support to NAD as needed..
6. Continued staff ownership of the   M     The PMU and PIU staff have already demonstrated strong
project, and the Govenument and             commitment to the project during preparatory work. The
staff commitment to project                 project launch workshop will further strengthen ownership
objectives and implementation               of the project and will include the technical advisors for
program.                                    both CGMC and NAD. Proven strong advisory capacity by
consultants to guide and support the development of
managerial and administrative capacities of the mining
institutions. Participative processes to implement the
institutional reforms; introduction of new work methods
and accountabilities.
7. Staff stability              M           Selection of qualified staff with market-based salaries
should encourage staff stability.
S. Political interference       M           A change in Government could result in reduced support
for the project and interference in project implementation.
Project agreements, together with good implementation
progress, will help reduce this risk.
9. Performance of consultants and   M       Selection, supervision and monitoring functions would be
contractors.                                carefully designed on the basis of project objectives and
expected outputs.
10. Lack of interest of private  M.         Improvements in the law and strengthening NAMR's
investors in the Romanian mining            capabilities to administer and regulate the sector, including
sector.                                     setting up a properly working mining cadastre, will help
increase the attractiveness of the mining sector to private
investors.
Overall Risk Rating             S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial/Aspects:
The proposed project components face no significant controversial aspects related to employment or
safeguard policies due to the limited number (688) of miners affected by the final closure of the 29 mines,
the environmental remediation work and the extensive social mitigation measures provided to economically
depressed mining regions. However, the mining sector in general has high visibility in Romania and has
been the cause of considerable political unrest. There is also considerable international NGO interest in
mining sector restructuring. Hence, the project will remain under close scrutiny from many quarters.



- 25 -
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
*  The PMU will establish a financial management system satisfactory to the Bank. This system will
encompass a reliable accounting system with documented procedures, chart of accounts, procedures
manual, timely reporting and good internal controls satisfactory to the Bank. Under a time-bound action
plan this system will evolve into a full-fledged Project Management Reporting system within 12 months
after Loan effectiveness (page 14).
2. Other conditions:
* The Government will, by December 31, 1999, issue necessary licenses to at least three qualified NGOs
to operate as Micro-credit Finance Institutions, to be selected to administer the micro-credit sub-
component of the social mitigation component (page 13);
* The Govermnent will submit to the Bank, by June 30 of each year starting in 2000, a procurement and
disbursement plan for the project components during the next fiscal year, and agree with the Bank on
these plans by September 30 of each year. By November 30 of each year the Government will include
counterpart funding for CGMC, NAMR and NAD in the proposed Budget for the next fiscal year, in
accordance with the agreed procurement and disbursement plans (page 13);
* The Government will, by December 31, 1999 appoint independent auditors with qualifications and terms
of reference satisfactory to the Bank for the purpose of auditing the Project accounts (page 14);
* The Government will submit the independent auditor's report of the Project accounts by May 31 of each
year (page 14);
* The Government and the Bank will undertake a mid-term review of the Project by September 30, 2001
(page 15); and
* Completion of the following actions:
(a) NAMR, together with relevant entities, will complete a review of the mining law and associated
laws and regulations and mining sector institutional arrangements and by December 31, 1999
review with the Bank, the findings and actions to be taken (page 7);
(b) MOIC will prepare and review with the Bank, by March 31, 2000, and implement thereafter taking
into account the Bank's comments, a timetable for phasing out subsidies and a time-bound action
plan for reducing the share of production-related subsidies (to cover operating losses, employee
social allowances, exploration expenses and investments) and increasing the share of subsidies for
mine closure, environmental protection and remediation, and social mitigation (page 7);
(c) MOIC will prepare and submit, by March 31, 2000, a five-year business and reform program for
all national mining companies and state-owned exploration companies and thereafter implement,
taking into account the Bank's comments (page 7);
(d) CGMC will prepare and submit by March 31, 2000 a mine closure procedure manual (page 12);
(e) NAD will prepare and submit by December 31, 1999 an operating manual including guidelines,
procedures, and documents satisfactory to the Bank for the micro credit program and for the
training and employment incentive scheme and will implement the micro-credit program and the
training and employment incentive scheme using those guidelines, procedures, and documents
(page 13); and
(f) NAMR, together with relevant entities, will prepare and submit, by March 31, 2000, for review
by the Bank and other stakeholders, a Sector Environmental Assessment and an action plan to
implement the findings thereof and implement them promptly thereafter (page 20).
R. Readiness for Implementation
[ I The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation. [ ] Not applicable.



- 26 -
Preliminary closure design specifications and cost estimates were prepared in 1997 by Romanian
technical institutes for the 29 mines to be closed under the project. These design specifications and cost
estimates will be updated and finalized in line with international good practice by the technical advisors
to be financed by DFID. The technical advisors are expected to be mobilized by late August and should
have the design specifications for the first group of mines (Contract 4) completed in September 1999.
[ ] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of project
implementation.
* The first six procurement packages have been issued and the next six are in advanced stage of
preparation.
[X] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory quality.
[ ] The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions:
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Team Leader: John Strongman
Sector Director: Hosy n Razavi
Acting Country D       5uman Mehra



-27 -
Annex 1
Project Design Summary
Hierarchy of Objectives    Key Performance Indicators     Monitoring and         Critical Assumptions
Evaluation
Sector-related CAS Goal         Sector Indicators                                (Goal to Bank Mission)
(a) Promote structural reforms   1. GNP per capita increases  IM  and Country   *Macro economic stability
and private sector          2. Decrease in the number and    Economic Reports   *Establishment of a more
development; (b) alleviate  economic importance of State                        effective system of social
poverty and develop human   Operating Enterprises.                              protection
capital; (c) promote reform of                                                  *Enhancement of competition
the public sector, and (d)                                                     in key economic sectors.
protect the environment.                                                        *Establishment of a policy and
institutional framework
conducive to efficient and
equitable private sector led
sustainable growth.
*Establishment of a more
rational system of delivering
basic social services.
Project Development       Outcome/Impact Indicators                             Critical Assumptions
Objective:                                                                  (Objective to Goal)
Provide support for the     1. Number of mines closed and    Quarterly Project  *Continued political support for
Government's efforts to reduce  environmentally remediated.  Reports by the PIUs    the Government's restructuring
the burden of mining on the  2. Amount of budget subsidies for  and the PMU.    program for the mining sector.
national budget by closing  production, capital investment                      *Interest by private investors in
uneconomic mining capacity in  and exploration.                                 the Romanian mining sector.
an economically, socially and    3. Amount of budget subsidies for              *Improvement in mining law
environmentally sustainable    voluntary redundancies, social                   and regulations.
manner.                     mitigation, mine closures and                       *Improvement in mining
environmental remediation.                         institutional anrangements.
4. Number of small businesses                      *Preparation and
able to access credit under the                    implementation of a plan to
project.                                           increase the share of subsidies
5. Number of people from mining                    for social, environmental and
communities who are                                mine closure purposes and
economically rehabilitated                         eventually phase out all
6. Progress in the implementation                  subsidies.
of a modem mining licensing
system.



-28 -
Project Outputs             Output Indicators          Monitoring and         Critical Assumptions
Evaluation         (Outputs to Objective)
1. Technical closure and    1. Establishment of a national  Quarterly Project   *Government continues
environmental remediation of   agency for the closure of  Reports by the PIUs    comnutment to sector reform.
29 mines.                   unecononuc mines with legal,    and the PMU.        *Reduction of the time to build
2. Implementation of eight  financial and managerial                            up adequate institutional
social mitigation initiatives.    autonomy.                                     capacity to manage and
3. Implementation of a      2. Preparation of a time-bound                      regulate the sector.
program of technical support to  program for the closure of                     *Commitment to mine closure
NAMR to implement a new     uneconomic mines and phasing                        and implementation of
mining licensing system     out of subsidies.                                   environmental rehabilitation.
4. Technical and institutional    3. Number of mines closed and                 *Improvements in the
assistance for modernizing the   environmentaRly rehabilitated.                 institutional and regulatoxy
sector's legal and          4. Number of persons obtaining                      environment to improve access
administrative structure.   micro-enterprise loans.                            to credit for small enterprises
5. Technical Assistance for  5. Number of businesses                            *Continued staff and
Sector Envirommental        established through the Enterprise                  Government project ownership.
Assessment and Studies of   Support Program and Workspace                       *Staff stability
Subsidies and NMCs.         Centers.                                            *No political interference
6. Number of beneficiaries from                    *Good performance of
training and employment incen-                     consultants and contractors.
tives scheme.
7. Completion of the Sectoral
Environmental Assessment and
implementation of its
recommendations.
8. Completion of Subsidies Plan.
9. Completion of NMC's
business and reform plans.
Project Components        Project Inputs (US$ million)   Monitoring and         Critical Assumptions
including Contingencies        Evaluation         (Components to Outputs)
Mine Closure                            34.78              All inputs will be   *Continued support by the
Social Mitigation                       20.78             monitored and         Government in general and by
Institutional Strengthening             3.07               evaluated through   the Miistry of Industry and
Study Component                         0.54              regular progress and    Commerce in pardcular.
Operating Costs                          1.92              disbursement reports.  *Smooth implementation of
Front end Fee                           0.45                                    Bank's procurement procedures
Total             61.54



-29 -
Annex 2
Project Description
The project consists of three main components:
A.    The Mine Closure Program: Packages I - 9 (USS 31.69 million estimated base cost)
CGMC is responsible for the final technical closure of mines and required envirownental remediation. It has
Government approval for the closure of about 120 mines. Included in these are the 29 underground mines to
be closed under the Bank project. The list of mines in Annex 2 shows the location and type of mine. In most
of them production was suspended in 1997. The others in 1998. They belong to four NMCs, two for coal
and two for metal mines. About 688 workers who have taken severance packages have been rehired for care
and maintenance work. International contractors with extensive experience in the closure of mines and the
associated environmental mitigation, financed by DFID, will assist CGMC with the technical closure of the
mines by designing and supervising the implementation of the mine closure activities. To keep the cost low
and improve the utilization of the equipment, mines located close to each other have been grouped together.
MINE CLOSURE AND ENVIRONMENTAL MITIGATION: Four contracts (Packages 1-4) will be offered:
1. Seven non-ferrous metal mines of the Remin Baia Mare company in the north of Romania plus
two iron ore mines under R.A.C. Deva in Caras;
2. Eleven lignite mines of Carbune Ploiesti at Gorj, Vilcea and Arges in the south of Romania;
3. Three brown coal mines also belonging to Carbune Ploiesti in Bacau;
4. Five lignite mines belonging to Carbune Ploiesti in Covasna and Prahova.
TlHE MINE CLOSURE PROCESS: The 1998 Mining Law stipulates that a mining concessionaire may stop
mining as soon as this activity becomes uneconomic. However, the actual closure of a mine requires
Government approval. To obtain this, the concessionaire has to submit an application which includes plans
for the environmental remediation of the mining area, the social protection of the staff and the process of
vacating the land. More specifically, the concessionaire needs to:
* get approval of REPA for the environmental remediation program;
* prepare a plan for the technical closure of the mine and submit this plan, together with the
environmental remediation plan, to MOIC for review;
* obtain approval of NAMR, which has to advertise the mine for 30 days in the 'Official Monitor' to
ascertain that no other investor is interested in this mining operation; and
* keep the mine 'under care and maintenance' until all the necessary approvals have been obtained.
During this time, the concessionaire can remove all plant and machinery worth salvaging.
TECHBICAL CLOSURE. There are various types of mine access entrances - vertical or inclined shafts, or
level drifts. The type and strength of sealing of mine entrances will vary. Every mine plan has also to be
checked to identify the possible danger of inundation that may impact on a neighboring mine. This could
occur from accumulation of acid underground water building up pressure as the water level increases at the
sealed mine, which may lead to bursting the barrier between two underground mines. If such danger exists,
dams have to be constructed on both sides of mine barriers. It may be necessary to treat acid water before it
is released in order to prevent possible pollution to local drainage channels. Measures may also be needed to
prevent contamination of subterranean acquifers if the mine fills up with water and water pressure builds up.
The process of the final "technical" closure of underground mines includes some or all of the following
measures:
* permanent sealing of underground workings and all mine openings in line with industry
standards, prevention of water and gas leakage that could cause adverse impacts to neighboring
mines or to the environment.



- 30 -
* removal of all material and equipment lying on the surface;
* demolition of surface buildings and structures unless there is a productive use for them;
* all steps necessary to ensure the safety of tailings and slurry ponds, spoil heaps, waste dumps
and, any other surface features that might pose an environmental or human hazard; and
* clearing areas formerly used for the mine surface facilities (but excluding the mine workings in
the case of large surface and opencast mines).
Since many of the mines are very shallow, past mining operations have caused extensive subsidence at the
surface. These collapsed areas are not easy to deal with. Since no heavy earth moving machinery can go
over such areas it is better to leave them untouched until the subsidence has stabilised. Once the
underground voids fills up with water, further subsidence is unlikely. The soil carried by surface rain or
other drainage water will gradually seal cracks and, over time, the surface will again become suitable for re-
vegetation.
ENVRONMENTAL REMEDIATION. The Environmental Law requires that mining companies restore lands to
the condition that existed before the environmental damage occurred. This condition is impractical, since it
would mean that an opencast mine would have to be filled in, which would be extremely expensive.
Separately, the Land Law requires that mining companies return "vacant lands" (land that is part of a mine
which has been formally closed) to agricultural or forest use within two years of cessation of operations.
Apart from the fact that the Land Law is potentially inconsistent with the Environmental Law and that land
on which the mine is located may not be suitable for either agricultural or forest use, this requirement
imposes again an unreasonable burden on mining companies. These issues will be addressed in the
environmental and legal studies. It is best international industry practice to establish environmental
remediation plans and financial guarantees in a "Mining Plan" (i.e., business plans) before mining work
starts. Modifications may be required as mining proceeds. Thus, the physical and financial implications of a
mine site's environmental remediation would be clearly quantified before the start of mining operations.
This requirement would thus become an essential factor in determining the financial viability of a mine.
However, this has not been the case in Romania. Consequently, CGMC will, with the assistance of a
consultant, prepare Mine Closure and Environmental Remediation Plans that meet minimum modern health
and safety standards, as well as the concerns of the affected communities which will be the primary
beneficiaries of the restored lands. The Bank will reimburse 78% of the expenditures for environmental
remediation works applied to actual mine sites. The remaining 22% will be financed out of counterpart
funds.
In general, all mine sites' environmental remediation will include:
* Demolition of surface service buildings and restoration of surface land, including: clean-up of the
premises; leveling the ground; fertilization of the soil; and planting of some soil cover;
* Protection of waste dumps against mud slides or failure of dump slopes; including construction of
protective dams; strengthening of slope stability; and vegetation of slopes and plantation of trees for
stabilizing the slopes;
* Rehabilitation of waste dumps, including: draining of dump ponds; redesign of slopes; construction of
support walls; construction of garland drains; and planting of trees around the sites;
* Restoration of land affected by mining subsidence including refilling/leveling of the affected ground,
wherever feasible; fertilizing the soil; and planting of trees;
* Rehabilitation of water courses directly affected by mining operations;
* Collection and treatment of polluted effluents from the mines, including acid waters;
* Protection of oil pipelines traversing the areas;
* Treatment of surface soil wherever affected by mining activities to create useful post-mining end uses;
and
* Monitoring the results for a specified period after the completion of remediation.
IMPLEMENTATION OF THE MINE CLOSURE COMPONENT (PACKAGES 5-9): Romania has no regulations
that clearly define the steps that need to be taken to physically close a mine. Hence, CGMC will use the



-31 -
services of a consulting company with extensive international experience in the closure and environmental
remediation of coal and metallurgical mines, both opencast and underground, to prepare the specifications
for the closure of the mines in line with best industry practices. This assistance will be financed by DFID
(Package 5). The consultant will assist CGMC in the selection of the contractors that will carry out the
actual closure and remediation of the mining areas. Furthermore, they will audit the work of the contractors,
and payments will only be released if the work is performed in line with the specifications and standards
stipulated in the mine closure contracts. The technical consultant and auditor will involve staff of the CGMC
in all phases of their work and so provide valuable on-the-job training. Funding will be provided from the
Bank's loan for additional training and study tours to familiarize the staff of the CGMC with the best
industry practices (Package 6) and for office equipment (computers, faxes and copiers etc. ) and furniture and
two vehicles for the PIU (Packages 7-9).
B.    Social Mitigation Program: Packages 10-24 (US$ 20.78 million estimated base cost)
The Govermment faces serious opposition to further layoffs in the mining sector from labor unions. A Social
Assessment was carried out to determine the needs to the people affected by the closure of mines. The main
conclusions of this assessment are:
* the rush to accept voluntary redundancy in the mining sector, in response to Ordinance #22,
greatly exceeded the expectations of the Government and the trade unions;
- while men opted for redundancy voluntarily, one-third of the women (especially from Gorj)
reported that management exerted some pressure on them to accept the offer of 'voluntary'
redundancy;
- in spite of the fact that the financial remuneration offered under the redundancy package for the
mining sector is about twice as large as that for other sectors, the lack of alternative employment
opportunities remains a source of considerable discontent;
* measures for the restoration of livelihoods were not in place when Ordinance #22 was issued,
and are only now slowly becoming available; as a result few of those who have opted for
voluntary redundancy have been able to use their severance pay productively;
* there is considerable demand for micro-credit: more than 705 of those interviewed are seeking
credit of less than US$5,400 equivalent each for starting up of businesses;
*  the absence of an enabling framework for micro-credit, and the restrictive rules of the banking
system for loans to existing enterprises from the unemployment fund are a major bottleneck to
enterprise development and job creation;
* restoration of livelihoods is a much slower process than mine closure. It has to start earlier
through pre-redundancy counseling and nurtured for a much longer time;
* job training in the mining regions should be correlated with demand for skills established
through regular consultations with local representatives of the Tripartite Commission
(Government, business associations and unemployed worker associations), facilitated by NAD.
The social mnitigation component under this project has two objectives: (1) to augment the Government's
efforts to bring economic relief to mining regions that have been affected most seriously by the cessation of
production of mines; and (2) to test the effectiveness of a comprehensive social mitigation strategy in
Romania. This strategy will provide assistance in finding alternative employment for those that have lost
their jobs as a result of the Government's ongoing restructuring program in the mining sector. While
considerable experience exists around the world in the physical closure of mines and the associated
environmental remediation, post-closure support to the affected labor force is highly country-specific. The
design of the project takes this into account by providing financial support for the following range of
measures (sub-components), whose effectiveness in creating employment will be carefully monitored.
* Enhancing the Effectiveness of NAD (Package 10). NAD requires considerable technical
assistance on a continuing basis to implement the social mitigation program. TA has not been
budgeted under Bank financing since the British DFID is providing USS $3.4 million for financing
international consultant for this sub-component for the social mitigation program.



-32 -
* Micro-Credit Fund for the Mining Regions (Packages 11 and 12). The proposed fund responds
to the articulated need for micro-credit to encourage micro-enterprises in an environment where
credit is severely constrained by unrealistic collateral requirements. The fund will be administered
by one or more non-governmental micro-finance institutions (MFIs), selected on a competitive
basis from existing qualified service providers, whose track record is found satisfactory to the
Bank. It is expected that selected NGOs will be licensed under the project to do micro-credit
lending in Romania. It is expected that this will enable provision of loans to 2,000 borrowers in
two cycles during the project period.
* Establishing Workspace Centers and Enterprise Support Program (Packages 13-17).
Additional support is planned for start up businesses through provision of premises and pooling of
management services at business centers which will be established on the premises of mines being
closed in the 14 mining regions. The buildings at closing mines are being transferred to local
government and will be dedicated to this purpose. The project will finance building repairs and
infrastructure development, and provide furniture and equipment for the centers. This sub-
component replaces an earlier proposal to finance public works since financing is expected from
the European Union for that purpose. Consultancy services will be obtained from one or more
NGOs specializing in enterprise development to assist small entrepreneurs in business planning
and business start-ups. Enterprise support services will facilitate the implementation of the micro-
credit and the business workspace programs.
- Employment and Training Incentives (Packages 18-20). Demand for re-training under the World
Bank Labor Redeployment Project has been less than satisfactory. One of the major constraints
identified is that the training offered does not guarantee jobs or is not always relevant to the kinds
of jobs available. Building on the existing mechanism to encourage placement of university
graduates, the project will underwrite the cost of on-the-job training by providing entrepreneurs
willing to hire unemployed people an employment and training incentive of US$500 per person
recruited for one year. The entrepreneur will be responsible for providing on-the-job training.
Bank financing is designed to generate 3,000 jobs. NAD is proposing to invest US$1.0 million
from its program funds to create another 2,000 jobs through the same mechanism.
* Social Dialogue Program Public Information Centers (Package 21). One or more NGOs wiU be
contracted to assist NAD in community outreach and social dialogue. This will include support for
the public provision of pre- and post-redundancy services and career counseling to unemployed
workers in the mining regions. The NGOs will assist NAD and CGMC regarding stakeholder
consultations for the 29 mines to be closed. The project will also finance a public information
consultant to design a public information strategy to facilitate communication with primary
beneficiaries and other stakeholders in the mining regions. The Consultant will also produce
materials for NAD, in accordance with that strategy. The materials will be disseminated by NAD
and made available at the Public Information Centers at the 14 regional offices of NAD.
* Management Information System (MIS) and Social Impact Monitoring Program (Packages 22
and 23). Social impact monitoring consists of two parts: establishment of a Management
Information System (MIS) to track social outcomes of the redundancy process An independent
agency, either a consulting firm or a research institute will be recruited to assist NAD in
monitoring and to conduct annual impact evaluation.
* Vehicles (Package 24). Six jeeps and one mini bus to support NAD's field activities.
C.    Institutional Strengthening Program (Packages 25-34). (US $2.79 million estimated base cost).
The objective of this component is to strengthen NAMR, so it can effectively carry out its responsibilities for
the administration and regulation of the 1998 Mining Law. This Law represents an important step forward in
eliminating the direct role of the Government in mining activities and transfers such activities to the private
sector. While the Law still has many flaws, it is a clear indication of the Government's commitment to this
objective. Under the project, major technical assistance will be provided to strengthen NAMR's ability to
properly carry out its responsibilities. The following sub-components have been designed for this purpose:



- 33 -
* Mining Cadastre Control and Mining Titles Registry (Packages 25 and 26). This will finance
the establishment of a computerized mining cadastral control system. This will complement the
existing petroleum-oriented computer capabilities and database development in NAMR. It will
include procurement of computer hardwares and softwares compatible with the system already
existing in NAMR, in order to develop the geological and mineral resources database. On-the-job
and foreign training are included. Consulting and training will be provided to NAMR to receive
applications and register all licenses, permits and other titles transactions and notifications in the
official cadastral file.
* Exploration and exploitation concession inspection (Packages 27 and 28). The Mining Law
mandates NAMR to inspect mineral license and permit areas in order to ensure proper conduct of
the operators, from exploration through exploitation to official closure, in accordance with the Law
and its Norms and Regulations. Training, study tours concentrated on exploration concession and
mine-site assessments for NAMR mining inspectors will be part of this sub-component. The
purchase of on-site monitoring and equipment for communications between field offices and their
headquarter are included.
* Study of Mining Law, associated Laws and regulations and Institutional Arrangements
including collection of mineral fees, taxes and royalties (Packages 29 and 30). External legal
analysis, consulting and training will be provided to NAMR staff regarding the legal procedures
and linkages with other legislation and regulations of the various provisions of the Mining Law,
e.g. concession contracts, competitive bids, environmental guaranties, joint ventures, license
transfers and other transactions. The study will include an assessment of institutional arrangements
for the sector including the provision of data and maps to potential investors. It will also include a
survey of how private sector investors perceive the mining legal and institutional frameworks.
Financial consulting and in-house training will focus on the ability of NAMR professionals to
assess, approve and collect royalty submissions, fees, guarantees and other financial transactions.
Design of clear forms and approval time frames for such submissions is an importatnt first step.
* Mining sector environmental management (Packages 31 and 32). Consulting and training
involving NAMR environmental management specialists and REPA mining sector personnel will
be conducted. The main elements of this sub-component are to: (i) design appropriate
environmental rehabilitation regulations and manuals for the mining sector; and (ii) improve the
professional capability of NAMR inspectors and environmental specialists, and REPA and
MOWFEP sectoral specialists, to asssess and monitor the submissions from applicants and licence
holders, as required by the Mining Law. Coordination with and involvement of REPA and
MOWFEP is critical to the success of this sub-component. Workshops will be provided for
developing awareness amongst NAMR and REPA inspectors on the application of environmental
rules and regulations.
* Mining Sector Investment Study (Package 33). Assistance will be provided for a mining sector
investment study. This study aims to promote private investment through advertisement in
international mining related journals and on the Internet.
* Mining Sector Environmental Assessment (Package 34). Agreement has been reached with the
Governnent on the need to carry out a comprehensive assessment of the environmental issues in
the mining sector (SEA). The assessment will establish priorities and provide appropriate
monitoring procedures and cost estimates for environmental remediation. The NAMR will hire
consultants for the preparation of this assessment and closely involve MOWFEP and MOIC in all
phases.
D.    Study Program (Packages 35-36) US $0S.53 million estimated base cost.
* Mining Sector Subsidies Plan (Package 35). The present situation regarding transfer to the Mining
Sector will be examined and direct, indirect and hidden subsidies estimated including cross
subsidies. Assistance will be provided to prepare a plan for progressively increasing the share of
subsidies for mine closure, environmental mitigation and social mitigation and reducing the share



- 34 -
of subsidies for operating losses, exploration and capital investment and subsequently to phase out
subsidies altogether
Mining Sector Enterprise Reform Program (Package 36).. Assistance will be provided to prepare
a program for prepare five year operating plans as the basis for reforming the NMCs and state
exploration companies so that they are able to operate in a viable manner and be privatized or else
be closed. The operating plans will take into account any presently available reform plans and the
results of the mining sector subsidies plan. They will specifically address the competitiveness of
each company and possible strategies and preparatory steps for privatization including the need for
further capacity and employment reductions and financial restructuring.
E.    Others (Packages 37-42) US $ 1.75 million estimated base cost.
Assistance will be provided to cover PMU and PIU incremental operating costs, furniture, equipment and
vehicles for the PMU, consulting services to help prepare the Financial Management System and auditor's
fee. Part of the goods and services will be procured using funds under a US$0.5 million Project Preparation
Facility.



-35 -
Annex 2
Table A: List of Mines Included Under the Project
Name of Companies            Types of           Estimated Costs (1997)            Location        Remarks
and Mines               Mineral                  (million lei)
Physical       Env.         Total
Closure      Rehab.
Contract No. 1
REMI4NSA BAIA MARE
1. Lesu Ursului (Piriul Ciinelui)  Copper             65         2,148        2.363  Suceava        Closed before '97
2. Lesu Ursului                 Copper               156        10,359       10,515  Suceava        Closed before '97
(Piriul Ursului Isipoaia)
3. Lesu Ursului South (Pazdra)  Copper                 6         1,533        1,539  Suceava        Closed before '97
4. Magura II (Baia Borsa)       Polyinetal           347         1,278        1,625  Maramures    Closed before '97
5. Burloia Vest Arinis         Polymetal              20          218           238  Maramures      Closed before '97
6. Burloia Cental               Polymetal          2,505         3,983        6,488  Mamures        Closed before '97
(South & East)
7. Burloia (Dealul Bucatii Vest)   Copper            956          528         1,484  Maramures    Closed before '97
R A C Deva
8. Ruschita (Virful Boului)    Iron                4,456          297         4,753  Caas-Severm   Closed before '97
9. Ruschita(Pifiul cuRaci)     Iron                  457          189           646  Caras-Severin  Closed before '97
Sub-total                     8,968       20,535        29,503
(SI.20 m)    (S2.74 m)    (S3.94 m)
Contract No. 2
Olenia Tg. Ju
10. Rosiuta 1                  Lignite                 6          534           540  Gori           Closed 1997
11. Lupoia I                   Lignite                10         3,089        3,099  Gorj           Closed before '97
12. RogejuluP3                  Lignite               21         3,781        3,802  Gorj           Closed 1997
13. Barbesd                    Lignite                26         4,316        4,342  Vilcea         Closed before '97
14. Cucesti                     Lignite               41         2,270        2,311  Vilcea         Closed before '97
15. Cema                       Lignite                27         2,168        2,195  Vilcea         Closed before 97
16Arinasesti                   Lignite               257          364           621  Vilcea         Closed 1997
17 & 18. Slanic (N & S)         Lignite            1,574         7,026        8,600  Arges          Closed before '97
19. Godeni                     Lignite             1,305         5,730        7,035  Arges          Closed before '97
20. Aninoas                     Lignite               98        21,086       21,184  Arges          Closed before '97
21. Berevoiesti                 Lignite             1,094        3,581        4,675  Arges
Sub-total                     4,418       53,945        58,363
I_               (S0.59 in)    (S7.19 m)  I(S7.78 m)



-36 -
Name of Companies            Types of          Estimated Costs (1997)             Location        Remarks
and Mines              Mineral                  (million lei)
Physical       Env.         Total
Closure      Rehab.
Contract No. 3
Carbune Ploiesti
22. Vernesti                    Brown coal           110        15,331       15,441      Bacau      Closed 1997
23. Rafira-Lumina               Browm coal           103        36,864       36,967      Bacau      Closed 1997
24. Leorda East                 Brown coal           991        11,534       12,525      Bacau      Closed 1997
Sub-total                     1,204       63,729        64,933
Contract No. 4
Carbune Ploiesi
25. Virghis                     Lignite              739         1,475        2,214    Covasna    Closed before '97
26. Bodos                       Lignite              588        11,756       12,344    Covasna    Closed 1997
27. Baraolt 1 East              Lignite              100         2,357        2,457    Covasna    Closed before '97
28. Magureni-Tufeni             Lignite               58         3,206        3,264     Prahova     Closed before 97
29. Margineanca Veche           Lignite               41        11,982       12,023     Prahova    Closed 1997
Sub-total                     1,526       30,776        32,302
Grand Total                              16,116       168,985      185,101
Exchange rate USS I = Romanian Lei 7,500 (1997)



-37 -
Annex 3
Estimated Project Cost - USS millions
L. Mine Closure Component              Fordgn           Local           Total
1. Mine Closure &EnvironmentMitigationGroupI           2.51            2.30           4.81
2. Mine Closure & Envirownent Mitigation Group II      4.96            4.54            9.50
3. Mine Closure & Environment Mitigation Group m       5.52            5.05           10.57
4. Mine Closure & Environment Mitigation Group IV      2.74            2.51            5.25
5. Technical Assistance (DFID financed)                0.85             0              0.85
6. Training                                            0.34            0.15            0.49
7-9. Equipment for CGMC PIU and vehicles                 0.13           0.09            0.22
Sub-total    17.07           14.62           31.69
2. SocialMidgation Component
10. Technical Assistance (DFID financed)                3.40            0.00            3.40
11-12. Micro Credit                                       3.82            0.08            3.90
13-17. Workspace Centers and Enterprise Support Program    3.65           2.54            6.19
18-20. Employment and Training Incentives                  1.67            1.07           2.74
21. Social Dialogue Public Information                  0.69            0.29            0.98
22. Management Information System                       0.57            0.41            0.98
23. Social Impact Monitoring                            0.22            0.15            0.37
24. Vehicles                                            0.12            0.08            0.20
Sub-total    14.12            4.63           18.75
3. Institution Strengthening Component
25-26. Mining Cadastre Control and Mining Titles Registry  1.1             0.61            1.71
27-28. Exploration and Exploitation Concession Inspection  0.13            0.08           0.21
29-30. Mining law, Legal Requirements and Institutions     0.15            0.05           0.20
31-32. Environment Management and Inspection               0.13            0.06           0.19
33. Mining Sector Investment Study                      0.08            0.04            0.12
34. Sectoral Environmental Assessment Study             0.26            0.11            0.37
Sub-total     1.84            0.96           2.80
It Sector Studie
35. Mining Sector Subsidy Plan                          0.08            0.04            0.12
36. MiningSectorEnterpriseReformProgram                 0.26            0.11            0.37
Sub-total     0.34            0.15           0.49
5. Other
3742. PMU/PIU incremental operating expenditures, PMU      1.32           0.42            1.74
equipment, furniture and vehicles, Auditors Fees, FMS
FRONT END F0                                      0.445           0.445
Sub-total     1.32            0.86           2.18
Total Base Cost                                     34.66           21.26          55.92
Contingencies                                       3.48            2.14            5.62
.             1.  TOTAL COST (USS MILLIONS)                 38.14           23.40          61.54
Note: numbers may not add up due to rounding



-38 -
Annex 4
Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary
Amounts in US$    1999  2000  2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Total
million
1. Benefits
Labor Cost Savings   7.19  7.01  6.83  6.66 6.49  6.33  6.17 6.02 5.87 5.72 5.58 5.44  68.13
Social Benefit    2.87  2.80  2.73  2.66 2.60  2.53  2.47 2.41 2.35 2.29 2.23 2.18  27.25
Savings
Benefits          10.06  9.81  9.56  9.33 9.09  8.87  8.64 8.43 8.22 8.01 7.81 7.62  95.38
2. Costs
Severance Payments 10.35                                                             10.35
Social Costs            5.70  7.00 4.50 2.00  1.50                                   20.70
Mine Closure Costs      12.56  13.80 9.50 4.00  0.50                                 40.36
Total cost        10.35 18.26  20.80 18.00 6.00  2.00                                61.06
Net Benefits     (0.29) (8.45) (11.24) (4.67) 3.09  6.87  8.64 8.43 8.22 8.01 7.81 7.62  34.33
NPV               $8.0 million
FIRR               16.5 %
Summary of benefits and costs: The benefits consist of the savings in wages and social benefits for
4,451 workers who were made redundant at the 29 mines to be closed under the project. The
average gross wages are estimated at US $140 per month and the social benefits at 35% of gross
wages. Annual attrition of 2.5% has been assumed for future years. The costs consist of severance
payments plus the investment and recurrent costs under the project (excluding financing charges).
Specific estimates of the reduced negative value added of the mining operations were not available.
If such estimates were included the FIRR would be increased.
Main Assumptions:  $140 per month gross salary
35% benefits
2.5% attrition
US $34.8 million mine closure costs inc. environmental rehabilitation
US $20.8 million social mitigation expenditures



- 39 -
Sensitivity analysis I Switching values of critical items:
Following are the switching values that reduce the NPV to zero at a 10% discount rate:
Base Case           Switching Value      Change
Attrition                  2 5%                 4.65%               86%
Labor Cost Savings         $68.13 m             $58.66 m            -13.9%
Mine Closure Costs         $40.36 m             $50.14 m            24.25%
Social Costs               $20.70 m             $30.64 m            48.0%
and at a 12% discount rate.
Base Case           Switching Value      Change %
Attrition                  25%                  4.0%                60.0%
Labor Cost Savings         $68.13 m             $61.99 m            -9.75%
Mine Closure Costs         $40.36 m             $46.91 m             16.25%
Social Costs               $20.70 m             $27.32 m            32.0%



-40 -
Annex 5
Financial Summary
Years Ending June 30
1999 US$ Million
Implementation Period
2000   2001    2002    2003    2004   Total
Proiect Costs
Investment Costs           16.9    19.3    12.6    5.2      1.5    55.5
Recurrent Costs             1.4     1.4     1.4     0.9     0.5     5.6
Total Project Costs          18.3    20.7    14.0    6.1      2.0    61.1
Front End Fee             0.445                                    0.445
Total Costs                   18.7                                    61.5
Financing
IBRD                       13.2    15.2    10.4    4.4      1.3    44.5
DFID                       0.9      1.1     1.1     0.8     0.4    4.3
Government                 4.6     5.4      2.5     0.9     0.3    12.7
TotalFinancingAvailable       18.7   20.7    14.0    6.1       2.0    61.5



-41 -
Annex 6
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
SUMMARY OF PROCUREMENT PROCEDURES
The proposed procurement arrangements are summarized in Table A. Procurement of works, goods and
services of the Bank financed components would be procured in accordance with the Bank procurement
guidelines. The project components not financed by the Bank would be procured in accordance with the na-
tional regulations or according to the procurement regulations of the United Kingdom Department for Inter-
national Development (DFID). A procurement plan detailing the packaging and estimated schedule of the
major procurement actions is presented in Table B. All other procurement information, including capability
of the of the implementing agency, estimated dates for publication of the Special Procurement Notice and the
Bank's review process is presented in Table C.
PROCUREMENT CAPACITY. The CGMC, NAD and NAMR have set up their respective PIUs and
procurement cells. They will have to appoint expatriate consultants conversant with Bank procurement
procedures. The consultants will assist in the preparation of bid documents, bid invitation, bid evaluation and
signing of the contracts. CGMC also requires help in the technical audit of completion of jobs. The Bank will
also try to provide as much procurement training as possible for the procurement staff involved in
implementation of the project.
PROCUREMENT OF GOODS AND WORKS
Goods and works will be procured in accordance with the provisions of the Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits. Whenever applicable, the appropriate Standard Bidding Documents
issued by the Bank will be used with minimum changes acceptable to the Bank.
PARTICIPATION OF STATE OWNED ENTERPRISES (SOES) IN PROCUREMENT OF GOODS AND WORKS. SOEs
willing to participate in procurement of works, goods and services financed by IBRD in this project should
meet the Bank's eligibility criteria: they should be financially and legally autonomous and operate under
commercial law in Romania. SOEs should properly clarify their status before participating in any bid under
this project.
PROCUREMENT OF CIVIL WORKS (US$ 36.91 MILLION). Civil works are required for environmental
mitigation works at the mine sites identified for closure, repairs to building for workspace centers, and public
works for the construction/paving of approach roads, water and electric supply anrangements and sewer
works.
*    INTERNATIONAL COMPETITIVE BIDDING (ICB). ICB procedures will be used for works contract,
estimated to cost US$200,000 or more. There are about seven such contracts with an estimated
total value of US$ 36.91 million.
PROCUREMENT OF GOODS (US$ 3.57 MILLION). There are about fifteen packages for procurement of
goods. These packages include computer hardware and software, printers, scanners, copying machines and
other office equipment, office furniture and fittings, and motor vehicles. The following methods of
procurement will be used:
*     INTERNATIONAL COMPETIT1VE BIDDING (ICB). Goods contracts estimated to cost US$200,000
or more will be procured through ICB. There are about six such packages with an estimated total
value of US$ 2.94 million.



- 42 -
*     INTERNATIONAL SHOPPING (IS). Goods contracts estimated to cost less than US$200,000 but
more than US$ 75,000 will be procured through International Shopping. There are three such
packages with an estimated value of US$0.60 million.
*     NATIONAL SHOPPING (NS). Goods estimated to cost less than US $75,000 will be procured
through National Shopping. There are four such packages with an estimated value of US $0.16
million.
PROCUREMENT OF SERVICES (US$ 8.21 MILLION). The Borrower will award contracts for consultants'
services in accordance with the provisions of the Guidelines for the Selection and Employment of
Consultants. The estimated value of US$8.21 million includes US$0.27 million under the PPF. The services
to be financed under the loan are: workspace centre design and management; implementation of employment
and training incentives; design of financial management system; organizing micro-credit disbursement;
designing and equipping two data base centers with computer hard and soft wares, commissioning and on-
the-job training; project implementation and works supervision; technical assistance (regarding mining sector
administration, environmental protection and state mining companies); organizing study tours abroad; and
social dialogue with unemployed people and monitoring impact of social mitigation programs. Selection of
Consultants and their contracts will be based on the Standard Request for Proposals issued by the Bank with
minimal necessary modifications as agreed by the Bank. Some of the jobs are suitable for NGOs. They may
compete in the selection process, provided that their qualifications are found satisfactory to both the
Government and the Bank. There are about 29 packages for procurement of services
*    SELECTION OF FIRMS: Quality and Cost Based Selection process will be applied in about 21
contracts with an estimated value of US$ 6.70 million. Another eight contracts with an
estimated value of US$ 1.29 million are earmarked for Quality Based Selection. Most of the
individual contracts in the latter category are of less than US$200,000 in value. One contract
(for auditors) will be least cost selection (value about US$0.22 million).
Procurement methods (Table A)
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions.
*  GOODS AND WORKS: CGMC and NAD will appoint consultants to assist them  in all
procurement processes. These consultants will be financed by the UK DFID. All bid documents
for works and goods procured under ICB plus the first two contracts under IS and NS would be
subject to prior review by the Bank.
*  CONSULTANTS: All documents are subject to review by the Bank. In the case of contracts
estimated to cost more than US $50,000 for consulting firms and US $25,000 for individuals,
Terms of Reference (TOR), letters of invitation and award of contracts to service providers
consultant firms, institutions and individuals will be subject to Bank's prior review.



-43 -
Annex 6
Table A: Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                             Procurement Method
ICB    IS/NS   Other   NBF    Total Cost(inc
contingencies)
1. Works for mine closure and work snaces    36.91                            36.91
(28.78)                             (28.78)
2. Goods                                 2.94    0.63                         3.57
(2.36)  (0.50)                      (2.86)
3. Services                                               7.94    4.25        12.19
(6.21)  (0.00)      (6.21)
4. Microcredit                                            3.96                3.96
(3.60)              (3.60)
5. Employment and TraininT Incentives 1/                  1.65    1.10        2.75
(1.65)  (0.00)      (1.65)
6. Incremental Oneratine Costs                            1.10                1.10
(0.90)              (0.90)
7. PPF Refinancin2                                0.13    0.48                0.61
(0.11)  (0.39)              (0.50)
8. Front end Fee                                                 0.445        0.445
(0.00)      (0.00)
Total                                    39.85    0.76    15.13    5.80       61.54
TotalBankfinanced                       (31.14)  (0.61)  (12.75)  (0.00)     (44.50)
'In accordance with IBRD consultant guidelines.
Note: numbers may not add up due to rounding
Figures in parentheses indicate Bank financed amounts.
1/ Mcrocredits and Employment Training Incentives will be disbursed using SOEs on the basis of operating
gwudelines to be prepared by NAD and approved by the Bank.
Note - Annex 6 Table B is an Excel Attachment



-44 -
Annex 6
Table B: Procurement Plan
Package
No.  Description                                    Category  No. of Procurnnt. Estimated  Docs. Invitation Contract  Contract
Packages  Method  Total cost to Bank  to Bid   Signing Completion
(US$ m)
I Mines Closure Component
1 Mine Closure and Environmental Mitigation I       CW       1        ICB       5,29   jun-00   Jul.00   nov-Oo    01-dic
2 Mine Closure and Environmental Mitigation II      CW        I       ICB      10,45   mar-00  abr-00   sep-00    01-oct
3 Mine Closure and Environmental Mitigation IlIl    CW        1       ICB      11,63   nov-99  ene-O0   may-00    01-jun
4 Mine Closure and Environmental Mitigation IV      CW        1       ICB       5,78    sep-99   oct-99   ene-O0   01-abr
6 Training                                           TR       I       QBS       0,54    sep-99   oct-99   dic-99   jun-00
7 Equipment for PIU                                 GD        I        IS       0,11    jul-99   ago-99   oct-99    dic-99
8 Furniture                                         GD        I       NS        0,03    jul-99   ago-99   oct-99    dic-99
9 Vehicles                                          GD        1        IS       0,11    jul-99   sep-99  11/01199  feb-00
11 Social Mitigation Component
12 Mcrocredit Service Charges                        TA      I to 6    QCBS      0,33   ene-00  feb-GO    may-00   Jun 04
13 Workspaces Centers Management/ Enterprise Support  TA     I to 6    QCBS      2,01   10/01/99 11/01/99  feb-00    Jun 04
14 Workspaces Centers, Repairs                       CW      I to6     ICB       3,76   ene-00  feb-00   jun-00    dic-OO
15 Workspace Centers, Design                         TA        I      QCBS       0,27    oct-99  11/01/99  feb-00    abr-00
16 Workspace Centers, Equipment                      GD      I to 6    ICB       0,67   jun-00  ago-00   nov-00   01-mar
17 Workspace Centers, Furniture                      GD        I       ICB       0,22   jun-00  ago-O0   nov-00   01-mar
20 EmploymenV Trg. Incentive Scheme- Services         TA     I to6    QCBS       0,27   feb-00   mar-00  jun-00    Jun 02
21 Social dialog/Public Informnation                  TA     I to 6    QCBS      1,45   11/01/99 ene-O0   abr-00    Jun 04
22 Management Information Systems (MIS)               GD       I       ICB       1,07   jun-99  sep-99   ene-00   jun-00
23 Social Impact Monitorng                            TA       1      QCBS       0,40    ago-99  feb-00   may-00   Jun 04
24 Vehicles                                           GD       2        IS       0,22   jun-99  sep-99   ene-O0   mar-00



-45 -
Ill Institutional Strengthing Component
25 Mining Cadastral Control, Equipment               GD       1       ICB       0,98   ago-99   oct-99   feb-00   Sept 02
26 Mining Cadastral Control, TA                      TA       1      QCBS       0,90   jun-99  ago-99   nov-99   Sept 02
27 Exploration and Exploitation Concession Inspection  GD     I        IS       0,16   jul-99   sep-99   ene-99   Sept 02
28 Exploration and Exploitation Concession Inspection  TR     1       QBS       0,07   gram submitted - 10/99
29 Mining Law, Institutions and Fees, Taxes and Royalties  TA  I      QBS       0,16   jun-99  ago-99   oct-99    dic-99
30 Mining Law, Institutions and Fees, Taxes and Royalties  TR  1      QBS       0,05   gram submitted - 11/99
31 Mining Sector Environmental Management            TA       I       QBS       0,08    nov-99   dic-99   mar-00   sep-00
32 Mining Sector Environmental Management            TR       1       QBS       0,13    abr-00  may-00  ago-00    Jul 01
33 Private Sector Investment Study                   TA       I       QBS       0,13    dic-99  feb-00   abr-00   jul-00
34 Sector EnvironmentalAssessment                    TA       I      QCBS       0,40   sep-99   oct-99   dic-99    mar-00
IV Study Component
35 Mining Sector Subsidy Plan                        TA       1       QBS       0,13   jul-99   ago-99   oct-99    dic-99
36 State Mining Enterprise Reform Study              TA       1      QCBS       0,40   sep-99   oct-99   dic-99    mar-00
V Others
38 PPF-Equipment for PMU                             GD       1        NS       0,06   ago-99  sep-99   oct-99    oct-99
39 PPF-Fumiture for PMU                              GD       I        NS       0,01    ago-99  sep-99   oct-99    oct-99
40 PPF-Vehicles for PMU                              GD       1        NS       0,06   ago-99  sep-99   oct-99    oct-99
41 PPF-FMS Services                                  TA       1      QCBS       0,27   ago-99  sep-99   nov-99   nov-99
43 Auditors Fee                                     LCS       I       LCS       0,22   jun-99  jul-99   sep-99    dic-99
Total              48,82



- 46 -
Annex 6
Table B1: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure       Contract Value      Procurement         Contractsfor Prior
Category           Threshold           Method         Review/Estimated Value
(US $ million)                         for Prior Review
(US $ million)
1. Works                    .2                ICB                 All/36.91
2. Goods               .20 and above          ICB                  A1112.94
0.075 -0.2            IS                   2/0.26
0 - 0.075            NS                   2/0.10
3. Services             .05 for Firns      QCBS/QBS                All/7.94
.025 for Individuals
Total value of contracts subject to prior review    48.65



-47 -
Annex 6
Table C: Procurement Information
Section 1: Procurement Review
Element                               ICB                  NCB                   IS                NS           Consultants     Other methods
1. Procurement method thresholds  US$200,000 goods  None                  below US$200,000       Below      Below US $50,000  All
US$500,000 works                                 goods          USS$75,000      finns and US
goods      $25,000 individu-
2. Prior Review                       All                                        2                 2               All         All
3. Ex-post Review             About 5 shopping packages and SOE
Section 2. Capacity of the Implementing Agency in Procurement and Technical Assistance Requirements
4. Brief statement            Consulting firms will be appointed (one each for NAD and CGMC PlUs) for assisting in their preparation, invitation, evaluation and
I award of contracts..
5. Country Procurement Assessment Report or Country Procurement Strategy Paper status: 6. Are the bidding documents for the procurement actions of the first year
Under preparation                                                           ready by negotiations? First six documents are approved and next six well
advanced. The preparation of bid documents for mine closure will start only
after the consultants are appointed under the project.
Section 3. Training, Information and D    pveloment on Procurement
7. Estimated date of Project  8. Estimated date of    9. Indicate if contracts are   10. Domestic Preference for Goods  11. Domestic Preference for Works,
Launch Workshop               publication of General  subject to mandatory SPN                                if applicable
Procurement Notice    in Development Business   Yes.                           No.
P0/01/99                      06/15/99             Yes.
12. Retroactive financing.   No                                             13. Advanced procurement     No.
14. Explain briefly the Procurement Monitoring System and Information System: All three P[Us are being equipped with the necessary computers and software to enable
them to monitor and record procurement implementation. Monthly progress reports will be sent to the Bank electronically to update procurement implementation progress.
Section 4. Procurement Staffing
15. Indicate name of Procurement Staff as part of the Project Team responsible for the procurement in the project:
Name: Sadhan Chattopadhya (Consultant) - Preparation
Name: Leonid Vanian - Implementation                                Extension: 84796
16. Explain briefly the expected role of the Field Office in Procurement: Members of the WB Bucharest Resident Mission staff would interact with the PlUs (one for
CGMC and NAMR and one for NAD). The staff will act as the PlUs' primary liaison to review procurement documents for completeness and submit them for transmittal
to headquarters electronically or through the Bank's pouch service as appropriate. This staff would also participate in all supervision missions, and alert the Project Team
Leader to any procurement-related issues regarding respective project components.



-48 -
Annex 6
Disbursement
Table D: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category   Amount          Financing Percentage
(US$ million)
Civil Works               26.2                 78%
Equipment and mateials    2.5        100% of foreign expenditures,
100% of local expenditures (ex-
factory) and 85% of expenditures
for other items procured locally
Consultant services and   5.3                  100%
training
Microcredit Program       3.6                  100%
Employment and            1.5                  100%
Training Incentives
Scheme
Incremental Operating     0.8       100% except for locally produced
Expenses                                    goods - 85%
PPF Refinancing           0.5                  100%
Unallocated               4.1
Total                     44.5
Use of statements of expenses (SOEs):
Disbursements would be made against Statement of Expenditures (SOEs) for works contracts less than
US$200,000, goods contracts less than US$200,000 and consultants' services contracts less than US$50,000
for firms and US$25,000 for individuals. In additions, SOEs will be used for incremental costs, microcredit
and employment and training incentives.
Special account:
To facilitate disbursements against eligible expenditures, a US$1,000,000 Special Account will be
established. The Government will establish, maintain and operate the special account under conditions
acceptable to the Bank. Payments under 20% of the authorized allocation to the special account will be made
from the special account. Replenishment applications will be submitted quarterly.



-49 -
Annex 7
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$)                         Planned              Actual
US$178,000          US$143,000
B. Project Schedule                             Planned              Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)         15                  15
First Bank mission (identification)              3/15/98             3/15/98
Appraisal mission departure                      5/3/99              5/3/99
Negotiations                                     6/2/99               6/2/99
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   10/31/99               / I
Prepared by: Ministry of Industry and Commerce (MOIC), CGMC, NAMR and NAD
Preparation assistance: PHRD Grant Trust Fund (US$348,000)
Bank staff and consultants who worked on the project included:
Name                                    Specialty
John Strongman                    Task Team Leader (from 5/3/99)
Peter K. Pollak                        Principal Economist
Akin Oduolowu                          Principal Economist
Sadhan Chattopadhya                      Procurement Specialist
Anis Ahmad Damn                  Senior Social Development Specialist
Peter Van Der Veen                  Manager, Mining Sector Division
Felix Remy                         Principal Mining Specialist
Koh Naito                             Mining Specialist
Peter Whitford                   Principal Environmental Specialist
Arabela Negulescu                          Project Officer
Doina Visa                      Enterprise Development Specialist
Bogdan Constantinescu                Financial Management Specialist
Patricia Hackman                         Operation Analyst
David Merrick                        Mine Closure Consultant
Pavel Adamek                   Mine Environmental Rehab. Consultant
John Garnett                       Mining Institution Specialist
Mazy Louise Vitelli               Institutional Development Specialist
Claes Fjellner                   Financial Management Specialist
Atur Varadarajan                   Financial Management Specialist



-50-
Annex 8
Documents in the Project File
1. Project Implementation Plan
2. Bank Staff Assessments:
*  List of uneconomic mines in Romania
*  Back to Office reports of Bank Missions
*  Social Assessment of Mining Sector Restructuring in Romania
*  Project Cost tables and Financial Analysis
*  Terms of Reference: Mining Sector Environmental Assessment Study
*  Assessment of Procurement Capacity of Borrowers Implementing Organization
3. Other reports
* Consultants studies on the Romanian Mining Sector
3 Regional Development Study for the Mining Region of Jiu Valley, Hunedoara County, Romania
* Assessment of Current Socio-economic Situation and Future Potential of Gorj
* Romania: Private Small and Medium Enterprise Survey
* Mining Law
 Government Strategy and Restructuring Program of the Romanian Mining Sector.



- 51 -
Annex 9
Statement of Loans and Credits
As of 23 July 99
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions      and actual
Fiscal                                                                            disbursements a/
Project ID    Year     Borrower         Purpose
IBRD    IDA    Canc  Unidisb       Orig Frms Rev'd
Number of Closed Projects: 39
Active Projects
RO-PE-39251  1999 Romania             PBIL                    25.00    0.00   0.00    25.00       0.00        0.00
RO-PE-49200  1999 Romania              Social Develop. Fund    10.00    0.00   0.00    10.00      1.80      0.00
RO-PE-58284  1999 Romania              Cultural Heritage        5.00    0.00   0.00     4.96      0.46        0.00
RO-PE-64853  1999 Romania              PSAL                   300.00    0.00   0.00   300.00      0.00        0.00
RO-PE-34213  1998 Romania              General Cadastre       25.50    0.00   0.00    24.82       0.82        0.00
RO-PE-44614  1998 Romania              Schools Rehabilitati   70.00    0.00   0.00    69.69      14.79        0.00
RO-PE-55495  1998 Romania              Child WelfareReform      5.00    0.00   0.00     4.80      1.10        0.00
RO-PE-8788   1998 General Inspectorat  Telecommunication       30.00    0.00   0.00    28.52      7.52        0.00
RO-PE-39250  1997 Romania              Second Roads           150.00    0.00   0.00    98.25    -14.25        0.00
RO-PE-8778   1997 Romania              Bucharest Water Supp   25.00    0.00   0.00    16.00      11.99        0.00
RO-PE-8793   1997 Romania              HigherEducation         50.00    0.00   0.00    42.55     42.55        5.55
RO-PE-8795   1997 Romania             ASAL                   350.00    0.00   0.00   150.00       0.00        0.00
RO-PE-36013  1996 SNCFR               Railway                 120.00    0.00   0.00    81.10     51.11        0.00
RO-PE-8794   1996 Renel               Power Sector Rebab.     110.00    0.00   0.00   101.88     99.89        0.00
RO-PE-8776   1995 Romania             Emplot. & Soc. Protect    55.40    0.00   0.00    46.16    37.58        0.00
RO-PE-8774   1994 Romania             Industrial Developme    175.00    0.00   0.00   117.74    111.74       95.24
RO-PE-8777   1994 Romania              Petroleum Sector Reh   175.60    0.00   0.00   103.95    103.96        0.00
RO-PE-8784   1994 Romania              Education               50.00    0.00   0.00    29.19     19.88        0.00
Total                                                       1,731.50    0.00   0.00   1,248.6    490.94     100.79
Active Proiects    Closed Projects        Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA)             482.91          3,351.38        3,834.29
of which has been repaid                  0.00          2,329.95        2,329.95
TotalnowheldbylBRDandIDA                 1,731.50          1,180.62        2,911.12
Amount sold                                  0.00             19.78            19.78
Of which repaid                             0.00            19.78            19.78
TotalUndisbursed                         1,241.00              9.60        1,250.60
a. intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
Note: Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month and is currently as of 23-July 99.



-52 -
Annex 9
(cont'd)
Statement of IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 28-Feb-99
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                      Disbursed
IFC                            IFC
FY Approval       Company        Loan  Equity  Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1992          Alcatel              0.00    0.00    .69    0.00    0.00    0.00    .69    0.00
1994/98       Ronlease             3.96    .75    0.00    0.00    3.96    .75    0.00    0.00
1996          Danube Fund          0.00    2.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     .80    0.00    0.00
1997          Efes Brewery        12.34    0.00    5.00    8.00   12.34    0.00    3.76    8.00
1997          Mobil Rom           40.00    0.00   10.00  160.00   30.00    0.00   10.00  120.00
1997          Rambox               1.95    2.00    0.00    0.00    1.95    2.00    0.00    0.00
1998          Banc Post            0.00    0.00   10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   10.00    0.00
1998          Bilstein Compa       2.82    0.00    0.00    2.82    2.34    0.00    0.00    2.34
1998          Demir Romania        5.00    3.20    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.55    0.00    0.00
1998          FCR Fund             0.00   10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   10.00    0.00    0.00
1998          Garanta              0.00    .20    0.00    0.00    0.00      .20    0.00    0.00
1998          Krupp Compa          7.88    0.00    0.00    3.38    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998          Small Bus. Loan      5.00    .02    0.00    0.00    1.00    .02    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:        78.95   18.17   25.69  174.20   51.59   16.32   24.45  130.34
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan  Equitv  QOuasi  Partic
Total Pending Comnitment:          0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00



- 53 -
Annex 10
Romania at a glance
Europe &   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                                 Central middle-
Romanla    Asa  Income        Development dlamond*
Population mid-1997 (millions)                               22.5     478    1.125
GNP per capita 1997 (Atlas method, US$)                     1.420    2.200    1.740               Life expectancy
GNP 1997 (Atlas method, USS billions)                        32,1   1.050    1.962
Average annual growth, 1991497
Poplation (%)                                                -0,5      0,3     1,4     GNP                           Gros
Labor force (%)                                               0,0      0,5    17      per                          prima
Most recant estimate (latest year available since 1990)                                capita             /nroiment
Poverty headcount index (% of population)                     22
Urban population (% of total population)                      57       66       56
Life expectancy at birth (years)                              69       68       67
Infan mortality (per 1,000 live births)                       22       24       40               Access to safe water
Chid malnutrition (% of children under S)                       6
Access to safe water (% of population)                         ..       ..      75
Initeracy (% of population age 15+)                            ..       ..      20         -Romania
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)          94     100      104              Lower mkddi-incrx   group
Matle                                                        94     101      107         -oe-kieIcm   ru
Female                                                       93     100      101
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976    1986      1995    1996    1997
UUiW (billnS US)                             ..    47,6      35.5    35,2    34,8      Economic ratlos*
Gross domestic investmentlGDP              40,4    33,0      25,6    23,1    19,2              Opn          of
Exports of goods and servics/GDP             ..    22,9      27,4    27,4    28,2                pen     of economy
Gross domestic savings/GDP                   ..   37,2       21.1    18,9
Grossnationalsavings/GDP                     ..    35,9      21,4    18,8
Current account balance/GDP                  ..     2,9      -4,9    -7,3    -7,1
kIterest paymrnts/GDP                        ..    1,1        0,5      1,0             Savings                    Investment
Total debt/GDP                               ..    14,7      18,8    23,6    23,9
Total debt service/exports                  0.0    18.7      11,5    12,2    21,8
Present value of debt/GOP                    ..      ..        ..   22,3
present value of debttexports                ..      ..        ..    78,0                          Indebtedness
197-845  19866      1995    1996    1997
(average annual gowth)                                                                     -Rona
GOP                                         4,8    -3,4       7,7      3,9    -6,6              Lower- e-kkle-one group
GNP per capita                              4,0    -3,3      13,7      3,5    -2,7
Expots of goods and services                 ..    0,2       30,7      2,6     2,0
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1975    1986      1996    1996    1997
(% efGOP)                                                                              Growt raes o output and Invetment (%)
Agriculture                                  ..      ..      18,5    18,1    18,0    30
Industry                                     ..      ..      32,9    34,2    35,6
Manufacturing                              ..       ..        ..      ..       ..
Services                                     ..      ..      48,6    47,7    46,4               S       6             e
Private consumption                          ..   58,9       66,6    70,2    75,1
General government consumption               ..    3,9       12,2    10,9    10,1               -    GD    -*GDP
Imporisorgoods and services                  ..    18,7      31,9    31,6    32,6
197648  1986-96     1996    196S   1997
(average annua/ gowth)                                                                 Groth ratef exports and imports (%)
Agriculture                                  ..    2,4        4,9    -2,4      2,2      o
Industry                                     ..   -6,5        6,8      6,8    -5,0    40                        A
Manufacturing                              ..       ..        ..      ..       .
Servies                                      ..   -5,0       11,1    10,5    -82       20-  
Prlvateconsumption                           ..    0,7       12,93   04   95   sO   97
General government consumption               ..    4,0       -2,4    -7,5   -11,0
Gross domestic investment                    ..   -3,2        1,5      3,9   -15,9      0
importsofgoodsandservices                    ..    2,7       45,4    10,6    -1,1                -Epors   -mpors
Gross national product                      4,7    -3,5      13,1      3,8    -3,0
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates. Aggregate data are to 1996. Figures in italics are for years other than those specified.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. n data are missing, the diamond vWill be complete.



-54-
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976    1986       19S6    1s9s6   1997
DomesUc pdcres                                                                            Inftion (%)
(% chaG)                                                                                 40
Consumer prices                                                32,0    38,8   154,881J
Implicit GDP deflator                                 0,4      35,7    44.6    148,7    20
Govwnment finance                                                                         100
(% of GOP)                                                                                 o
Current revenue                                      48,9      32.0    29,6    30,4         9    92   9J   94   95   96   97
Current budget balance                               29,7       2,7      1,4       .,              -GOW W              CPS
Ovemall surplusldefdcit                        .     12,1      -2.6    -39       -3.6
TRADE
1975    1S85       1996    1996    1997
(nWilions US$)                                                                            Export and Import levelk |mIll USS)
Total exports (fob)                            ..  10.174     7.910    8.085    8.429     15000
Textils                                                      2.065    1.734    1.941
Metals                                                       1.513    1266    1.556
Chemicals                                                    1.W1      882      745       .00o .
Total imports (di).    8.402                                  9.487   11.435   11.275
Food                                         ..    160        818      772      596      i.00i_ _ili
Fuel and energy                                   4.753      1.160    1.037     838
Capital goods                                     3.489      7.509    8211    7.930         o
Export price index (1993=100)                                  106      108                     91  92  93  94  95  96  97
Import price index (1993=100)                                   105     104                            NExpOus    Elmports
Terms of trade (1993=100)                                       102     104
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1976    198S      1995    1996    1997
(OlHones USS)                                                                             Current account balance to GOP ratio ()
Exports of goods and services              5.812   10.920     9.404    9.648    9.842
Imports of goods and servces               5.858    8.926    11.306   12.503   12.371
Resource balance                             -46    1.994    -1.902   -2.855   -2.529
Net incorme                                   89    -613       -241     -309    -376
Net current transfers                          0    0    369  593  419   2111*                                   111
Current account balance.
before official capital transfers         -135    1.381    -1.774   -2.571   -2.486
Financing items (net)                        103   -1.698     1.583    3.451
Changes In net reserves                       32     317        191     -80
Nemno:
Reserves including gold (rn/i/. USS)        904    1.447      2.625    3.145    4.671
Conversion rate (loc8l4JSS)                   ..       ..   2.033,4  3.082,6  7.167,9
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975    1986       1996    1996    1997
(millio0s USS)                                                                            Compostilon of total debt, 1996 (mnll. USS)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed         211    7.008     6.666    8.291    8.313
IBRO                                        19    1.633       844    1.009    1.391                  G        A
IDA                                          0       0          0        0       0                  815      1009
Total debt service                             1    2.064       967    1.230    1.833                                c
IBRD                                         0     274         53       63     389
IDA                                              0         0             0       0
Composition of net resource flows                                                                F                     D
Official grants                              0       0         34      105       0           2785                  1037
Official creditors                          30     -61        707    1.224    4.381
Private creditors                            0     -645       267    1.540    1.542
Foreign direct investment                    0        0       419      263    1.224                             E
Portfolio equity                             0       0          1       1 1    830                            1994
World Bank program
Commitments                                180       0        340      475     625      A - IBRD                    E - B/etsr
Disbursements                               19      49        129     228      182      B-IDA    D -Othwermultatr    F - Prrv
Principal repayments                         0      146         0        0       14      C - IMF                    G - Sholtrttm
Noet fas                                    19     -97        129      228      168
Interest payrents                            0      127        53       63       65
Net transfers                               19    -225         76      165     103
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.                                                                                07/10/98
* Includes privatization revenues



- 55 -
Annex 11
Financial Management Action Plan
Action                                  Start date          Completion date
Recruitment of the chief accountant (final)   8/9           9/15
Release vacancy announcement (2nd)    8/9                  8/11
Prepare short list of candidates      8/16                 8/23
Interviews                            8/23                 8/30
Final selection                       8/30                9/1
No objection notice and appointment   9/1                  9/15
Appointment of External Auditors        8/9                 12/31
Design terms of reference             8/9                  8/30
Prepare local bidding documents       8/16                 8/30
... Invite bids                        9/1                  9/29
Assess bids                           9/29                 10/15
Shortlist of auditors                 10/18                10/28
Final selection                       10/28                11/12
... Bank's no objection                 11115               11/30
- Appointment                           12/1                12/31
Preparation of Final Procedures Manual  8/9                 10/23
Job descriptions                      8/9                  10/23
Chart of accounts                     8/9                  10/23
Internal controls                     8/9                  10/23
Monthly procedures                    8/9                  10/23
Quarterly procedures                  819                  10/23
Banking and payments                  8/9                  10/23
Computerization of Accounting Records   8/16                11/15
Invite prospective suppliers          8/16                 8/31
Assess various options for:           9/1                  9/30
Cost                              9/1                  9/30
Software support and maintenance  9/1                  9/30
multi currency options            9/1                  9/30
security                          9/1                  9/30
flexibility with chart of accounts  9/1                9/30
Systems adaptation                    10/1                 10/31
Full scale implementation             10/1                 10/31
Trial run                             10/1                 10/31
No objection notice                   11/1                 11/15
Output Monitoring Report and            10/1                11/15
Procurement Management Reports        _ 



-56 -
Annex 12
Social Assessment of Mining Sector Restructuring
A Social Assessment was undertaken in three mining regions (Jiu Valley, Gorj county, and Deva) to
study the process of mass layoffs initiated in 1997. The objective of the Social Assessment was to assess
implementation progress and social impact of restructuring and the social protection measures undertaken,
analyze behavioral responses and coping behavior of redundant workers, obtain opinions of mining
communities about the layoff process and alternative development possibilities, and establish a baseline for
social impact monitoring. The Social Assessment combined data from a household sample survey, and
household budget data with qualitative data obtained from focus group discussions and key informant
interviews.
The mining industry is the most heavily subsidized sector in Roniania receiving an estimated 56% of
the subsidies provided to state owned industries in 1997. The sector employed around 173,000 workers in
August 1997. Under pressure from the mining unions to undertake sector restructuring, the Government
promulgated - Ordinance No. 9 in April 1997, for restructuring of all industries, and Ordinance No. 22, in
August 1997, giving miners the right to seek voluntary redundancy in exchange for higher severance
benefits. At that time, a protocol was also signed with the labor unions wherein agreement was reached to
(a) create a specialized agency for social mitigation and job creation in the mining regions; (b) enact a special
law declaring the mining regions disadvantaged regions and providing a tax incentive to future investors; and
(c) initiate active measures to create jobs for mine workers. While the Norm under Ordinance No. 9 was 6
months severance pay, mining sector workers were entitled to 12-20 months severance. The base rate was
also higher, being derived from the average wage in the mining industry (twice as high as the average
national wage). Ordinance No. 22 also provided the severance pay in a lump sum with the intention of
enabling workers to invest their severance productively in exchange for not seeking employment within the
sector for the next 12 months.
Following the issuance of Ordinance No. 22, around 40% workers accepted the package nation-wide
within four months, compared to the Government expectation of around 15% workers leaving the industry.
In the study areas, a total of 45,530 workers (38%) were laid off in the last four months of 1997 out of
119,385 employed in August 1997. Nation-wide, an estimated 74,000 workers were laid off in 1997. Latest
estimates put the numbers laid off under Ordinance No. 22 to be 83,000 by end 1998. The large number of
voluntary layoffs caught the Government by surprise and unprepared to provide the supplementary support
for re-training and job creation they had promised the labor unions. Since then, the government has made
efforts to respond to those promises by creating a specialized agency (NAD) to promote and coordinate
social mitigation measures in the mining areas, and by deploying some funds already available in the
ongoing Bank-financed Labor Redeployment Program. To date, active measures have benefited 5,164
workers from mining areas.
Six months after redundancy, the Social Assessment found that most workers had been under the
illusion that after the industry would be restructured they would find jobs in a restructured mining sector,
since Ordinance No. 22 prohibited them from seeking jobs in the sector for a period of one year only. Most
workers have consumed the severance pay unproductively, on household consumption, purchase of
appliances, or repayment of past debts. Only 5% had attempted to start their own business, while 30% still
had some savings from the severance pay. Although 64% had been seeking jobs, only 5% had found jobs.
Mining being the dominant activity, slowdown in the sector had adversely affected all related industries.
The responses of workers depended on alternatives in their locality. The highest rate of despondency
and, consequently, militancy was in the Jiu Valley where there were very few jobs outside the mining sector
and where 95% of workers had migrated and settled from other parts of the country. A few of them tried to
return to their original homes but did not find economic opportunities there. Most were compelled to return
to Jiu Valley where they owned an apartment. In Gorj County, 60% of the population was from the



- 57 -
surrounding villages and owned or shared small plots of agricultural land. Redundant workers had
something to fall back on. Overall 5% had migrated out of Jiu Valley but less than 3% from Gorj. In Deva,
other industries provided alternative opportunities to laid-off workers.
The layoffs were not gender neutral. In the Jiu Valley, laid off male and female workers were roughly
proportional to their size in the mining labor force (laid off women 17.3% out of the 18% female labor
force). However, in Gorj County, 53% of female employees were discharged while only 33% of the men left
the labor force. Women in Gorj reported management pressure to accept voluntary redundancy. Women
were less mobile and had no alternatives, but were desperate to find sources of income and expressed a
higher preference for agricultural work and micro-enterprises as coping strategies. The absence of credit
opportunities remains a major constraint. Credit available through commercial banks is prohibitively
expensive requiring collateral of 150%. Even larger enterprises find it difficult to obtain credit. More
accessible credit is essential for employment generation.
There is considerable dissatisfaction with the Govermment's ability to respond to the needs of the
mining regions and the slow pace of delivery on the commitments made in the protocol. Although NAD was
created in February 1998, it was not provided with any program funds. The Disadvantaged Areas Ordinance
was issued finally in September 1998, and active labor market measures have been very slow and have not
achieved outcomes commensurate with the scale of the problem. Job re-training opportunities organized by
the Department of Labor have not been very popular, as they have not been related to job availability thus
increasing skepticism about the value of this training. To be successful, training opportunities should be
linked to future jobs.
The Government has succeeded in attracting donor interest in the mining regions. The Bank-financed
Labor Redeployment Program has invested almost 40% of its funds in the mining regions. The EU has
pledged ECU 2.1 million and 10 million under two separate programs for infrastructure and enterprise
development, and the British Department for International Development is considering co-financing the
Bank's social mitigation component. Within the mining regions, however, a major effort on public
information dissemination needs to be undertaken both to educate people about the economic necessity to
eliminate mining subsidies, and about the active measures which are somewhat belatedly beginning to have
greater impact in the mining regions.
The findings of the Social Assessment have been discussed with stakeholders within the mining
regions and at national workshops. The social mitigation component has been designed from the Social
Assessment results and from the recommendations arising out of these stakeholder workshops.



- 58 -
Attachment
GOVERNMENT STRATEGY AND RESTRUCTURING PROGRAM
OF THE ROMANIAN MINING SECTOR
The Romanian subsoil has solid mineral reserves located in a great number of deposits (owned by the state)
spread all over the country ( with the biggest concentration in 23 counties ).
The geological solid useful mineral reserves - different stages of known reserves - possible to be exploited
with the present mining technologies are about 3 billion. tons for lignite and coal, 1 billion tons for open-pit
coal, 40 million. tons of gold and silver ores, 0 90 million tons of polymetallic ores, 900 million. tons ( out of
which 800 tones are low quality) copper ores and more than 4 billion tons of salt.
In the above mentioned polymetallic ores, there are 3.3 million. tons copper, 1.6 million. tons zinc, 0.9 mil-
lion. tons lead, as well as silver, gold and other elements ( cadmium, bismuth, selenium, molybdenum, wolf-
ram sulfur and others).
In the Romanian subsoil, there are also, but not in such big quantities, deposits of radioactive minerals, ferro-
managanes, bauxite, as well as a diversity of nonmetallic rocks used in industry ( calcars, dolomite, bento-
nite, nisipuri cuartoase, argile refractare si caolinoase, creta, roci cu sulf activ si altele ), and in construction
materials.
Comparing to the deposits of useful solid minerals that are exploited worldwide, the geological-mining and
mineralogic characteristics of Romanian deposits are complex and they are inferior as quality ( low quality
lignite, low quality open pit coal, and low grade nonferrous ores ).
The extraction industry covers presently internal needs of energy coal, nuclear fuel and, partially, nonferrous
metals, coal for coke and a great part of nonmetallic ores. 500 thousand tons of salt are exported annually.
The production capacities that can be used are: 52 million. tons for coal, 21 million tons for ores, 8 million
tons nonmetallic substances, and 4.3 million tons of salt. Only half of the mining capacity is operational to-
day.
OBJECTIVES
The main objectives of the Government strategy for the mining sector are to:
* promote an environmentally sustainable and financially viable Romanian mining sector with strong pri-
vate sector involvement;
* comprehensively address poverty alleviation in the mining region through implementation of social miti-
gation measures and regional development programs.
OUTLINE
The basic elements of the Mining Sector Strategy comprise:



- 59 -
a) establishment of an enabling legal and regulatory framework that would facilitate the promotion of pri-
vate mining enterprises and improve the capacity of the public mining institutions ( PMIs ) to enforce the
laws and regulations, administer mining titles and monitor overall sector development in a transparent,
efficient and non-discriminatory manner;
b) strengthening and rationalizing the role the role of the state by converting the current involvement of the
state from that of owner and operator of mining assets to that of a regulator and administrator;
c) reducing financial losses in the sector by eliminating direct or indirect involvement of the state in explo-
ration, by reducing and eventually eliminating state financing for this kind of operations;
d) protecting and enhancing the environment through the development of a comprehensive program for ad-
dressing environmental issues, increasing environmental awareness, safety and health protection;
e) alleviating poverty and developing human capital by allocating resources for social mitigation and re-
gional development and establishing a framework that would promote business opportunities in the
mining regions.
ACTIONS TO ACHIEVE OBJECTIVES
The following actions are already ongoing:
A. Establishing of a legal and reeulatorv framework:
A new mining law and regulations to implement the law have been approved by the Parliament ( Mining
Law 61/1998 ). This law and the accompany regulations are aimed at providing the legal basis for the re-
structuring of the sector and to facilitate the development of a private sector in the mining industry. In ac-
cordance with the requirements of this law, all mining activities will be based on licenses and administration
or concessions. All enterprises with ongoing mining exploitations and exploration activities would regular-
ize their situation by applying for licenses on areas where they are currently active and would be required to
relinquish all other areas which will be re-demarcated by the competent authority to be promoted competi-
tively to Romanian and foreign investors. The National Agency for Mineral Resources has been appointed
as the competent authority in the extraction field. NAMR has the competency to manage on state's behalf
mineral resources of the country and to enforce the provisions of the Mining Law concerning the exploration
and utilization of mineral resource deposits.
The Ministry of Industry and Commerce issues and enforces Government policy in the mining field and en-
sures the administration and monitoring of the public property in the field of mineral resources. The Minis-
try is involved in the direct coordination of the state owned mines.
B. Institutional Reforms and capacity buildins in the minins sector
Romania has had a long tradition of mining characterized by large scale employment, strong trade unions,
strong involvement of the state, limited private sector involvement and major envirozunental degradation.
In time, the mining sector, for a variety of reasons that include operational inefficiencies and uneconomic
mines, has become financially unsustainable and has continuously contributed significantly to the endemic
problems of losses and arrears, which have undermined macroeconomic stabilization efforts of the Govern-
ment.
In 1997, subsidies to the mining sector amounted to about 1518.8 bill. lei ( equivalent to about USD 209
mill. ), out of which 1048.5 bill. lei production subsidies, 281.8 bill. lei for social protection expenses and
188.5 bill. lei for investments. The operational losses in 1997 for the subsidized mining companies were of
1758 bill. lei. The exploitation of the salt and lignite in open pit mines is profitable.
Even with these subsidies the enterprises have large losses. Major structural reforms are urgently required.



-60 -
Mining activities in Romania consist of two main parts:
- coal sector with about 130 underground and open pit mines for lignite ( poor quality soft coal and high
thermal quality hard coal )
- ores and salt sector with about 145 mines ( mostly underground mines ) for metallic and non metallic de-
posits ( Cu, Au, Ag, Pb, Zn, uranium and salt).
For these minerals the production activities are carried out by state operators ( companies or regies auto-
nomes ), out of which: three for coal ( RA for Pitcoal Petrosani, National Company for Lignite Oltenia, Na-
tional Company for Coal Ploicsti), two for non ferrous metals extraction ( RAC Deva and CNMPN Baia
Mare), one for uranium ( CN Uraniului) and one for salt and industrial minerals ( SN Sarii Bucuresti). In
addition to these seven large production enterprises there are seven mining commercial companies, 9 re-
search mining institutions and 10 commercial companies for geological research which undertake works
comprised in the National Program of Geological Research and services for the mining and oil exploitations.
The institutional and structural reforms to be implemented under the strategy would consist of:
(i)    Rationalizing the role of the state by eliminating the involvement of the state owned nmn-
ing exploration and development institutions.
The strategy of the Government calls for the reduction of the state involvement in mining exploration, by
leaving the financing of high cost, risky exploratory activities to the private sector. The insurance of obtain-
ing basic geological information ( through prospecting work ) will be done by financing the National Pro-
gram of Geological Research that will be executed by specialized commercial companies.
The 10 commercial companies presently carry out a lot of activities and are to be privatized by the State
Ownership Fund.
About mining production companies, the Government has already initiated the transformation of the RAs in
companies/joined stock national societies as a first step towards their privatization. RAs from Petrosani and
Deva are being reorganized in national companies at present.
fii)   Strengthening and modernizing the public institutions ( PMls ) involved in monitoring
and regulating mining activities.
The PMIs are: the Ministry of Industry and Commerce, the National Agency for Mineral Resources, the
Geological Institute which fulfill the role of the state as administrator and regulator for the mineral resources
of the country, and whose performance in the discharge of their services and responsibilities ( such as en-
forcement of laws and regulations, provision of reliable geologic data base, administration of mineral rights
and monitoring environmental liabilities ) are critical in the efficient operation of the mining sector and in the
privatization process.
It is realized that, at present, these institutions are deficient in their level of expertise, capabilities and do not
have adequate equipment to undertake their functions. Furthermore, they are poorly funded and have limited
experience in dealing with the private sector. Under the strategy, these institutions will be provided technical
assistance for tmining of staff and for procurement of equipment to strengthen their capabilities.
Analysis undertaken by the Government of the economic performance of the mining operations in Romania
have shown that the majority of the mining operations both for coal and metallic mining are uneconomic and
should be diminished by closing unviable mines and supporting those that can become efficient for their
modernization. In the projected decline in the demand for coal by CONEL ( ex RENEL), the main consumer
of coal in Romania, it is considered that the current capacity of the largest lignite pit coal mines, which are
also the lowest cost coal producers in Romania, can support the annual projected demand of coal of 35 mil-
lion tons. Furthermore, the Government plans to restructure the power sector to encourage private sector



-61 -
investment in power generation and reduce pollution. In this regard, it is envisaged that the private power
generating companies would be more inclined to switch from coal to combined cycle plants.
Under the strategy, the current state-owned coal producers would be required to concentrate on the open pit
mines and wherever economically and socially justifiable, continue the operation of the underground coal
mines. In this regard, subsidies for operating underground mines would be reduced and later eliminated
completely and the enterprises, once converted to joined stock commercial companies would be encouraged
to restructure themselves to eliminate high cost underground coal mining operations. Also incentives would
be provided to encourage private sector joint venture arrangements for the operation of the open pit mines as
a mean to further reduce production costs.
As a new restructuring solution for the coal and mining sector, actions for the development of integrated
systems with coal and energy producers were initiated, within the global energy sector strategy.
Unlike coal, it is envisaged that the private sector would be interested in metallic mining because concen-
trates and metals are internationally tradable. In this regard, enabling legal and regulatory framework will be
developed that would be conductive to attracting private sector interest in metallic mining either directly or
through joined ventures with the state owned metallic mining companies. These actions would be comple-
mented with a promotional effort to make available economically viable mines for privatization or through
joined venture with the private sector.
For the improvement of the technical and economical performances on the long run, priority projects were
elaborated for introduction of new technologies for the viable mines and open pit mines as follows:
* Technology modernization at Rosia de Jiu, Jilt Sud, Rosiuta, Lupoaia, Rovinari open pit mines from
Oltenia, with aid from KRUPP for improving the technologies for electrical action systems for excava-
tors;
- modernization of Racos Sud open pit mine from lignite deposit Capeni;
* technological improvements at Lupeni, Livezeni si Paroseni, as well as updating the the ambulance cen-
ter in Petrosani and thermal plants from Valea Jiului mines;
 reintroducing the lands affected by mining activities in the agricultural circuit and the reconstruction of
the households affected also by mining activities from Oltenia.
For metallic ores
* introduction new technologies and modernizing the open pit mines for copper in Rosia Poieni and
Moldova Noua and tecnological improvements for the installations for preparing non ferrous ores and
establishing mixed companies with foreign parteners;
* introduction of new technologies at gold mines in Baia Sprie and Sasar;
* modernizing the Suior mine and introducing a new technology for gold pyrites, cu continut de arsen;
* a new cooper recovering installation for low content cooper ores at Rosia Poieni by biotechnological
procedures ( lesie bacteriana).
For rare metals:
* changing the hidro metallurgic extraction technologies of uranium and increasing extraction efficiency to
95% for the preparation of uranium ores in RI plant Feldioara.
For salt:



-62 -
* construction and starting operations for salt production installation by evaporation at Ocna Mures salt
mine.
(*ii)     closure of uneconomic mines
The strategy calls for the reduction of financial losses in the short term through the closure of uneconomic
mines. In this regard, about 160 mines ( out of which 25 areas in an advance stage of exploitations ) have
been identified as uneconomic and should be closed. Production activities from these mines have been, in
most cases, closed and except for workers required for care and maintenance prior to closure, all other
workers have been either laid off or redeployed to more economically viable mines.
The Government has initially allocated for 1998, almost 500 bill. lei for these closures. In order to execute
the closure of these mines in a timely and efficient manner, the Central Group for Mines Closure (CGMC)
was created through Ordin 1670/ September 25, 1998 within the Ministry of Industry and Commerce. This
group will lead the mining closures, will manage the funds and will hire on contractual basis private or state
owned commercial companies which will be responsible of the physical closure and of environmental reha-
bilitation works. The mines closure contractors will employ people that have been laid off (miners, electri-
cians, mechanics, foremen, engineers).
The mine closure will start in 1998 with the initial works for the closure of 5-10 mines, for the remaining
mines the initial works will start in the next 2-3 years.
The Central Group for Mines Closure will be also responsible, as provided by the legal framework, of the
assets of the closed mines.
As about some of the assets, buildings or other utilities that can be used for initiating new business, their
destination will be established, following the provisions of the law, by the CGMC together with NAD. The
assets may be used by the laid off miners as an alternative for new job creation program in the areas were the
mining activities was stopped. The specialist from the GCMC, even if with a good professional experience,
have never been involved in mine closure and environment rehabilitation programs. We think that they
should attend as soon as possible (in 1998) training programs in countries with experience in this field in or-
der to learn the methods used by these countries for mines and open pit mines closures.
The annex attached presents the list of the mines proposed for closure, as provided by the Mining Law. For
some of these mines the activity was closed since 1997.
D.    Protecting and enhancine the environment
Although a legislative and regulatory framework exists to address environmental impact assessment issues,
the procedures for the execution of these regulations are fragmented and the institutions lack the capability to
monitor and address the environmental problems efficiently. As a consequence, considerable environmental
degradation has occurred in the mining areas.
In order to asses the gravity of the problem, the Government strategy calls for the implementation of a com-
prehensive environmental impact assessment study of the mining sector as a whole, which would provide the
basis for the environmental rehabilitation programs for the mines to be closed and the environmental abate-
ment measures to be implemented in the mining areas. Under the strategy, assistance would be provided to
upgrade the capabilities of the institutions responsible for monitoring and regulating environmental pollution
including developing appropriate monitoring procedures and costs for environmental rehabilitation. The
study will be conducted in cooperation with the staff of the Romanian Protection Agency ( REPA ).



-63 -
Romanian Government Strategy on Social Mitigation
Measures in Mining Regions
Romanian Government is committed to supporting social mitigation efforts in mining regions during this
important but difficult time of mining reform. In order to assure that adequate " social safety net " provisions
are in place during this time, the Government is taking measures to provide information, coordination and
assistance to people in these regions. The role of local and regional government will be very important in
providing necessary assistance to mine closures.
The Government strategy for supporting social mitigation efforts in mining regions has been developed in
response to a growing number of unemployed in these regions, most of whom took advantage of Ordinance
22 in 1997 which permitted voluntary redundancy. The majority of the 76,000 people who took advantage of
these packages remain unemployed with little to no prospect for finding employment. Additionally, as the
mine closing process continues throughout Romania, it is anticipated that more people will be laid off in the
coming years. The Government recognizes that mining regions often lack significant alternative employ-
ment opportunities for the unemployed, and is committed to measures that will assist people immediately,
but also help to develop local economic activity including job creation, public works programs and training.
It is important that the proper economic and informational foundations be established to ensure that sustain-
able local economic growth will result.
IMMEDIATE MEASURES FOR 1998
I.        The National Agency for Development and Implementation of the Reconstruction of the
Mining Regions ( NAD ):
In February 1998, the Government created the National Agency for Development and Implementation of the
Reconstruction of the Mining Regions ( NAD ). This Agency has been created to facilitate information and
coordination of assistance efforts for unemployed mine sector workers. NAD operates under the auspices of
the Ministry of Industry and Commerce ( MOIC ) and is based in Bucharest as well as 14 regions: Petrosani,
Tg. Jiu, Ploiesti, Voivozi, Comanesti, Anina, Deva, Alba lulia, Moldova Noua, Baia Mare, Baia Borsa,
Balan, Rodna, Gura Humorului.
NAD works with local governments and communities, mine sector operators and trade unions to provide ac-
curate and timely information on social support measures available for unemployed workers. NAD will
identify regions where special assistance is required and modify Government strategy as needed.
II.       Ongoing Assessment of Emergency Situations:
In order to safeguard the social needs of people facing emergency living situations, the Government will ini-
tiate and will conduct an ongoing assessment of urgent situations, primarily focused on elderly, children, dis-
abled and remote mine communities. This assessment will allow the Government and local communities to
respond in an immediate and necessary manner in the provision of food, electricity, heating, clothing, hous-
ing and other basic needs which may be required. This assessment will be monitored by the NAD regional
offices and coordinated with local unemployed offices, local government and NGOs which are assisting in
supporting the social sector.
ONGOING MEASURES 1998 - 2000
I.        Social Impact Monitoring:
The Government has designed and is implementing a social impact monitoring program through which pre-
cise and timely data on the economic and social well-being of mine communities will be revealed. Through
the systematic collection of data from local and government sources, it will be possible to track critical in-



- 64 -
formation for mining communities including: standard of living, costs for local products, local job opportu-
nities, health status, training and education, and emergency needs. This ongoing tracking will provide criti-
cal information for formulating and improving social assistance programs for mining regions.
II.       Access to Business Training/Support and Local Capital:
Through NAD, the government will begin active measures aimed at providing capital in mining regions for
the development and support of small and medium business, training and consulting for private and public
sector structures. The government expects that beginning in 1998 and through 1999, a number of Business
Training and Consulting Centers will be established in mining regions. Where such centers already exist, the
government is committed to enhancing their equipment and staff. It is expected that these centers will oper-
ate independently of NAD, but in coordination with NAD.
III.      Assets to Support Local Business Development:
The Government has committed to reform the entire mining sector which includes training and other mine-
related facilities. The Government will assure that assets such as buildings and furniture which result from
reducing staff or closing enterprises will be given first priority for local business development activities
which will directly benefit unemployed mine sector workers attempting to build or start new businesses.
IV.       Public Works Program:
The Government will identify a limited number of communities where local and government funds may
contribute to small, medium and large scale public works programs. Identification of these programs will be
made by local communities and will be aimed at creating immediate, short-term employment. Some projects
which may be considered include municipal clean-up projects, development of parks, construction of mu-
nicipal buildings and roads, river clean up and repair and maintenance of apartment and other buildings.
V.        Emergency Assistance to Communities in need:
The Government will continue assessment and provision of special services as required to populations in
critical need. Distribution of assistance to these communities will be conducted with local partners including
government, NGOs and other organizations able to provide emergency support.
VI.       Pre-Redundancy Support:
As needed, the Government will supplement already existing pre-redundancy activities conducted by the
Ministry of Labor and Social Protection for mine sector workers. This may include psychological, eco-
nomic, job search or other counseling as well as the provision of information on where an individual can re-
ceive additional social support. The Government is developing criteria for pre-redundancy support to be of-
fered to mine sector workers.
VII.       Program for Youth in Mining Regions:
Where necessary, the Government will provide training prograrns for youth toward business or social service
orientation.
VIII.    Support for I Social Contracts":
Through NAD, the Government will commence a more active program of linking local government with ex-
isting NGOs, trade unions and other activity which collectively may contribute toward positive economic
growth within the community. Where possible, the Government will encourage " social contracts" between
local government and organizations which can carry out local activities. An example of this could be food



-65 -
distribution, municipal clean-up or training; instead of the municipality having to carry on all of these ac-
tivities, it may contract out to existing organizations ( private, NGO ) to do the work.
IX.      Subsidized Living Costs:
Where necessary, the government will provide subsidies or goods to support heating, housing, electricity,
food, clothing and other critical expenditures should the cost of living exceed the benefits or access to cash
which unemployed people in mining regions have.



MAP SECTION



IBRD 30443
/                            ~~~~ROMANIA
\ .8                           ~~~~~~~U K R A I N E--- '/                    >ROMANIA
__          UKRAINE                                                         ~~~~~~MINE CLOSURE AND
-)  /X                                                                              \ ? SOCIAL MITIGATION PROJECT
-48'                                                   ;(                       _~   
HUNGARY  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                            BOTOSAN!  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~MINES TO BE CLOSED
H U N G A R Y                                                                                                    B @ ..i-OTOSANI 0  .                             UNDER THE PROJECT
Satu  C-    MARAMURES                 N.*         SUCEAVA             ,    Botoslni        Q                              CONTRACTI
$ATU  Me             Baia Mare                                     Sucmav
MARE       P           Borsa       ,              .                                                   Q                           CONTRACT2
g   \   ,   4 mines ,      1                               ._ -                 7                  -      CONTRACT3
Lesul Ursului   'I                                       U       CONTRACT4
j < BISTRITA--                                          ( *3 mines     I A S I                      0   SELECTED CITIES
.  Zalau @       J               NA 5A UD                   /                
C! Oradea  >,> S A L A J                                                                    Icci 0-iO >   'i'Bistrita f  1  /  N  COUNTY (JUDET) CENTERS
Oradea    (     S alv AN                         fidaA     DJJ.>Nenta V.                                                                  NATIONAL CAPITAL
0  ~~~~~:-\'                                        7" a~                               em R.,                                           RVR
BIH OR        11        f'\..:                       %'~,                                      Rono                                        IVR
j)  B I H O R                                        ? CL UJ   /   t   Neam Romon   i_  B_ S    ) r -       -  -- COUNTY C IJUDET BOUNDARIES
Cluj-Napoca             -                                       __ \-                                              INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
Er                           T Cluj-Napor.0 ,,)M U R E S    /              ",              Ba . tasIP
,   ,   TiTirguMures/  HARGHITA      BACAUASUI
,                            VASt Ut                 29 J  ' A   '   &'  AlS    s   /    R    ;  -A   *'  CKILOMETEES
ARAD                                            ' ,              C        Miercu,reaCuJ0 CL         D uc
"N <i  SEVERIN }~    GOR   2  Valca    } SmPnes g}Comalonesti t ;  00  20,BI  3ES rl  = 6
Ard                                    ALBA                                                                    3 mines3"                       5  10  20  MILES 4 -
F E D . R E P. O F   SEDIN           AIb0t                  eS    a die     --'f  x         /Sf COV uhesl          -           ...,,0'*
DY~o                                                    COVASNA G O                                                       UKRAINE
%
TIMIS                     Hur,dcsea                       Sibiu J                      ;I         3 minbs       A                 AJAi'
J`goHUNEDOARA u                                        -K            Brhe                                       N ..
endorsem~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1    I or-                                                               V-oenro uh2    4                GARIA22-,AGS  9
2mines                                                                                  BUZAU F
GORJ         vll .1cu~    mitnpuus l            PA VA \                    "      BRAILA         ~       TULFA~
CARAS-          A.     Tirgu Jiu                         5  iesiAOiet 'IA'~  ~~
..-~~~  SEVER/N  / ~~~~~~~          ' ~VALCEA                              v"-.        l~inest'             / 
Gori          Vacea                  Pipet.,ti ~             loe
~~"y~~~~-  "--  a                   3mies U4mines0                                       \'"                                  ''     .
Tarnu \.,,2IALOMITA                                                                                          '
F E D R E P. 0 F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. 
YUGOSLAVIA                             )                 rjv      N       OT"'CALARASI
K,.~~~~~~CI
J   DOLJ                                                                                            ONST,et  Md~dAN
(SERBIA! MONTENEGRO)                                                                                           GIURGIU-~
!C0Lp       ,   TELEIORMAN   1GV /U                          SIrr
-44    Thje r-p on   ndcdby tA                                                  '        ."                          
M~p Don, ,ip UOf Th. World SAn.                  'CieFI                                     Al-xndria      OaGi                                                                       LAC
The hb-rA-ies, -6I,,deahrin                                                 /
-ap da  arIop, mf-t. I hep -r of  hk                                          'aTr,   orl                                                                                    I           E
World An-h Dr-p, erry j,dg-tnn or ho                                 -~<T
dnasaa    -Pay erritoy, or -ny
baandar-iss.           ~~~~~~25'                                2A'    BUL A26'28
I                                                                                    I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l  



