Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4509 RO
Loan Agreement 
(Mine Closure and Social Mitigation Project)
between
ROMANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated October 13, 1999
LOAN NUMBER 4509 RO 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated October 13, 1999, between ROMANIA (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested 
the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through December 2, 1997) (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
“Beneficiary” means a person eligible, according to the Credit 
Guidelines, for the receipt of credit under Part B (1) of the Project; 
Page  2
(b)
“CGMC” means the Central Group for Mine Closure, established within the 
Borrower’s Ministry of Industry and Commerce;
(c)
“Credit Provider” means a non-governmental institution selected for the 
provision of credit under Part B (1) of the Project;
(d)
“Eligible Categories” means categories (1), (2), (3), (4), (5) and (6) 
set forth in the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(e)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works and 
services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(f)
“Guidelines” means the guidelines referred to in Part B (2) of Schedule 5 
to this Agreement, governing the provision and administration of credit and of 
employment and training incentives under Part B (1) and (3) of the Project;
(g)
“MOIC” means the Ministry of Industry and Commerce of the Borrower;
(h)
“NAD” means the Borrower’s National Agency for Development and 
Implementation of Reconstruction Programs for Mining Regions established as an 
autonomous agency of the Borrower to facilitate the implementation of development 
programs in mining regions;
(i)
“NAMR” means the Borrower’s National Agency for Mineral Resources;
(j)
“PMU” means the Project Management Unit, established within MOIC and 
reporting to its minister; 
(k)
“PIU” means any of the Project Implementation Units established within 
CGMC, NAMR and NAD;
(l)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(m)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the Project Preparation Advance 
granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated June 28, 
1999; and July 14, 1999; and
(n)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to 
forty-four million five hundred thousand Dollars ($44,500,000).  
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan. 
(b)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2005, or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. On or promptly after the Effective Date, the Borrower shall pay to 
Page  3
the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this 
Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period 
from and including an 
Interest Payment Date to, but excluding, the 
next following Interest Payment 
Date. 
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.07 
of this 
Agreement. 
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank 
offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for 
value the first day of such 
Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the 
Interest Payment Date occurring 
on or next preceding the first day of such 
Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage 
per annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) 
three-fourths of one 
percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the 
weighted average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or above) 
the London interbank offered rates, or other 
reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency 
loans 
or portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum. 
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection 
thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate financial, technical, engineering, 
environmental and administrative practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
Page  4
(b)
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the implementation 
arrangements set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement, as the same may be amended 
from time to time with the agreement of the Borrower and the Bank. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of goods, 
works and consultants’ services required for the Project (except Part B (1) thereof) 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions 
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the 
future operation of the Project; and 
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, 
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about July 31, 2001, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and 
(c)
review with the Bank, by September 30, 2001, or such later date as the 
Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format 
acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures 
related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph 
(a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to 
the Bank, consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank, who shall have been 
appointed not later than December 31, 1999; 
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than five 
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified 
copies of the financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for such year as so 
audited, and (B) an opinion on such 
statements, records and accounts and 
report of such audit, by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and
Page  5
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records 
and 
accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Bank may 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the Project 
Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Bank* for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in 
paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, not later than 
December 31, 2000, or such later date as the Bank shall agree, to prepare quarterly 
Project Management Reports, acceptable to the Bank, each of which: 
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources 
and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following 
the period covered by said 
report, and (B) shows separately expenditures 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan during the period covered by said 
report 
and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan during the six-month period following the period covered by said report; 
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report, and (B) explains 
variances between 
the actual and previously forecast implementation 
targets; and
(iii)  sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under 
contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, 
as at the end of the 
period covered by said report. 
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of each 
calendar quarter, a Project Management Report for such period. 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions; namely, that a financial management system, satisfactory to the 
Bank, shall have been established, together with a time-bound action plan to develop 
it into a Project Management Reporting System. 
Page  6
Section 5.02. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
17, Apolodor Street Bucharest Romania
Telex:  
11239
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI) 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Bucharest, Romania, as of the day and year first above written.
ROMANIA
By /s/ Radu Berceanu 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION  
   AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Andrew Vorkink
Country Director 
Bulgaria and Romania Country Unit 
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
A.
General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
Page  7
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
   Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Works (except for 
   26,200,000
78%
Part B (1) of the Project
(2)
Goods (except for
    2,500,000
100% of foreign
Part B (1) of the Project) 
expenditures, 100% 
of local
expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and
85% of local
expenditures for
other items
procured locally
(3)
Consultants’ services
    5,300,000
100%
and training 
(4)
Credit under Part B (1)
    3,600,000        100%
of the Project
(5)
Incentive payments under
    1,500,000        100%
Part B (3) of the Project
(6)
Incremental Operating
      800,000        100% (except for 
Costs
locally produced
Goods – 85%)
(7)
Project Preparation Advance
      500,000
Amount due under
Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement
(8)       Unallocated
    4,100,000
   __________
TOTAL
   44,500,000
   ==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and 
(c)
the term “incremental operating costs” means fuel and vehicle insurance 
costs, office equipment, materials and supplies, salaries for the staff of the PMU and 
the PIUs’ short term consulting services required to establish the financial 
management system, and auditing costs.   
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made under Categories (1), (2), (3), (4), (5) and (6) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 to this Schedule until the fee referred to in 
Section 2.04 of this Agreement has been paid.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods and works under contracts 
costing less than $200,000 equivalent each; (b) incremental operating costs; (c) 
credit under Part B (1) and incentive payments under Part B (3) of the Project, under 
Page  8
such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower; (d) 
services under contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent each for the employment 
of consulting firms and less than $25,000 each for the employment of individual 
consultants, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to 
the Borrower. 
B.
Special Account 
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account, in a 
commercial bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.
2.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Bank shall have received: (i) the first Project Management 
Report referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement; and (ii) a request from the 
Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Bank of a Project Management Report pursuant to 
Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1. 
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures. For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Bank determines at any time that any Project Management Report 
does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 of this 
Agreement;
(b)
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be 
made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account, or (B) the records 
and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made on 
the basis of Project Management Reports. 
5.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the 
Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part 
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions. Upon such notification, the Bank shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account 
may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or 
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the 
Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment. Unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
Page  9
(b)
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of 
this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement. 
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are Not 
Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex: 
(a)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equal to $1,000,000 to 
be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that, unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equal to $500,000 until 
the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account, plus the total amount of 
all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 
of the General Conditions, shall equal or exceed the equivalent of $2,000,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish 
the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis 
of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested. 
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank 
shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn 
by the Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
3.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan, minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to 
the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on 
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are 
Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Bank may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
Page  10
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each such 
deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account 
under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Loan Account for deposit into the 
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and 
(b) the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the Project Management Report 
accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order to finance 
Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such report; 
provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to the amount indicated by 
said Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special Account, shall not 
exceed the equivalent of $8,000,000.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in: (i) reducing the 
burden on the national budget by permanently closing uneconomic mines in a socially 
and environmentally sustainable way; (ii) revitalizing and diversifying the economy in 
mining regions; and (iii) providing support for modernization of the administrative 
framework of the mining sector.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A: 
Mining Closure
(1)
Closure, in accordance with arrangements agreed upon with the Bank, of 29 
underground mines; and
(2)
Provision of consultant’s services, training, study tours, equipment (including 
vehicles) and office supplies to CGMC.
Part B:
Social Mitigation
Implementation of measures to mitigate adverse social impact and to revitalize 
economic activities in mining regions, including:
(1)
Provision by the Credit Providers, through a revolving fund mechanism, and in 
accordance with the Guidelines, of micro-credit to Beneficiaries in the mining 
regions;
(2)
Establishment and furnishing of about 14 business centers in mining regions; 
(3)
Provision through NAD, in accordance with the Guidelines, of training and 
employment incentives to local entrepreneurs; 
(4)
Provision of technical assistance, through non-governmental organizations or 
other entities, including: (a) consultants’ services to assist entrepreneurs in 
business planning and start-up; (b) consultants’ services to assist in the 
establishment of public information centers at NAD’s regional offices; (c) services of 
non-governmental organizations to assist NAD in the dissemination of public 
information and the implementation of its community outreach activities; (d) technical 
services to assist in the establishment of a management information system to track 
the social impact of labor redundancy and to undertake routine social impact 
monitoring; (e) consultants services to assist in the carrying out of annual social 
impact monitoring and to assist NAD in establishing a management information system; 
and (f) consultants’ services and training to strengthen the capacity of NAD; and
(5)
Provision to NAD of equipment (including vehicles) and office supplies.
Page  11
Part C:
Institutional Strengthening
Implementation of measures to strengthen NAMR’s capacity for the administration 
of the Mining Law and related regulation, including:
(1)
Establishment of a computerized cadastral system;
(2)
Consultants’ services and training in the operation of registration and official 
cadastral files;
(3)
Legal consultants’ services and training in aspects concerning the linkage 
between mining regulations and regulations in other related areas, such as licensing, 
concession contracts and environmental arrangements;
(4)
Consultants’ services and training in monitoring and inspection of mining 
activities, and the provision of on-site monitoring equipment;
(5)
Consultants’ services and training in mining sector environmental management;
(6)
Consultants’ services and training in related financial aspects, such as the 
assessment and collection of royalty;
(7)
Preparation, with the assistance of an economic geologist, of a concession 
package suitable for attracting private investments in the mining sector; 
(8)
Consultants’ services for a study of the regulatory and institutional framework 
of mining operations; and
(9)
Consultants’ services for a sector environmental assessment. * * * The Project 
is expected to be completed by December 31, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
(Expressed in Dollars)*
April 15, 2005
  980,000 
October 15, 2005
1,005,000 
April 15, 2006
1,035,000 
October 15, 2006
1,060,000 
April 15, 2007
1,090,000 
October 15, 2007
1,120,000 
April 15, 2008
1,150,000 
October 15, 2008
1,180,000 
April 15, 2009
1,215,000 
October 15, 2009
1,245,000 
April 15, 2010
1,280,000 
October 15, 2010
1,315,000 
April 15, 2011
1,350,000 
October 15, 2011
1,390,000 
April 15, 2012
1,425,000 
October 15, 2012
1,465,000 
April 15, 2013
1,505,000 
October 15, 2013
1,545,000 
April 15, 2014
1,585,000 
October 15, 2014
1,630,000 
April 15, 2015
1,675,000 
October 15, 2015
1,720,000 
April 15, 2016
1,765,000 
October 15, 2016
1,815,000 
April 15, 2017
1,860,000 
October 15, 2017
1,915,000 
April 15, 2018
1,965,000 
October 15, 2018
2,020,000 
Page  12
April 15, 2019
2,070,000 
October 15, 2019
2,125,000
______________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except 
as provided 
in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement Under Other than Part B (1) of the Project 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works 
Part A:
General 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this 
Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent per contract or less, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost $75,000 equivalent per contract or less may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of 
said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
With respect to: (i) each contract awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
Section I, Part B of this Schedule; and (ii) the first two contracts to be awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Part C of this Schedule, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Page  13
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Quality-based Selection
Services for tasks that meet requirements set forth in paragraph 3.2 of the 
Consultant Guidelines may be procured, with the prior agreement of the Bank, under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of 
the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
3.
Least-cost selection
Audit services shall be contracted on the basis of least-cost selection 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.6 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
4.
Consultants Qualifications
Services required to assist in establishing a financial management system for 
the Project shall be procured on the basis of the procedures for selection based on 
consultants qualifications in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms, 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
Page  14
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded 
only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 5 
Implementation Arrangements
A.
General Arrangements 
1.
The Borrower shall assign to the PMU the general responsibility for coordinating 
the implementation of the Project including maintenance of the Project financial 
accounts and arranging for the audit thereof, and shall, for this purpose, until the 
completion of the Project, maintain the PMU with resources, staffing and terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Bank.
2.
The Borrower shall carry out Part A of the Project through CGMC, Part B of the 
Project through NAD, and Part C of the Project through NAMR, and shall, for this 
purpose, cause each of CGMC, NAD and NAMR:
(a) 
to maintain its Project Implementation Unit (PIU), under terms of 
reference and operating procedures and with staff and resources agreed upon with the 
Bank; and
(b) 
assign to such PIU under the general supervision of the PMU, the 
technical responsibility for managing and supervising its activities under the 
Project, including: (i) preparation, with the assistance of the PMU of its work 
program under the Project; (ii) preparation of the bidding and contractual documents 
under the Project; and (iii) preparation, under the general supervision of the PMU, 
and submission to the Bank and MOIC, of semi-annual reports on the progress of Project 
implementation.
3.
The Borrower shall: (a) by June 30 in each year, starting in the Year 2000, 
prepare through the PMU and furnish to the Bank a work plan for the Project during the 
following fiscal year, describing the Project activities (including procurement and 
disbursement) to be performed during such year and the funding requirements thereof; 
(b) discuss and agree with the Bank on such plan by September 30 in each year; and (c) 
ensure in the preparation of its budget for each fiscal year during the period of 
Project implementation, the allocation to CGMC, NAMR and NAD of funds adequate to 
cover expenditures to be met from their budgetary resources according to such plans.
4.
The Borrower shall: (a) formulate in agreement with the Bank the criteria for 
the selection of Credit Providers under Part B (1) of the project; (b) issue all 
necessary licenses to at least 3 such Credit Providers by December 31, 1999; and (c) 
ensure the selection by NAD, by June 30, 2000, in accordance with such criteria, of 
not less than 3 such Credit Providers. 
B.
Specific Requirements 
1.
The Borrower shall cause CGMC to undertake mine closure under Part A of the 
Project in accordance with mine closure and environmental remediation plans agreed 
upon with the Bank.
2.
The Borrower shall: (a) ensure that NAD shall prepare and furnish to the Bank, 
by December 31, 1999, an operating manual, satisfactory to the Bank, for performance 
of its activities under the Project, including the Guidelines, selection criteria for 
Credit Providers, and formats for contracts to be concluded between Credit Providers 
and Beneficiaries; (b) ensure the adoption of the Guidelines, prepared on the basis of 
principles agreed upon with the Bank, by December 31, 1999; (c) cause NAD to authorize 
selected Credit Providers to provide credit under Part B (1) of the Project under 
contracts to be concluded between them and NAD in accordance with standard format 
agreed upon with the Bank; (d) cause NAD, acting through its PIU, to ensure adherence 
Page  15
by Credit Providers to the terms and conditions set forth in the Guidelines, in the 
selection of Beneficiaries of credit under Part B (1) of the Project and in 
determining the terms of such credit; and (e) cause NAD, acting through its PIU, to 
ensure adherence by Beneficiaries to the procurement methods and procedures specified 
in the Guidelines in the procurement of goods, works or services to be financed from 
the amount of the Loan allocated for the provision of credit under Part B (1) of the 
Project. 
3.
The Borrower shall ensure that all payments on account of employment and 
training incentives under Part B (3) of the Project shall be made in accordance with 
the principle and within the limits set forth in the Guidelines, as the same may be 
amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank.
4.
The Borrower shall cause NAMR, in cooperation with relevant entities: (a) to 
ensure the completion of a review of mining and associated legislation and regulation 
and mining institutional arrangements by December 31, 1999, and shall thereafter 
review with the Bank the findings and recommendations emanating from said review and 
the action to be taken on the basis thereof; and (b) to complete under terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Bank and to and review with the Bank, by March 31, 2000, 
an environmental assessment of the mining sector, together with an action plan for 
implementing the recommendations thereof, and to carry out thereafter said action 
plan.
5.
The Borrower shall cause MOIC: (a) to prepare and furnish to the Bank, by March 
31, 2000, an action program (including an implementation schedule) for reform of the 
state mining and exploration companies of the Borrower, and shall thereafter carry out 
such program, taking into account the Bank’s comments thereon; and (b) to prepare and 
review with the Bank, by December 31, 1999, a plan to gradually reduce transfers 
provided to cover the operating losses, exploration and investments in the mining 
sector, and to increase allocations for closure and environmental remediation of 
non-economic mining operations and for investments to address the adverse social 
impact in the mining regions, and a timetable for phasing out such allocations, and 
shall thereafter implement such plan, taking into account the Bank’s comments thereon. 
6.
The Borrower shall ensure by March 31, 2000, that CGMC shall prepare and furnish 
to the Bank for its review and concurrence a procedure manual for mine closing.
