Page  1
RCA 248423. 
\09
WUI 64145 
\09
FAX (202) 477-6391
 
The World Bank 
South Central Europe Regional Office
 
Tel:(385) 1 235-7222 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
 
Trg J.F.Kennedya 6B  
 
Fax:(385) 1 235-7293 
I
NTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
 
10000 Zagreb, Croatia  
 
 
 
CONFORMED COPY 
 
October 22, 2003 
His Excellency 
Mihai Tanasescu 
Minister of Public Finance 
Government of Romania 
Bucharest, Romania 
 
Re:   
Loan No. 4509-RO (Mine Closure and Social Mitigation Project) 
 
Amendment to the Loan Agreement 
 
 
Dear Mr. Minister: 
I
am referring to the Loan Agreement between Romania and the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development (the Bank), for the above-referenced Project, dated July 7, 2000 
(the Agreement) and the letter from Mr. Stefan Petrescu, General Director of the General 
Directorate for External Public Finance, Ministry of Public Finance, dated July 9, 2003, 
requesting certain amendments to the above mentioned Agreement. We accede to your request 
and hereby amend the Agreement as follows (the modifications are shown in 
italics
): 
1. 
In Section 1.02, new paragraphs (o) to (u) are added:
"
(o) 
“Grant Agreement” means an agreement entered or to be entered into between 
RSDF and a Recipient, under the terms and conditions set forth in Section C.2 of  Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement; 
 
(p) 
“Recipient” means any person eligible, in accordance with the criteria set forth 
in the RSDF Operational Manual for SDSMC, to receive and administer a Sub-project Grant; 
 
(q) 
“RSDF” means the Romanian Social Development Fund, established under the 
Law No. 129 dated June 30, 1998, as amended, as a public-interest, non profit entity with legal 
personality and enjoying administrative autonomy, or any legal successor thereto; 
 
(r) 
“RSDF Operational Manual for SDSMC” means the manual adopted by RSDF, 
approved by the Bank and the Borrower, setting forth criteria and procedures for selection of 
Recipients and Sub-projects for SDSMC and defining terms and procedures applicable to 
assistance provided by RSDF under the Project, including a standard Grant Agreement referred 
to in Part C.2 of Schedule 5
 
to this Agreement; as such manual may be amended from time to 
time upon the agreement with the Borrower and the Bank; 
 
(s) 
“SDSMC” means Social Development Scheme for Mining Communities, a 
program of measures aimed at provision of technical and financial support to the mining 
communities, as described in the RSDF Operational Manual for SDSMC; 
 
(t) 
“Sub-project Grant” means a grant made or proposed  to be made by RDSF to a 
Recipient for the carrying out of a Sub-project under Part B (6) of the Project; and  
Page  2
-2- 
October 20, 2003
(u)
 
“Sub-project” means the activities eligible for financing under Part B(6) of the 
Project in accordance with the criteria set forth in the RSDF Operational Manual for SDSMC 
and  to be carried out by a Recipient utilizing a Sub-project Grant.” 
 
2. 
The table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 is amended to read as follow: 
“
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:  
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated (Expressed in 
Dollars) 
 
%
of Expenditures to 
be Financed 
 
(1)  Works (except for Part 
B(1) of the Project) 
16,761,089 
78%
(2) Goods (except for Part 
B(1) of the Project) 
 
3,129,449 
 
100% of foreign 
expenditures, 100% of local 
expenditures (ex-factory 
cost) and 85% of local 
expenditures for other items 
procured locally 
 
(3)  Consultants Services and 
Training  
 
9,857,896 
 
100% 
 
(4)  Credit under Part B(1) of 
the Project 
 
3,600,000 
 
100% 
 
(5)  Incentive payments under 
Part B(3) of the Project 
 
1,650,000 
 
100% 
 
(6) Incremental 
Operating 
Costs 
 
1,520,058 
 
100% (except for locally 
produced Goods-85%) 
 
(7) Project 
Preparation 
Advance 
77,179.45 
Amount due under Section 
2.02 (b) of this Agreement 
 
(8) Sub-project 
grants 
for 
SDSMC 
 
5,000,000 
 
100% 
 
(9) Unallocated 
 
2,904,328.55 
 
TOTAL 
 
44,500,000
Page  3
-3- 
October 20, 2003
3. 
Paragraph 2 in Schedule 1 is amended to read as follows:
“2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule:  
 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory of any 
country other than that of the Borrower;  
 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and 
 
(c) 
the term “incremental operating costs” means: (i) fuel and vehicle insurance 
costs, office equipment, materials and supplies, salaries for the staff of the PMU and the PIUs; 
 
and 
(ii) expenditures incurred by the RSDF on account of implementation of Part B(6) of the 
Project, including: equipment, office supplies, office rental, heating, electricity, communication, 
fuel, salaries for the staff of the RSDF (other than public servants), travel and information 
campaign.
 
4. 
Schedule 2 is amended as follows:
(a) 
Part A(1) is amended to read as follows: 
 
“(1) 
Closure, in accordance with arrangements agreed upon with the Bank, of 
31
underground mines; and” 
 
(b) 
A new paragraph (6) is added to Part B:
“(6) 
Provision of Sub-project Grants for financing the Social Development Scheme 
for Mining Communities (SDSMC)”. 
 
(c) 
A new paragraph (7) is added to Part B:
“(7) 
Financing of short term consulting services, for the SDSMC management and  
for conducting supervision, evaluation and monitoring of Sub-projects, and training costs for 
staff, consultants, and Recipients”. 
 
(d) 
In Part C:
An introductory sentence of Part C shall read as follows:  
 
“Implementation of measures to strengthen NAMR's capacity for the administration of the 
Mining Law and related regulation 
and Project management assistance
,
including:” 
 
The two new paragraphs (10) and (11) are added to Part C: 
 
“(10) 
Monitoring of the priority actions for the implementation of the environmental 
management pilot action plan in Jiu Valley”. 
 
(11)  
Financing of short term consulting services, to establish the financial 
management system, and auditing costs for the Project
”.  
Page  4
-4- 
October 20, 2003
5. 
Schedule 4 is amended as follows: 
(a)  
A new Part C.3 is added in Section I: 
 
“3. 
Procurements of Goods, Works and Services under Part B(6) of the Project 
 
Goods for RSDF as well as works, goods and services(other than consultant services) 
under Sub-project Grants shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.15 
of the Guidelines and the procedures set forth in the RSDF Operational Manual for SDSMC..” 
 
(b) 
Paragraph C (2) of Section II is amended to read as follows:
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant 
Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Short-term 
consultant services for Part B (6) and B (7) of the Project shall be procured in accordance with 
the provisions of 5.1 to 5.3 of the Guidelines and the procedures set forth in the RSDF 
Operational Manual for SDSMC.”
 
6. 
Schedule 5  is amended as follows
:
(a) 
Paragraph A.2 is amended to read as follows: 
 
“2. The Borrower shall carry out Part A of the Project through CGMC, 
Parts B(1)
—B(5) 
of the Project through NAD, Part B(6) by NAD through RSDF, 
and Part C of the Project through 
NAMR, and shall, for this purpose cause each of  CGMC, NAD and NAMR (the following text 
without modifications). 
 
(b) 
A new Part C is added: 
 
“C. 
Implementation of  Sub- project Grants 
 
For the purpose of carrying out Part B(6) of the Project, the Borrower shall:  
 
1. 
 make a portion of the proceeds of the Loan, allocated from time to time under Category 
(8), and  up to an amount equivalent to $280,000 for Category (3), and up to an amount 
equivalent to $270,000 for Category (6),set forth in the table in paragraph A.1 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement, available to RSDF on grant basis, under terms and conditions acceptable to the 
Bank; 
 
2. 
ensure that RSDF shall select Sub-projects for financing from the proceeds of the Loan 
in accordance with the criteria and procedures set forth in the RSDF Operational Manual for 
SDSMC; and 
 
3. 
ensure that RSDF shall provide financing on a grant basis for approved Sub-projects on 
the basis of a standard agreement agreed upon with the Borrower and the Bank (the Grant 
Agreement) to be entered into between RSDF end each Recipient. The Grant Agreement shall 
include, inter alia: 
Page  5
-5- 
October 20, 2003
(a) 
a description of the Sub-project, together with an estimate of the cost thereof; 
(b) 
the amount to be provided by RSDF to the Recipient to assist in the carrying out of the 
Sub-project; 
(c) 
the implementation schedule for the Sub-project; 
(d) 
the degree to which cost sharing
 (
Recipient’s contribution), in accordance with the 
principles set forth in the RSDF Operational Manual for SDSMC, shall be required to be made 
by the Recipient with respect to the financing of the Sub-project
 
for the imp1ementation of which 
assistance is provided to such Recipient under the Grant A
g
re
e
ment; 
(e) 
the obligation of the Recipient to procure small works, goods and services to be financed 
under the Grant Agreement in accordance with the procedures set forth in the RSDP Operational 
Manual for SDSMC; 
(f) 
the obligation of the Recipient to report to RSDF on the progress of the Sub-project 
implementation and to enable representatives of RSDP and of the Bank, if the Bank shall request, 
to visit the facilities, construction sites or other activities to be financed under the Grant 
Agreement; and 
(g) 
the obligation of the Recipient to maintain records and accounts for expenditures 
incurred under the Sub-project and financed from the proceeds of the Loan made available to the 
Recipient under the Grant Agreement and to submit to RSDF at regular intervals statements with 
respect to such records and accounts. 
 
.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of Romania, by signing, 
dating and returning to us the enclosed copy of this letter.  This amendment will become effective 
upon receipt of a countersigned copy of this letter. 
 Sincerely, 
 
/s/  Van Roy Southworth 
 
Acting Director 
 
South Central Europe Country Unit 
 
Europe and Central Asia Region 
 
AGREED: 
 
ROMANIA 
 
By:  /s/  Mihai Nicolae Tanasescu 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Title:  Minister of Public Finance 
Date:  November 18, 2003 
 
cc: 
Mr. Stefan Petrescu, 
General Director of the General Directorate for External Public Finance 
Ministry of Public Finance 
Page  6
-6- 
October 20, 2003
Page  7
-7- 
October 20, 2003
Cleared w/ and cc:  Messrs./Mmes. 
Kichigina (LEGEC); (LOAG1) 
 
Distribution: 
Region 
Messrs./Mmes.  
Unit Files 
 
Bankwide
 
Messrs./Mmes.  
 
Region
 
ED 
Mr. Melkert (Rm. MC 13-433) 
 
