E441
MOROCCO
IRRIGATION BASED COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
(IBCD)
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
February 14, 2001
FI LE CO PY


﻿MOROCCO: Irrigation Based Community Development Program (IBCD)
LIST OF ACRONYMS
AUEA         Association des usagers des Eaux Agricoles
BP           Bank Procedure
EA           Environmental Assessment
EMP          Environmental Management Plan
EPP          Equipe de Programmation Participative
CGP          Cellule de Gestion de Projet
CSEC         High Council for Water and Climate
DAHA         Direction des Am6nagements Hydro-agricoles
DPA          Direction provinciale de l'agriculture
IBCD         Irrigation Based Community Development Program
MRPEUDH      Ministry of Regional Planning, Environment, Urban Development and Housing
OP           Operational Policy
ORMVA        Office Regionale de Mise en Valeur Agricole
PAGER        Rural Water and Sanitation Project
PAGI         Programme d'Am6lioration de la Grande Irrigation
PGE          Projet Gestion Environnementale
PMH          Petite et Moyenne Hydraulique
SMI          Small and Medium Scale Irrigation
UGP          Unit6 de Gestion Provinciale


﻿MOROCCO: Irrigation Based Conmunity Development Program (IBCD)
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
CONTENTS
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY                  .............................................................................................pp. imi-vii
ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY FRAME WORK..................................................................... III
ENVIR ONMENTA L IMPA CTA SSESSMENT.................................................................... IV
PROJECT DESCRIPTION.....................................................................................................IV
PROJECT ENVIROAMENTAL IMPA CTS........................................................................... V
EN VIR ONMENTA L MA NA GEMENT PLA N.................................................................... VI
A. INTRODUCTION..................................................................................................................... 1
O bjectives............................................................................................................................... 1
A pproach................................................................................................................................ 1
B. ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY FRAMEWORK ................................................................ 2
Administrative Structure .................................................................................................. 2
Government and Environmental Bodies........................................................................ 2
Environmental Impact Assessment ................................................................................ 3
C. THE SECTOR FRAMEWORK ......................................................................................... 4
Irrigated Agriculture ...................................................................................................... 4
Environmental Impacts of Irrigated Agriculture in Morocco.......................................5
Water Resources Policies .................................................................................................. 5
Water Resources Administration ..................................................................................... 7
D. PROJECT DESCRIPTION .................................................................................................. 7
Component 1: Rehabilitation of SMI .............................................................................. 8
Component 2: Community Infrastructure ..................................................................... 8
Component 3: Institutional Strengthening ...................................................................... 8
Component 4: Preparation of Phase 2 ............................................................................ 9
E. BASELINE DATA .................................................................................................................... 9
The Project Area: Mountainous Regions in Morocco.................................................         9


﻿MOROCCO: Irrigation Based Community Development Program (IBCD)
Location, Climate and Agro-Ecology ............................................................................ 10
Protected Areas ................................................................................................................... 11
F. ENVIRONMENTAL                      IMPACTS ......................................................................................   11
Project Impacts ................................................................................................................... 11
Operational Policies ......................................................................................................... 13
G. ENVIRONMENTAL                      MANAGEMENT                  PLAN ..............................................................   13
Mitigation............................................................................................................................. 13
Monitoring ........................................................................................................................... 13
Capacity Development and Training ............................................................................ 14
Implementation Schedule and Cost Estimates ..............................................................14
APPENDICES
1.       Overview on Project Activities and Environmental Issues in Azilal (Costs: Total 1s Phase,
Base Costs)
2.       Mitigation
3.       Capacity Building in Environmental Assessment, Monitoring and Mitigation
1i


﻿MOROCCO: Irrigation Based Community Development Program (IBCD)
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
i)        This report has been prepared in the context of the proposed "Irrigation Based
Community Development (IBCD) Program" which is the first step by the Moroccan Government to
implement its new "2020 Rural Development Strategy". The project, rated category B under
"Operational Policy (OP) and Bank Procedure (BP) 4.01-Environmental Impact Assessment",
constitutes the first phase (2001-2005) of a 13-year program to improve the livelihoods of small and
medium irrigation based communities. The first phase will be implemented in the provinces of Azilal,
Khenifra and Al Haouz. So far only project activities in Azilal have been defined in detail.
ii)       Because of the project's participatory approach, the Environmental Assessment
concentrates on:
-    the national environmental policy framework;
-    institutional capacity; and
-    explicit sub-project eligibility parameters to facilitate the determination of the likely extent of
environmental impacts, and integrate appropriate environmental mitigation measures into
project design.
Environmental Policy Framework
iii)      With World Bank support, the Government has analyzed the legal and institutional
situation of the environmental sector in the country and economic instruments for pollution reduction,
worked on new information systems and means for sensitization of the population in the
environmental field (Projet de gestion environnementale, PGE). The next step will be the actual
implementation of priority measures under the < Plan de dveloppement &conomique et social 1999-
2003 >. One of the priority areas in the legal field is the putting in place of an Environmental Impact
Legislation (la Loi relative aux Etudes d'impacts sur l'environnement).
iv)       The Environmental Administration in Morocco is currently in transition. As a result of
a reorganization, the State Secretariat for Environment within the larger Ministry of Regional
Planning, Environment, Urban Development and Housing (MRPEUDH) has become a Department.
One of the new features, in line with general governmental strategy, is the creation of a Division of
Co-operation with local administrations and NGOs. The Pilot Project and Impact Analysis Division
has been assigned the role of coordinator of the Environmental Impact Assessment process on the
national level. A regional representation of the new Department of Environment is envisaged in the
mid-term. Currently, however, the Pilot Project and Impact Analysis Division works on a sectoral
basis with other parts of the administration in evaluating environmental impacts of projects, and final
decision-making takes place at the level of the Interministerial Committee on Impacts.
v)        Because the Environment Department is not represented at the provincial level, it is
suggested that the Provincial Departments of Agriculture, in coordination with MRPUDH, take on
the role of implementing the Environmental Management Plans of the proposed Project through their
< Uniti de gestion provinciale >. The DPA will be responsible for ensuring that environmental
assessments of subprojects are carried out before they are adopted by the local population. The DPA
iii


﻿MOROCCO: Irrigation Based Community Development Program (IBCD)
will also be responsible for the quality of EMP execution and monitoring. In Azilal, a planning and
monitoring Unit already exists for the implementation of the World Bank financed Lakhdar
Watershed Management Pilot Project'. Experience from implementing Lakhdar suggests the need to
strengthen the capacity for environmental assessment and EMP implementation through training and
technical assistance..
Environmental Impact Assessment
vi)       Currently, Environmental Assessments are not mandatory in Morocco. The draft law
(Projet de Loi relative aux Etudes d'impacts sur l'environnement) and the pertinent regulations
(Projet de Dicret pris pour l'application de la loi relative aux itudes d'impacts sur l'environnement)
on Environmental Impact Assessment have been in the legislative pipeline for some years.
Nevertheless, an Environmental Assessment was undertaken for the proposed Project, as required by
OP/BP 4.01. Its findings are summarized below.
Project Description
vii)      The IBCD is part of the Government's "Stratigie 2020 de dveloppement rural". The
overall program is going to be implemented over a period of 13 years with the objective of
rehabilitating an area of 46,000 ha in 15 provinces of small and medium size irrigation plus
integrated rural development measures in infrastructure and agricultural development. The subject of
this environmental assessment is the first phase of this program planned for five years from 2001 to
2005. In the course of this first phase, rehabilitation and modernization of small and medium
irrigation and rural infrastructure will be financed in the provinces of Azilal, Khenifra and Al Haouz,
plus the integrated programming for six additional provinces to be included in a second four year
phase after 2005.
Component 1: Rehabilitation of SMI
viii)     After technical examination and selection by DAHA, 21 SMI perimeters have been
identified in Azilal province with a total area of 3,450 ha. For the two other provinces under the first
phase (Khenifra and Al Haouz), rehabilitation works will be executed on an area of around 6,000 ha
selected through beneficiary involvement. These activities will be undertaken using a participatory
approach that will be introduced by Equipes de programmation participative (EPP) at the provincial
level and in the Centres de Travaux (Local extension offices).
ix)       Technical studies and design will be done jointly by national consultants and
Agricultural Water Users Associations (A UEA) under the supervision of the Provincial Directorates
for Agriculture (DPA). Operation and maintenance costs for the rehabilitated infrastructure will be
the obligation of the AUEA.
Component 2: Community Infrastructure
x)     Community Infrastructure refers to three subcomponents:
Projet pilote d'am6nagement du bassin Versant de l'Oued Lakhdar.
iv


﻿MOROCCO: Irrigation Based Comnunity Development Program (IBCD)
- Rural Roads: For Azilal, rehabilitation 116 km of rural roads in the 21 identified
SMI perimeters are foreseen, For the provinces of Al Haouz and Khenifra, 70 km
per province are estimated. 33% of the costs will be borne by the respective
communities.
-    In the douars that are not already covered by the World Bank financed rural water
supply project, PAGER, water points would be established under a cost sharing
arrangement with the respective communities bearing 15% and the users 5%.
Users will be responsible for operation and maintenance.
-    Other infrastructure investments would include electrification, health and
education. These are already covered under other programs for Azilal, but not
necessarily for the other provinces in phase 1.
Component 3: Institutional Strengthening
-    Participatory, integrated programming: Project interventions will be based on a
participatory approach aimed at institutionalizing the integration of the activities
of the various technical agencies. This will take place at three levels: national
(programming manual and series of workshops for its strengthening by local level
involvement), provincial (identification of "zones" de dveloppement), and local
(strengthening of participation programming teams and implementation plans).
-    Sustainable agricultural intensification: technical guidelines specific for each
zone, research and development, demonstration plots, technical training and
extension.
Component 4: Preparation of Phase 2
xi)       In the same way the two provinces of Khenifra and Al Haouz will be prepared in the first
phase, the project will finance identification studies for the six provinces covered by the second phase
of the program.
Project Environmental Impacts
xii)       Based on the analysis of project activities, the project is expected to result in a number of
positive environmental impacts. Negative impacts are expected to be either offset by integrating
mitigating measures into the project design or by reducing their risk to acceptable levels. A summary
table of significant environmental impacts is attached in Appendix 1. The following list represents
potential significant impacts for the first phase assuming that similar issues would be relevant also for
project interventions in Al Haouz and Khenifra, although these have not yet been defined in detail.
xiii)     Main positive impacts would be:
-    Reduction of water losses through improved canal systems and better systems of
operation and maintenance;
v


﻿MOROCCO: Irrigation Based Conmunity Development Program (IBCD)
-    Incentives for more efficient water use through measurement of water
consumption;
Substantial improvement of safety through betterflood protection;
-    Sustainable intensification reduces pressure for conversion of marginal lands;
-    Rehabilitation/improvement of roads and proper maintenance, including drainage,
is expected to reduce erosion;
-    Access to clean water (water points) is expected to reduce incidents of water borne
diseases;
-    Awareness raising for the integrated approach helps promote consideration of
environmental matters;
-    Provision of information on the environment in the project areas can help avoid
negative environmental impacts and be used for sub-project assessments.
xiv)      Main negative impacts would be:
-    Potential increased agrochemical pollution due to increased use of pesticides and fertilizers
along with improved availability of irrigation water;
-    Potential ecological impacts of increased water diversion - effects on wetlands and other types
of non-agricultural vegetation;
-    Potential use of irrigation canals for non-agricultural water supply and as a sewer in rural
settlements - disease problems;
-    Building of new roads could lead to more erosion and disturbance of vegetation;
-    Potential uncontrolled disposal of dredge, excavation and construction material/debris leads to
disturbed land areas and induces uncontrolled waste dumps;
-    Salinization risk increased with increased irrigation if water quality is not properly monitored
and drainage ensured;
-    Possible hygiene problems at waterpoints; and
-    Risk of overexploitation of groundwater resources through mechanized pumping of potable
water.
Environmental Management Plan
xv)        The Environmental Management Plan proposed for Azilal will serve as example for the
two other provinces Khenifra and Al Haouz. The EMP consists of the three parts: mitigation,
monitoring and institutional measures.
vt


﻿MOROCCO: Irrigation Based Community Development Program (IBCD)
Mitigation
xvi)      Environmental impacts, mitigation measures and responsibilities for implementation are
presented together in Appendix 2. No additional costs apart from capacity building are foreseen, as
mitigation measures are being integrated into the project design.
Monitoring
xvii)     Key environmental aspects of the project have to be monitored to allow for corrective
action - if necessary - during supervision. A realistic monitoring program would be developed under
the capacity building exercise defined in Appendix 3 rather than a prescribed program that is not
going to be executed because it is too far from implementation realities. For monitoring to be
successful, it has to be developed with the people in charge implementing it. This would involve -
linked to the impacts assessed - the description of simple but meaningful monitoring measures and
parameters, sampling locations, frequency of measurements, and definition of thresholds that will
signal the need for corrective action. Monitoring and reporting would be the responsibility of the
Unitj de gestion de projet under the DPA, but with assistance from the Centres de Travaux, Water
Users Associations and beneficiaries in the communities. Reports on the basis of the jointly developed
monitoring programs would be made available to the Cellule de gestion de projet and the World
Bank TTL and Environmental Specialist, and would be evaluated during supervision.
Capacity Development and Training
xviii)    In Azilal Province, experience with the implementation of the Lakhdar Watershed
Management Pilot Project (Projet d'aminagement du bassin versant de l'Oued Lakhdar) suggests
the need for effective implementation of mitigation measures and monitoring and increased capacity
in the field of environmental impact assessment.
xix)      In coordination with MRPEUDH, it is therefore suggested to include local technical
assistance in the project to provide for capacity building in Environmental Assessment procedures,
the (currently draft) National Environmental Impact Legislation and implementation and monitoring
of the Mitigation Plan (Appendix 2). This would include participation in a one-week workshop and
guided execution of a subproject EA with the help of a national Environmental Assessment Specialist.
Participants in this workshop at the provincial level would be two persons from the UGP, who would
be responsible for the co-ordination of the EA process, representatives from the relevant Centre de
Travaux, the EPP, the rural communities and the Water Users Associations. It is strongly suggested -
particularly with regard to monitoring to involve the Direction du dveloppement et de la gestion de
l'irrigation (Cellule de l'environnement) and its experiences in monitoring and supervision of
environmental impacts related to the implementation of PAGI 2 (Deuxidme program d'amilioration
de la grande irrigation). This involvement would include the review of the draft terms of reference for
capacity building and serving as a resource person/technical expert in the workshop as counterpart
for a national Consultant (from a Bureau d'etudes) in Environmental Assessment.
xx)       In addition to the workshop, the national consultant would conduct a << Model
Environmental Assessment >> with the selected members of the UGP for a concrete, real life sub-
project. The workshop and Model EA exercise would be repeated in Khenifra and Al Haouz.
vii


﻿MOROCCO: Irrigation Based Community Development Program (IBCD)
Implementation Schedule and Cost Estimates
xxi)      For the EMP to be effective, it must be seen as part of the project. Funding in the amount
of US$26,650 for essential capacity building is being made available as part of the under overall
project costs (see Appendix 3 for details). As explained above (paras. xix and xx), most of the
mitigation measures are integrated into project design. Implementation of these measures would be
monitored as part of the project monitoring and evaluation system. A covenant to this effect would be
included in the Loan Agreement The workshop and capacity building would start right after project
launch.
viii


﻿MOROCCO
IRRIGATION BASED COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (IBCD)
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
A. INTRODUCTION
Objectives
1.        This report has been prepared in the context of the proposed "Irrigation Based
Community Development (IBCD) Program" as part of the Moroccan Government's "2020 Rural
Development Strategy". The project, rated category B under Operational Policy (OP) and Bank
Procedure (BP) 4.01 Environmental Impact Assessment", constitutes the first phase (2001-2005) of a
13 year program to improve the livelihoods of small and medium irrigation based communities. The
first phase will be implemented in the provinces of Azilal, Khenifra and Al Haouz. Only for Azilal
project activities have already been defined in detail. The purpose of the assessment is to:
-    assess positive and negative impacts of the first phase of the project on the
environment and propose appropriate environmental mitigation measures;
-    prepare a specific environmental management plan (EMP) for Azilal, that could
serve as model EMP for future sites;
-    provide a simple manual for sub-project review for inclusion into the Project
Implementation Manual.
Approach
2.        Given the evolving nature of the flexible Adaptable Program Loan and the integrated,
decentralized programming and budgeting of rural development activities under the project, key
issues compared to a "standard type" project Environmental Assessment are that the
subprojects/components are, for the most part, not known at appraisal. Consequently, there is a need
for the development of mechanisms for applying Environmental Assessment and Environmental
Management Plan (EMP) procedures for the program. In terms of defining an adequate type of
Environmental Assessment the approach taken combines features of Financial Intermediaries projects
with a Sector Assessment. More attention as compared to a "standard" Environmental Assessment
will therefore be given to:
-    the national environmental policy framework;
-    institutional capacity; and


﻿MOROCCO: Irrigation Based Community Development Program (IBCD)
-    program specificity, i.e. explicit sub-project eligibility parameters to facilitate the
determination of the likely extent of environmental impacts, and integrate
appropriate environmental mitigation measures into the project design.
B. ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY FRAMEWORK
Administrative Structure
3.        Morocco has recently undergone major political liberalization. Following legislative
elections on November 14, 1997, King Hassan II appointed a long-standing opposition figure,
Abderrahmane Youssoufi, as Prime minister on February 4, 1998. The new Government's economic
program, presented on April 17, 1998 and elaborated upon since, embodies a balanced emphasis on:
(1) prudence in macroeconomic and fiscal management; (2) reforms to improve public sector
performance and harness the potential for private-sector-led growth; and (3) the need for broad-based
human and social development, particularly in the country's least developed areas. Under the new
government, a regime of fiscal discipline is being implemented. Government has shown continuity in
taking forward the legislative agenda initiated by its predecessor.
4.        With World Bank support, Government has analyzed the legal and institutional situation
of the environmental sector in the country and economic instruments for pollution reduction, worked
on new information systems and means for sensitization of the population in the environmental field
(Projet gestion environnementale, PGE). The next step will be the actual implementation of priority
measures designed under the << Plan de d6veloppement 6conomique et social 1999-2003 >>. One of the
priority areas in the legal field is the legal endorsement of environmental impact legislation (Loi
relative aux Etudes d'impacts sur l'environnement).
Government and Environmental Bodies
5.        The importance of organizational structures for the success of environmental strategies
and policies was the starting point for the PGE. It therefore included analysis and recommendations
for restructuring the environmental administration in Morocco. In August 2000, however, the
Secr6tariat d'6tat it 'environnement within MRPEUDH was downgraded into a Department.
6.        More than a dozen Ministries have a role in Environmental Management. The main ones
in the context of this project are:
-    Ministry of Regional Planning, Environment, Urban Development and Housing
(MRPEUDH):
As part of this Ministry, the Department of Environment plays a coordinating role
in crosscutting environmental issues and decision-making in interministerial
coordinating bodies.
2


﻿MOROCCO: Irrigation Based Community Development Program (IBCD)
-    Ministry of Agriculture, Rural Development, Water and Forests:
Forestry, Protected Areas, Hunting and Fishing, Soil Conservation and Combating
Desertification, Plant Protection and Animal Health; additional responsibilities
under the Direction des eaux et des for8ts et de la conservation des sols;
-    Ministry of Public Works:
Water regulations, large-scale water infrastructure, quantity and quality issues,
coastal zones;
-    Ministry of Health:
Waterborne diseases, sanitation, hygiene, etc.
7.        The Environmental Administration in Morocco is currently in transition. As a result of a
reorganization in August 2000, the State Secretariat for Environment within MRPEUDH was
downgraded into a Department. Still, in line with general governmental strategy, the Direction of Co-
operation with local administrations and NGOs is active. The Pilot Project and Impact Analysis
Division also continues to play the role of coordinator of the Environmental Impact Assessment
process at the national level - anything more would go beyond the capacity of this small unit. A
regional representation of the Department of Environment is still envisaged in the medium term;
currently however, the Pilot Project and Impact Analysis Division works on a sectoral basis with
other parts of the administration in evaluating environmental impacts of projects, with final decision-
making taking place at the level of the Interministerial Committee on Impacts.
8.        Because the Department of Environment is not represented at the provincial level, it is
suggested that the Provincial Agricultural Directorates (DPA), in coordination with the Environment
Department of MRPEUDH, take on the role of implementing the Environmental Management Plans
of the Project through their << Unit6 de gestion provinciale >>. The DPA will also ensure environmental
assessments of subprojects are carried out before they are adopted by the local population. The DPA
will be responsible for the quality of EMP execution and monitoring. In Azilal, a Planning and
Monitoring Unit already exists for implementation of the World Bank financed Lakhdar Watershed
Management Pilot Project'. Experience from implementing Lakhdar suggests the need to strengthen
the capacity for environmental assessment and EMP implementation. A proposal for institutional
strengthening is attached in Appendix 3.
Environmental Impact Assessment
9.        Currently, Environmental Assessments are not mandatory in Morocco. The draft law
(Projet de Loi relative aux Etudes d'impacts sur l'environnement) and the pertinent regulations
(Projet de D6cret pris pour 1'application de la loi relative aux 6tudes d'impacts sur l'environnement)
on Environmental Impact Assessment have been in the legislative pipeline for some years and are
expected to be approved this year.
Projet pilote d'am6nagement du bassin versant de I'Oued Lakhdar.
3


﻿MOROCCO: Irrigation Based Community Development Program (IBCD)
C. THE SECTOR FRAMEWORK
10.       The proposed project takes an integrated approach to rural development. Because of the
focus on irrigation, however, it is appropriate to have a closer look at Morocco's water sector. In
addition to water shortages, overall environmental issues include deforestation, soil erosion and the
effects of industrial effluent, which have become health hazards in several urban areas. A new water
law, approved in 1995, aims at improving resource management by emphasizing co-management for
each watershed with a view to promoting stakeholder participation and co-operation. Morocco has
vast areas of rain-fed and irrigated arable land: agriculture still accounts for 17 percent of GDP and
30% of exports. The sector employs 40 percent of the economically active population. Production is
variable due to its dependence on climatic conditions. The agriculture sector is highly protected
through trade restrictions, tax exemptions, and subsidies - including on water. Irrigated agriculture
uses around 85 percent of mobilized water in Morocco. Frequent droughts have aggravated water
scarcity in Morocco and clean water is becoming more expensive due to increasing pollution and
declining water resources. Rational water use depends on implementation of adequate water pricing
and a strategy for sustainable use.
Irrigated Agriculture'
11.        Out of a total land area of 71 million ha, agriculture in Morocco uses around 9 million ha,
or roughly 12%. For the most part, agriculture takes place in the Northwest of the country and in the
medium/high areas of the Atlas mountain range. The climate is typically semi-arid: cold in the winter
and dry in summer. Precipitation is low, unevenly distributed and varies immensely from one year to
the next. Although the regions in the North, North West and in the central part of the country
(including the project areas) are relatively better off in terms of precipitation as compared to the
North East and the South, they too depend on additional water sources for agricultural production.
12.       After a relatively slow build-up of modern-day irrigation infrastructure from the end of
the twenties to the end of the sixties of this century, a rapid expansion followed in the three decades
after 1968: 78 dams or more than 80% of all dams in the country were built in this period. This rapid
construction of large scale infrastructure allows the use of an average of 13.2 billion m3 of water per
annum, out of which 83% is reserved for irrigation and 17% is used for drinking water and for
industrial production. Total irrigable lands in Morocco amount to an area of 1.6 million ha, out of
which 1.36 million ha are perennial and 0.3 million ha are seasonal. There are two types of irrigation
schemes: large-scale irrigation ("grande hydraulique"), 880,000 ha; and small and medium scale
irrigation ("petite et moyenne hydraulique, PMH"), 780,000 ha. Actually irrigated (in 1998) were
only 616,000 ha of large-scale and 330,000 ha of small and medium scale.
13.       Along with expansion of irrigation, especially large-scale irrigation, came intensification
in terms of fertilizer and pesticide use, partial mechanization and attempts at agricultural extension.
Fertilizer use increased from 23,540 tons in 1956 to 720,000 tons in 1996. Half of today's amount is
used in the large-scale irrigation schemes. Annual pesticide use in the country amounts to 7,400 tons
per year, most of which (6,600 tons) is used in citrus and early vegetables. According to extension
personnel met during field visits, lack of knowledge on proper application and handling of fertilizers
The following two sections draw heavily on: Mohammi, Assou (1999): Impacts de l'irrigation sur l'environnement
au Maroc. Direction du d6veloppement et de la gestion de l'irrigation. Rabat.
4


﻿MOROCCO: Irrigation Based Community Development Program (IBCD)
and pesticides is very serious problem leading to economical and ecological damage (e.g. used
containers, handling of obsolete pesticides).
14.       In contrast to these large-scale irrigation areas, however, the small and medium irrigation
areas in the provinces of Azilal, Khenifra and Al Haouz, which are the focus of the proposed project,
rely mainly on diversion of streams and use few chemical fertilizers and pesticides.
Environmental Impacts of Irrigated Agriculture in Morocco
15.       Main environmental problems in Morocco connected to Irrigation practices are similar to
the ones found in comparable climates:
-    Salinization of soils due to poor water quality management and poor drainage,
resulting in declines in yields and product quality in the short term and exclusion of
certain crops for cultivation in the longer term with changes in chemical, physical
and hydrological features of the soils;
-    Compaction including deeper layers of soils can lead to waterlogging, further
increase the risk of salinization and reduced productivity;
-    Irrigated agriculture can lead to negative effects on surface water - saline drainage
water discharges but also by discharging nitrates and pesticide residues into surface
waters;
-    Groundwater salinity (conductivity higher than 3 mS/cm) is relatively widespread
in Morocco, nitrites and nitrates are also found in groundwater. In the case of
nitrates, the values go frequently beyond 50mg/l;
-    Groundwater exploitation has lead in the course of a number of very dry years to
the overexploitation of groundwater resources. In some areas (e.g. Souss Massa
and Loukkos) there is the imminent risk of salt water intrusion caused by vast
overexploitation;
-    Water borne diseases poses a risk particularly in the warmer regions and of
proper maintenance/cleaning up of the irrigation infrastructure;
-    Drainage discharges containing phosphorous, pesticide residues and nitrates
constitute a risk for fauna and flora in general and migratory birds and fish, in
particular for their reproduction.
Water Resources Policies
16.       The water sector plays a central role in Morocco's economic development and has been
strongly supported by the Government. The urban water supply and large-scale irrigation subsectors
are relatively well developed. In 2000, in spite of strong demographic growth and urban migration, 90
percent of the urban population are supposed to be connected to treated water supplies. In addition, a
5


﻿MOROCCO: Irrigation Based Community Development Program (IBCD)
50 percent expansion of modern irrigation has brought the total irrigated area to one million hectares.
Irrigation and drinking water absorb 85 percent and 12 percent respectively of total mobilised water
resources. Hydropower contributes about 15% of the country's total energy production.
17.        A Water Sector Review (1995) showed that despite major achievements, Morocco faces
an increasing challenge in water resource management. The anticipated growing disequilibrium
between rising demands, resulting from rapid expansion of irrigated areas and urban development,
and a slowing of the growth in available supplies has actually occurred; this trend is compounded by
the exploitation of more marginal supplies, the depletion of aquifers and the pollution of available
resources. Sanitation infrastructure has not kept pace with drinking water supply and urban effluent is
a major contributor to the pollution of surface, coastal and groundwater. In addition, industrial and
agricultural pollution, together with erosion of the watersheds, has resulted in a degradation of water
resources. Polluted water is a major contributor to disease in rural areas, as only a minor percentage
of rural water supplies are treated. Main issues and constraints as identified under the Water
Resources Management Project are:
-    Growing Water Scarcity and Deteriorating Quality. Per capita water resources
available for mobilization are expected to fall from 837m3 in 1990 to 514m3 in
2020. In 2020, it is projected that Morocco will move from being defined as
"water-stressed" to being a "chronically water-stressed" country. Growing scarcity
is anticipated as a result of rising demands, resulting from rapid expansion irrigated
areas and urban development, and a slowing of the growth in available supplies
(resulting from the exploitation of more marginal supplies), the depletion of
aquifers and the pollution of available resources. Polluted water is the major
contributor to disease in rural areas.
-    Limited provision of Rural Potable Water. Despite Morocco's success in
providing potable water to its urban inhabitants, the provision of rural potable
supplies remains a challenge. An estimated 45% of the population lives in rural
areas, but only 30% have access to safe and reliable sources of water with strongly
negative impacts on the health of the rural population.
-    Low Efficiency in Irrigation. Overall water-use efficiency in irrigation including
water conveyance and application operations is around 40%; i.e. under half of the
water delivered to farms actually reaches the crops. The Government's aim of
expanding irrigated areas in a situation of scarce water supplies and reduced
subsidies puts into doubt the sustainability of existing farming practices, raising
doubts as to the economic viability of some irrigated areas.
-    Ineffective Use of Existing Infrastructure. Inadequate maintenance of existing
hydraulic infrastructure has lead to financial losses resulting from reduced
operating efficiencies. Main problems are siltation and reduced storage capacity of
dams and conveyance losses in primary and secondary canals of up to 25%.
-    Weak Institutional Capacity. The institutional challenge to water resources
management is particularly difficult to resolve: policy-making is largely
centralized, with responsibility for water management resting with the sectoral
6


﻿MOROCCO: Irrigation Based Community Development Program (IBCD)
ministries and agencies responsible for the different end-users resulting in
fragmentation of planning and management.
18.       In order to assist in the development of a strategy for decisive policies to address the
challenges of water resources management in the coming decades, the Government and the World
Bank launched the Water Resources Management Project in 19981. The project promotes integrated
management of water resources, covering quantitative and qualitative aspects, with central co-
ordination and decentralized management, ensuring participation of stakeholders and the private
sector.
19.       The passage of the Water Law in 1995 was a major step in this direction, providing a
regulatory, legal and institutional framework to support sustainable water management and including
a number of fundamental policy reforms such as: (a) the creation of river basin agencies for
decentralized water management and increased stakeholder participation; (b) the establishment of
long-term national and river basin water master plans; (c) introduction of water charges on bulk water
resources and pollution taxes; and (d) establishment of the monitoring and control of water quality.
20.       The implications of this legislation for the small and medium irrigation areas in the
provinces of Azilal, Khenifra and Al Haouz, which are the focus of the proposed project, are limited,
having basically to do with decentralized water management and increased stakeholder participation.
Water Resources Administration
21.       The major changes introduced by the Water Law relate to the institutional system for
water resource administration:
-    strengthening of the High Council for Water and Climate (CSEC) for improving
centralized co-ordination of the water sector at large;
-    preparation of a National Water Plan and river basin water masterplans; and
-    the establishment of river Basin Agencies (RBAs) for decentralized Management
of water resources at river basin level.
D. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
22.       The IBCD is part of Government's "Stratdgie 2020 de d6veloppement rural". The overall
program is going to be implemented over a period of 13 years with the objective to rehabilitate an
area of 46,000 ha in 15 provinces of small and medium size irrigation (outside the large-scale areas
covered by the ORMVA) plus integrated rural development measures in infrastructure and
agricultural development. The subject of this environmental assessment is the first phase of this
program planned for five years from 2001 to 2005. In the course of this first phase, rehabilitation and
modernization of approximately 9,450 ha of small and medium irrigation and rural infrastructure will
be financed.in the provinces of Azilal, Khenifra and Al Haouz, plus the integrated programming for
six additional provinces in a second four year phase after 2004.
The World Bank (1998): KINGDOM   OF MOROCCO: Water Resources Management Project. Rural
Development, Water and Environment Group, The World Bank, Washington D.C.
7


﻿MOROCCO: Irrigation Based Community Development Program (IBCD)
Component 1: Rehabilitation of SMI
23.        After technical examination and selection by the DAHA, 21 perimeters have been
identified in Azilal province with a total area of 3,450 ha. For the two other provinces under the first
phase (Khenifra and Al Haouz), rehabilitation works will be executed on an area of around 6,000 ha
selected involving beneficiaries. These activities will be undertaken using a participatory approach
that will be introduced by the Equipes de programmation participative (at the provincial level) and
Centres de travaux (Local extension offices).
24.       Technical studies and design will be done jointly by national consultants and Water Users
Associations (AUEA) under the supervision of the Provincial Directorates for Agriculture (DPA).
Operation and Maintenance costs for the rehabilitated infrastructure will be the obligation of the
AUEA. For details on the rehabilitation works for Azilal see Appendix 1).
Component 2: Community Infrastructure
25.        Community Infrastructure refers to three subcomponents:
-    Rural Roads: For Azilal, rehabilitation 116 km of rural roads in the 21 identified
perimeters are foreseen, while for the provinces of Al Haouz and Khenifra 70 km
per province are estimated. 33% of the costs will be borne by the respective
community.
-    In the douars that are not already covered by the World Bank financed rural water
supply project, PAGER, water points would be established under a cost sharing
arrangement with the respective communities (15%) and the users (5%). Users will
be responsible for operation and maintenance.
-    Other infrastructure investments would include electrification, health and
education. These are covered under existing programs for Azilal but not necessarily
for the other two provinces in phase 1.
Component 3: Institutional Strengthening
-    Participatory, integrated programming: project interventions will be based on a
participatory approach aiming at institutionalizing the integration of the various
technical agencies and their interests. This will take place at three levels: national
(programming manual, and series of workshops for its strengthening by local level
involvement), provincial (identification of "zones" de d6veloppement), and local
(strengthening of programming teams and implementation plans).
-    Sustainable agricultural intensification: technical guidelines specific for each zone,
research and development, demonstration plots, technical training and extension.
8


﻿MOROCCO: Irrigation Based Community Development Program (IBCD)
Component 4: Preparation of Phase 2
26.        In the same way the two provinces of Khenifra and Al Haouz will be prepared in the first
phase, the project will finance identification studies for the six provinces covered by the second phase
of the program.
E. BASELINE DATA
The Project Area: Mountainous Regions in Morocco
27.        The selection of the provinces covered under the program has been based in part on an
iterative process taking into account the existing situation in terms of the state of irrigation and social
infrastructure, agricultural potential and rural development indicators. Other considerations have been
existing programs with or without external financing.
28.        It is estimated that around 15% of the Morocco's national territory are mountainous with
17% of the total population living there. There are three distinct geographical regions:
-    the " Rif " in the North;
-    the "Moyen Atlas", in the centre of the country;
-    the "Haut Atlas"and "Anti Atlas" in the South.
29.       Characteristic of all three mountainous regions is their disparity in terms of economic and
social development compared to other parts of the country. Rather than catching up, these regions
have fallen even further behind in recent years. Prevalent subsistence agriculture has been affected by
strong population growth in that natural resources are being exploited to their limits and beyond.
Visible results are vulnerability of rural livelihoods and forced emigration.
30.        According to the analysis during preparation of the Lakhdar Watershed Management
Pilot Projectt, the farming systems in these regions are not sufficiently diversified and are dominated
by traditional and very extensive forms of farming. Farmers dedicate most of their land to subsistence
food production while only part of their land is suitable (erosion prone soils on steep slopes).
Agroforestry and fodder production are not supported by an adequate level of technical support,
training and extension. Because there is not enough fodder and grazing land, the otherwise well-
adapted livestock keeping/pastoralism leads to overgrazing. Consequently, remaining forests are
under pressure by pastoralist seeking fodder for their herds. Farm sizes are usually small with less
than 5 ha of arable land, with vulnerable, eroded soils and limited ability to irrigate. The Lakhdar
Watershed Management Pilot Project aims to improve land use and natural resource management
through better practices in soil conservation, water management, erosion control, reforestation and
range management. In particular, staff training is provided on key environmental issues, on
environmental guidelines and on the techniques of environmental analysis. Workshops will also be
held to sensitize local communities on environmental issues.
Projet d'am6nagement du bassin versant de l'Oued Lakhdar. FAO Investment Centre Preparation Report. Annexe
3: D6veloppement agricole.
9


﻿MOROCCO: Irrigation Based Community Development Program (IBCD)
Location, Climate and Agro-Ecology
31.      Azilai Province which covers around 10,000 kM2 is situated entirely in the << Haut Atlas >>
mountains with a population estimated at 470,000, 90% of which in rural areas. More than 80% of the
province area lies 1,000 m or more above sea level. The relief is undulating with steep slopes and
plateaus ending in sharp rims. The climate is Mediterranean influenced by the Atlantic Ocean.
Altitude and relief create various diverse microclimates. Average rainfall is around 55mm/annum.
Average temperatures vary between 12.7 and 19.10C. Depending on the altitude, cold periods last
from 3 to 7 months. Harsh climate conditions and vulnerable soils together make agriculture difficult.
Potentially though, the characteristic features of the agro-ecology in these mountainous regions could
result in a diversified agriculture with quality production.
32.       Forest cover in the province is estimated at 389,000 ha, confirming its sylvo-pastoral
character.
33.      Main irrigated crops in the province are grain (52% of area), various tree-crops (41%), and
to a lesser extent fodder (9%) and vegetables (8%). An even higher share of grain is cultivated under
rainfed conditions (65%), with 10% of tree crops and 21% of arable land left as fallow. The extensive
livestock rearing depends on fodder supply from the pastoral and sylvo-pastoral zones and by-
products from grain production.
34.      Al Haouz province consists of mainly hills and flat plateaus (500 - 800m above sea level)
in the Piedmont zone and steep slopes between 1,000 and 3,000 in the mountainous valleys. Total
population is 450,000 of which 90% live in rural areas. The climate varies from very dry in the
Piedmont area (250 to 350 mm/annum) to slightly elevated precipitation figures in the high mountain
valleys (300 to 800 mm/annum) depending on the exact location and the strongly diversified
microclimate.
35.       In the piedmont zone, annual crops (grains) are dominant; tree crops, fodder and
vegetable production is small. In the high mountain valley zone, however, there are areas with
cultivation of tree crops like walnuts, olives, apples and plums. In addition, there is - to a lesser
extent - vegetable and alfalfa cultivation.
36.       Khenifra province comprises three distinct zones:
-    the "Moyen" Atlas (medium altitude) from 1,000 to 2,000 m above sea level with
precipitation between 670 and 760 mm/annum.
-    the "Haut" Moulaya, with an alluvial plains relief at 1,500 to 1,600 m above sea
level and precipitation ranging between 240 and 360 mm/annum.
-    the "Haut" Atlas at 1,800 m to more than 3,000 m above sea level and precipitation
at 380 mm/annum.
37.       The total land area of the province amounts to 205,000 ha, 15% of which are cultivated.
Population figures are not available, it is estimated that a large number of "farmers" are absentee
owners that leave their herds with hired shepherds. The actual situation of natural resources and their
use is not very well understood and - according to the preparation report - needs to be assessed
thoroughly before actual project preparation can proceed.
10


﻿MOROCCO: Irrigation Based Community Development Program (IBCD)
Protected Areas
38.        Because of its location and topography on both the Atlantic and Mediterranean Coasts
with extreme climatic variations, there is a rich variety of habitats and species: 39 major ecosystem
types, ranging from mountain and lowland forests, grasslands and wetlands to coastal lagoons and
marine environments. There are an estimated 4,000 species of vascular plants, over 29% of them
endemic. Morocco is the richest country in the Mediterranean in terms of fauna including 550 species
of vertebrates, with 101 mammalian species and 22 endemic species of reptiles and amphibians.
Thirty species of birds are endangered; and 31 species of reptiles and amphibians are threatened or
endangered. Despite this, less than 1% of Morocco's surface currently has some form of active
protection regime. The principal threats to biodiversity are habitat transformation and degradation
through conversion for agriculture, urban expansion and industrial or tourism development. Around
70% of the country's poorest population live in the rural areas, often with few alternatives than
natural resources use. The population in the mountainous areas is the poorest of all and main target
group of the project lives in an area richest in biodiversity.
39.        Based on a "Strategy for Protected Areas" completed in 1996, the World Bank has
prepared a "Protected Areas Management Project"' funded by the Global Environment Facility for
implementation beginning in 2000. The objective is to create a network of 8 parks and 150 other sites
of ecological and biological interest covering 3% of Morocco's land area. In the project provinces
there are four major protected areas: Aghbar (Reserve) and Toubkal National Park (under the
Protected Areas Management Project) in Al Haouz, Tamga Reserve in Azilal and the Haut Atlas
Oriental National Park (under creation). While the project areas do not coincide with protected areas,
great care will have to be taken in sub-project evaluation that impacts on protected areas will be
avoided.
40.        The Protected Areas Strategy may also be seen within the context of three other major
recent studies - Forestry Development Plan, emphasizing sustainable forest management with the
participation of the local population, a Watershed Management Plan focused on addressing watershed
degradation issues also with local populations, and a Biodiversity study, prepared by the State
Secretariat for Environment.
F. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS
Project Impacts
41.        A summary table of significant environmental impacts is attached in Appendix 1. The
following list represents potential significant impacts for the overall first phase assuming that similar
issues would be relevant also for project interventions in Al Haouz and Khenifra although these have
not yet been defined in detail and may not be exhaustive for Khenifra and Al Haouz.
42.       Main positive impacts would be:
-    Reduction of water losses through improved canal systems and better systems of
operation and maintenance;
Global Environment Facility (2000): MOROCCO: Protected Areas Management Project. Project Document,
January 2000. Rural Development, Water and Environment Group, The World Bank, Washington D.C.
11


﻿MOROCCO: Irrigation Based Community Development Program (IBCD)
-    incentives for more efficient water use through measurement of water consumption;
-     Substantial improvement of safety through better flood protection;
-     sustainable intensification reduces pressure for conversion of marginal lands; and
- rehabilitation/improvement of roads and proper maintenance (incl. drainage) is
expected to reduce erosion;
- access to clean water (water points) expected to reduce incidents of water borne
diseases;
-    Awareness creation for integrated approach helps promote consideration of
environmental matters; and
-    Provision of solid information on environment in project areas can help avoid negative
environmental impacts and be used for sub-project assessments.
43.        Main negative impacts would be:
-    Potentially increased agrochemical pollution due to increased use of pesticides and
fertilizers along with improved availability of irrigation water;
-    Ecological impacts of increased water diversion - potential effects on wetlands and
other types of non-agricultural vegetation;
-    Use of irrigation canals for non-agricultural water supply and as sewer in rural
settlements - potential disease problems;
-    Building of new roads could lead to more erosion and disturbance of vegetation;
-    Potential uncontrolled  disposal of dredge, excavation    and   construction
materialldebris leads to disturbed land areas and induces uncontrolled waste
dumps;
-    Salinization risk increased with increased irrigation if water quality is not properly
monitored and lack of drainage;
-    Hygiene problems at waterpoints; and
-    Risk of overexploitation of groundwater resources through mechanized pumping
for potable water.
12


﻿MOROCCO: Irrigation Based Community Development Program (IBCD)
Operational Policies
44.       While the applicability of the World Bank's OP 4.01 has been confirmed in the initial
stages of project preparation, applicability of OP 4.09 (World Bank Policy on Pest Management) has
not been concluded at pre-appraisal.
45.       Based on OP 4.09 (version December 1998) it is argued here that IPM should explicitly
be integrated into the preparation of the Terms of Reference for the Component 3 under "Extension",
"Technical Guidelines", "Research and Development". Existing capacity in the field of pesticide
handling, application, proper storage etc. is very low (see section on Irrigated Agriculture).
G. ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN
46.       For the Environmental Management Plan it is suggested to consider Azilal as an example
for the two other provinces Khenifra and Al Haouz. The EMP consists of the three parts mitigation,
monitoring and institutional measures. Based on the analysis of project activities, the project is
expected to result in a number of positive environmental impacts. Negative impacts are expected to
be either offset by integrating adequate measures into project design or by reducing them to their risk
to acceptable levels.
Mitigation
47.       Environmental impacts, mitigation measures and responsibilities for implementation are
put together in Appendix 2. The additional costs, which are included in the project costs, are
estimated at $26,650, consisting basically of local technical assistance and training. Implementation
of mitigation measures would be monitored and evaluated as part of the project monitoring and
evaluation system.
Monitoring
48.       Key environmental aspects of the project as defined in the overview on environmental
issues and the effectiveness of their mitigation in Appendix 1, will have to be monitored as sub-
projects come up for review to allow for corrective action - if necessary - during implementation. A
realistic monitoring program would be developed under the capacity building exercise defined in
Appendix 3 rather than a prescribed program that is not going to be executed because it is too far
from implementation realities. This would involve - linked to the impacts assessed - the description of
simple but meaningful monitoring measures and parameters, sampling locations, frequency of
measurements, and definition of thresholds that will signal the need for corrective action. Monitoring
and reporting would be the responsibility of the Unit6 de gestion de projet under the DPA, but with
the assistance from the Centres de Travaux, Water Users Associations and beneficiaries in the
communities. Reports on the basis of the jointly developed monitoring program would be made
available to the Cellule de gestion de projet and the World Bank environmental specialist and
evaluated during Supervision.
13


﻿MOROCCO: Irrigation Based Community Development Program (IBCD)
Capacity Development and Training
49.       In Azilal Province, experience with the implementation of the Lakhdar Watershed
Management Pilot Project (Projet d'am6nagement du bassin Versant de I'Oued Lakhdar) suggests
that to ensure effective implementation of mitigation measures and monitoring, capacity in the field
of environmental impact assessment has to be strengthened.
50.       The project will include local technical assistance to provide for capacity building in
Environmental Assessment procedures for World Bank Projects, implementation and monitoring of
the Mitigation Plan (Appendix 2). This would include participation in a one-week workshop and
guided execution of a subproject EA with the help of a national Environmental Assessment
Specialist. Participants in this workshop at the provincial level would be two persons from the UGP,
who would be responsible for the co-ordination of the EA process, representatives from the relevant
Centre de travaux, the EPP, the rural communities and the Water Users Associations. It is strongly
suggested - particularly with regard to the monitoring side to involve the Direction du d6veloppement
et de la gestion de l'irrigation (Cellule de l'environnement) and its experiences in monitoring and
supervision of environmental impacts related to the implementation of the PAGI 2 (Deuxi&me
program d'am6lioration de la grande irrigation). This involvement would include the review of the
draft terms of reference for capacity building and serving as resource person/technical expert in the
workshop as counterpart for a national Consultant (from a Bureau d'6tudes) in Environmental
Assessment.
51.       In addition to the workshop, the national consultant would conduct a << Model
Environmental Assessment >> with the nominated members of the UGP for a concrete, real life sub-
project. The workshop and Model EA exercise would be repeated in Khenifra and Al Haouz.
Implementation Schedule and Cost Estimates
52.       For the EMP to be effective, it must be integrated from the outset into the project.
Funding in the amount of US$26,650 for essential capacity building in Environmental Assessment
and Management will have to be made available as part of the in the overall project costs. The
implementation of mitigation measures would be monitored as part of the project monitoring and
evaluation system. A covenant to this effect would be included in the Loan Agreement. Most of the
mitigation measures are related to project design. These should be taken before loan negotiations. For
the workshop and capacity building to start right after project launch, preparations should be initiated
right after negotiations.
14


﻿MOROCCO: Irrigation Based Community Development Program (IRCD)
Environmental Assessment
Appendix 1: Overview on Project Activities and Environmental Issues in Azilat (Costs: Total Is Phase, Base Costs)
Componen         Project          Objeci e                 Projeci Aciihitie                Entironmental Inipatu           Mitigation and Responsibili for
Area                                                                                                                  Iimplementalion
1. Rehabilitation of            About 9,450 ha in total ,
SMI (Cost US$17.84              6,000 in Khenifra and Al
million)                        Haouz
1.1 Rehab. of       Azilal      SMI rehabilitated:                                          Positive impacts
Small and         (3,500 ha)                              Water coll Iection/harnies sing
S                         21 perimeters identified    W                               *   Reduction of water losses through
Medium                         .'                         from springs feeding the seguias
Irrigation (SMI)              size between 20 - 1,500                                     improved canal system and a better
ha (US$1,850/ha          => Lining of main and secondary    system of operation and maintenance
seguias with concrete
*   Incentives for more efficient water
-o Establishment of measuring      use through measuring water
points at the secondary offtakes  consumption
Provision of intake structures at  +  Substantial improvement of safety
field level                    through better flood protection
t  Provision of flood protection    *   Sustainable intensification reduces
structures                      pressure for conversion of marginal lands
=  Maintenance for irrigation
infrastructure paid for by     Negative Impacts
beneficiaries and rural
communities                     *   Potentially increased agrochemical  Extension and training on IPI and
pollution due to increased use of      sound fertilizer application int grated
pesticides and fertilizers along with  in subcomponents and TORs Jor TA
improved availability of irrigation water  under 3.2:
and increased discharge                 - Extension
- Technical Guidelines
- Research and Development
- Technical Training
*   Ecological impacts of increased    Definition and regular monito ing of
water diversion - potential effects on  indicator vegetation
wetlands and other types of non-
agricultural vegetation
Construction of water points, vater
*   Use of irrigation canals for non-  discharge measurement points, better
agricultural water supply and as sewer in  maintenance and cleaning of
rural settlements - potential disease  irrigation infrastructure under the


﻿MOROCCO: Irrigation Based Community Development Program (IBCD)
Environmental Assessment
Appendix 1: Overview on Project Activities and Environmental Issues in Azilal (Costs: Total IV Phase, Base Costs)
Component          Project            ijecli%e                 Project 1cii%ilies                  - inironmental Impact.          iNlifigation and Re*spon;ihlil for
Nrea                                                                                                                       Impleientafion
problems                                 project improves access to se cre
water, creates awareness of health
risks and reduces disease pres- ure
+   Potential uncontrolled disposal of
dredge, excavation and construction      Minimal disturbance of
material/debris leads to disturbed land  landscape/vegetation prescribed in
areas and induces uncontrolled waste     workplan for contractors, supervised
dlumps                                   by DPA
*   Salinization risk increased with     Water quality controls (condu tivity),
increased irrigation if water quality is not  simple drainage measures, be  soil
properly monitored and lack of drainage  and water conservation practi es
included in extension, technic a
guidelines, research and devel pment
and technical training subcom onents
by DPA
11


﻿MOROCCO: Irrigation Based Community Development Program (IBCD)
Environmental Assessment
Appendix 1: Overview on Project Activities and Environmental Issues in Azilal (Costs: Total I" Phase, Base Costs)
Component          Project            Objective                   Project Activities               Environmental Issues                   Mitigation
Area
2. Community                       Rural infrastructure not
Infrastructure (Costs              already provided under
US$11.1 million)                   existing programs
2.1 Rural Roads       Azilal       Improved access to basic   Improvement of 84 km access roads  Positive impacts
rural infrastructure:      and 36 km of liaison roads
* 116 km of rural roads*                                           Rhbitainmpoe          ntf
* 16 m f ura rad    =  road width (between two side     roads and proper maintenance (incl.
drainage lines        5.0 mn    drainage) expected to reduce erosion
Agravel layer thickness   0.2 m W       Access to clean water (water
points) expected to reduce incidents
max long, slope          10-12%     of water bore diseases
=~max cumber               3%
=> rnin. width side drainage 0.7 m  Negative impacts
2   m3  depth side drainage  0.5 m  *   Risk of overexploitation of    Aquifer capacity assessed Sx-ante
groundwater resources through      and implementation of eff.etive
Ssprings equipped with reservoirs,  mechanized pumping                 control of water quantitie
2.2  ate Suply  ziesti90matedoi)                       pipes and hydrants (douars max.                                     pumped by DPA/ONEP
(estiated)600 inh.)
shallow wells with handpumps
(douars with max. 300inh.)
->         w                            Potential tncontrolled disposal  Organized disposai of drege,
electric/diesel/solar pumps, pipes  of dredge, ecvto  n             xaainadcntuto
(doiars with max. 300 inh.)     construction material/debris leads to  material - without damag to
disturbed land areas and induces   vegetaion and without veating
= underground cisterns to be       uncontrolled waste dumps           ad-hoe waste disposal site
Azilal                                      equipped with hand pumps
* 150 water discharge         (douars with max. 150 inh.)
measurement points
Smaintenance for unclassified     *   Hygiene problems at           Proper fittings, strict sepai ation
roads paid for by beneficiaries  waterpoints                       towards animais, collection of
2.3 Operation and     Azilal       Sustainability of rural       and rural commtrunities, by DRCR                                    surplus water, awarenessIm
Maintenance                      infrastructure use            for classified routes, investment                                   hygiene considerations
costs for roads and water points                                    strengthened (part. for wo en).
include design and supervision
itces'ocea                           aer(ae


﻿MOROCCO: Irrigation Based Community Development Program (IBCD)
Environmental Assessment
Appendix 1: Overview on Project Activities and Environmental Issues in Azilal (Costs: Total l' Phase, Base Costs)
Component          Project            Objective                     Project Activities              Environmental Issues               Mitigation
Area
3. Institutional                  Support for participatory
Strengthening                     approach and enhanced
(Cost US$5.80                     agricultural services
million)
3.1 Participatory                                                                                    Positive impacts
programming
3.11 Guidelines for   National    Operational procedures for  => Series of workshops                      Awareness creation for
integrated                    programming defined             Preparation of guidelines for integrated  integrated approach helps
promote consideration of
programing                                                 programming                          environmental matters
3.12 Awareness        National    Awareness for decentralized   Awareness campaigns targeting MOA    *   Solid information on
campaigns                     and integrated approach        technical directorates, locally elected  environment can help avoid
created                        personnel                           negative environmental impacts
and be used for sub-project
3.13 Mapping          National     Aerial mapping for definition  Aerial mapping of 80,000 ha        assessments.
otni SMIze Topographical mapping of 60a000 ha
potetial(1:2000)
SStudies locating and defining SMI
zones and their land and water potential
3.14 Selection of     Future      Future programming prepared    Preparatory work for selection of zones
Zones             project                                    and financial programming by
Areas A nnational consultants and national
Khenifra manimateurs" grouped in mobile teams.
and
Al Haouz     Af                             Preparation of
- topographical,
3.15 Technical Studies  Future    Future programming               hydrological,
project     prepared, technical study for   ogeo-technical,
Areas       Azilal follow DAHA               engineering, and
Khenifra    approach                         economical studies
and                                     => Agreement between WUAs
Al Haouz
5representing beneficiaries and MOA
3.16 Mobile           Each                                    == 2 4-"D, 2 computers, software, office,
Participation     province    En-sure participation,         driver, secretary, 0 & M costs
Teams             (mobile     cproved extension
iv


﻿MOROCCO: Irrigation Based Community Development Program (IBCD)
Environmental Assessment
Appendix 1: Overview on Project Activities and Environmental Issues in Azilal (Costs: Total 1V Phase, Base Costs)
Component           Project             Objective                      Project Activities                Environmental Issues                Mitigation
Area
teams)       effectiveness / future
programming prepared
3.2 Agricultural                                                                                         Positive Impacts
Development                     Help provided in defining    =7 Procurement of small meteorological
3.21 Meteorological                factors affecting crop yields:   equipment (rainfall, temperature,         Better understanding of
station                         2 stations                      humidity, wind etc.)                  environment
=~Capacity building and technical       *   Awareness created for
assistance                            negative impacts of improper!
overuse of fertilizers and
pesticides (IPM) if addressed
through effective extension/
3.22 Extension                     Production practices          =  Demonstration plots 0.25 ha for each  demonstration
improved                         10h
G s*                                                                       Sustainable intensification
-- Procurement of small agricultural     (Agricultural Development
equipment for extension personnel     Sucomp.) reduces pressure for
converionyofmarginleland
=~Support for visits to demonstration   covTinofmrnalnd
plots
3.23 Technical
International Technical Assistance for
Guelispro-d                   Elaboration of technical guidelines for
the different regions: crops and animal
husbandry - present activities and
recommendations
D.4evelopmeant                    Production practices          .National Technical Assistance (10 man-
vimproved                       months) for
- improving agricultural knowledge!
practices, implementing/testing
recommendations from guidclines
(See above)
2.5 Technical Training              Production practices            Technical training and study tours for
improved                        targeted technical personnel and
selected farmers by specialized trainers
and Mobile Participation Teams
-_3 national agricultural advisors, I
V


﻿MOROCCO: Irrigation Based Community Development Program (IBCD)
Environmental Assessment
Appendix 1: Overview on Project Activities and Environmental Issues in Azilal (Costs: Total I Phase, Base Costs)
Component            Project               Objective                        Project Activities                   Environmental Issues                   Mitigation
Area
irrigation advisor, I sociologist to
ensure farmers' involvement in training
and perform effective advisory role
V1


﻿MOROCCO: Irrigation Based Community Development Program (IBCD)
Environmental Assessment
Appendix 1: Overview on Project Activities and Environmental Issues in Azilal (Costs: Total 1 Phase, Base Costs)
Component            Project               Objective                     Project Activities               Environmental Issues                  Mitigation
Area
4. Preparation of Phase II            Integrated programming of SMI
US$1.39 million                       rehabilitation and basic economic
infrastructure and social services
in 6 additional provinces
Vii


﻿MOROCCO: Irrigation Based Community Development Program (IBCD)
Environmental Assessment
Appendix 2: Mitigation
Environmental Impacts                                   Mitigation Measures                      Implementation                   Costs
Negative:
*   Potentially increased agrochemical pollution due to increased  Extension and training on IPM and sound fertilizer  nat.: DAHA/CGP      no extra costs foreseen
use of pesticides and fertilizers along with improved availability  application integrated in subcomponents and TORs  prov.: EPP, UGP
of irrigation water                                         for TA under 3.2:                               local: CT
- Extension
- Technical Guidelines
- Research and Development
- Technical Training
*    Ecological impacts of increased water diversion - potential  monitoring of simple indicator vegetation   prov.: UGP                   no extra costs foreseen
effects on wetlands and other types of non-agricultural vegetation                                         local: CT, Communes rurales
*   Use of irrigation canals for non-agricultural water supply and as  construction of water points, water discharge  nat.: DAHA/CGP       no extra costs foreseen
sewer in rural settlements - potential disease problems     measurement points, better maintenance    and   prov.: DPA, UGP, EPP
cleaning of irrigation                         local: CT
infrastructure improvements under the project
improves access to secure water, creates awareness
of health risks and reduces disease pressure
*    Potential uncontrolled disposal of dredge, excavation and  Minimal disturbance of landscape/vegetation   nat.: DAHA/CGP               no extra costs foreseen
construction material/debris leads to disturbed land areas and  prescribed in workplan for contractors, supervised  prov.: DPA, UGP, EPP
induces uncontrolled waste dumps                            by DPA                                          local: CT, Communes rurales
*   Salinization risk increased with increased irrigation if water  water quality controls (conductivity), simple  nat-: DAHA/CGP          no extra costs foreseen
quality is not properly monitored and lack of drainage      drainage measures, best soil and water conservation  prov.: EPP, UGP
practices included in extension, technical     local: CT
guidelines, Research and Development and
technical training subcomponents
*    Hygiene problems at waterpoints                          proper fittings, strict separation from  animals,  nat.: DAHA/CGP/CNC        no extra costs foreseen
collection of surplus water, awareness for hygiene  prov.: EPP, UGP
considerations strengthened (part. for women).  local: Communes rurales, CT
*    Risk of overexploitation of groundwater resources through  aquifer  capacity  assessed   ex-ante   and   prov.: DPA, UGP              no extra costs foreseen
mechanized pumping                                          implementation  of effective control of water   local:  Communes    rurales
quantities pumped                               AUEA


﻿MOROCCO: Irrigation Based Community Development Program (IBCD)
Environmental Assessment
Appendix 2: Mitigation
Positive:
*   Reduction of water losses through improved canal system and a better system of operation and maintenance
*   Incentives for more efficient water use through measurement of water consumption
*   Substantial improvement of safety through better flood protection
*   Sustainable intensification reduces pressure for conversion of marginal lands
*   Rehabilitation/improvement of roads and proper maintenance (incl. drainage) expected to reduce erosion
*   Access to clean water (water points) expected to reduce incidents of water borne diseases
*   Awareness creation for integrated approach helps promote consideration of environmental matters
*   A solid information on environment can help avoid negative environmental impacts and be used for sub-project assessments.
ii


﻿MOROCCO: Irrigation Based Community Development Program (IBCD)
Environmental Assessment
Appendix 3: Capacity Building in Environmental Assessment, Monitoring and Mitigation
Environmental Assessment Course
1) Workshop
Participants
* two nominees from the UGP, who would be responsible for the co-ordination of the EA process;
* one or two representatives from the relevant Centre de Travaux;
* one person from the EPP (assist in facilitation);
* representatives from the rural communities, local NGO's and the Water Users Associations.
Presenters/Instructors
*   Experienced National Consultant (list of Bureaux d'6tudes for Environmental Impact Assessment
available in the Division des 6tudes d'impacts et des projets pilotes at the Environment
Department of the Ministry of Regional Planning, Environment, Urban Development and
Housing (MRPEUDH).
* Resource Person from the Direction du d6veloppement et de la gestion de l'irrigation (Cellule de
l'environnement) to contribute experiences in monitoring and supervision of environmental
impacts related to the implementation of the PAGI 2 (Deuxi&me programme d'am6lioration de la
grande irrigation).
Duration
Five days each in all three provinces.
Costs per course:
USD
Transport participants (assumed 15 per course with rented vehicle)            500,-
Lodging and subsistence for participants (USD30,- per day)                   2250,-
Material/room for presentation                                                500,-
Subsistence for Presenters/Instructors (2*5*100)                             1000,-
Transport Experts (2* from/to Rabat one car)                                   350,-
Honorarium Expert (5days preparation+5 presentation @ 200/day)               2000,-
Subtotal
6600,-
2) Model Environmental Assessment
In addition to the workshop, the national consultant would conduct a << Model Environmental
Assessment >> with the nominated members of the UGP for a concrete, real life sub-project:


﻿MOROCCO: Irrigation Based Community Development (IBCD)
Environmental Assessment
Appendix 3: Capacity Building in Environmental Assessment, Monitoring and Mitigation
Subsistence for (5*100)                                                                  500,-
Transport Expert (from/to Rabat)                                                         350,-
Honorarium Expert (2days preparation+5 presentation @            200/day)               1400,-
Subtotal
2250,-
TOTAL per Province                                                                     8850,-
TOTAL first phase = 3 provinces                                                      26,650,-
11


