Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 22002-MOR
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON THE
PROPOSED ADAPTABLE PROGRAM LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF YEN 3.8 BILLION (US$ 32.6 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FOR THE IRRIGATION BASED COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IN SUPPORT OF THE FIRST PHASE OF THE
IRRIGATION BASED COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
PROGRAM
April 30, 2001
Rural Development, Water and Environment Department
Middle East and North Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective March 28, 2001)
Currency tJnit = MAD
MAD I = US$ 0.09
US$1 = MAD 10.9
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AWUA/AUEA           Agricultural Water Users AssociationAssociation des Usagers des Eaux Agricoles
BP/PB               Bank Procedure/Procedure de la Banque
CMU/UGP             Central Management Unit/Cellule de Gestion du Projet
CRDCICRDR           Core Rural Development Committee/Comite Restreint de Developpement Rural
DHAW/DAHA           Department of Hydro-Agricultural Works/Direction des Amenagements Hydro-agricoles
EA/EE               Environmental AssessmentlEvaluation Environnementale
EC/CT               Extension Center/Centre de Travaux
EMP/PGE             Environmental Management Plan/Plan de Gestion Environnementale
GIFIIGF             General Inspector of Finance/lnspecteur General des Finances
GTK/TGR             General Treasury of the KingdomlTresorerie Generale du Royaume
IBCD/DRI-PMH        Irrigation Based Community Development Program/Programme de Developpement
Rural lntegre Centre sur la Petite et Moyenne Hydraulique
IM/IME              Implementation Manual/Manuel d'Ex&ution
LSI/PAGI            Large-Scale Irrigation ProjectVProjet d'Amelioration de la Grande Irrigation
MARDWF/MADREF  Ministry of Agriculture, Rural Development, and Water and ForestslMinistere de
I 'Agriculture, du Dveloppement Rural et des Eaux et Forets
MRPEIJDH/MATEUH   Ministry of Regional Planning, Environment, Urban Development and HousingMinistere
charge de lAmenagement du Territoire, de l'Environnement, de l'Urbanisme et de l'Habitat
NCC/CNC             National Coordinating Cornittee/Comite National de Coordination
ND/DR               National Director/Directeur National
OP/DO               Operational Policy/Directive Operationnelle
PDA/DPA             Provincial Department of Agriculture/Departement Provincial de l'Agriculture
PlMRDC/C1PDR        Permanent Intemuinisterial Rural Development Council ou Conunittee/Conseil ou
Comiti Interninisteriel Permanent Charge du Developpement Rural
PMU/UGP             Provincial Management Unitl Unite de Gestion Provinciale
PPT/EPP             Participatory Programnming Team/Equipe de Programmation Participative
RADA/ORMVA          Regional Agricultural Development Authority/Office Regional de Mise en Valeur Agricole
RBA/AB              River Basin Authority/Agence de Bassin
RC/CR               Rural Cornmunity/Commune Rurale
RDF/FDR             Rural Development Fund/Fonds de Developpement Rural
RWSP/PAGER          Rural Water Sapply and Sanitation Project/Programme d'Approvisionnement Groupee en
Eau Rurale
SMl/PM.H            Small and Medium Scale hrrigation/Petite et Moyenne H-ydraulique
Vice President:   Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:    Christian Delvoie
Sector Director:    Doris Koehn
Task Team Leader:    Douglas W. Lister



MOROCCO
IRRIGATION BASED COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
CONTENTS
A. Program Purpose and Project Development Objective                                   Page
1. Program purpose and program phasing                                                 3
2. Project development objective                                                       3
3. Key performance indicators                                                          3
B. Strategic Context
I. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      4
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          4
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  5
4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans                   5
C. Program and Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                  5
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                       6
3. Benefits and target population                                                      7
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                       8
D. Project Rationale
1. Project altematives considered and reasons for rejection                           13
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         13
3. Lessons leamed and reflected in proposed project design                            15
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   15
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        15
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                           16
2. Financial                                                                           17
3. Technical                                                                          18
4. Institutional                                                                      19
5. Environmental                                                                      19
6. Social                                                                             21
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                 21
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     22



2. Critical risks                                                                     22
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     23
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                            23
2. Other                                                                              23
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                          24
1. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                         25
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                          26
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description (Appendix - Eligibility Criteria for Project Investments)  30
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                         39
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                                   40
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                               47
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                       48
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                     61
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                   62
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                  63
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                            65
Annex 11: Project lmplementation                                                         67
Annex 12: Govemment Letter of Development Program                                        82
Annex 13: Implementation Schedule - Phase 1                                              92
MAP(S)
Irrigation Based Community Development Program/Programme de Developpement Rural lntegre Centre
sur la Petite et Moyenne Hydraulique (IBRD 30945)



MOROCCO
IRRIGATION BASED COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
Project Appraisal Document
Middle East and North Africa Region
MNSRE
Date: April 30, 2001                                Team Leader: Douglas W. Lister
Country Manager/Director: Christian Delvoie         Sector Manager/Director: Doris Koehn
Project ID: P056978                                 Sector(s): Al - Irrigation & Drainage
Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program Loan (APL)    Theme(s): Rural Development; Poverty Reduction
Poverty Targeted Intervention: Y
Program Financing Data-
... . .....       :Estim ated:.           ... ....
-AP LIndicative Financing Plan,                     Implementation Period'          Borrowe-.
________  ~ ~  ~  ~   :.(Bank  FY)-- - --
IBRD             Others       Total    Commitment   Closing
________ US$ m      %      US$ m       US$ m         Date        Date
APLI        32.57    76.8      9.83       42.40     05/3 112001   06/30/2006 Kingdom of Morocco
Loan/
Credit          ___
API-2        70.00    70.0    30.00       100.00     01/01/2006   12/31/2009 Kingdom of Morocco
Loan/
C rediti_ _ _ _ _                                                         _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
APL-3        70.00    70.0    30.00       100.00     01/01/2010   12/31/2013 Kingdom of Morocco
Loan/
C red it   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __      _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _            _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Total       172.57            69.83       242.40     _____                     ____________
Project Financing Data
[X] Loan     j ] Credit      ]Grant      IJGuarantee         ] IOther:
For LoanslCredits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 32.6
Proposed Terms: Variable Spread & Rate Single Currency Loan (VSCL)
Grace period (years): 5                                  Years to maturity: 20
Commitment fee: 0.75%
Front end fee on Bank loan: 1.00%
Financing Plan:     Source                                    -Local':        Frgn::ta
BOR-ROWER                                                         6.63            0.00           6.63
IBRD                                                             24.12            8.45          32.57
LOCAL COMMUNITIES                                                 3.20            0.00           3.20
Total:                                                           33.95            8.45          42.40
Borrower: KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
Responsible agency: MIN. OF AGRICULTURE, RURAL DEVELOPMENT, AND WATER & FORESTS



Direction des Amrnagements Hydro-Agricoles (DAHA)
Address: Quartier Administratif, B.P. 607, Rabat
Contact Person: M'hamed Guerdouh
Tel: 212 (0)37 75 17 10               Fax: 212 (0)37 75 20 42              Email: NA
Estimated disbursements (Bank FYIUS$M):
FY~~   2002   2003  ~~ 2004,       20          06        20
Annual    3.60        3.10       6.40       8.27       8.00 |    3.20
Cumulative    3.60        6.70      13.10      21.37     29.37      32.57
Project Implementation period: 5 years - Due to project start-up in FY01, however, retroactive fnancing cf up to Yen
380.0 million (10% of the Loan amount), equivalent to US$3.26 million, would be provided for eligible expenditures
(mainly civil works contracts for which the Bank has given its "no objection") incurred after June 15, 2000, but not earlier
than 12 months before loan signing.
Expected effectiveness date: 09/15/2001  Expected closing date:  06/30/2006
-2 -



A. Program  Purpose and Project Development Objective
1. Program purpose and program phasing:
The proposed Irrigation Based Community Development Program (IBCD) would be an "entry
point" for the implementation of the Moroccan Government's new "2020 Rural Development Strategy"
which calls for a more participatory, integrated approach to rural development (see Annex 12 -
Government Letter of Development Program). Under the leadership of the Ministry of Agriculture, Rural
Development, and Water and Forests (MARDWF), which has been assigned the role of "champion" within
the Government for the new strategy, the IBCD Program would seek to improve the incomes and quality of
life of rural communities centered on small and medium irrigation (SMI) in 15 provinces over a 13-year
period (2001-13), primarily through demand-driven, coordinated investments in SMI rehabilitation and
improvement and complementary community infrastructure, including rural roads, water supply/sanitation,
electrification, health and education facilities.
Drawing on the budget of MARDWF for the SMI rehabilitation and improvement activities, which
have already been launched in Azilal, and on the Rural Development Fund (RDF) under the Prime Minister
for the complementary community infrastructure activities, the first phase of the IBCD Program (2001-06)
would aim to pilot the new participatory, multi-sectoral approach for incremental rural development
activities in selected SMI areas of three provinces (Azilal, Khenifra and Al Haouz). The second phase
(2006-09) would seek to expand this approach to cover other rural development activities beyond those
financed by the Program in selected SMI areas of a further six provinces (to be chosen). Phase Ill
(2010-13) would further expand this approach to cover rural development activities outside the SMI areas
in an additional six provinces.
2. Project development objective: (see Annex I)
Reflecting the goals of the IBCD Program, the proposed first-phase Project (2001-06) would seek
to improve the incomes and quality of life of rural communities centered on SMI in the provinces of Azilal,
Khenifra and Al Haouz through investments in SMI rehabilitation and improvemnent and complementary
community infrastructure. As a way of piloting the shift to the new demand-driven, integrated approach,
additional resources from the Rural Development Fund (RDF) under the authority of the Prime Minister
would be made available to the three provinces concerned to finance additional investments in
complementary community infrastructure not covered by ongoing sectoral programs in accordance with the
priorities of the rural communities, as expressed through a participatory programming process. Similar
investments in SMI rehabilitation and improvement and complementary community infrastructure would be
prepared on a participatory, multi-sectoral basis for the 6 additional provinces to be covered by the second
phase.
3. Key performance indicators: (see Annex I)
Progress toward the achievement of IBCD objectives would be measured through a participatory
monitoring and evaluation system focusing on the following key performance indicators: (a) increases in
fruit tree, vegetable, forage, cereal and other production as a result of the investments in SMI rehabilitation
and improvement and adoption of new technology; (b) number of villages equipped with rural roads, water
supply/sanitation, electrification, health and education facilities; and (c) extent of beneficiary participation
and integration of sectoral programs, as reflected in the number of Participatory Programming Team
meetings and Core Rural Development Committee meetings and the share of investments financed by the
beneficiaries and rural communities.
-3-



B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: R97-2             Date of latest CAS discussion: 01/30/97
The proposed IBCD Program, of which the Project would be the first phase, would contribute tc
the new CAS (presented together with this project) objective of reducing disparities between rural and
urban areas and reducing rural poverty by: (a) improving incomes from small and medium irrigation; (b)
improving access to basic economic infrastructure and social services. The project would also promote the
CAS goal of greater decentralization of the planning, design and execution of rural programs and serviccs,
but in an integrated way with close involvement of the beneftciaries. It would thus complement the
prevailing, Bank-supported sectoral approach reflected, for example, in the Social Priorities Program
(BAJ), Water Supply Program for Rural Populations (PAGER), Rural Electrification Program (PERG)
and National Rural Roads Program (PNRR), and constitute a step in the direction of the integrated rural
development advocated by the Bank's "Rural Development - Vision to Action" paper.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
After making relatively good progress in the late 1980s (real agricultural GDP growth of 4.0 % per
annum from 1986-91, compared to population growth of 2.0 % per annum), rural sector growth and
poverty alleviation deteriorated in the 1990s (real agricultural GDP growth of -5.6 % from 1991-2000
compared to +1.6% for overall GDP). An estimated 27% of the rural population, or 4 million people, liv,
on less than US$1.00 a day. The main sector issues are:
*   An incentives framework which favors production of "strategic commodities" (mainly wheat and
sugar) that can no longer provide the dynamism necessary for sustainable broad based growth and
poverty reduction: for example, despite many years of heavy protection, cereal yields (1,113 kg/ha) are
well below MNA regional and lower middle income country levels (1,341.4 and 2,097.5 kg/ha,
respectively);
*   Lack of drought preparedness in a country which experiences recurrent droughts, with severe
consequences for sector growth;
*   Social indicators in rural areas are similar to those for countries with much lower per capita incomes,
and the gap between urban and rural living standards is great, contributing to growing rural exodus:
for example, access to potable water is almost universal in urban areas, but only 42% in rural areas:
access to electricity is 86% in urban areas, but only 16% in rural areas; illiteracy among 15-24 year
olds is 15% in urban areas, but 61% in rural areas;
*   Untargeted food subsidies go mainly to better-off urban consumers, while social "safety net"
programs are weak in rural areas; and
* The country's traditionally centralized approach to rural development has provided little
encouragement for local participation and cost sharing which are essential for sustainability.
However, the Government is committed to addressing these issues, and has recently published a
"2020 Rural Development Strategy." It has also established a Pernanent Interministerial Rural
Development Council at the ministerial level and a Permanent Interministerial Rural Development
Committee (PIMRDC) at the Secretary General level, with the Ministry of Agriculture, Rural
Development, and Water and Forests (MARDWF) as Secretary, to guide implementation of the strategy,
- 4 -



3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The proposed Project is a direct response to three of the above sector issues, namely: the gap in
living standards between rural and urban areas; lack of drought preparedness; and the need for greater
decentralization of rural development activities. Reform of the agricultural incentives and marketing
framework, as well as the design of appropriate social "safety nets" for the potential losers from such
reform, is being considered by the Government in the course of preparing an Action Plan to implement the
"2020 Rural Development Strategy."
4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans:
The Irrigation Based Community Development Program (lBCD) is expected to be implemented in
three phases, each involving a new set of provinces. The Project described in this PAD refers to the first
phase of the IBCD Program, as does the Project Design Summary in Annex 1. Each new phase would be
subject to an appraisal process aimed at evaluating its economic, financial, technical, institutional,
environmental and social feasibility, as well as to leam from the experience gained during the
implementation of the previous phase. This approach of "learning by doing" will allow for continuous
adjustments to the Program design, early identification of risks, and the implementation of corrective
measures before geographic coverage expands.
The initial focus of the first phase of the Program, and thus of the triggers for Phase 11, will be
evidence that the new institutional arrangements designed to achieve greater beneficiary participation and
integration of sectoral programs through the Rural Development Fund (RDF) are being piloted
successfully. For Phase 111, the focus will be on deepening to include other rural development activities
beyond those financed by the RDF, as well as geographic expansion
In order to help incorporate required adjustments, facilitate the appraisal process of each new
phase and determine its appropriateness and readiness for integration into the Program, trigger indicators or
milestones for Phases 11 and Ill have been defined in the Attachment to Annex 1. They would be assessed
and measured as part of the monitoring and evaluation system and presented in the reports to be prepared
for each phase. At negotiations, it was agreed that the Borrower will:
(a) prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than June 30, 2004 a report describing the progress in
the fulfillment of the actions referred to in the Program, including the attainment of the
milestones agreed between the Borrower and the Bank and required to be reached as a
prerequisite to initiate the second phase of the Program; and
(b) review with the Bank, not later than December 31, 2004 the report referred to in (a) above, and
thereafter take all measures required by the Bank to initiate the second phase of the Program.
C. Program and Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Amnex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Over 5 years (2001-06), the proposed first-phase Project would consist of the following four components:
- 5 -



t t;0 0 ; ~~~~~..;;;;::....        =      : -06N
1. Rehabilitation of SMI - About  Irrigation &        20.90      49.3      16.40      50.4
9,450 ha in total, of which 3,450 ha in   Drainage
Azilal and an estimated 3,000 ha each
in Kheni.ra and Al Haouz
2. Complementary Community         AD                 13.34      31.5       9.90      30.4
Infrastructure - Additional rural road,
water supply/sanitation, electrification,
health and education facilities for the
selected SMI areas not provided for by
ongoing sectoral programs, financed by
the RDF
3. Institutional Strengthening - Support  Decentralization  5.87  13.8      4.40      13.5
for the participatory, integrated
approach and for enhanced agricultural
support services in the selected SMI
areas, including environmental
protection measures
4. Preparation of Phase 11 - Support for  AD           1.97       4.6       1.55       4.8
participatory, integrated programming
of SMI rehabilitation and
complementary comrnmunity
infrastructure in 6 additional provinces
Total Project Costs                  42.08      99.2      32.25      99.0
Front-end fee                    0.32       0.8       0.32       1.0
Total Financing Required                   42.40      100.0     32.57      100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The Project would support implementation of the Government's recently published "2020 Rural
Development Strategy," notably by promoting the "horizontal" integration of previously "vertical" sectoral
programs on a demand-driven, participatory basis. This implies substantial decentralization of
decision-making authority and flexible programming at the provincial level.
- 6-



3. Benefits and target population:
The SMI areas targeted for the first phase Project are home to some of the poorest people in
Morocco who have historically benefited little from previous development initiatives. The target
population consists of the roughly 58,800 inhabitants of rural communities with the potential to improve
their livelihood from SMI in Azilal (26,700) Khenifra (17,700) and Al Haouz (14,400). Based on a number
of indicators (agricultural income, population density, access to economic infrastructure and social
services), Azilal is classified as a province with a low level of rural development, while Khenifra and Al
Haouz are classified as average. In all three provinces, water supplies are uncertain, with floods in winter
sometimes damaging the irrigation facilities (although under the Project, measures would be taken to guard
against this with gabions, lining, etc.). There are also water shortages in summer. Most farms are small,
and frequently fragmented into even smaller plots, often located on terraces. Irrigation efficiency is only
30-40%. The water users are often families who co-own a canal.
It is around these SMI areas that the economic life of the community takes place. Activities include
dairy cattle raising, animal fattening, artisanal activities and small-scale transformation of agricultural
products. The SMI areas are also where most villagers live, and roads tend to serve these areas. These
conditions explain why investment in SMI provides an opportunity to improve the entire economic and
social life of the community.
IFAD is financing a similar operation in parts of Al Haouz Province not covered by the proposed
Project.
Economic benefits would include:
* increased household income and food security through the intensification and diversification of irrigated
agricultural production; and
*   greater access to basic economic infrastructure such as rural roads, potable water supply/sanitation and
electricity, and social services such as health and education.
Social benefits would include:
*   decreased rural exodus as rural incomes and living standards improve;
*   improved participation and access of beneficiaries to decision-making processes and investment
opportunities, enhancing ownership for project investments and their sustainability; and
*   increased organizational capacity for the rural communities involved and user groups, contributing to
the formation of social capital.
Environmental benefits. The SMI rehabilitation and improvement and institutional strengthening
components are expected to lead to sustainable intensification of the agricultural production systems in the
Project areas, resulting in less conversion of marginal lands for agricultural purposes and improved
cultivation practices that would conserve soi} and water. Water points construction and quality monitoring
are expected to improve access to reliable drSnking water and reduce the incidence of water bome diseases.
Capacity building at the provincial level in environmental assessment procedures and the implementation of
environmental management plans, based on the Environmental Assessment (EA) prepared by the Borrower
- 7 -



and submitted to the Bank on February 20, 2001, are expected to avoid environmental damage in the
Project areas.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Project Coordination
To the extent possible, project oversight and coordination would be carried out through existing
institutions at the national and provincial levels, as follows: (a) At the national level: (i) the Permanent
Interministerial Rural Development Council/Committee (PIMRDC); and (ii) the National Coordinating
Committee (NCC) for the IBCD Program; and (b) At the provincial level: the Core Rural Development
Committee (CRDC).
*   Permanent lnterministerial Rural Development Council/Committee (PIMRDC). The Project wculd
enable the PIMRDC to consolidate its position as champion of integrated rural development prograrns.
The Council, or the Secretary General level Committee attached to it, would receive for approval the
IBCD reports which would be prepared at the beginning of the Project on the provinces chosen,
including initial estimates of the program and the approximate amount of the investments likely to be
proposed. It would also have the power to arbitrate in cases where a member of the provincial level
Core Rural Development Committee (CRDC) is in serious disagreement with a decision of this body.
The PlMRDC would undertake a technical/economic evaluation of the use of Project funds, including
the procedures for dialogue with the beneficiaries and the operation of the CRDC.
*  National Coordinatiing Committee (NCC). This Committee would constitute a permanent technicaL
sub-committee of the PIMRDC. The Department of Hydro-Agricultural Works (DHAW) would be the
Secretariat of the NCC whose role would be to: (a) comment on and approve the indicative financial
planning for the five years of the Project; (b) approve the "Guide to Integrated Programming;" (c)
review each year the IBCD investment programs submitted by the provinces; (d) monitor the progress
of the Project; (e) commission annual monitoring and evaluation reports on the project; and (f) at the
closure of the Project, commission the completion report in order to prepare for Phase 11.
*  Core Rural Development Committee (CRDC). The members of the existing Provincial Technical
Committee (PTC) most concemed with rural development would form a Core Rural Development
Committee (CRDC). Presided over by the Govemor, this committee would be the prolongation of the
PIMRDC at the provincial level, and would be primarily responsible for calling upon the Rural
Development Fund (RDF) to finance the priorities of the rural communities not covered by ongoing
sectoral programs. The Provincial Director of Agriculture (PDA) would be the Secretary of the CRD)C
which would also be in charge of supervising the Participatory Programming Teams (PPT) designed to
help the rural communities to formulate their requests in the form of an IBCD investment program anid
to prepare an IBCD report which would be submitted to the provincial technical authorities and
approved by the CRDC.
Project Implementation
Project implementation arrangements have been designed to incorporate two new dimensions: (a'
beneficiary participation in the planning, design, execution and O&M&R of project works and equipment;
and (b) integration of the various sectoral programs into a more coherent whole. Existing policies and
procedures for SMI rehabilitation and improvement works are already "participatory" in that an
Agricultural Water Users Association (AWUA) has to be formed in advance to collaborate in the design,
- 8 -



execution and O&M&R of the works. Similar policies and procedures apply to rural water
supply/sanitation works, so that under the Project the participatory approach would mainly affect the
choice of other complementary community infrastructure investments (rural roads, electrification, schools
and clinics). It will be important to take account of the experience of the Lakhdar Watershed Management
Pilot Project (Ln. 44260-MOR), now in its second year of implementation, which clearly indicates the need
for management and staff continuity and training in the participatory approach for all parties concerned, to
achieve the behavioral changes required.
Beneficiary participation is one of the cornerstones of the Government's new "2020 Rural
Development Strategy" which calls for greater involvement by concerned populations in the planning and
execution of rural development programs. It is based on the realization that the top-down approach has
largely failed to instill a sense of ownership among the beneficiaries for project works and equipment which
leads, in turn, to shortcomings in their O&M&R, ultimately compromising their sustainability. Following
existing practice under the various sectoral programs, beneficiary participation also implies a significant
contribution to the capital cost of Project works and a commitment to take over responsibility for their
O&M&R. For SMI rehabilitation, a 10% capital contribution is normally required from the AWUA. For
rural roads, the community is required to contribute at least 5% to the capital cost. For potable
water/sanitation, the required capital cost contribution by the community and the beneficiaries is 20%.
Integration of the complementary community infrastructure with the SMI rehabilitation and
improvement works to be provided under the Project is not an end in itself, but rather the means to create a
sense of ownership and the conditions for a sustainable improvement in incomes and living standards,
following the priorities of the rural communities concerned. Integration is also a way for the Government to
take advantage of synergy's (e.g., rural roads, water supply/sanitation and electricity coordinated with
school building or clinic construction).
As indicated above, the principal instrument for achieving beneficiary participation and integration
of sectoral programs under the first phase Project will be the existing Rural Development Fund (RDF)
under the authority of the Prime Minister. Following the precedent set by the recent drought relief effort,
additional resources from the RDF will be made available to the provinces of Azilal, Khenifra and Al
Haouz, to finance complementary community infrastructure determined in an integrated way in accordance
with the priorities of the rural communities concerned, as expressed through a participatory process with
the Participatory Programming Teams.
As for Project coordination, project implementation would take place as much as possible through
existing institutions at the provincial and local levels, as follows: (a) at the provincial level: the
Participatory Programming Teams (PPT); and (b) at the local level: (i) the Extension Centers (EC); (ii) the
rural communities (RC); and (iii) the Agricultural Water Users Associations (AWUA).
*   Participatory Programming Team (PPT). A PPT would be created for each province. It would report
to the CRDC, and in its day-to-day management be responsible to the Provincial Director of
Agriculture (PDA). Its main mission would be to assist the rural communities (RC) to formulate their
requests in the form of an IBCD investment program for presentation to the CRDC. Each rural
community's five-year investment plan will be an important input into this process, but should not be
overriding, to allow the local population to freely express its views. The PPT would be made up of 3
PDA engineers, I staff each from the provincial branches of the Ministries of Equipment, Interior,
Health and Education, as well as from the National Electricity Office, and I Social/Participation
Specialist. It would be supported by a technical assistance team.
-9-



*   Extension Centers (EC). In each province, the lowest unit of the MARDWF field structure closest lo
the farmers is the EC (Centres de Travaux, CI). After years of neglect, the ECs are sorely lacking itn
qualified staff and equipment, but they do correspond roughly with the small rural regions to be
developed under the Project, and thus constitute relatively homogenous programming zones. As a rule,
they cover the areas where the traditional irrigation perimeters are clustered and where, as a result, the
efforts of the technical services of the various ministries can be coordinated. lt is at the level of the EC
that the IBCD investment programs would be aggregated and the decentralized data banks on the zores
involved would be set up. The EC would be strenthened as required for this purpose.
* Rural Communities (RC). As the basic unit of local Government in Morocco, the RC would have a
key role toplay in the planning and execution of the Project. With the help of the Extension Centers,
each RC would prepare an 1BCD investment program covering the SMI rehabilitation and
improvement and complementary community infrastructure which it would like to have financed under
the Project. After approval by the CRDC, this program would be the basis for a "partnership
agreement" between the RC and the provincial administration.
*   Agricultural Water User Associations (AWUA). AWUAs would be created for all the SMI
perimeters covered by the Project according to the provisions of Law 2/84. They would participate ir
the design and execution of the rehabilitation and improvement works, and would take over
responsibility for O&M&R.
As each province comes on stream, the participatory programming, consultations and execution of
rural development activities in the selected SMI areas would go through the following three phases (see
Annex 13: Implementation Schedule - Phase 1):
*   Participatory Programming. This would be implemented at the provincial level by the PPT, backed
up by technical assistance as appropriate. Over a period of approximately one year, the following
activities would be undertaken:
-  Definition of the RC to take part in the Project, and an initial estimate of the investments to te
carried out.
- Based on a participatory planning process, identification of the needs of the concerned RCs
without predetermination of the sectoral breakdown.
-  Establishment of the RC's IBCD investment programs, accompanied by a general feasibility
study covering the entire project area.
*   Consultations. This would take place in three stages:
-  Meeting of the CRDC to consider the report of the PPT.
-  Meeting of the PIMRDC at the central level to approve the broad outline of the provincial
programs.
-  Meetings between the CRDC and local elected officials to discuss the IBCD investment
programs and translate them into partnership agreements.
*   Execution. The various components of the Project would be carried out by the different line ministry
- 1 0 -



departments concerned following the usual policies and practices of the sectoral programs. For the SMI
component, this phase would consist of the following stages:
- formation of the Agricultural Water User Association (AWUA)
-  technical studies of the irrigation network (I year on average); and
-  execution of the works (2 years on average).
To help guide implementation of the required behavioral changes, it was agreed at negotiations that
the Borrower will prepare an Implementation Manual (IM) under terms of reference and guidelines
agreed with the Bank, and submit it to the Bank within 6 months of loan signing.
Project Management
Since MARDWF will be responsible for the Project, it will be administratively attached to the
Department of Hydro-Agricultural Works (DHAW) in the Ministry. At negotiations, it was agreed that a
new Central Management Unit (CMU) for the Project will be established within DHIAW by December 31,
2001. The Director of DHAW will be designated National Director (ND) for the Project. The ND will be
assisted by two Engineers, a Financial Management Specialist, an Environmental Specialist and a
Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist.
At the provincial level, the Provincial Director of Agriculture (PDA) will be responsible for the
management of the Project within the province, and will be designated Provincial Director (PD) for the
Project. To assist the PD, a new Provincial Management Unit (PMU) will be set up, including an
Accountant.
Procurement
Procurement under the Project would be in accordance with the Guidelines for Procurement under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, dated January 1995, revised in January 1999, using standard bidding
documents and contract forms agreed with the Bank. Consultants would be selected in accordance with
Bank's Guidelines on the Selection of Consultants, dated January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and
January 1999, using standard contract forms agreed by the Bank. See Annex 6 for details.
Disbursement
To facilitate project start-up in 2000 and 2001, the Bank has already given its "no objection" to a
number of civil works contracts. Other project activities are also planned between now and the anticipated
date of loan signing in mid-June 2001. Retroactive financing for eligible expenditures within the limit of
10% of the loan amount (Yen 380.0 million, equivalent to US$3.26 million) would therefore be provided to
help cover project expenditures between June 15, 2000 and the anticipated date of the loan signature of
June 15, 2001 (but not earlier than 12 months before loan signing).
The Borrower would establish a Special Account (SA) in MAD with the Treasury. The authorized
allocation would be limited to MAD 24.0 million, representing about 4 months of estimated disbursements
from the IBRD loan. Initially, the allocation would be limited to MAD 15.0 million, while the full
allocation could be claimed when disbursements reach Yen 8.0 million.
Full documentation for expenditures under contracts requiring the Bank's prior review will be
submitted with the corresponding application. Disbursements for goods contracts below US$300,000,
- 11 -



works contracts below US$500,000 and services contracts and training below US$ 100,000 for consulting
firms and US$50,000 for individual consultants would be made on the basis of Statements of Expenditures
(SOE). Documentation to support these expenditures would be maintained by the DHAW and made
available for review by the Bank supervision missions and project auditors.
Financial Management
The Financial Management System (FMS) in place in the MARDWF in general and DHAW in
particular is based on the principles and procedures defined by the legal framework applicable to the pubic
sector administration and more specifically to governmental institutions. DHAW maintains an accounting
system on a cash basis and the outline of budget components according to the provisions of the Public
Accounting Law. The management information system allows an acceptable monitoring of operational
activity. Although satisfactory overall, the existing financial management system should be improved in
order to handle the specific requirements of the Project (coordination with other agencies involved), to fieet
Bank requirements and to achieve the required efficiency.
The Borrower will carry out a time-bound Action Plan acceptable to the Bank for the strengthenling
of its financial management system for the Project in order to enable it not later than 12 months after lo;n
effectiveness to prepare quarterly Project Management Reports acceptable to the Bank. Financial
management arrangements for the project are detailed in Annex 6 and summarized below.
Accounting and Financial Reporting. As indicated above, a new Central Management Unit
(CMU) would be established within DRAW. As head of the (CMU), the National Director (ND) will
maintain acceptable project accounts with the assistance of a Financial Management Specialist. This team
will ensure the issuing of annual project financial statements and quarterly Project Management Reports
(PMR) acceptable to the Bank, as well as their submission to the Bank and to the auditors. Procedures lor
accounts and financial reporting, as well as internal control mechanisms specific to the project aimed at
meeting Bank requirements, would be developed by the Financial Management Specialist.
Audit. At negotiations, it was agreed that the Borrower would have the records, accounts and
annual project financial statements, special account and statements of expenditure audited by independent
auditors in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, namely international standards on
auditing as issued by the International Federation of Accountants, the Bank's Guidelines (Financial,
Accounting, Reporting and Auditing Handbook, FARAH) and specific terms of reference acceptable to the
Bank. It was further agreed that, on an exceptional basis, the Bank considers the General Inspector of
Finance (GIF) to be an acceptable auditor. He will express a professional opinion on the annual project
financial statements, special account and statements of expenditure, and submit to the Bank an annual audit
report as soon as possible after the end of the fiscal year, but not later than six months.
Disbursements. Disbursements from the Bank loan will be initially made using the traditional
method (reimbursements with full documentation and against Statements of Expenditure - SOEs, and
direct payments). The Government could opt for PMR-based disbursements after the assessment of the
financial management system, which aims at ensuring that this system is operating satisfactory. This
assessment will be completed no later than September 30, 2002.
- 12 -



Monitoring and Evaluation/Progress Reports/Supervision
At negotiations, it was agreed that, within 12 months of loan signing, the Borrower will prepare
and submit to the Bank a participatory system for monitoring and evaluating all aspects of the project,
including environmental activities, under terms of reference and guidelines agreed with the Bank.
On this basis, the PDAs of Azilal, Al Haouz and Khenifra, with input from the beneficiaries, will
monitor and evaluate implementation of the Project on an ongoing basis in accordance with the indicators
given in Annex I and the main features of the environmental mitigation plan as described in section E5, and
submit half yearly progress reports to the Bank.
The project will be supervised at least twice yearly by Bank teams which will include an
Environmental Specialist.
Mid-Term Review
At negotiations, it was further agreed that the Borrower will: (a) maintain an adequate monitoring
and evaluation system, including environmental indicators; (b) by June 30, 2003, prepare an
implementation review report on progress achieved to date and the measures required to successfully
complete the project, including a specific review of the institutional and financial set-up, especially the
workings of the RDF, notably the choice of managers of RDF funds at the provincial level, if applicable;
and (c) by December 31, 2003, review the report with the Bank.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The Project was originally designed as a "vertical" sectoral operation (SMI-3), but this was
rejected because on the contrary the Government's new "2020 Rural Development Strategy" emphasizes the
advantages of the participatory, integrated approach, to strengthen local ownership and effectiveness.
Hence the Project will develop and test new institutional arrangements at the provincial level to promote the
"horizontal" integration of the previous "vertical" programs of the different sectoral ministries into a
coherent whole which reflects the needs and aspirations of the local population.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
-  -       -   - - ~~Latst Supri-sjon--
'Se     us:                        Projct             -       PSR) Rat -n-
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ (~ a n -fln n c.d proj.cta.     O nly).
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                      Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
(a) COMPLETED
irrigation, drainage, rural         First Small & Medium Scale         S              S
infrastructure, rural development and   Irrigation (Loan 2253-MOR)
participatory management
- 13 -



irrigation, drainage, rural       Second Small & Medium Scale      S             S
infrastructure, rural development and  Irrigation (Loan 2954-MOR)
participatory management
Improving living conditions in rural    Second Rural Electrification  S         S
areas through electrification and rural  Project (Loan 3262-MOR)
development following a participatory
approach
Improved natural resource management Second Forestry Project (Loan  S            S
through better planning, forest  3156-MOR)
regeneration, watershed management
and range management
(b) ONGOING
Core needs of rural poor by improving  Secondary, Tertiary and Rural  U         S
access to social services and markets   Roads Project (Loan
through road construction, rural  3901 -MOR)
development and participatory
management
Social and rural development, poverty  Rural Water Supply and      S            S
alleviation and participatory    Sanitation (PAGER) Project
management                       (Loan 42540-1-MOR)
Community based natural resource  Lakhdar Watershed                U             S
management                        Management Pilot Project
(Loan 4426-MOR)
Access to basic education, health and   Social Priorities Program (Loan  S       S
public works employment in 14     Nos. 40250, 4025A, 4025S)
provinces (BAJ)
Protected areas management and    Protected Areas Management       S             S
participatory conservation of     (GEF)
ecosystems
Other development agencies
(a) European Union                Natural Resource Management
(b) Kreditanstalt fMr Wiederaufbau  Participatory Natural Resource
(Germany)                         Management
Small Scale Irrigation
Rehabilitation
(c) Agence Francaise de Developpement Small and Medium Scale
(France)                          Irrigation
- 14 -



(d) UNDP                          Integrated and Participatory
Rural Development
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The proposed project would build on past experience with rural development programs which
indicate that flexibility and grass-roots, demand-driven approaches are key in building ownership, defining
local priorities and laying the foundation for better implementation and sustainability. The following main
lessons can be drawn from these programs:
*  the top-down "integration" of rural roads, water supply and other socioeconomic infrastructure with
agricultural projects during the 1 980s (Fes-Karia-Tissa, Loukkos, Moyen Atlas and Oulmes Rommani)
proved unsustainable, due mainly to inadequate counterpart funds and limited beneficiary commitment;
* community-based, demand-driven approaches have had mixed success in the promotion of rural
infrastructure and social investments because of excessive involvement of local authorities;
consequently, it is important that MARDWF and the other Ministries only provide the required
technical support, do not interfere in community organization and decisions and do not try to take over
infrastructure O&M&R, productive tasks or commercial functions from the beneficiaries;
*  investment decisions by municipalities tend to favor investments with political impact; and
* the current budget process is highly centralized and not conducive to community driven development.
The proposed project would address these issues by: (a) establishing a participatory process for the
beneficiaries to express their priorities and see that they are implemented; and (b) making available to the
participating provinces additional resources from the Rural Development Fund (RDF) to be used flexibly to
respond to the incremental needs of the beneficiaries in an integrated way.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
* The project is the first concrete manifestation of the Govemment's new "2020 Rural Development
Strategy" which has strong political support at the highest level.
* Through the Second Small & Medium Scale Irrigation Project (SMSI-2), which preceded the proposed
operation, and the Lakhdar Watershed Management Pilot Project, MARDWF has been piloting the
IBCD program's basic principles, in particular by stimulating community initiatives, ensuring
involvement of smallholders and sustaining interest, commitment and participation.
* The recent severe drought has raised awareness of the need for sustainable investments in SMI
rehabilitation and improvement.
* The Borrower has submitted a Letter of Development Program describing the overall objectives of the
IBCD Program and means of achieving them, as required for all APLs (see Annex 12).
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
* Morocco was selected as a "Focus Country" under the Bank's "Rural Development - Vision to Action"
program and substantial sector work was completed.
* Bank support provides continuity to the Government in implementing its long-term national rural
development strategy which it also helped design, and may facilitate the involvement of other donors in
- 15 -



later phases of the Program;
*   Having acquired considerable experience in Morocco and around the world in community participation
and operations dealing with integrated rural development, and recently championed community driven
development, the Bank can facilitate access to information and advisory capacity on design and
implementation issues and lessons learned with comparable projects; and
* The new APL lending instrument provides greater flexibility in dealing with client needs and local
conditions as they evolve.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
* Cost benefit    NPV=US$3.24 million; ERR = 13.5 % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
Since detailed design has only been carried out so far for Azilal , this analysis is based on that
province. However, similar results are expected for Khenifra and Al Haouz.
A cost-benefit analysis was carried out to estimate the Net Present Value (NPV) and Internal Rale
of Return (IRR) of the irrigation agriculture components in the province of Azilal. First, financial flows
were calculated for both the "with" and "without" project scenarios. Then, conversion factors were
estimated and used to translate the financial flows into economic values, and the economic NPV and IRR
were estimated. No residual values were included in the analysis. The period of analysis is 30 years. Based
on the Bank norm for projects in Morocco, a 10% discount rate was used.
The benefits quantified in the analysis are the incremental value of agricultural production. They
materialize in three ways: (i) a slight increase in the cultivated area; (ii) increase in yields; and (iii) a shift
from low-value crops, basically cereals for home consumption, to higher value crops, such as fodder for
livestock and fiuits and vegetables to be sold on the local markets.
These benefits are made possible by the combination of several factors: (i) the
rehabilitationlmodernization of irrigation infrastructure with the result of improving water use efficiency,
equity and reliability; (ii) the transfer to and adoption by farmers of improved farming and irrigation
practices; and (iii) a better access to input and output markets through the improvement of rural roads. All
these aspects are ensured by different components of the project.
Accordingly, the costs included in the analysis are: (i) the investment costs for the rehabilitation
and improvement of irrigation infrastructure; improved rural roads; agricultural development and the
beneficiary participation and integration process; (ii) the incremental costs of crop production stemming
from the increase in the amount of inputs applied (labor, water, pesticides, fertilizer and improved seeds);
and (iii) the incremental recurrent costs for irrigation infrastructure, rural roads and support services to
farmers.
A sensitivity analysis was carried out to deternine the robustness of the NPV and IRR to changes
in key variables, with the following results which confirm the economic soundness of the Project:
- 16 -



Base case scenario                                                             13.5%
Sensitivity Analysis
- Reduction of IO% in agricultural production value                            11.8%
- Increase of I10% in agricultural production value                            15.1%
- Increase of 10% in capital costs                                             12.4%
- Increase of 10% in total costs                                               12.4%
- Decrease of 10% in agricultural production value and increase of 10% in total costs  10.7%
The detailed economic analysis is contained in Annex 4.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Farmers' financial benefits.
The main financial benefit accruing to farmers is the increase in revenue stemming from
intensification and to a lesser extent, diversification towards higher value crops. On the other hand,
production costs are increased by a higher use of inputs (work for land preparation and crop management,
pesticides and fertilizers and use of improved seeds).
Accounting for these factors, average net income per ha on the area under perennial irrigation
would increase by 60% over a 10 year-period, or by an additional 6,800 MAD/ha (prior to payment of
O&M charges). An average farm holding is about 5 ha out of which less than 1 ha is irrigated. Almost all
farmers own the land they cultivate; therefore cost-sharing between the owner of the land and
tenant/sharecroppers is not a major issue.
Incrementalfarm incomes per ha of equipped irrigated land under perennialflow - constant prices
Year 1  Year 2  Year 3  Year 4  Year 5  Year 6  Year 7  Year 8  Year 9 Year 10
MAD        0      296      962    2068    3474    3308    4190    4794    5695    6838  1
1%     I0        2%   r  8%       18%     30%  I 29%      41%      46%     54%     61%
Affordability of O&M charges and participation in capital investments.
Farmers are expected to contribute initially about 10% of the capital costs of the SMI
rehabilitation and improvement works (in kind or cash) and annually 100% of O&M&R costs. The average
capital cost for the rehabilitation of the SMI schemes has been estimated at about 17,500 MAD/ha of
equipped area (base cost). Participation in the capital costs corresponds to the estimated cost of labor
and/or provision of local material that can be borne by the population without a financial contribution.
Thus, participation in the investment costs should not cause a financial problem for the beneficiaries.
Average annual O&M costs following rehabilitation are estimated at about 300 MAD/ha of equipped area.
This includes about 100 MAD/ha for operation (mainly salary of the "aiguadier") and about 200 MAD/ha
for maintenance (unqualified and qualified labor, material such as cement and running costs of equipment).
With an average increase in farm income of about 296 MAD/ha after 2 years, the payment of O&M costs
should be affordable to farmers.
- 17 -



The detailed financial analysis at the farm level is contained in Annex 4.
Fiscal Impact:
The project costs would be borne by the public budget (15% of the costs), the loan (77%) and the
contributions (in kind or financial) of the beneficiaries (8%). Over the 5-year implementation period of th:
project, Government would have to provide MAD 69.7 million in counterpart funds, an average of MAD
13.9 million a year (net of beneficiaries' contributions).
Sixty three percent of project costs or MAD 288 million would be born by MARDWF. This is
about 1.55% of planned Government investments in agriculture, and 2.1% of investments in irrigation
(2000-04 plan).
Government Plan for irrigation from 1999-00 to 2003-04
MAID million                                    _
On-going projects completion              470                           3%
Large Irrigation expansion               9,981                         73%
Small Irrigation expansion               2,037                         15%
Small Irrigation Rehabilitation          1,691                          12%
- of which this project                 288                          2.1%
Total                                    13,708                        100%
Another 29% of the costs (excluding beneficiaries' contributions) are allocated to community
infrastructure, including rural roads, rural water supply/sanitation, electricity, health and education
facilities. The fiscal impact on the sector Ministries concerned (Ministry of Equipment, Ministry of Healti
and Ministry of Education) is very limited and difficult to predict: (i) this component totals only MAD 27
mnillion per year shared between three ministries, (ii) this component is financed through the Rural
Development Fund (RDF) which is additional to the sector Ministries' budgets and (iii) the allocation of the
funds to the various Ministries is not known a priori, as it will be deternined by the rural communities on a
demand-driven basis.
On the benefits side, since agriculture is exempt from taxation, increases in tax revenues will be
negligible. However, the Govemnment's contribution to investment will be less than it might otherwise be
since the beneficiaries will contribute about 10% of the investment costs of SMI rehabilitation and
improvement, 20% of rural water and sanitation and 5% of rural roads.
In the long-run, the improved productivity of rural populations will add to national income, which
in turn will have a positive fiscal impact.
3. Technical:
The SMI rehabilitation and improvement works, rural roads, water supply/sanitation facilities,
schools and clinics (see Annex 2: Project Description) are similar to those presently being provided in the
Project area. They are therefore familiar to the executing agencies and present no particular technical
difficulties.
Likewise, the proposed agricultural technical packages are a combination of best practice, and
present no special technical problems for farmers.
- 18 -



4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
In each of the participating provinces, the Extension Center (CT), being the closest arm of
Government to the beneficiaries, would play a vital intermediary role between the administration and the
farmers at both the conception and implementation stages. The irrigation rehabilitation and improvement
works would be executed by the Provincial Director of Agriculture (PDA), while the complementary
community infrastructure programs (rural roads, water supply/sanitation, electricity, health and education)
would be executed by the local branches of the relevant sector ministries. The PDA and the local branches
of the other ministries concerned have experience in executing Bank and other international donor assisted
projects.
4.2 Project management:
As described above, the Project would be managed by a CMU to be established in DHAW under
MARDWF. This Ministry has long experience in implementing IBRD-financed projects and has good
technical capacity. The performance of DHAW, with the support of the PDAs at the provincial level, has
been good in the implementation of past projects. Special units at the provincial level would be created to
support the CMU.
4.3 Procurement issues:
None.
4.4 Financial management issues:
The financial management assessment of DHAW showed that the accounting and financial management
system in place is based on principles and procedures defined by the legal framework applicable to the
public administration and more specifically to governmental institutions. This system is not capable of
providing detailed and cumulative data, as required by the Bank. As a result, a financial management
system specific to the project will have to be designed, including a detailed financial and accounting
procedures manual, software for accounting and reporting and training of project staff. The required
improvements are contained in a time bound action plan agreed at negotiations. If successfully implemented
over a 15 month period, they would mitigate the risks linked to the insufficiencies identified in the existing
DHAW and PDA financial management systems and to the complexity of project implementation involving
several ministries.
5. Environmental:                 Enivironumental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatnent emerging from this analysis.
The Environmental Assessment (EA) submitted to the Bank on February 20, 2001 and made
available for consultation at the Ministry of Agriculture, Rural Development, and Water and Forests
(MARDWF) in Rabat and at the Bank's InfoShop in Washington assesses the generic environmental
impacts of project activities in the three provinces of Azilal, Khenifra and Al Haouz, and provides a model
Environmental Management Plan (EMP) for Azilal. Mitigation measures for potential environmental issues
have been designed, consisting mainly of capacity building in environmental assessment, monitoring and
mitigation. Relevant background is as follows:
-19-



*   National Environmental Policy Framework Currently, environmental assessments are not
mandatory in Morocco, although a draft law and relevant regulations are in the legislative pipeline.
Nevertheless, an environmental assessment was undertaken for the proposed project, as required by
OP/BP 4.01.
* Institutfonal Capacity. The environmental administration is presently in transition. As a result of a
reorganization, the State Secretariat for Environment within the Ministry of Regional Planning,
Environment, Urban Development and Housing (MRPEUDH) has become a Department. The small
Pilot Project and Impact Analysis Division within this Department collaborates with other concerned
parts of the Government in carrying out (so far voluntary) environmental assessments, with decisions
taken at the level of an Inter-ministerial Committee. As part of this project's management, however, -:he
CMU to be established within DHAW would be responsible for environmental aspects, and for this
purpose would be strengthened through the addition of an Environmental Specialist to be provided by
redeployment within the Government.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
Within 6 months of loan signing for Azilal, and within 12 months of loan signing for Khenifra and
Al Haouz, the Borrower will: (a) prepare and update on a regular basis, as agreed with the Bank on the
basis of the EA, an EMP, including: (i) mitigation measures for potential adverse environmental impacts
including aspects linked to the use of pesticides; and (ii) monitoring schemes to review the efficacy of the
EMP in relation to these mitigation measures; and (b) implement the EMP in a manner satisfactory to th-
Bank.
The EMP is expected to consist mainly of capacity building in environmental assessment,
monitoring and mitigation. Environmental criteria will be integrated into project operational manuals and
the project monitoring and evaluation system in order to enable any necessary mitigation actions to be taken
without delay. The EMP for the project will be implemented by the PDA with monitoring oversight froir
the CMU. In Azilal, the already existing Planning and Monitoring Unit in the PDA will ensure the
monitoring of sub-projects according to the potential negative environmental impacts identified in the EA.
in order to strengthen the capacity of the existing unit in Azilal and of future similar units in Khenifra ar d
Al Haouz, training in environmental assessment will be conducted by experienced local consultants.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: The final version of the EA report was
received from the Borrower on February
20, 2001.
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed enviromnent management plan? Describe mechanisir s
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Relevant Government agencies were consulted in the course of preparing the EA. The final version
of the EA report is available for consultation in MARDWF in Rabat and the Bank InfoShop in
Washington.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
Based on the EA, the Borrower will prepare, implement and update as necessary: (a) site specific
mitigation measures for any potentially adverse environmental impacts, and (b) monitoring systems to
review the efficacy of these measures.
- 20 -



6. Social:
6.1 Sumrmarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The project would ensure that the beneficiaries are fully involved in the selection, design,
implementation and monitoring of project activities in the interests of ownership and sustainability.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
Through the operations of the PPT, the beneficiaries will be closely involved with the executing
agencies in the selection, design, implementation and monitoring of project activities.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organlizations?
As in the case of other projects located in the Atlas mountains, NGOs may be involved as
contractors in the implementation of the agricultural extension component.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project aclhieves its social
development outcomes?
The achievement of the Project's institutional objectives of increased beneficiary participation and
integration of sectoral programs will be closely monitored, including as triggers for subsequent phases (see
Attachment to Annex 1).
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
Through regular progress reports including social development indicators.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
.' Poliy --.
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)            * Yes 0 No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                    0 Yes 0 No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                     0 Yes 0 No
Pest Mtanagement (OP 4.09)                                      * Yes 0 No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                   0 Yes 0 No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                    0 Yes 0 No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                              O Yes O No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                               0 Yes 0 No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)    0 Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)          0 Yes 0 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
For OP/BP 4.01, as indicated in Section E.5 above, the EA has been completed, and an EMP has
been prepared for Azilal. Site specific mitigation measures for any potential adverse environmental impacts
and monitoring systems to review their efficacy will be developed under the Project.
As regards OP 4.09, pesticides will not be financed under the project. However, the project may
lead to greater use of pesticides as a result of extension advice and improved road access. Although the
impacts are expected to be minimal, the project will integrate 1PM into the extension advice to be provided
as part of the agricultural support services under Component 3.
- 21 -



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
*   Technical sustainability would focus on arrangements for the O&M&R of the infrastructure to be
rehabilitated and improved and the appropriate management of natural resources. The project would
promote technologies capable of avoiding soil degradation and erosion, and preserving other natural
resources;
* Institutional sustainability would be promoted through a decentralized organizational set-up that wou.ld
ensure coordination and ownership; and
*   Financial sustainability would be pursued by promoting investments and activities that would generate
regular income streams and which the beneficiaries themselves would be capable of operating and
maintaining.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                                sRiskRating  RiskMitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
(a) Villagers may not be willing to         M         Selection criteria would include willingr ess to
contribute to SMI rehabilitation and                  contribute
improvement
(b) RDF funds might not be available at     M         Additional resources for Rural Development
the provincial level on time, and with                Fund, to be programmed flexibly, have leen
sufficient flexibility to respond to the              provided from the Compensation Fund
beneficiaries' priorities
(c) Availability of Government staff with   S         The project would assign Participatory
a good knowledge of the participatory                 Programming Teams to each province,
approach may be limited                               supported by technical assistance
(d) Beneficiaries may not be interested in  M         Improved extension services would incrtase
new technology because of                             awareness of new technological options and
risk-averseness                                      their advantages
From Components to Outputs
(a) WUAs may resist contributing to         S         The Project would introduce a participatory
capital costs and taking over O&M&R                   approach from the outset of activities to ensure
a sense of ownership
(b) Delays may occur with the               S         Realistic planning of project activities
complementary community infrastructure
component and/or the preparation of
Phase 11
(c) CRDC may not operate properly           S         Arbitrage from a higher level would be .alled
for, if necessary
Overall Risk Rating                         S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
- 22 -



3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Risk        I  e of Risk  Risk Rating   Risk Minimization Measure
None
Type of Risk - S (Social), E (Ecological), P (Pollution), G (Governance), M (Management capacity), 0
(Other) Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
None other than standard.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
(a)    Project Coordination: Responsibility for Project coordination will be vested: (i) at the national
level, with the Permanent Interministerial Rural Development Committee (PIMRDC) for overall
guidance and the National Coordinating Committee (NCC) for technical coordination; and (ii) at
the provincial level, with the Core Rural Development Committee (CRDC).
(b)    Project Implementation:
(i) At the national level, responsibility for overall Project implementation and progress monitoring
will be vested with the Department of Hydro-Agricultural Works (DHAW). In order to assist
DHAW in implementing the Project, the Borrower will establish by December 31, 2001 a
Central Management Unit (CMU) within DHAW to be headed by DHAW's Director in
accordance with terms of reference and with personnel and resources acceptable to the Bank,
including a Financial Management Specialist, an Environmental Specialist and a Monitoring
and Evaluation Specialist.
(ii) At the provincial level, responsibility for Project implementation and progress monitoring shall
be vested with the Provincial Department of Agriculture (PDA). In order to assist the PDA in
implementing the Project, the Borrower will establish a Provincial Management Unit (PMU),
to be headed by the PDA Director in accordance with terms of reference and with personnel
and resources acceptable to the Bank.
(c)    Rural Development Fund (RDF): The Borrower will ensure that funding through RDF for the
complementary community infrastructure component will be for investments determined in an
integrated way in accordance with the priorities of the local populations as a result of the
participatory planning process with the Participatory Programming Teams.
(d)    Implementation Manual (IM): Within 6 months of loan signing, to help guide implementation of
the required behavioral changes, the Borrower will prepare an IM for the Project under terms of
reference and guidelines agreed with the Bank, and submit the IM to the Bank.
(e)    Financial Management System: The Borrower will carry out a time-bound Action Plan
- 23 -



acceptable to the Bank for the strengthening of its financial management system for the Project ia
order to enable the Borrower not later than 12 months after loan effectiveness to prepare quarterly
Project Management Reports acceptable to the Bank.
(f)    Monitoring and Evaluation: Within twelve months of loan signing, the Borrower will prepare .nd
submit to the Bank a participatory system for monitoring and evaluating all aspects of the project,
including environmental activities, under terms of reference and guidelines agreed with the Bank.
(g)    Progress Reports: On the basis of this system, the PDAs of Azilal, Al Haouz and Khenifra, wilh
input from the beneficiaries, will monitor and evaluate implementation of the Project on an ongo ng
basis in accordance with the indicators given in Annex 1, and the main features of the
environmental mitigation plan as described in section E5, and submit half yearly progress reports
to the Bank.
(h)    Mid-Term Review: The Borrower will: (a) maintain an adequate monitoring and evaluation
system, including environmental indicators; (b) by June 30, 2003, prepare an implementation
review report on progress achieved to date and the measures required to successfully complete thke
project, including a specific review of the institutional and financial set-up, especially the workings
of the RDF, notably the choice of managers of RDF funds at the provincial level, if applicable; ind
(c) by December 31, 2003, review the report with the Bank.
(i)    Environmental Management Plan: Within 6 months of loan signing for the province of Azilal,
and within 12 months of loan signing for the provinces of Al Haouz and Khenifra, the Borrower
will: (i) prepare and update on a regular basis, as agreed with the Bank and on the basis of the EA,
an EMP including: a) mitigation measures for potentially adverse environmental impacts including
aspects linked to the use of pesticides; and b) monitoring schemes to review the efficacy of the
EMP in relation to mitigation measures, and (ii) implement the EMP in a manner satisfactory to
the Bank.
(j)    Trigger Indicators for Phase 11 of the Program: The Borrower will: (i) prepare and furnish tc
the Bank not later than June 30, 2004 a report describing the progress in the fulfillment of the
actions referred to in the Program, including the attainment of the milestones agreed between th(
Borrower and the Bank and required to be reached as a prerequisite to initiate the second phase of
the Program; and (ii) review with the Bank not later than December 31, 2004 the report referred to
in (i) above and, thereafter take all measures required by the Bank to initiate the second phase o f
the Program.
H. Readiness for Implementation
Z 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the si art
of project implementation.
[E1 1. b) Not applicable.
[ 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
O 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
O 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
- 24 -



1. Compliance with Bank Policies
X 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
D 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Douglas W. Lister                Doris Koehn                       Chrisn Delvoje
Team Leader                      Sector Manager                    Country Manag r
- 25-



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
MOROCCO: IRRIGATION BASED COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
-iE-~~~.      .. .. .. ..                                ..   ...-........   i..   .....i  i - .   ............E   -- i---E.- E-EfijEE -i
:HIe*rnh  of ObjZcti s                               :Mi'Ion & EvIatn             CtaIAuqtoI
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:        Sector) country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mlssion)
Reduce rural poverty and  lmproved socioeconomic      Surveys by thne Departrnent of Government commiutmnent to
disparities between rural and  indicators in rural areas  Statistics of living conditions  implement "2020 R lral
urban areas                                          and household consumption   Development Strateg?Y,"
in rural areas            favorable market conditions,
and absence of natural
disasters (droghts, floods,
Program Purpose:          End-of-Program indicators:  Program reports:          (from Purpose to Cioal)
Improve incomes and quality  Increased incomes from SMI  Completion reports of each    Sustained budgetary support
of life of rural commnunities   (20%)                phase, mid-term evaluation   to IBCD Program
centered on small and                                reports and semi-annual
mediumn irrigation (SMI) in   Greater access to basic  progress reports
15 provinces over a 13-year   economic infrastructure and
period (2001-13)           social services in selected
rural communities
ProJect Development       Outcome / Impact           ProJect reports:           (from Objective to Purpose)
Obiective:                Indicators:
umprove incomes and quality   % increase in fruit tree,  Completion reports of each    Sustained budgetary support
of life of rural communities    vegetable, forage, cereal and phase, mid-term evaluation   for Phase 1 Project
centered on SM1 in 3       other production from SMI  reports and semi-annual
provinces (Azilal, Khenifra                          progress reports
and Al H-aaouz) over a 5-year   No. of douars equipped with
period (2001-06)            additional infrastructure and
social services
Pilot new institutional    Extent of beneficiary     Completion reports of each    Sustained budgetary support
arrangements designed to  participation and integration  phase, mid-term evaluation   for RDF
ensure greater community    of sectoral programs, as  reports and semi-annual
participation and integration  reflected in the number of    progress reports
of sectoral programs through  meetings of the Participatory
Rural Development Fund    Programring Teams (PPT)
(RDF)                     and Core Rural Development
Committees (CRDC), and the
share of financing of
investments by the
beneficiaries and rural
communities
- 26 -



Output from each          Output Indicators:         Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
I. SMI areas rehabilitated and By Year 5, 9,450 ha of SMI   Semi-annual progress reports Villagers willing to contribute
improved                  rehabilitated and modernized                          to SMI rehabilitation and
(3,450 ha in Azilal and 3,000                        improvement
ha each in Khenifra and Al
Haouz)
2. Improved access to basic    Amount of additional roads,  Semi-annual progress reports RDF funds available on time
rural infrastructure and social water supply/sanitation,                        at the provincial level and
services                  electricity, education and                            with sufficient flexibility to
health facilities financed by                        respond to beneficiaries'
Rural Development Fund                               priorities
(RDF), following the new
participatory, integrated
approach
3. (a) Institutional      No. of WUAs formned.       Semi-annual progress reports Availability of Governnent
mechanisms to ensure                                                            staff with a good knowledge
beneficiary participation and  "Guide to Integrated                             of the participatory approach
integration of sectoral   Programming" and provincial
programs working at the   identification studies available
provincial level
Provincial Core Rural
Development Committee
(CRDC) presents proposals
from rural communities for
approval
(b) Development of SMI    % increase in yields and   Semi-annual progress reports Beneficiaries interested in
based agricultural production  cropped areas and                                new technology and accept
introduction of new crops                            risks.
(c) Strengthened capacity to   Establishment of Central  Semi-annual progress reports
manage the IBCD Program    Management Unit (CMU),
Provincial Management Units
(PMU)
4. Preparation of Phase 11  Preparation report       Semi-annual progress reports
Project
- 27 -



KyPrfor        ....n..
:f 16:$   .S:ft00       00000  .4:000   ,::  :XT :   :1-1:: t l E ....  1.:1 }       1}Ett)0l00il:.    M 4X
W         -Hiethy of .Obe; tives-  ndicatoirs,- .        nitri  & Evaluati           iip
Project Components I       Inputs: (budget for each   Project reports:           (from Components to
Sub-components:            component)                                            Outputs)
1. SMI Rehabilitation      US$20.90 million           Annual Finance Laws,       WUAs willing to cor tribute to
serni-annual progress reports  capital costs and takc over
and audit reports          O&M&R responsibility
2. Complementary           US$13.34 million                                      No significant delays
Community Infrastructure
3. lnstitutional Strengthening  US$5.87 million                                  CRDC operates properly
4. Preparation of Phase ll  US$1.97 million                                      No significant delays
Project
ATTACHMENT
Trigger Indicators under the Adaptable Program Loan
The Irrigation Based Community Development Program (IBCD) is expected to be implemented in
three phases, each involving a new set of provinces. The Project described in this PAD refers to the first
phase of the IBCD Program, as does the Project Design Summary above. Each new phase would be subj -ct
to an appraisal process aimed at evaluating its economic, financial, technical, institutional, environmenta
and social feasibility, as well as to learn from the experience gained during the implementation of the
previous phase. This approach of "learning by doing" will allow for continuous adjustments to the Program
design, early identification of risks, and the implementation of corrective measures before geographic
overage expands.
The initial focus of the first phase of the Program, and thus of the triggers for Phase Il, will be
evidence that the new institutional arrangements designed to achieve greater beneficiary participation anc
integration of sectoral programs through the Rural Development Fund (RDF) are being piloted
successfully. For Phase lII, the focus will be on deepening to include other rural development activities
beyond those financed by the RDF, as well as geographic expansion.
In order to help incorporate required adjustments, facilitate the appraisal process of each new
phase and determine its appropriateness and readiness for integration into the Program, trigger indicators or
milestones for Phases 11 and III have been defined below. They would be assessed and measured as part of
the monitoring and evaluation system and presented in the reports to be prepared for each phase.
- 28 -



Triggers for additional Bank lending for the Program supported by the Loan
For Phase IL
Assessing Project Strategy        Trigger Indicators                 Means of Verification
and institution Building
Experience from Phase I that the  Participatory Programming Teams    A report 6 months before the end of
Projecfs institutional arrangements are (PPT), supported by technical  the Project, made available to all
successfully piloting greater beneficiary assistance, are established in each  members of the Core Rural
participation in the selection, design,   province, and are engaging the  Development Committee (CRDC), to
execution and O&M&R of            beneficiaries in a dialogue on their    be prepared by independent
Project works in the selected rural  rural development priorities    consultants in each province
communities                                                          (incorporating results of beneficiary
surveys)
Experience from Phase I indicates the  The CRDC, under the Chairmanship of Same report as above
Project's institutional arrangements are the Governor, is established in each
successfully piloting greater integration province, and is calling on the RDF to
of sectoral programs through flexible  finance investments not included in
budgeting of activities financed by the  ongoing sectoral programs in an
Rural Development Fund (RDF) in the  integrated way
selected rural communities.
Continuation of ongoing sectoral
programs (to avoid the Project
substituting for these programs), as
evidenced by continued funding of
these programs at pre-Project levels
Experience from Phase I indicates that No. of farmers seeking advice from  Same report as above
there is demand from farmers for the   extension workers
support services offered by the Project
For Phase m
Experience from Phase 11 indicates that the Willingness of participating  A report 6 months before the end of
PPT reflect the priorities of the concerned  communities to make the required  the Project, made available to all
populations in the selected rural    contributions to SMI rehabilitation and members of the CRDC, to be prepared
communities.                         improvement, rural roads, water    by independent consultants in each
supply/sanitation and electricity  province (incorporating results of
beneficiary surveys)
Experience from Phase 11 indicates that   Decentralization of rural development  Same report as above
integration of sectoral programs includes  budgets to the provincial level for the
not only activities financed by the IBCD    selected rural communities
Program, but also other rural development
activities in the selected rural communities
Evidence of improvement of productivity  Increased adoption rates and yields for Same report as above
by farmers following support services  major crops
provided during the first two phases
-29 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
MOROCCO: IRRIGATION BASED COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
1. THE PROGRAM
1.    The irrigation Based Community Development (IBCD) Program will be the first step by the
Moroccan Government to implement its new "2020 Rural Development Strategy" which calls for a more
"bottoms-up," holistic approach to rural development. The primary objective will be to improve the
incomes and the quality of life of rural communities centered on small and medium irrigation (SMI). Th.s
will be accomplished through demand-driven, integrated investments in SMI rehabilitation and
improvement and complementary community infrastructure, including rural roads, water supply/sanitation,
electrification, health and education facilities.
2.    The lBCD Program will be implemented over a period of 13 years. The ultimate goal is to
modernize SMI facilities serving about 46,000 ha on a participatory, integrated basis in 15 provinces.
(a)  Phase I covering the five-year period 2001-2006 (closing date: June 30, 2006) will be a period
of adaptation to the new participatory, integrated approach. During this phase, the focus will
be on SMI modernization and complementary community infrastructure activities in the
provinces of Azilal, Khenifra, and Al Haouz, as well as investment programming in the six
other provinces slated to receive financing during the second phase.
(b)  The two subsequent phases, each scheduled to last approximately four years, will deepen and
extend the coverage of the Program and fine-tune its implementation arrangements. Howev, r,
the Government may decide in the light of the results of the first phase to allocate additional
resources in order to accelerate the implementation of the Program, to allow completion in a
total of 10 (instead of 13) years.
3.    Program implementation will be based on two key concepts underlying the Government's new rural
development strategy: (a) participation of the target population in selecting the works, monitoring their
execution, and providing for their operation, maintenance and replacement (O&M&R); and (b) a coherent,
holistic approach to programming at the local level involving integration of the actions of the various lire
ministries.
ll. THE FIRST-PHASE PROJECT
A.    Project Concept and Objectives
4.    The proposed Project, which covers the first 5-year phase of the Program (2001-06), is included in
the Government's Five-Year Economic and Social Development Plan. As noted above, its objective is to
improve the incomes and the quality of life of rural communities in the three provinces of Azilal, Khenifra,
and Al Haouz.
B. Summary Project Description
5.    The Project consists of the following four main components.
(a)  Rehabilitation and improvement of SMI facilities serving an area of approximately 9,450 ha.
- 30 -



Following a technical analysis in the province of Azilal, 21 SMI perimeters serving a total of
3,450 ha were selected. Approximately 3,000 ha each in the two other provinces of Khenifra
and Al Haouz will also be modernized under the Phase I Project.
(b)  Rehabilitation and improvement of complementary community infrastructure not covered by
ongoing sectoral programs, including rural roads, water supply systems, electrification,
schools, and health centers.
(c)  Institutional support for participatory, integrated investment programming through a training
and technical assistance program and for agricultural development activities to intensify
production practices and thereby increase farmers' income.
(d)  Preparation of Phase 11 through participatory, integrated programming of 1BCD activities in
six additional provinces to be selected. Feasibility studies will also be carried out at this stage.
All Project SMI rehabilitation and improvement works, as well as complementary community
infrastructure works, will have to meet certain technical and financial eligibility criteria (given in the
Appendix to this Annex).
By Component:
Project Component I - US$20.90 million
SMI Rehabilitation
6.     Morocco's SMI sector covers an estimated 650,000 ha in total. The objective of the 1993 National
Irrigation Plan was to modernize some 13 8,000 ha of traditional SMI facilities in order to increase
irrigation efficiency and ensure a better distribution of water between upstream and downstream users.
Various types of works are required to accomplish this, including developing springs, repairs to
run-of-river and traditional dam structures, lining of "seguias" (canals), as well as construction of flow
measurement works, distribution facilities, crossings and network protection structures.
7.     Following a technical evaluation and selection process by DHAW, 21 SMI perimeters in Azilal
totaling 3,450 ha were chosen for the first phase of the Program. For the other two provinces (Khenifra and
Al Haouz), where works will also be carried out during the first phase of the Program, an additional 6,000
ha will be modernized. The works to be executed in these two provinces (and eventually others) will be
defined on the basis of the new participatory, integrated approach which will be introduced on the ground
by the Extension Centers. The participatory, integrated approach is described in Annex 11.
8.    The technical studies for the SMI rehabilitation and improvement works will be carried out by
consulting firms in close consultation with Agricultural Water User Associations (AWUAs) under the
supervision of the Provincial Departments of Agriculture (PDA). The works will be executed by pre-
qualified national or local contractors supervised by consultants and monitored by the Provincial
Management Units (PMU) to be established in the PDA. Beneficiaries will be required to contribute to the
overall investment costs (normally 10 percent). The AWAUs will have full responsibility for O&M&R.
User participation in defining the alternatives, selecting which option to implement, and preparing the
engineering design documents, as well as in monitoring the execution of the works, will be crucial to the
success of the new participatory, integrated approach.
- 31 -



9.    Investment costs will be determined once the beneficiaries have identified which rehabilitation and
modernization option will be implemented. Nevertheless, to calculate the project cost, the DHAW has
estimated the per-hectare rehabilitation and modernization costs on the basis of various engineering desi,n
studies and a number of works already completed. The updated actualized costs (year 2001) based on these
studies and works are as follows:
Studies
Ait Bouguemez perimeter (1,469 ha)      MAD 21,000/ha*
Tamguert perimeter (250 ha)             MAD 17,000/ha*
Standard Lakhdar perimeter (70 ha)      MAD 1 9,000/ha*
SMI 2 Program (26 perimeters)           MAD 20,440/ha**
SMI North Program (18 perimeters)       MAD 27,250/ha**
Average                           MAD 19,000/ha
Works
Tamguert perimeter - Phase I            MAD 1W9,00/ha*
SMI 2 Program                           MAD 15,300/ha**
SMI North Program                       MAD 15,500/ha**
Average - SMI 2 and North       rMAD 15,400/ha
Average including Tamguert        MAD 16,600/ha
Source:
*     IBCD Preparation Report
**    DHAW - MARDWF
10.   The difference between the estimated per-hectare costs determined when the studies were carried
out and those calculated following implementation are due mainly to budgetary constraints and to the fact
that the consultants overestimated the costs when they prepared the studies. The final figures are,
nevertheless, fairly close to the estimates and, taking all the above figures into account, the average cost for
rehabilitation/modernization is approximately MAD 17,500/ha. The costs will of course vary from one
perimeter to another depending on the scope of the works required and the farmers' requirements, but thuy
should remain within a reasonable range so that each modernization and rehabilitation component will be
able to achieve an acceptable economic rate of return. It goes without saying that the modernization and
rehabilitation works to be financed under the Project should not concern any more than the main "seguias"
and that the cost of the secondary "seguias" should be borne entirely by the beneficiaries.
11.   According to DHAW, the cost of the studies through submission of the bidding documents
represents approximately 8 percent of the cost of the works, while the cost of construction supervision
represents approximately 7.5%. The timetable for the various studies and for initiating construction will be
established by each province.
12.   The studies for the provinces of Khenifra and Al Haouz will be conducted as follows:
- 32 -



*   Phase 1: Three-part preparatory studies comprising: (a) topographical and aerial mapping; (b)
provincial pre-feasibility studies; and (c) community feasibility studies; and
*   Phase 2: Engineering design studies and bidding documents (BD).
13.   For the province of Azilal, the studies to be financed under the Project will adhere to the current
approach:
*   Phase 1: Current situation;
* Phase 2: Feasibility study; and
*   Phase 3: Engineering design and bid documents.
14.   For works, the annual O&M&R costs upon completion of the works are generally calculated as a
percentage of the investment costs; the percentage is 1.5% for this Project.
15.    One of the lessons of implementing the SMI 2 Program is that modernization and rehabilitation
works in a perimeter take approximately 24 months to complete and that the DPA can handle
approximately 1,000 ha per year. In consultation with DHAW, it is estimated that the first phase of the
Program will last five years and that the two successive phases will last four years each. As indicated
above, the first phase will cover approximately 9,450 ha in three provinces, and the next two phases (in six
provinces each) will cover 18,000 ha each.
16.   Investment costs for the modernization and rehabilitation of perimeters during the first phase,
including studies and construction supervision, equipment for flow measurement, and topographical and
soil-related activities are therefore estimated at MAD 197 million.
Project Component 2 - US$13.34 million
Complementary Community Infrastructure
17.   Improvement of rural roads: The objective of this component will be to make some basic
improvements in the rural roads to be included in the Project in accordance with the Public Works
Guidelines established under the National Rural Roads Program (PNRR). These guidelines include making
roadways four meters wide, to be reinforced with 0.2 meters of selected materials, along with simple
drainage facilities, crossings, and protective structures. The studies will be carried out by national
consultants and the works will be executed by pre-qualified local or national enterprises. Administrative
supervision of the studies and works will be the responsibility of DPA engineers and technicians, while
technical supervision will be the task of engineers and technicians from the Provincial Departments of
Equipment (PDE).
18.   It is estimated that during phase 1, Azilal will require works on 116 km of rural roads in the 21
identified SMI perimeters. In the case of both Khenifra and Al Haouz, approximately 70 km of roads will
need improvements. This figure may change following the perimeters selection and the consultations and
coordination with the affected beneficiaries and the PDE. According to the Roads and Traffic Department
(DCRC) of the Ministry of Equipment, the types of works described in the preceding paragraph will cost
approximately DH 300,000/km. As usual, rural communities (RCs) will contribute at least 5% of the cost
of the works.
19.   The cost of the studies is approximately 5% of the investment costs. The costs of technical
monitoring and works supervision, and general training by the DPE, and the consultants if needed, are
- 33 -



estimated at 5% of the cost of the works. "Partnership agreements" will be drawn up between the vario us
PDA and PDE to establish arrangements for cooperation among the provincial departments.
20.   All the rural roads covered by the Project will be maintained by the rural communities (RCs)
concerned. Routine maintenance is expected to cost DH 10,000/kmlyear, while periodic maintenance will
cost DH 25,000/km/year. The funds needed for road maintenance will be made available to the RCs in the
form of VAT receipts (paid by the Government). The RCs can have local or national private companies
take care of it or can buy the required equipment and supplies and execute the works directly with
technical support from the PDE. Needless to say, beneficiaries will have to contribute some of the labo:-
needed for maintenance activities in order to ensure the sustainability of this project component.
21.   On the basis of the costs indicated above, the investment costs of this project component -
including studies and works supervision - will be approximately MAD 85 million. If possible, the road
works should be paced so that they will be completed before the SMI works begin, in order to ensure easy
access to the perimeters.
22.   Potable Water Supply: The Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Program (PAGER) has or will
have a role in all the provinces identified for phase I of the Program. The goal will therefore be to supply
potable water to those villages not covered by PAGER. Although the works will vary from one village :o
the next, they will focus mainly on developing springs, digging or deepening wells, supplying water
collection equipment, building reservoirs and pumping stations, and installing intake pipes and standpipes.
23.   Activities will be carried out in accordance with the usual procedures followed under PAGER,
which is financed in part by the World Bank, based on participation by beneficiaries. This will be achieved
mainly through: (a) establishment of User Associations (UA); (b) signing of agreements between UAs,
communities, and the PDE; and (c) studies prepared by consultants and works executed by enterprises -with
the participation of UAs. Communities and beneficiaries will initially have to contribute 20% of the
investment costs as a prerequisite for works to begin. O&M&R costs will be borne entirely by users.
24.   The cost of the works (including studies and construction supervision) was estimated on the basis
of the unit costs and guidelines of PAGER and the number of villages to be served in the province of Azilal
(approximately 90 villages and 30 water points, i.e., one water point for every three villages). The
indicative program for Azilal - which is subject to change depending on demand, the selection made by the
beneficiaries, and their level of participation - calls primarily for improving springs and digging and
deepening wells. It should be borne in mind that the works under the proposed Program are additional :o
the ongoing PAGER program. Unit costs for the five types of improvements at water points are as follows:
(i) Springs to be rehabilitated (250 inhabitants/douar)                MAD 70,000
(ii) Gravity-fed spring + reservoir + pipes +2 standpipes (600 inhabitants/village)    MAD 250,000
(iii) Well + hand pump (300 inhabitants/village)                       MAD 125,000
(iv) Well + thermal/electric/solar pump + reservoir + pipes             MAD 400,000
+ I standpipe (300 inhabitants/village)
(v) Cistern + hand pump (150 inhabitants/village)                       MAD 190,000
25.   The role to be played by mobile teams in establishing UAs and selecting the types of improvemrents
to be made will be very important for this project component. One additional team should be formed for
each province to manage the additional work which the Project will generate.
26.   The cost of the studies to be carried out by consultants will be approximately 5% of the cost ol the
- 34 -



works. The cost of technical monitoring and works supervision by the PDE will be approximately 5% of
the cost of the works. In order to enable the PDE and PDA to take on these tasks and monitor the studies
and works relating to road improvement activities, it will be necessary to provide the PDE with additional
support - staff as well as equipment - as soon as possible.
27.   Since the studies - to be prepared by consultants - will be relatively easy to carry out, in the
interests of economy it would be useful to group them in a minimum number of batches. The works can
also be regrouped. They will be executed by private local or national enterprises. PDE engineers and
technicians will supervise and monitor the studies and works.
28.   Each village with a water point should create a Users' Association, which should in turn appoint
one or more villagers from among its membership to assume responsibility for O&M&R. These costs
amount to approximately 3% of the investment costs and will be borne exclusively by the beneficiaries,
who will determine how to share the costs. Training of water masters and individuals responsible for
routine maintenance should be accorded priority once the UAs have been established. The mobile teams and
PDE agents will train these individuals. Repairs required for works maintenance can be handled by jobbers
or small local companies, which will be paid by the UAs.
29.   Experience under PAGER indicates that beneficiaries are particularly interested in the
improvements listed in subparagraphs 24 (ii) and (iv) above. Accordingly, assuming that the investment
costs per water point are approximately DH 0.3 million and that approximately 15 water points will be
affected in Khenifra and Al Haouz, the investment costs for this component will be on the order of MAD
20 million (base cost).
30.   Other Basic Social Infastructure: Data concerning Azilal obtained from the National Electricity
Office (ONE) indicates that all 141 villages in the 21 perimeters identified for phase 1 are already or will be
electrified under the Rural Electrification Program - PERG I & 11 (1999-2000) and PERG Ill
(2002-2006), the special program for Azilal (2001-2002), and other programs. Moreover, basic
requirements in terms of school buildings and health infrastructure throughout Azilal have already been met
or will be very soon. This is not necessarily the case for the other provinces identified for Phase I (Khenifra
and Al Haouz). Accordingly, to cover all eventualities, the Project includes MAD 5.0 million per province
for social infrastructure components in all three provinces, for a total of MAD 15 million (base cost) for
the first phase of the Program.
Project Component 3 - USS 5.87 million
Institutional strengthening
Support for integrated participatory programming
32.   The Project will finance the following activities at the national level: (a) preparation of guidelines
on integrated participatory programming by a MARDWF team, with the assistance of a rural development
expert, environmental specialist, monitoring and evaluation specialist and financial management specialist;
and (b) a series of workshops targeting provincial PDA units involved in the IBCD Program, to disseminate
and further develop the guidelines.
33.   In Khenifra and Al Haouz, the Project will finance studies to identify development "zones" (eligible
communities and perimeters) and establish the financial programming framework necessary for budgetary
allocations.
- 35 -



34.   In all rural communes included in Phase 1, the Project will support the preparation of financing
agreements between the communities and the provincial administration. These activities will include: (a)
technical support for the participatory programming teams responsible for preparing the AWUA's
rehabilitation and improvement plans and the communities' IBCD investment programs; and (b) the final
detailed engineering designs of the works involved.
Support services for agricultural production
35.    As noted earlier, the objective of this component is to intensify production methods for cereals,
fruit trees, garden produce and livestock products, thereby increasing yields and farm income. The
intensification effort will be guided by the following principles:
(a)  Increase rotation intensity by gradually shortening fallow periods and introducing vegetable
crops;
(b)  Shift to higher-value and more labor-intensive crops and livestock products such as fruit trees
and fodder for intensive livestock production, while decreasing production of lower-value atid
less labor-intensive cereals;
(c)  After ensuring a reliable and adequate water supply, increase the use of inputs such as
improved seeds and fertilizers and, for some crops, chemicals; and
(d)  Increase the focus on product marketing and processing activities, including for highly
perishable items such as garden vegetables and milk.
36.    To these ends, project activities will be tailored to each province and community. A generic moc.el
would include the following activities:
(a) Development of a benchmarking technique for each zone, taking all agricultural operations into
account, including level of use of inputs and crop yields. The benchmarking effort will be
conducted with the assistance of an international consultant and local consultants, in close
cooperation with the target population;
(b)  Research and development efforts to improve benchmarking, including research materials and
travel allowances for researchers;
(c) Establishment of demonstration plots in accordance with the recommendations of the
benchmarking exercise and the research and development programs. In the case of crop
production, this will involve demonstrating improved varieties, increased use of inputs,
improved rotation, and better farming practices. For livestock production, the process will
focus on better basic animal health and improved breeding stock for small ruminants and
artificial insemination for dairy cattle. If needed, a milk collection system will also be incluced.
These programs will be established in close cooperation and in agreement with regional
associations (for water, marketing, etc.);
(d) Bids will be invited for contracts with development organizations (e.g., NGOs) to provide
technical support to producers throughout the Project. The relevant documents will specify the
- 36 -



reciprocal undertakings by the administration and the development organization and the
established objectives, including the creation of demonstration lots; and
(e)  Training, transport, and operating costs to enable the Extension Centers or PDA to monitor
progress and evaluate results. Reliable data will be needed regarding the underlying conditions
at project launch. Improved productivity will be one key indicator considered when deciding
whether to move on to the second phase.
(f) Training and studies to prepare and implement site specific EMP and IPM, as well as
monitoring the implementation of site specific mitigation measures.
Project Component 4 - US$1.97 million
Preparation of phase 11
37.   As in the case of Khenifra and Al Haouz during the first phase, the Project will finance studies to
identify development "zones" (eligible communities and perimeters) and establish the financial
programming framework necessary for budgetary allocations in six additional provinces to be selected for
the second phase.
-37 -



Appendix
ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA FOR PROJECT INVESTMENTS
Small and Medium Irrigation
* Maximum cost of rehabilitation/modernization of SMI perimeters: MAD 27,500/ha
* Existence or constitution of an Agricultural Water Users Association (AWUA) for the perimeter to he
rehabilitated/modernized before the launching of the technical studies
*   Before the start of construction, written commitment by the AWUA to contribute the equivalent of 10%
of the cost of construction. This contribution will be in cash or in kind.
*   Written commitment by the AWUA to be responsible for the operation, upkeep and maintenance of the
headworks and irrigation network
Rural Roads
* The final costs of the rural roads will be determined by technical studies carried out by the Ministry of
Equipment and approved by the Bank
*   Minimum financial contribution by the Rural Communities (RC) of 5% of the amount of investments
* Responsibility of the RC for the upkeep and maintenance of the rural roads
Potable Water and Sewerage
Eligibility criteria in conformity with those of the PAGER program, notably:
*   Contribution from the beneficiaries and from the RC of 20%/o of the amount of the investments
* Existence or constitution of a User Association (UA) before the start of construction
* UA responsible for operation and upkeep
Electricity, Health and Education
The eligibility criteria are in conformity with those of the national sectoral programs (National Electricity
Office, Ministry of Public Health and Ministry of National Education)
- 38 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
MOROCCO: IRRIGATION BASED COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
. . . .~~~~~~: ..... t.... .  ... . ,,..... .. ..           .. . . ..... ... ...... ... .. .. ... . ..  . .......-----..-.--..-..............---
.rojectCost ..                               :-:---Loca-l    : Forain- -::          o.
: . . - :-n:          -                . .-: oin     5  1n :.
Rehabilitation of Small and Medium Irrigation                     15.52            2.63          18.15
Complementary Community Infrastructure                             9.02            2.11          11.13
Institutional Strengthening                                        3.47            1.53           5.00
Preparation of Phase II                                            0.94            0.70           1.64
Total Baseline Cost                                               28.95            6.97          35.92
Physical Contingencies                                            2.50           0.60            3.10
Price Contingencies                                               2.50            0.56           3.06
Total Project Costs                  33.95            8.13          42.08
Front-end fee                         0.32            0.32
Total Financing Required                   33.95            8.45          42.40
, , ,, ,,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.;....   S           '........ '
Civil Works                                                         24.62             5.07          29.69
Equipment and Goods                                                  0.72             0.88           1.60
Services                                                             7.42             1.94           9.36
Recurrent costs                                                      1.19             0.24           1.43
Total Project Costs        33.95             8.13          42.08
Front-end fee                         0.32           0.32
Total Financing Required         33.95             8.45          42.40
Project Cost by Component and Province (US$ '000)
Azilal            Al Haouz            Khenifra          Central level
Rehabilitation of         7,077               6,911               6,911
Small & Medium
Irrigation
Complementary             5,976               3,682               3,682
Community
Infrastructure
Institutional              1,539               1,455               1,455               1,417
Strengthening
Preparation of                                                                         1,970
phase II
Total                     14,592              12,048              12,048               3,387
Identifiable taxes and duties are 4.72 (USSn) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 37.68 (USSm). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 86.44%
oftotal project cost net oftaxes.
- 39 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
MOROCCO: IRRIGATION BASED COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
This annex presents the results and the methodology followed in the economic analysis of the first
phase of the Irrigation Based Community Development (IBCD) Program. The results are indicative, sinc-e
the analysis is based only on Azilal, the only province included in the first-phase Project which has been
prepared in detail so far.
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
Net Present Values (MAD millions)
Economic values
Benefits
Incremental agricultural production                                           133.84
Costs
Incremental Investment costs
- Rehabilitation of irrigation perimeters                                52.5
- Rural roads                                                            23.54
- Agricultural development                                                4.8
- Support to participation and integration                               5.01
Incremental recurrent costs
- Irrigation O&M                                                         -1.12
- Rural roads O&M                                                        11.04
- Institutional strengthening                                             3.4
Net Incremental benefits                                                       35.28
1RR                                                                            13.5%
iMain Assumptions:
The project is expected to improve the quality of life of the rural population in Azilal, Khenifra and
Al Haouz, mainly through increased household income and food security and, to a lesser extent, better
access to rural infrastructure and social services. Increased household income and food security will be
achieved through the intensification and diversification of irrigated agricultural production. Irrigated
agriculture is indeed the primary economic activity in the project area, both in terms of value added and
employment. Investments in the modernization of irrigation infrastructure, adaptive research and extension,
rural roads and other community infrastructure and support to participation and integration at the central
and provincial levels will be the means to achieve these objectives.
Beneficiaries are rural communities with potential to improve their livelihood from small and
medium irrigation. These areas are often remote, with very limited access to markets and technology. The
main sources of incomes are irrigated agriculture and remittances from abroad. Farm holdings are small
and highly fragmented. The' average irrigated area per farm is less than 0.8 ha and 94% of the farms havc
less than 2 ha of irrigated land. Farmers try to balance the small size of their irrigated land by cultivating
rainfed areas and raising livestock when common rangelands and forests are available. Subsistence
agriculture prevails. Farming practices are traditional, and the use of inputs, mechanization and improved
seeds is low. Irrigation efficiency is only 30-40%. As a result, productivity is low and potential for
improvements is high. These areas are also characterized by a low coverage in rural infrastructure and
social services.
- 40 -



The analysis is limited to the project components benefiting irrigated agriculture in the province of
Azilal. These components include: (i) rehabilitation/modernization of 21 irrigation perimeters, totaling
3,500 ha under perennial flows; (ii) improvement of irrigation management and farming practices; (iii)
better access to local markets through the rehabilitation/construction of about 1 16 km of rural roads; and
(iv) support to the process of participation and integration at the local level. These investments total 90% of
project costs in the province.
Cost benefit analysis
A cost-benefit analysis was carried out to estimate the Net Present Value (NPV) and Internal Rate
of Return (IRR) of the project First, financial flows were calculated for both the "with" and "without"
project scenarios. Then, conversion factors were estimated to translate the financial flows into economic
values, and the economic NPV and IRR were calculated. No residual values were included in the analysis.
The period of analysis is 30 years, starting year 2000. Based on IBRID normns for projects in Morocco, a
10% discount rate was used.
Benefits
Quantified economic benefits. Based on the findings of the preparation studies revised during
appraisal, detailed crop budgets and farm models were estimated for both the "with" and "without" project
scenarios. For purpose of the analysis, the future "without" scenario for crop budgets and farn models are
assumed to remain at existing levels.
Benefits quantified are the incremental value of agricultural production. They materialize in three
ways: (i) a slight increase in the irrigated cultivated area; (ii) increase in yields; and (iii) a shift from
low-value crops, basically cereals for home consumption, to higher value crops, such as fodder for
livestock and fruits and vegetables to be sold on the local market.
More specifically, the expected increases in the irrigated/cultivated area, yield increases and the
share of the cultivated land concerned by these increases are sumunarized in the tables below.
With and Without project scenario - Irri. ated area (ha)
Total Equipped area    Equipped area       Cultivated area      Cultivated area
Rehabilitated      Without project       With project
(Perennial and      (perennial) (1)       scenario (2)         scenario (3)
seasonal)                               _
Walnut perimeters          2,268 ha              1,869 ha              2,167 ha              2,276 ha
Olive tree perimeters      1,678 ha              1,161 ha              1,243 ha              1,294 ha
Grape vine                   502 ha                393 ha               658 ha                 682 ha
perimeters
Total Azilal               4,448 ha              3,423 ha              4,068 ha              4,250 ha
(1) The equipped area remains the same in both the with" and "without" project scenarios.
Only the area under perennial irrigation (3,423 ha) will be rehabi]itated under the project.
(2) The cultivated area under perennial flows remains at the existing level in the without project scenario
(3) The expansion of the cultivated area under perennial flows will extend over 5 years; the figures in the table are the
cultivated area at year 5.
Part of the cultivated area will be farned using new technology.
-41 -



The rehabilitation/modernization of irrigation infrastructure is expected to improve irrigation
efficiency from about 30-40% to 60%. As a result, slight increases are expected in the area irrigated under
perennial flows and in the cropping intensity. This is reflected by an average increase in the cultivated area
of about 4%.
With and Without project scenario - Yield increases and areas concerned (quintallha)
Present technology       New technology           New technology
(Yield quintalha)      (Yield quintaUha)     % of final cultivated area
Walnut Perimeters
Apple trees                        140                    180          New technology will be used
Intercropped forage                                        60          on 1,554 ha or 68%  of the
Winter wheat                        14                     22          cultivated area at year 5.
Winter wheat (residues)             15                     33
Barley                              10                     15
Barley (residues)                   15                     33
Summer cereals                     10                      25
Summer cereals (residues)          11                      20
Forage (Lucerne)                   60                      85
Potatoes                           80                     150
Olive tree Perimeters
Olive trees                        24                      35          New technology will be
Rejuvenated olive trees                                    45          applied on 679 ha or 52% of
Almond trees                                               60          the cultivated area by year i.
Intercropped forage                                     50/75
Winter wheat                        14                     22
Winter wheat (residues)             15                     33
Barley                              10                     15
Barley (residues)                   15                     33
Summer cereals                     11                      26
Summer cereals (residues)           13                     25
Forage crops                        60                     85
Potatoes                           80                     150                                  _
Grape vine perimeters
Vines                              30                     75           New technology will be use1
Olive trees                        24                                  on 357 ha or 53% of the
Rejuvenated olive trees                                   45           cultivated area by year 5.
Alnond trees                                              60
Lntercropped forage                                    50/75
Winter wheat                        14                    22
Winter wheat (residues)             15                    33
Barley                              10                    15
Barley (residues)                  20                     33
Summer cereals                      8                     22
Sunmmer cereals (residues)         25                     25
Forage                              60                    85
Potatoes                           80                    150
To reflect yield increases expected from both better irrigation and improved farming practices, it
has been assumed that 60% of the crops irrigated under perennial flows (2,550 ha) will benefit from a yiej d
increase in the model. Yields would remain the same on the remaining 40% of the area under perennial
- 42 -



flows and the totality of area under seasonal flows (2,750 ha). These percentage are conservative and
reflect two factors: (i) the new technology will only be adopted on a fraction of the land, and (ii) even if the
new technology is adopted by farrners, it is unlikely to be the full package.
The build-up of yield increases on the area concerned would be as follows:
Share of the irrigated area under perennialflows that will benefit from increases in yields
2001          2002            2003           2004           2005
% of perennial       0%             6%             12%            18%            24%
area
Yield increases are based on changes in farming practices made possible by improved irrigation,
better access to markets and technology. Improved farming practices involve the use of improved seeds,
improved preparation of the land, improved timing and density of seeds planted, higher and better use of
fertilizer and pesticides and better maintenance of the crops. Improved irrigation involves a quantity of
water available to the crop closer to the optimum at the most critical stage of the plant development cycle
and a better equity of water distribution between crops. Modernization of the irrigation infrastructure and
the provision of support to farmners on irrigation scheduling are the means to achieve these objectives.
In addition, lower-value crops (mainly cereals for home consumption) are being replaced by
higher-value crops (fodder for livestock production, fruits and vegetables). The logic behind this is that
improved irrigation and farming practices will allow intensification of cereal production and thus free-up
some of the land currently under cereals for the production of fodder and cash crops. A change in land use
of 3 to 10% of the present cultivated area depending on the perimeter is thus assumed.
xpected incremental arricultural production (tons
Without project     With project after 10   Incremental after 10
years                 years
Apples                           8,700                  12,500                   3,800
Grapes                            420                      680                     260
Olives                            900                    1,600                     700
Almonds                                                    300                     300
Potatoes                         3,700                   7,800                   4,100
Wheat                             700                      800                     100
Barley                           1,200                   1,500                     300
Maize                             360                    1,460                   1,100
Alfalfa                          2,000                   3,700                   1,700
The incremental agricultural production will be easily absorbed. Indeed, cereals, legumes, almond
and olives will be mostly consumed on the farm, as only part of the local needs are met today. On the other
hand, apples, grapes and potatoes will be commercialized, the incremental production totaling 40%, 60%
and 85% of current production after 10 years. It should be easily absorbed as access to markets will be
facilitated by the rehabilitation of roads and demand for these products is high and not satisfied.
Costs
The expansion of the cultivated area, the adoption of more intensive farming practices and the shift
to higher value crops are made possible by the combination of several factors: (i) the
rehabilitation/modernization of irrigation infrastructure with the results of improving water use efficiency,
equity and reliability; (ii) the transfer to and adoption by farmers of improved fanning and irrigation
- 43 -



practices; and (iii) a better access to input and output markets through the improvement of rural roads. All
these aspects are insured by different component of the projects.
Accordingly the costs considered in the analysis are (i) project investment costs for the
rehabilitation of irrigation infrastructure; improved rural roads; agricultural development and provincial
costs for the participation and coordination process; (ii) incremental agricultural production costs; and (iii)
incremental on farm recurrent costs for the investment components.
Detailed calculations of economic capital and recurrent costs are available in the project files. 'The
translation of financial costs into economic costs involves removing taxes and taking into account the
opportunity cost of labor.
Project costs included in the anal)sis (Province of Azilal)
Economic capital costs      Annual incremental recurrent
(MAD million)                   costs (MAD)
Irrigation                                    59.57                  - 47 Dh/ha * 3430 ha
Rural Roads                                   35.14                  9,240 Dh/krn * 116 km
Institutional Strengthening                    6.17
Agricultural Development                       6.81                        370,000
Total                                        114.36                   MAD 1.28 million
The costs of water supply/sanitation, electrification, education and health, totaling 10% of the
project costs for the province of Azilal, have been excluded from the analysis, as they do not contribute -o
the benefits measured in the analysis.
Recurrent economic costs for the operation and maintenance of irrigation infrastructure decreases
as a result of project implementation from 320 MAD/ha to 273 MAD/ha. O&M costs before rehabilitation
include almost exclusively works to clean-up earth canals. After rehabilitation, involving mainly canal
lining, the time spent to clean-up the canal would be reduced significantly.
Economic returns
The base case analysis, using the assumptions described above, shows an expected economic rate
of return of 13.5%, corresponding to an economic NPV of MAD 35.3 millions.
Fiscal impact
In view of the relatively small size of the project, the involvement of four Ministries and the
participation of beneficiaries in about 14% of project costs including 100% of O&M costs for irrigation
and community infrastructure, the project's fiscal impact is small.
The project costs would be bome by the public budget (15% of the costs), the loan (77%) and tte
contributions (in kind or financial) of the beneficiaries (8%). Over the 5-year implementation period of the
project, Government will have to provide MAD 69.7 million in counterpart funds, an average of MAD
13.93 million a year.
-44 -



Sixty three percent of project costs, MAD 288 million would be born by the Ministry of
Agriculture (excluding beneficiaries contribution). This is about 1.5% of planned government investments
in agriculture, and 2.1% of investments in irrigation (2000-04 plan).
Government Plan for rrigation  om 1999-0010 2003-04
MAD million                 _
Completion of Ongoing Projects               470                           3%
Expansion of Large-scale Irrigation         9,981                          73%
Expansion of SMI                            2,037                          15%
Rehabilitation of SMI                       1,691                          12%
- of which this Project                     288                          2.1%
Total                                      13,708                         100%
Another 29% of the costs (excluding beneficiaries' contribution) are allocated to community
infrastructure, including rural roads, electricity, rural water supply and sanitation, health or education
services. The fiscal impact on the sector Ministries concerned (Ministry of Equipment, Ministry of Health
and Ministry of Education) is very limited and difficult to predict: (i) this component totals only MAD 27
per year shared between three ministries; (ii) this component is financed through the Rural Development
Fund (RDF) which is additional to the sector Ministries' budgets; and (iii) the allocation of the funds to the
various Ministries is not known a priori, as it will be deternined by the community participatory,
demand-driven planning process.
On the benefits side, since agriculture is exempt from taxation, increases in tax revenues will be
negligible. Govemment's contribution to investment will also be lower than it might otherwise be, since the
beneficiaries will contribute to about 10% of the investment costs of irrigation, 20% of rural water and
sanitation and 5% in rural roads, most probably through labor and/or provision of local materials.
In the long-run, improved health and productivity of rural populations would add to national
income, which in turn would have a positive fiscal impact.
Cost recovery from beneficiaries
Farmers' financial benefits.
The main financial benefits accruing to farmers are the increase in revenue stemming from
intensification and to a lesser extent, diversification towards higher value crops. On the other hand,
production costs are increased by a higher use of inputs (work for land preparation and crop management,
pesticides and fertilizers and use of improved seeds).
Accounting for these factors, average net income per ha on the area under perennial irrigation
increases by 60% over a 10 year-period, or by an additional 6,800 MAD/ha (prior to payment of O&M
charges). An average farm holding is about 5 ha out of which less than 1 ha is irrigated. Almost all farmers
own the land they cultivate, so that cost-sharing between the owner of the land and tenant/sharecroppers is
not a major issue.
Incremental farm incomes per ha of equipped irrigated land under perennial flow - Constant prices
2001    2002    2003    2004    2005    2006    2007    2008    2009    2010
MAD        0_       296    962    2068    3474    3308    4190    4794    5695    6838
%          0       2%      8%      18%     30%     29%      41%     46%     54%      61%
-45 -



Affordability of O&M charges and participation capital investments.
Farmers are expected to contribute initially to about 10% of capital costs (in kind or cash) and
annually to 100% of O&M&R costs. The average capital costs for the rehabilitation of irrigation schemes
has been estimated at about 17,500 MAD/ha of equipped area (base costs). Participation in the capital
costs corresponds to the estimated cost of labor andlor provision of local material that can be borne by the
population without financial contribution. Thus, participation in investment costs should not cause a
financial problem for the beneficiaries. Average annual O&M costs following rehabilitation are estimated
at about 300 MAD/ha of equipped area. This includes about 100 MAD/ha for operation (mainly salary of
the "aiguadier") and about 200 MAD/ha for maintenance (unqualified and qualified labor, material such as
cement and running costs of equipment). With an average increase in farm income of about 296 MAD/ha
after 2 years, the payment of O&M costs should be affordable to farmers.
Sensitivity analysis I Switching values of critical items:
Several risks that could jeopardize the successful implementation of the project and affect its N'V
and IRR were identified. They include: (a) a reduction in benefits because assumptions regarding yield
increases, cultivated area expansion or the diversification towards higher value crops were over-estimated;
(b) an increase in crop production costs; (c) an increase in capital costs because of unexpected
expenditures; and (d) a lag in benefits because of unexpected delays.
A sensitivity analysis was carried out to determnine the robustness of the NPV and IRR to changes
in key variables. The analysis shows that the project will still have a EIRR above 10% if benefits are
reduced by 10% or costs increased by 10%.
EIRR
Base case scenario                                                            13.5%
Sensitivity Analysis
- Reduction of 10% in agricultural production value                           11.8%
- Increase of 10% in agricultural production value                            15.1%
- Increase of 10% in capital costs                                            12.4%
- Increase of 10% in total costs                                              12.4%
- Decrease of 10% in agricultural production value and increase of 10% in total  10.7%
costs
-46 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
MOROCCO: IRRIGATION BASED COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
Years Ending
*000 US$
Year 1| Year 2  | Year 3  | Year 4         Year 5  |Year6  | Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs            5.5        5.6       11.7       11.0        7.4        0.0        0.0
Recurrent Costs             0.0         0.1        0.1        0.2        0.4        0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs           5.5        5.7       11.8       11.2        7.8        0.0        0.0
Front-end fee     0.0        0.0        0.1        0.1        0.1        0.0       0.0
Total Financing               5.5        5.7       11.9        11.3       7.9        0.0        0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA                   4.5         4.5        9.2        8.6        5.7       0.0        0.0
Government                  0.6        0.9        2.0        1.9        1.3       0.0        0.0
Central                 0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0         0.0
Provincial              0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0         0.0
Co-financiers               0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
User FeeslBeneficiaries     0.4        0.3        0.7        0.8        0.9       0.0        0.0
Others                      0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing      5.5        5.7       11.9        11.3       7.9        0.0        0.0
Main assumptions:
- 47 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
MOROCCO: IRRIGATION BASED COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
Procurement
Procurement methods (Table A)
Procurement responsibilities
The term "community development" in the title of the operation refers primarily to the participatory
approach adopted in the selection, design and monitoring and evaluation of project works and not to the
execution of project works which would mainly be done by contractors, even though there is a small
beneficiary participation in kind in most project works.
The Department of Hydro-Agricultural Works (DHAW) in the Ministry of Agriculture, Rural
Development, and Water and Forests (MARDWF) would be responsible for coordinating all procurement
related to irrigation rehabilitation and improvement under the project, and for the coordination, monitorir g
and evaluation, but not necessarily the quality control of works performed by other agencies. It would be
supported in this role by the concerned hydro-agricultural works divisions in the Provincial Departments of
Agriculture (PDA). DHAW has considerable experience in Bank-financed procurement and has performed
well on procurement matters under SMSI-I and SMSI-2. Concerning the additional rural development
investments, which represent about 25% of the loan amount, the Ministry of Equipment (MOE) will be
responsible for launching bids which are within its capacity (rural roads and rural water supply). MOE E as
ample experience in procurement and contracts supervision and masters, not only local procedures, but
those of the Bank as well. A minor component of the project, not exceeding 4% of the loan amount, will be
undertaken by the Ministries of Education and Health, as well as the National Electricity Office, which are
capable of executing their contracts in close coordination with DAHA.
Specific Responsibilities for Civil Works and Goods: Concerning the Small and Medium
Irrigation (SMI) schemes, the Implementation Division within DHAW ensures technical support to the
Provincial Departments of Agriculture (PDA) in launching their bids in the various provinces of the
Kingdom. The technical support by DHAW consists of assistance in the preparation of sample bid
documents and in the supervision of works.
Specific Responsibilities for Consultant Services and Training. Again concerning the SMI
schemes, the Projects Division in DHAW ensures technical support to the PDA in the preparation of the
letters of invitation and the terms of reference and in follow-up.
Procurement Risk Assessment
Since the DHAW and other agencies involved have worked with the Bank before and are well
aware of the Bankls procedures, the overall risk assessment is judged to be low. However, DHAW must
have in place a system for filing, monitoring and reporting procurement actions, and should also take action
to mitigate any such risks.
Procurement Arrangements
Procurement for the proposed project would be carried out in accordance with World Bank
-48 -



"Guidelines: Procurement under lBRD Loans and IDA Credits", published in January 1995, (revised in
January 1999), and "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers",
published in January 1997 (revised January 1999), and the provisions stipulated in the Loan Agreement.
Although the Moroccan legislation on procurement is generally in line with the Bank's Guidelines,
certain rules and procedures are not acceptable to the Bank, as indicated in the Country Procurement
Assessment Review (CPAR) February 2000:
(i) The two-envelope procedure for submission of bids for works and goods, and opening
those envelopes in two different phases, should not be applied. The two envelopes should
be opened simultaneously, without requiring the bidders' representatives to leave the room.
However, only essential documents that can easily be verified can be opened before
opening the financial envelope. These documents concern: the Declaration sur l'honneur,
Proof of payment of taxes, Bid security, and Technical qualification certificate.
(ii) The procedure for hiring consultants through open competitive bidding should not be used,
but a short list of consultants should be invited. In this case, the public opening of the
financial envelopes is conducted in accordance with Bank procedures following completion
of the technical evaluation report.
As an APL operation, this is the first phase of the IBCD Program (2001-13) representing the first
attempt of the Moroccan Government to put its "2020 Rural Development Strategy" into practice. This
phase is a step in the direction of the integrated, community-based development in poor rural areas based
on demand from the beneficiaries.
Civil Works. Works procured under the project (US$29.7 million) would include the
improvement of SMI facilities (US$17.5 million), the construction of rural roads (US$8.5 million), the
potable water supply works (US$2.1 million), the socio-economic infrastructure works (US$1.6 million),
and the construction of an office in each of the three provinces included in the first-phase project. Given the
relative simplicity of the works, and their being scattered throughout the three provinces, with the largest
contract not exceeding US$4.0 million, they may be awarded through National Competitive Bidding (NCB)
procedures, using NCB model documents agreed with the Bank. Works not exceeding US$30,000 may be
procured on the basis of at least three written quotations received in response to written invitations
addressed directly to contractors, up to an aggregate amount of US$ 19.2 million.
Goods. Goods consist essentially of vehicles, computer hardware and software, water flow
measurement equipment, and meteorological stations and equipment totaling some US$2.0 million. To the
extent possible, contracts for these goods will be grouped into bidding packages of more than US$300,000
equivalent and procured following International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures, using Bank-issued
standard bid documents. Goods with an estimated contract value below US$300,000, may be procured
through National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures, and standard bid documents agreed with the
Bank will be used. Goods not exceeding US$30,000 may be procured on the basis of at least three written
quotations received in response to written invitations addressed directly to national or international
suppliers, up to an aggregate amount of US$0.8 million.
Consultant Services and Training. Consultant activities related to studies, short term expertise,
and capacity building will be financed under the project. In order to establish a short list for consultant
services with an estimated contract amount exceeding US$200,000, expressions of interest will be
advertised in the United-Nations Development Business periodical and in at least one local newspaper. For
- 49 -



such contracts, the Bank's standard Request for Proposals (RFP) document will be used. For contracts
below US$200,000, the shortlist will be prepared by the Borrower, without necessarily the need for
advertising for expressions of interest. In this case, the shortlist may comprise entirely national consultar ts.
The selection rmethod will be based on quality and cost (QCBS) for all contracts above US$100,000 for
firms. Below these thresholds, and with the exception of the employment of consulting firms through sinEle
source for reasons critical to the project, the selection method may be on the basis of Consultants
Qualification (CQ). Contract awards to individual consultants shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of para. 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultants Guidelines.
Prior Review Thresholds. All contracts for works exceeding US$500,000 and contracts for goods
and equipment exceeding US$300,000 would be subject to prior review by the Bank. For consultant
services, all contracts valued at US$100,000 or above for firms, and US$50,000 and above for individuzls,
together with the terms of reference and the shortlist would also be subject to prior review. The prior
review for works, goods and consultants services would apply to at least 26% of Bank financed
procurement. The Bank's review process is presented in Table B.
Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
Allocation of loan proceeds by disbursement categories and percentages financed by the loan are
presented in Table C.
(a)    Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Full documentation for expenditures under contracts requiring the Bank's prior review
would be submitted with the corresponding application. Disbursements for goods contracts below
US$300,000, for works contracts below US$500,000, and for services contracts and training
below US$100,000 for consulting firms and US$50,000 for individuals consultants would be made
on the basis of Statements of Expenditures (SOE). Documentation to support these expenditures
would be maintained by the DHAW and made available for review by the Bank supervision
missions and project auditors.
(b)    Special account (SA):
The Borrower will establish a Special Account (SA) in MAD with the Treasury. The
authorized allocation would be limited to MAD 24.0 million, representing about four months of
estimated disbursements from the IBRD Loan. Initially, the allocation would be limited to MAD
15.0 million, while the full allocation could be claimed when disbursements reach Yen 8.0 billion.
Applications for the replenishment of the SA would be submitted monthly or when one-third of the
initial deposit has been utilized, whichever occurs earlier. The replenishment application would be
supported by the necessary documentation, including the bank and reconciliation statement of the
SA. The SA would be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.
(c)    Retroactivefinancing:
To facilitate project start-up in 2000 and 2001, the Bank has already given its "no
objection" to a number of civil works contracts. Other project activities are also planned between
now and the anticipated date of loan signing in mid-June 2001. Retroactive financing for eligible
-50 -



expenditures within the limit of 10% of the loan amount (Yen 380.0 million, equivalent to US$3.26
million) would therefore be provided to help cover project expenditures between June 15, 2000,
and the anticipated date of the loan signature on June 15, 2001 (but no earlier than 12 months
before loan signing).
Financial Management
An assessment of the financial management system in place in MARDWF, which would have
overall responsibility for the project, and DHAW, which would be the implementing agency for the project
under MARDWF, was carried out during appraisal. The main characteristics of this system are as follows:
The financial management system in place is based on principles and procedures defined by the
legal framework applicable to the pubic sector administration and more specifically to governmental
institutions. This system includes three main levels of responsibility before disbursement. The first one is
the responsibility of the Department of Programming and Economic Affairs (DPEA) at the level of the
MARDWF, the second is at the level of Ministry of Finance (MOF) by the Budget Execution Controller (
Controleur d'execution des depenses) and the last one is performed by the Signing Accountant (
Comptable Assignataire).
The accounting system is maintained on a cash basis following the outline of budget components
given in Decree no. 330-66 of April 21, 1967 which includes basic rules for Government accounting. The
ordonnateurs and the comptables use separate sets of accounts to record their activities: the ordonnateurs
keep accounts on the commitments they authorize versus the budget, while the comptables keep accounts
on their cash operations. A reconciliation takes place annually and both situations are submitted to the
Inspection Gen&ale des Finances and Cour des Comptes for control at their request. The budget and
accounting bureau in the DPEA is using a specific software for the budget monitoring and detailed monthly
reports are issued through the system. However the official accounting books are maintained manually by
the public accountant. In parallel separate information systems or reporting systems are operational and
allow the follow up of specific activities and project. One of them is used by the monitoring and evaluation
unit in DRAW and could be considered as satisfactory. However, integration with the budget and the
accounting systems still needs to be considered in order to implement a comprehensive Management
Information System (MIS).
The payments are centralized at the level of the Tresorerie Generale du Royaume (TGR) which
has fiduciary responsibility for supplementary and specific controls in case of a financing by extemal
resources. For expenditures eligible for extemal financing, the TGR issues a statement of account on a
monthly basis reflecting the special account transactions. Although this centralization aims at reinforcing
control of budget execution, the time needed for the entire mechanism is long. In fact disbursements from
the special account are subject to the issuing of a certificate of eligibility by the MOF who is playing an
important role in the use of these external funds. A control on a transaction basis is performed by the
budget department of MOF which is responsible for the special account replenishment as well as the
relationship with donors.
At the provincial level, the PDAs are an effective decentralized unit. Each technical department is
represented at the provincial level, which allows adequate execution of the annual work program on behalf
of the technical department at the central level. The PDA may be designated as responsible for budget
expenditures (sous-ordonnateurs suppleants), in which case the disbursement procedures are executed at
the Governor level with a similar segregation of duties between commitment, disbursement and accounting.
- 51 -



DPEA, PDA and DHAW staffing seems to be adequate in termns of number and capability, but
there is no official training program covering all the staff and their knowledge and skills need to be up& ted
and upgraded. MARDWF's staff in general and DHAW's in particular have a long experience with Bank
procedures which will enable identification of an adequate team to be involved in project implementation.
Given the above features, the capabilities of MARDWF's and DHAW's financial management
systems are acceptable. However, in order to reflect the complex institutional arrangements specific to ihe
project, the current systems need to be adjusted in order to provide cumulative data, consolidated data End
analysis, in addition to budget allocations. Accordingly, DHAW needs to implement a financial and
accounting system specific to the project in order to provide the financial data required by the Bank.
Due to the complexity of the project implementation and the large number of parties involved, Ihe
financial management procedures, as well as the management information system for the project have to be
defined in a clear manner. This definition will focus on the relationship between the different structures, on
the flow of funds and flow of documents. All the structures and project teams at the central, provincial and
local levels would adopt the system defined. A highly qualified consultant would be required to help
implement the system and to coach the project team in order to reach the targeted financial management
system.
Financial Management Features of the Project
In order for the project to produce meaningful, relevant and timely accounting and financial
information with the required efficiency, specific arrangements will be implemented at the central and
regional levels. These are mainly the following:
Financial Organization of the Project
The DHAW, as implementing agency for the project under the overall responsibility of the
MARDWF, will establish a Central Management Unit (CMU), headed by the Director of DHAW who will
be designated National Director (ND) for the project. The ND will be responsible for a close monitoring of
the project and evaluation of physical perfornance, including procurement, finance, budgeting, and
accounting duties. In order to reach the required efficiency, he will identify the required number of qualilied
staff and establish an acceptable financial management system. Two qualified engineers and a financial md
accounting specialist will assist the ND. The CMU team will be expected to demonstrate a reasonable
knowledge and understanding of World Bank procurement, disbursement, project accounting, financial
reporting and auditing guidelines and procedures. DRAW and MARDWF existing structures will also be
involved in project implementation as for current activity. The CMU team will be in charge of project
implementation and thus be responsible for producing consolidated financial data and progress reports.
At the provincial level, the PDA would be responsible for the management of the project. A
Provincial Management Unit (PMU) would be set up, headed by the PDA, who would also be designated
Provincial Director (PD), for the project. The necessary technical staff as well as a financial and
accounting specialist will assist the PD with project implementation. He would be responsible for issuing,
sub-project accounts and sub-project management reports and their transmission on a timely basis to the
CMU.
At the local level, the Extension Center (EC) would play a role of co-ordinator acting on behalf of
PDA. Each EC will designate an official coordinator for the project and will be required to monitor the
implementation of the annual work program. Statements of expenditures incurred will be issued by the EC
- 52 -



and transmitted to the PMU.
Financial and Accounting Policies
Financial and accounting policies for the project have to be developed. These policies are crucial
for ensuring transparency, providing clarity regarding financial aspects to the various stakeholders and
finance staff, ensuring uniformnity, and enforcing accountability. These policies inter alia cover the
following aspects: (i) expenditures which would be treated as project expenditures including their
classification; (ii) expenditures which would be eligible for reimbursement from Bank loan; and (iii)
allocation of expenditures by category and activity in order to reflect a fair view of the financial situation.
These policies would also cover all sources of funds including the Water User Association's contributions
and their uses in the project financing.
Project Accounting System
The ND will maintain, at the level of the CMU, with the assistance of the financial and accounting
specialist, cumulative accounting records, for the components managed under his responsibility. All the
supporting documents related to expenditures incurred at the regional level would be centralized at the level
of the PMU. The PD will prepare and disseminate sub-project accounts and sub- project management
reports. He will also ensure timely transmission of these documents to the CMU's accounting and financial
unit. The CMU would be in charge of the aggregation process and issuing of the annual project financial
statements and the quarterly Project Management Reports (PMR) and the submission of these documents
on a timely basis to the oversight structures (PIMRDC, NCC, etc.), the Bank and the auditors.
The overall principles for project accounting are outlined below:
(a)    Project accounting records would be maintained using the computerized accounting system
which will be developed/selected by a qualified consultant to be operational by no later
than January 2002. The integration of the financial reporting database, which aims at
reflecting all the transaction flows and issuing of the quarterly PMR would complete the
accounting system. During the transition period running from effectiveness to January
2002, the ND would be required to maintain records on spreadsheets on a contract basis.
The transitional records would be converted to the final system upon its installation.
(b)    Project accounting would cover all sources of project funds, including special funds and
AWUA's contributions, and all utilization of project funds at the central, provincial and
local levels. This would include payments made to and expenditures incurred. All
project-related transactions (whether involving cash or not) would be taken into account in
the reporting system. Funds received from different sources would be identified separately
and reflected in the project accounts.
(c)    Project-related transactions and activities would be distinguished from other activities of
each Ministry, PDA, EC, etc. This distinction would be reflected at the data-capture stage.
An identifiable Trial Balance for the project, capturing all project receipts, expenditures,
and other payments under the project would be prepared. A Chart of Accounts for the
project would be prepared. The Chart of Accounts should conformn to the classification of
expenditures and sources of funds as indicated in the project documents (Project
Implementation Plan, Project Appraisal Document and COSTAB). The Chart of Accounts
- 53 -



should enable data to be captured in such a manner as to facilitate financial reporting of
project expenditures by: (i) project components; (ii) expenditure type; and (iii)
disbursement categories.
(d)    A system of reconciliation between the Project Financial Statements /financial reports End
the legal books of accounts would be clearly defined. This would be done by taking into
account the budget category in the chart of accounts analysis.
(e)    Separate banking/treasury accounts will be maintained to identify the different sources of
funds (e.g., general budget of each technical ministry involved, Rural Development Fur d
(RDF), Water Users Associations, and IBRD). This will enable an easy reconciliation of
statements of accounts and balances as well as identification of any misuses, errors or
omissions.
Internal Control Mechanisms
The project financial management system should include the following internal control
mechanisms:
(a)    operation of a budgeting system, and regular monitoring of actual financial performanc
with budgets and targets;
(b)    adoption and operation of simple, clear and transparent financial and accounting policies
which would govem financial management of and accounting for the project (as descrited
earlier). These policies and procedures have to be included in the Financial Managemer t
Procedures Manual.
(c)    at the transaction level, establishment and operation of policies, procedures and system;
for ensuring standard internal controls such as checking of expenditures, appropriate
documentation, levels of authorization, separation of duties, periodic reconciliation,
physical verification, easy access to supporting documents etc. These policies and
procedures would be reviewed and updated periodically;
(d)   separate banking/ treasury accounts will be opened and will identify for each source of
funds. Contributions from the WUA will be passed to individual commercial bank
accounts before any use of these funds for the project purposes. The GTK and Budget
Department of the MOF will provide, on a monthly basis, the CMU with statements of
accounts for both Special account and project account. The financial and accounting
specialist will do a monthly reconciliation of balances and will explain any detected
difference between accounting records and statements.
(e)    establishment and operation of a comprehensive aggregation mechanism, including the
issuing of sub-project accounts and sub-PMRs at the level of each PMU and the projec-;'s
consolidated financial statements and quarterly PMRs at the level of the CMU.
- 54 -



Financial Management Procedures Manual
In order to provide the project team with official and approved procedures and guidelines, the ND
will ensure the issuing of the financial management procedures manual (FMPM) for the project This
document will outline at a minimum:
(a)   Job responsibilities within the CMU and PMUs as well as the relationship with the
permanent structures of each technical ministry
(b)    Flow of transactions and of funds,
(c)    Accounting policies and procedures,
(d)    Reporting procedures,
(e)    Monthly and annually accounting ledger closing and reconciliation procedures including
centralization and consolidation of data, and
(d)    Banking, cash and disbursement procedures.
A highly qualified consultant would prepare the manual. He would be required to have a long
experience in the implementation of management information systems. Terms of reference for the hiring of
this consultant would be issued by the ND and agreed with the Bank.
Selection of a reporting software
Adequate software for the project will be selected and implemented at the CMU and PMUs levels.
A decision will be made by the ND with the assistance of the consultant either to purchase standard
software or to install a customized system. The implementation of the system would require: (a) special
adaptation to World Bank reporting requirements, (b) training of the project staff, and (c) running of a
successful test of the accounting and reporting system.
Financial Management Reports
Quarterly project management reports (PMR) for the project would be generated from the
computerized financial management system. These reports would be management-oriented (i.e., summaries
rather than transactional details) and would be used for project monitoring and implementation by each
provincial department and at the central level. The PMR should include the 3 following parts:
(i)    Financial Statements including:
*   Summary of sources and uses of funds
*   Uses of funds by project activity
*  Project balance sheet
*   Cash withdrawal
*  Cash forecast
*   Special account statement
(ii)   Project progress including:
*   Output monitoring report using contract management information, or
*   Output monitoring report using unit variance as monitoring indicator
- 55 -



(iii)   Procurement management including:
*  Contract expenditure reports - Goods and works
*   Contract expenditure reports - Consultants
*  Procurement management reports - Goods and works
*  Procurement management reports - Consultant
Formats of the reports should be part of the Financial Management Procedures Manual.
Annually Audited Project Financial Statements (PFS) would be submitted to the Bank. PFS woild
include: (i) a statement of sources and utilization of funds or Balance Sheet, indicating funds received from
various sources, project expenditures, and assets and liabilities of the project; this would also include
appropriate schedules classifying project expenditures by components, expenditure categories, and
provincial implementing agency; (ii) a Special Account Reconciliation Statement; and (iii) a Statement of
Withdrawals from the Bank loan made on the basis of Statements of Expenditure (SOEs). Audited PFS
would be submitted to the Bank not later than 6 months after the end of the Fiscal Year.
Auditing Arrangements
At negotiations, it was agreed that the Borrower would have the records, accounts and annual
project financial statements, special account and statements of expenditure audited by independent auditors
in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, namely the international standards on
auditing as issued by the Intemational Federation of Accountants, the Bank's Guidelines (Financial,
Accounting, Reporting and Auditing Handbook, FARAH) and specific terms of reference acceptable to .he
Bank. It was further agreed that, on an exceptional basis, the Bank considers the General Inspector of
Finance (Inspeceteur General des Finances) to be an acceptable auditor. He will express a professional
opinion on the annual project financial statements, special account and statements of expenditure, and
submit to the Bank an annual audit report as soon as possible after the end of the fiscal year but not later
than six months.
The audit will be comprehensive and cover all aspects of the project (i.e., all sources and utilization
of funds, and expenditures incurred). The terms of reference will include both audit of financial
transactions and an assessment of the operation internal control mechanisms. The PMU's and the CMU'
staff would provide the auditor with access to project-related documents and records, and information
required for the purposes of the audit. The auditor will carry out a concurrent audit during the fiscal year to
bring to management's attention any issues which may need to be addressed. This would aim to strengthin
internal control mechanisms, and would also facilitate early completion of the annual audit.
Training of the PMU staff
Given the large number of implementing agencies involved in the project implementation and the
complexity of the project design, the ND will be required to develop a training program for the project
teams at the central, provincial and local levels. The program will cover project management, internal
control mechanisms, budgeting, accounting procedures and policies, reporting, procedures, World Bank
procurement and disbursement guidelines and computer skills. The training program and timetable of
planned activities would be required by the Bank.
Readiness for Implementation
Assuming Board presentation in May 2001, the DHAW should implement the following action
plan over a period of 10 months.
- 56 -



Action                                     Output                   Responsibility    Effective date
1. Organization of the project team and    Organization chart and   DHAW               April 30, 2001
definition of qualification/function of the  job description
involved staff
2. Issuing of the terms of reference for hiring a   Terms of reference and  DRAW       April 30, 2001
consultant to assist the DHAW in the     detailed implementation
implementation of the financial management  planning
system
3. Selection of the consultant and launch of the   Contract and assignrnent   DHAW/Consultant  August 30, 2001
assignment                               schedule
4. Issuing of the financial management     Financial management     DHAW/              November 30, 2001
procedures manual (general organization,  procedures manual and   Consultant/CMU
accounting and financial systems, intemal    technical file for the  and PMUs
control guidelines) and the technical    selection of the software
characteristics of the needed accounting and
reporting software.
5. Acquisition of the needed hardware      Reception of equipment    DHAW/             November 2001
(procurement procedures have to start in                          Consultant/CMU
August 2001)                                                      and PMUs
6. Installation of software                Set-up of the system and    DHAW/           January 15, 2002
testing                 Consultant/CMU
and PMUs
Next steps
Upon implementation of the financial management system for the project, the ND will work
together with the project team to improve the effectiveness of the reporting and monitoring system over a
period of six months.
Action                                    Output                      Responsibility    Effective date
7. Program of Training of the Project staff  Program: content and      ND with DHAW/  January 30, 2002
timetable                   Consultant/CMU
and PMUs
8. Implementation of the financial         Work shop for the           Project team and   February 15, 2002
management procedures manual and        presentation of the manual  consultant
accounting system                       and the software
9. Implementation of the full reporting system    Customization of format and   ND with DHAW/  March 31, 2002
content of the PMR          Consultant/CMU
and PMUs
10. Training program                       Training performance report   Consultant      May 30, 2002
11. Issuing of the First PMR               PMR as of June 30, 2002     ND                July 30, 2002
12. Evaluation of the fnancial management  Financial management        WB                September 30,
system                                  assessment report and                         2002
recommendations
12. Issuing of the second PMR              PMR as of September 30,     ND& WB            November 15,
2002                                          2002
- 57 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
_ _  _   _  _  _ _   _  _  _   _    _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _               )0           l     -;       l -th e   H- B,P   T oQ-   C) K;--; o st-
1. Works                                    0.00               27.69            2.00             0.00          29.69
(0.00)            (21.66)           (1.25)           (0.00)        (22.91)
2. Goods                                    0.80               0.80             0.00             0.00           1.60
(0.80)             (0.41)           (0.00)           (0.00)     -   1.21)
3. Services                                 0.00               0.00             9.36             0.00          9.36
___________________             (0.00)             (0.00)            (8.13)          (0.00)        (8.13)
0.00               0.00             0.00             0.00          0.00
(0.00)             (0.00) '         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)
5. Front-end fee                            0.00               0.00             0.32             0.00          0.32
_               (~~~0.00)           (0.00)           (0.32)          (0.00)         (0.32)
6. Recurrent costs                          0.00               0.00             0.00             1.43           1.43
_____________________           (0.00)              (0.00)           (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)
Total                                   0.80               28.49             11.68            1.43         42.40
(0.80)             (22.07)          (9.70)           (0.00)        (32.57)
" Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
21 Intcludes small works to be procured on the basis of written quotations received, goods to be procured
through national or international shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff for the project
management units, training and technical assistance
- 58 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
l - - -- : -- - h ! ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.    1.    . .t;
Co,tract Value                    ~~~~~Contract SjetUtop
Exenditre Category.  - (tJS$thooooios)   :       :       th    :USrilions)
1. Works                      => 30,000                  NCB                  All contracts >
500,000
< 30,000            Three quotations              None
2. Goods                       > 300,000                 ICB                  All contracts >
300,000
>30,000<300,000               NCB                     None
< 30,000          National or international        None
shopping
3. Services (a) Firms         > 100,000                 QCBS                       All
< 100,000               QCBS, CQ             TORs, regardless of
contract value, and all
Short Lists
(b) individuals               > 50,000         See Section V of Guidelines All TORs, Contracts, CVs
< 50,000         See Section V of Guidelines    TORs only
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:   Estimate: US$8.4
million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Low
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 59-



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
: Ependiture.Catego.r       A     t                .r                 b"r U.S$millkrn  - Financ g Perientage
1. Civil works                            21.00                        80%
2. Goods                                   1.00          100% of foreign expenditures; and 80%
of items procured locally
3. Services and Training                   7.25                        100%
4. Unallocated                             3.00
Total Project Costs                       32.25
Front-end fee         0.32
Total                                     32.57
- 60 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
MOROCCO: IRRIGATION BASED COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
ProJect Schedule-                                  --- ----- : ........ Planned  -  - ;- -  ---Act
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       5                            5
First Bank mission (identification)              12/06/99                     12/06/99
Appraisal mission departure                      03/29/2000                   03/29/2000
Negotiations                                    06/26/2000                    03/26/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   09/15/2001
Prepared by:
Ministry of Agriculture, Rural Development, and Water and Forests
Preparation assistance:
AGROCONCEPT, FAO/CP and individual consultants
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Spedallty
Douglas W. Lister                 Task Team Leader
Laurent Msellati                  Senior Operations Officer
Adel F. Bichara                   Senior Irrigation Engineer
Marie-Laure Lajaunie              Agricultural Economist
Anne Paugam                       Senior Public Sector Specialist
Catherine M. Laurent              Senior Public Sector Specialist
Hassan Lamrani                    Senior Operations Officer
Mohamed N. Ben Ali                Agriculturalist
Cornelis De Haan                  Livestock Adviser
Samia Msadek                      Senior Financial Management Specialist
Lorenz Petersen                   Environmental Specialist
Nicole Glineur                    Senior Environmental Specialist (Environmental Reviewer)
Concepcion Esperanza Del Castillo    Senior Social Scientist
Maurice Jules Gress               Procurement Specialist
Nadia Gouhier                     Procurement Assistant
Mohamed Feghoul                   Senior Municipal Engineer (Peer Reviewer)
Geoffrey Spencer                  Senior lrrigation Engineer (Peer Reviewer)
Sylvie Pittman                    Language Program Assistant
Petros Aklilu                     Sector Manager - Rural Development
M. Salah Darghouth                Sector Manager - Water and Environment
- 61 -



Annex 8: Documents In the Project File*
MOROCCO: IRRIGATION BASED COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
A. Project Implementation Plan
Royaume du Maroc, Projet de developpement rural integre centre sur la petite et moyenne
hydraulique, Plan d'execution du projet, aout 2000
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Environmental Assessment
Financial Management Assessment
C. Other
Royaume du Maroc, Ministere de l'Agriculture, du Developpement Rural et des P&ches
Maritimes, Direction des Amenagements 1-ydro-Agricoles, Projet DRI-PMJI, Rapport de Prparation
(Fevrier 2000)
*Including electronic files
- 62 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
MOROCCO: IRRIGATION BASED COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
Closed Projects      ill
IBRDiDA -
Total Disbursd (ArWie)       281.20
of 0h.& has been repaid  8.05
Total Disbursed (Closed)     6,547.90
of hihb has been reprd  4,385.00
Total Disbursed (Aetive  Clored)  6,929.09
e hwiNh h.s been roped  4,393 09
Total Undlriburbed(Aoioe)    312.71
Total Undreborsed (Closed)   7.59
Tohtl Urdisb-rsed (Active t Closed)   320.30
Active Protects                                                                                                                                                               Difference Between
Last PSR                                                                                                        Expected and Actudl
Supervision Rating                                         Orainal Amount in USS Millions                            Disbursements '
Project ID                   Project Name              DeveoDment   Imoplemetation      Fiscal Year            IBRD              IDA         GRANT             Cancel.   Undisb.     Orig. Fene Rev'd
Obiecivmes      Proorss
P042414                     COORIMON SOCIAL PRO S                          S              1996                   28                0              0                0        84        3.3        0
P005525                     HEALTH MANAGEMENT  S                           S              1999                   66                0              0                0        54       36.7       05
P005499                     IRR AREAS AGR. SERV  S                         S              1994                   25                0              0               9.9       3.6        15       27
P005519                     LAKHOAR WATERSHED rhS                          U              1999                    4                0              0                0        3.7       1.4        0
P063918                     LEGAL AND JUDICIAL DE\ S                       S              2000                  5.3                0              0                0        52        0.3        0
P005524                     MA-FES/MEDINA REHAB S                          S              1999                   14                0              0                0       11.3       76         0
P048314                     MA-PROTECTED AREAS ^ S                         U              2000                    0                0            10.5               0        9 3         0        0
P005489                     MA-SECONDARY ROADS S                           S              1995                 576                 0              0                0       14.5      217        3.3
P005523                     MUNICIPAL FINANCE II  U                        S              1998                   70                0              0                0       19.4      26.6        0
P052247                      PILOT FISHERIES DEV.  U                       S              1999                    5                0              0                0        3.9       1.6        0
P038978                      PSD Ill-VOC TRG        U                       U             1997                   23                0              0                0       123       136        71
P043725                      RAILWAY RESTR & PRIV S                        S              1997                   85                0              0                0      61.8       43.5        0
P040566                     RURALW.S.&SANITATN S                           S              1998                   10                0              0                0        39        48       -0.6
P005503                     SEW& WATER REUSE)) U                           U              1996                   40                0              0                0      30.3       185         0
P005501                     SPI - EDUCATION         S                      S              1996                   54                0              0                0      29.8       12.1      -0.1
P042415                     SPI-HEALTH              S                      S              1996                   68                0              0                0       13.6      -1.8        0
P065757                      SUSTAINABLE COASTAL'S                         S              2000                  2.2                0              0                0        21        04         0
P005521                     WATER RESOURCE MGM S                            S             1998                   20                0              0                0       16.1       74         0
P005435                     WATER SUPPLYV           S                      S              1994                  160                0              0               71      18 7       90.2       8.8
Overall result                                                                            Result              737 1                0            10.5             80.9      322      302 9      21.5
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisai.



Morocco
Statement of IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 12/31/2000
(In US Dollars Millions)
Held                    Disbursed
FY Approval Company           Loan Equity Quasi Partic  Loan Equity Quasi Partic
1995 Attijari              0   0.48     0      0     0   0.48      0      0)
1987/90     CIH                 5.05     0      0      0  5.05      0      0      0)
1990 ENNASR             0.94      0     0      0  0.94       0     0      0)
2000 Maghreb Inv. Mgt      0   0.02     0      0      0   0.02     0      O
2000 Maghreb Invest P      0      5     0      0      0   1.25     0      l)
2001 Medi Telecom      66.38      0 22.13 321.25 66.38       0 22.13 321.2'i
1994/96     Mediafinance          0   0.66      0      0     0   0.66      0      C)
1999 Settavex           0.43      9     0      0  0.43       9     0      0
Total Portfolio:       72.8  15.16 22.13 321.25  72.8  11.41 22.13 321.2';
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan Equity Quasi Partic
64



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
MOROCCO: IRRIGATION BASED COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
U East   Lower.
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                             & North   middle-
Morocco      Africa   Income       D*velopment diamond'
1999
PoDuLttion. mid-vear (miltlonsl                        28.2       291      2.094                  Life expectancy
GNP oer ceolta (Atlas method. USS)                    f.90       2.060     1.200
GNP (Atlas method. USS hifilons                        t9fi         fig     3.518
Avearso annual orowth. 1993.99
PnnuItatinn MA)                                          1.7       .1        1.1 
Labor force i                                           2.8        3.0       1.2      GNP                               Gross
per                             primary
Most recenrt eatimate *ateastvar avallable. 0"t9t91                                   capita                        enrr.meeer
Povertv 1% of Dooou.tlon below natfontl novnerv linel    19
Urban Donuiation 1% .of taDt Donulaionl                  55        5f         43
Life eoxnectanev at birth (vearsl                        67         BB        69
Wnftn mnrtiittv ter 1.0DaDwvebfnlsl                      4t         45 A      3
Child malnitrition 16 orchifdren under 5i                 --        15        15                Access to safe water
Access to trmDroved water source i 4 of ooulattion)      52        71         BB
I ilmranCv 1% of onoulaflon aoe 1541' 53                            36        1 A
Gross Drimafv enrollmnent (%of school-eve oaoulellan)    86        .95  .   114                Morocco
MAle ..F                                                         197 2     114               Lower-middle-incorne group
Fermxle                                                74        PA        11R
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONGtTERM TRENDS
t979     1989k     1998       1S99.
Economic ratios
GbP 1USS biflionsl                            15.9     22.8       35.7      35.0
Grn r. drrmasii ieeni^tn/COt3GP               74.5     73.7       77.       7 4.7Trd
FPortrr nfnnnclsanrl arvlr..sInGP             17.5r    17.4       17.6      1B.6                      Trade
Gross domestic savinos/GDP                    12.9     14.9       14.2      15.3
Ornea natitnal sAvinn-/CDP                    1f3.9    17.2       17.5      16.7
Current account.Ibalance/GDP                  -9.6     -.3.       .0.4   ,  -0.68                        ^ Domestic  - K
Int-rest navmant/GnIP   :                      3         4.tt      2.7 4      .4 A                                 Investment
Tot at dehi/GOP         4Q46      95.7  ~~~~~~~~    ~           Savings
Tnink d*hft<^np                               lqQ R  935.7    s      tn    .5.5 7 (
Total debt servlcelaarorts                    2B.3     30.2       23.0      27.7
Prentr vsairi nflrbht/GtlP                                .       !;7 3
Present value of debtlaxoorts                   ..        ..    153.2
Indebtedness
197f9.9  191S.99     log  t99     g9o   I19-03
aeverasoe annusl arowthih
GOP                                   4.0      2.3      8.8       -0.7       3.7                Morocco
GNP oar caoita                        1.5      D.8      5.5       .2.2       2.0                Lower-middle-lncome group
ExDorts of ooods and services         4.3      3.5      2.2        4.8       6.9s.
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989       1998      1999      Growth of invostment and GDP (X)
/M of GDPI
Anrimplflir-                                  17.9      17.3      17 n      14.f
Industry                                      32.7     33.2       31.9      32.7     20
M.nirfanhrrinn             1R.t                       17.8      17.1       1 7.3
Services                                      49.4     49.6       51.1      52.6                          f
Privatp cnnmirnntinn                          6.S.R    69.4       fl7.7     R5.4    -20
General novern-m-ten nnmntinn                 31.3      157       1d.1      19.3               -     GDI           GDP
Imoorts of aoods and services                 29.0     26.2       26.1      27.7
1979-89  1989-99      1998       1999     Growth of exports and Imports (X)
laverace annual orowtht
Anrinritiur                                    5.6A    .n A       74.7     .19.6i    30
tndustrv                                       2.4      3.2        1.8       2.8    20
Manufacturino                                3.9       3-0       2.4        2.5
Services                                       4.3      2.8        5.1       3.1    to
PrivatA r:nntimntion                           4.6      3.n        6.5      -3.7      0
General nnverntn  nn inmNinn                   1.0      3.37       R.R        .7 R.3               2s5                    99
Gross domestic invesiment                      0.6       1.7      30.1       6.9    .ro
Imoorts of ooods and services                  1.3      4.9       21.4       4.7                  Exprts    ",Imports
Gross national oroduct                         3.7      2.4        7.6       -0.6
Note: 1999 date are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv in bold) comoared with its Income-nrouo averaae. If data are missina. the diamond will
he inrmnrnte.
- 65-



Morocco
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979    1989       1998     1999      Inflatlon 4%)
Domestfc prices8
(% change)                                                                       9
Consumer prices                              8.3      3.1        2.7      0.7
Implicit GDP deflator                        7.3      4.0       0.7       0.9    4
Government finance                                                                2
(% of GDP, incLdes current grants)                                                I
Current revenue                             22.2    22.6       27.4      26.9           96   95   96   97   go    9
Current budget balance                       2.8      1.4       3.8       2.6              -GDP deflator   "*CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                      -9.4    -6.0      -2.7      -4.7
TRADE
(US$ millions)                              1979    1989       1998     1999       Export end Import levels (US$ mill.)
Total exporls (lob)                        1,955    3.851     7,144    7,372    12.000
Agriculture and food dems                  641    1.016      1,627    1 590
Phosphate rock                             568      489       459       434      9Dooo
Manufactures                               345    1,644      3,932    4,085 *    r*1
Total imports (cif)                        3,673    5.842    10,274    10,804
Food                                       550      590      1 191    1,177      3000
Fuel and energy                            710      843       922     1,330
Capital goods                              844    1,458      2,567    2,830 o
93  94  96  96  97  9a 98
Exoort once index (1995e100)                  71       85        93       87
Imoort orce index 119951g0l0                  78       85        89       89                   E Exporls    *Imports
Tefmsof tradef 1995100l                       91       99       105       98
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
fuss millionsl                              1979    1989       1998     1999      Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services              2,707    5,391     9,970   10.535      1
Imports of goods and services              4,752    6,641    11.425    11,964
Resource balance                          -2,045   -1,249    -1,455    -1,429       -
Net income                                  -409   -1,159    -1,033      -977    -1
Net currenttransfers                         923    1,606     2,345    2.137      2-I.l      1
Current account balance                    -1,531    -803      -144      -269
.3 
Financing items (net)                      1,499      808       391     1,907
Changes in net reserves                       32       -5      -247   -1,638      4
memo:
Reserves includina oold fUSS millions)         .      552     4.693    5.920
Conversion rate (DEC. lDcalfUSSI             3.9      8.5        9.6      9.8
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979    1989       1998     1999
/USS millions)                                                                    Composition of 1999 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed       7,886   21,874    20,687    19,309
IBRD                                       504    2,686     3,388    3.377                      G: 116
IDA                                         38      40         29       28                               A: 3,37
Total debt service                           972    2,042     2,797    3,502
IBRD                                        65      381       505      515         F: 6,089                  28
IDA                                          0        1         2        1
Composition of net resource flows                                                                               D0 2,140
Ofticial grants                             95      101
Official creditors                         331     688       -377      -176
Prvate creditors                           673      228       469      -265
Foreign direct investment                   39      167       313      839
Portfolio equity                             0        0                        |                   E 7559
World Bank program
Commitments                                357     518        130      356      A- IBRD                    E - Biteral
Disbursements                              137     364        291      404      B - IDA    D - Other mutilateral  F -Private
Principal repayments                        25      182       300      304      C-IMF                      GS-Shor-term
Netflows                                   112      182        -9       100
Interest payments                          41      200        207      213
Ne ttrnsfers                                72      -18      -216      -113
Development Economics                                                                                              8/28/00
- 66 -



Additional
Annex 11
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
MOROCCO: IRRIGATION BASED COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
1. INTERVENTION STRATEGY AND PROCEDURES
I.    On the basis of past experience and the thinking that went into preparing the "2020 Rural
Development Strategy," the Moroccan authorities have redefined their rural development policy. The IBCD
Program is a high government priority: it is in fact the first program to be undertaken within this new
strategy. It will take 13 years to complete. The proposed Project represents the first five-year phase of that
Program, and is part of the Government's five-year economic and social development plan. Implementation
of the Project will be based on two fundamental concepts in the rural development strategy: (a) integration;
and (b) participation.
2.    The integration of public services and investments in rural development zones is not an end in
itself, but rather a means to create conditions for a sustainable improvement in the incomes and living
conditions of the target population. The rural development strategy stresses a comprehensive and coherent
local approach through regional programming and integration of government activities.
3.    Participation by rural inhabitants in defining and managing investments will guarantee that the
resources to be transferred by the State will be used effectively from the socioeconomic viewpoint. The
objective here is local empowerment through a participatory approach. Such participation must be
accompanied by a strengthened process of decentralization. While seeking to ensure the effectiveness of
public expenditure, the approach adopted for this project pays particular attention to reducing
inter-regional imbalances and to improving economic conditions in disadvantaged areas.
4.    Inteated rural development focused on SMI. Efforts to upgrade and rehabilitate small and
medium inigation (SMI) perimeters are to play a key role in the Program, which will be "SMI-focused"
and is expected to be the engine and catalyst for integration. The logic behind focusing an integrated rural
development program on SMI, mainly in mountainous regions, is based in particular on the following
factors: (a) cost reduction through integrating SMI activities with those relating to road building, drinking
water and electricity, so as to increase the return on investment in irrigation works; (b) the growth in
effective demand for social services, reflecting higher incomes; (c) the localization effect, reflecting the
pattem of settlement and the concentration of community life around the perimeters (raising of dairy cattle,
handicrafts, small-scale processing of farm produce, administration); and (d) technical synergy, reflecting
the interaction between rehabilitation works and other services, in particular highway maintenance and
forest protection services.
- 67 -



Integration
Moroccan experience with integration
Lessons from the past: integrated rural development projects
5.    The Ministry of Agriculture has long been involved in implementing integrated rural development
programs (IRDPs), with donor support. During the 1980s, the World Bank cofinanced the following four
projects: the Fes-Karia-Tissa Agricultural Project (Loan No. 1602-MOR, 1978/1990), the Loukkos Rural
Development Project (Loan No. 1848-MOR, 1980/1988), the Middle Atlas Agricultural Development
Project (Loan No. 2082-MOR, 1982/1990) and the Oulmes-Rommani Agricultural Development Projec:
(Loan No. 2217-MOR, 1982/1992). With these projects, the "integration" aspect consisted essentially in
adding rural access roads, water supply systems and socioeconomic infrastructure components to
agricultural projects. The results of these projects were mixed, quite apart from the serious problems posed
by the lack of counterpart funding. The audit report on these four projects conducted by the World Bank
(Performance Audit Report -- Operations Evaluation Department, January 25, 1994, Report No. 12701)
pointed to a number of factors limiting their impact, in particular: (a) a "top-down" approach to planning;,
with its inherent dimensioning problems; and (b) limited community participation at the local level, whetler
in identifying and prioritizing needs, in executing and monitoring works, or in maintaining the
infrastructure. In fact, these projects were typified by a series of uncoordinated interventions by various
government departments, all of them decided in Rabat. Some writers were however already referring to thie
concept of "horizontal integration," one that represented a new methodological approach to rural
development issues and that opened the way to the concepts of community participation and local
programming.
"Vertical" sectoralprograms
6.    Launched in the mid-I 990s, these programs are an integral part of the first phase of the rural
development strategy. They involve basic socioeconomic facilities such as water, electricity and roads, and
have been designed with a view to overcoming the shortage of such services in rural areas. The World Bank
is involved in most of these programs, and they are increasingly taking people's needs into account.
Programs such as PAGER, or the more recent watershed development projects (e.g., Oued Lakhdar or S: di
Driss) have stressed the participatory approach with the introduction of "vertical integration" mechanisir s.
These sectoral programs still represent the priority intervention areas under the five-year plan and
substantial budgetary resources will be devoted to implementing them.
7.     The Rural Electrification Plan (PERG). The objective of PERG is to achieve a rural electrification
rate of 100 percent by the year 2010, with 75 percent coverage by 2005 (500,000 households). The total
cost of the project is estimated at MAD 15 billion, or about MAD one billion per year. PERG combines
connections to the national network with decentralized electrification projects, using renewable energy
sources. Financing is provided by the National Electricity Office (ONE), local governments (communes or
municipalities) and user households themselves. Villages will be selected initially for electrification on the
basis of the "least cost per household" criterion. This basic rule will be supplemented by others: population
distribution, regional balance and the economic internal rate of return.
-68 -



8.    Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Program (PAGER). This program was launched in 1995 to
ensure wide access to drinking water in rural areas. It calls for the creation of 31,000 water points
supplying 11 million people with safe drinking water, at a total cost of MAD 10 billion over eight years.
Program coordination is in the hands of a national committee consisting of the Ministries of the Interior
(Ml), Equipment (ME), Public Health (MPH) and Agriculture, Rural Development and Water and Forests
(MARDWF). A provincial commission is responsible for supervising the field work. Responsibilities vary
according to the partners involved: (a) the rural communities (RCs) will construct, manage and maintain
the infrastructure, while (b) project implementation responsibility lies with the Department of Hydraulics
(DH) of ME and the National Water Office (ONEP). The implementation of PAGER is based on
partnership with local communities, through a participatory approach. The community partnership takes
the form of a contract between the community and state services setting out the basic preconditions:
creation of a users' association, mobilization of financial contributions from the three parties, with the RC
contributing 15 percent and the project management and maintenance association 5 percent.
9.    The National Rural Roads Program (PNRR). The Roads and Traffic Department conducted a
study of rural roads showing that 82 percent are in poor condition (with 30 percent out of service for more
than one month of the year). In terms of existing infrastructure, only 43 percent of communities have easy
all-season access, 35 percent have difficult access, and 22 percent have no vehicular access at any time.
The project is being financed through a partnership between the Ministry of Equipment and the RCs, which
are supposed to contribute 33 percent of the total cost of the rural roads program, estimated at MAD 1.9
billion.
Multisectoral programs
10.   The social priorities program known as BAJ I calls for interventions in basic health, basic
education and a nationwide promotion campaign. A social development strategy has been drawn up to
cover deficits in terms of providing basic social services to the poor. The BAJ I project was designed as a
set of three complementary projects with the same general objectives, prepared on the same basis in the
same zones, but executed independently by the Ministry of National Education (MNE), the MPH and the
Ml (promotion campaign). The BAJ I is targeted at poor people. Initial mid-term evaluations of the project
have highlighted the inevitable difficulties in gaining acceptance for intersectoral coordination of the
top-down, ex-post kind. After examining activities by component, the evaluations concluded that the degree
of integration is still weak and funds management is still highly centralized: the central administration
merely informs the Provincial Delegations (PDs) of the amounts they will receive.
Principles of integration
11.   The integrated nature of the proposed Project implies both "sectoral" and "multisectoral"
approaches to rural interventions, while respecting the prerogatives of the "local authorities" and the "local
governments." Integration constitutes the link between the basic themes of the "2020 Rural Development
Strategy": decentralization, "territorialization" and participation. If the integrated project approach is to
succeed, supplementary financing mechanisms will have to be put in place, programming will have to be
done locally, subject to review at the provincial level, and partnerships will have to be strengthened.
Integration also implies a clearly defined territorial framework. Integrating public services and investment
in rural development zones is not an end in itself, but rather a means to create conditions conducive to the
sustainable improvement of peoples' incomes and living conditions.
- 69 -



Territorialization
12.    The notion of "territorialization" refers, first of all, to data on the natural setting that defines
agro-ecological zones with their various limitations and potential. These data are essential for defining
regionalized agricultural development strategies. Territorialization introduces to rural development the
issue of "common programming spaces," in which the various stakeholders must work together to take
account of all specific programming areas, such as rural roads or rural electrification systems, or the
problems of villages and SMI perimeters. The "2020 Rural Development Strategy" identifies this primaiy
unit as the "small rural region" ("pays") that will be gradually defined during the planning process. Whi.e
awaiting a better definition of these regions, it is proposed to adopt a subdivision by Extension Centers
(ECs) be used initially to define the "common space" for programming, within which all development
programs must converge in pursuit of efforts to bring coherence to government activities at the local lev l.
Local programming
13.    The Program is based on the principle of inter-ministerial programming on a "rolling" basis at the
provincial level, in order to meet the needs of the local population. Only true decentralization, i.e., the
devolution of responsibility from the central administration to the provincial field services, will allow the
State to understand and then respond to needs expressed by beneficiary groups in the context of the IBCD
Program. The validation and decision-making levels implied by this integration of public activities could be
the Permanent Interministerial Rural Development Committee at the national level, the Provincial Technical
Committee at the provincial level, and the rural communities supported by provincial field services at the
local level.
Supplementary financing mechanisms
14.   In order to implement integrated rural development programs, financial resources must be
mobilized to develop the rural farming economy and provide adequate infrastructure. New principles of
financing for rural development activities will have to be introduced, with supplementary mechanisms for
mobilizing budgetary resources to foster the integration of sectoral programs already under way. These
integration efforts will require greater flexibility in the use of credits, and the province will have to be
provided with funds free of any predetermined sectoral earmarking by the central services. Whatever the
budgetary technique selected, implementing the integrated rural development (IRD) policy will require
supplementary funds programmed and managed at the provincial level in a truly inter-ministerial way, in
order to ensure the proper spatial integration of programming. A review of existing programs could help to
limit the additional amounts required, but this will require greater flexibility in the mechanisms now in
effect between the provincial field services and the central administration. The vertical programs currently
under way would of course be pursued with their current criteria and the SMI activities would, in this first
phase, be the responsibility of the MARDWF, just as other vertical programs have their responsible
department. Additional funding would only be allocated if it were impossible to reprogram existing funds.
The Rural Development Fund (RDF), which has just been reactivated as part of the anti-drought campaign,
could provide this additional funding, in parallel with the sectoral funds for rural facilities.
- 70 -



Partnership
15.   The integration approach calls for a certain formalization of relationships and commitments of the
various actors (state, local communities, users' groups). Today, several "bilateral" agreement formulas are
used for certain sectoral programs such as PAGER, PNRR or SMI. From an integration perspective, the
partnership must evolve towards more global commitments, no longer focusing in a compartmentalized or
ad hoc way on a single sector or type of investment (water, roads), but on all the investments in
infrastructure and basic services within the rural community's territory. The legal framework for this type
of global partnership (in terns of sectors and players) does not yet exist, but it could be put in place by the
second phase of the project. Thinking on this point within the Moroccan Government reflects the
recognized need for a greater inter-ministerial dimension in the dialogue and in the partnership between the
State and local governments (at all levels: regions, provinces, municipalities).
16.   In the short term, with specific reference to the project, a formula is proposed whereby the key
state services, regrouped within a special Provincial Technical Committee (Core Rural Development
Committee or CRDC), would engage in a comprehensive dialogue with the communities and the local
population on all sectoral programs, as well as on projects to be financed with supplementary IRD funds.
On this basis the municipalities will draw up community investment programs for IRD that would translate
into a multiyear programming partnership agreement between the rural community and the State, limited at
first to the SMI and agricultural components of the project, plus the projects financed with supplementary
funding. In the medium term, these partnership agreements could cover all state activities, including
ongoing sectoral programs in the selected SMI areas. This formula, flexible as it is, will have no
contractual force in the civil or commercial sense. No agreement between public players can be allowed to
call into question the constitutional or legislative principles governing public finances (either of the State or
of local governments), and in particular the annual budget cycle. Such programming agreements, however,
have the great political value of strengthening dialogue and reinforcing the commitments of the various
stakeholders.
Participation
Implementation Sequencing and Execution Schedule
17.   The proposed implementation sequencing takes account of two basic characteristics of the project,
namely that the project is being financed under an Adaptable Program Loan (APL) and that it must be
based on a "community-driven development" (CDD) approach. This means that project activities must be
identified according to a "rolling programming" mechanism throughout the preparation and execution of the
project, in order to define the exact location and the precise content of its components.
18.   The project implementation sequence for a typical province includes the following phases and
stages:
* Participatory Programmingi. This will be conducted by the Participatory Programming Teams (PPT)
supported by technical assistance (TA), and will take about one year. It includes the following stages:
(a) provincial identification, where the primary goal is to define the rural communities that will be part
of the project, pre-identify activities, and produce a preliminary indicative estimate of the required
funding (SMI and RDF). This stage will produce a provincial report that will be submitted to the
CRDC;
- 71 -



(b) identification of target group needs, based on a participatory diagnosis in each perimeter and
village; and
(c) establishment of community lBCD investment programs, together with a general feasibility study
for the project zone as a whole.
*   Consultation. Consultations among all project partners will take place throughout the programming
phase. This will involve the following formal stages: (a) a meeting of CRDC to analyze the provincial
report submitted by the PPT; (b) a meeting of the Permanent Inter-Ministerial Rural Development
Conmmittee (PIMRDC) at the central level to validate the broad lines of action set forth in the
provincial reports (for all provinces involved in each phase of the project); and (c) meetings of the
CRDC with elected community representatives to discuss the communities' IBCD investment programs
and to translate these into partnership agreements, with due regard to any adjustments that may have,
been possible in existing sectoral programs.
*   Execution. Once the partnership agreements have been validated by the national inter-ministerial
bodies, project components will be executed by the various ministerial departments concerned, in
accordance with the procedures and rules of their sectoral programs. For the SMI component, this
phase includes the following stages: (a) establishment of the Agricultural Water Users' Associations
(AWUAs); (b) technical studies of the irrigation systems (averaging one year); and (c) execution of -.he
works (averaging two years).
Participation of Beneficiaries
19.    Together with integration, beneficiary participation constitutes one of the basic concepts underl ing
the IBCD Project. This participation implies, on one hand, that the beneficiaries must be involved in
programming, designing, constructing and operating the infrastructure called for under the project, and cn
the other hand that the beneficiaries will contribute to the initial investmnent cost and will take responsibility
for ongoing operating and maintenance costs, in order to ensure the sustainability of the improvements.
20.    Beneficiary involvement in project execution. Beneficiaries will be involved at each stage of project
execution, either directly or through their representative bodies: elected commnunity officials and user
associations.
*   Residents of SMI perimeters will be involved directly in the participatory diagnosis for identifying tLeir
needs and priorities under the various project areas. This diagnosis will go down to the village level and
use participatory methods that have been proven effective, such as participatory rural appraisal
techniques. It will be conducted by teams of extension workers selected from the ECs and by contracted
communicators under the supervision of an expert in the participatory approach.
* Users' associations (AWUA for SMI and village associations for potable water supply) will be
involved in the design of the works: they will participate with the consultants in defining works adapted
to their needs, and are expected to validate the draft project plans. They will also be involved in
monitoring the works so as to ease the task of the contractors undertaking them (access, land
occupancy, installation of facilities, etc.). Finally, they will be fully responsible for operation and
maintenance, under their agreements with the PDA (for SMI) and the PDE (for potable water supply).
- 72 -



*   The councils of the rural municipalities participating in the project will be involved at various stages of
project implementation: pre-identification of the needs of the people they represent, coordination within
the Core Rural Development Committee, monitoring studies and works, especially for the components
they are cofinancing (AEP, roads, electricity) and responsibility for maintaining certain components
(unclassified roads and tracks).
21.   Financial participation. Financial participation by rural communities and users will be consistent
with the rules established for the various sectoral programs. For the SMI program, although the principle
of user financial contributions to investment costs is clearly set forth in Law No. 2/84 and its application
decree, the rate of contribution was left to negotiation by the parties. In theory it is currently calculated on
the basis of farm budget simulations for testing the contributory capacity of farmers. In practice, a flat rate
of 10 percent has been adopted in the agreements between the administration and the users' associations.
This flexibility of the legislation is positive to the extent that it allows for negotiation with users in light of
their specific situation. It would, however, be desirable to set a minimum rate reflecting users' interest in the
project. On the other hand, the legislation does not define any specific procedures for cost recovery from
users. For the AWUAs already constituted, participation agreements have been signed with the MARDWF,
but they have not been approved by the Ministry of Finance, as stipulated in Decree No. 2/84. The
MARDWF does not in fact submit these agreements to the MEF, and the latter has no procedure for
collecting contributions from users' associations. This situation must be clarified before project start-up,
given the importance of user contributions as proof of their commitment to the project.
The long-term vision
Phasing of the program
22.   During Phase 1, the project will focus on the SMI-farming component, and on supplementary
community investments, while seeking to promote coordination across all existing sectoral programs. In
this learning phase, the core Provincial Technical Committee (PTC) will be responsible for guiding the
dialogue and rendering an opinion on community programs and on the provincial IBCD Program, with
reference only to: (a) the SMI and farming components, which will constitute a supplementary sectoral
program of the MARDWF, and will be provided for in its budget; and (b) projects financed under the
complementary RDF. Investments under other existing sectoral programs of different ministries will not be
included as such in the community and provincial IBCD plans during this phase, nor in the partnership
agreements between the State and the communities. However, implementation of these plans will be
coordinated within the CRDC and this will of necessity imply informal coordination in the programming of
all existing components, to the extent that this is necessary in order to assess the merit of projects to be
financed by the supplementary fund.
23.    During phase 2, additional progress could be made towards integration and the different programs
could be managed in common at the provincial level through the PTC. Thus, participatory and
consensus-based programming would be extended to other sectoral programs in an integrated manner. The
community programs and the provincial IRD program, as well as the respective partnership agreements,
would cover investments under these other sectoral programs. The Core PTC would therefore have a
"horizontal" programming role for all departmental interventions, in consultation with the communities and
target groups, and this would translate into framework agreements or "program contracts" of broader scope
than in the first phase, consistent with the principles and scheme described above ("partnerships").
24.    During phase 3, a third step could be taken, whereby the participatory integrated programming
- 73 -



process would be extended to the entire province, beyond the communities affected by the SMI investments.
This would represent a shift from an IBCD to an IRD program, in which all communities of the province
would prepare IRD investment programs, in consultation with the state services represented within the core
PTC, and with the target population, and they would sign global partnership agreements (IRD agreemen:s)
in accordance with the arrangements described above. This progressive extension would ensure that the
integrated, participatory approach to rural development is placed on a permanent footing, and that it will
last beyond the SMI investment program by being permanently built into the normal operating mode of the
local administration and institutions.
Decentralizing programming to allow for local integration
25.    This phased approach to integrated and participatory programming will require parallel progress
with decentralization, not only with respect to executive powers (delegating budget allocations to external
services) but also with respect to programming decisions, where responsibility will shift from the central
administration offices to the state external services. If this integration is to respond to the needs identifiec.,
the central administrations, under the impetus of the PIMRDC, will have to give greater weight in their
annual programming and budgeting, and especially in the annual adjudication process, to the proposals of
the external services formulated in the context of coordinated and coherent local plans. The project is
designed with a view to truly decentralized administration, which is indeed one of the objectives of the
Moroccan Government, and is also a condition for success of the integrated rural development strategy.
According to this vision, basic local activities and investments of the State, except for those of a national
scope, will be programmed and managed in a decentralized manner by the state services in the various
regions and provinces, and the corresponding funds will be delegated to the heads of the external services,
with overall coordination at the local level by the inter-ministerial authority.
The changing role of local government
26.   In the first phase of the project, the rural communities will be the major players in the system,
because they stand at the center of the local dialogue between the state services, elected representatives and
target groups, and of the formulation of community IRD programs. This essential role should allow them to
expand their capacity to design and manage multiyear investment and development programs, a capacity
that is today limited. Their pivotal role within the IBCD partnership agreements (first phase) and the IRIC
agreements (once the agreements are extended to cover all sectoral programs) will change their positioning
vis-a-vis the State, by making them a major player and partner, rather than a "client group." From the
outset, rural communities will thus have a role in implementing projects for which they are responsible
which are cofinanced by the supplementary fund. Strengthening the community as a major player and
partner in local development is moreover consistent with the guidelines currently being worked out within
the Government to reform municipal charters by strengthening the powers and autonomy of communities
(particularly by reducing the degree of ex-ante control and expanding the use of ex-post controls).
27.   The provincial assembly, and subsequently the regional assembly (acting as the local government),
could help finance priority investments coordinated by state services and elected community
representatives, and for which funding is lacking or inadequate (it would then be a party to the IRD
agreements with the communities, by virtue of providing cofinancing). As the regions assume increased
responsibility for promoting regional economic development and planning, the role of the provincial
assembly will gradually evolve and it will be increasingly called upon to assist in the financing of rural
facilities. Once the role of the regions (local governments) and their resources have been defined, they wil
- 74 -



be able to intervene as partners to IRD agreements on an equal footing with other players. For example,
they could provide cofinancing or loan guarantees for local investrnents whose scope extends beyond the
specific community or province, such as sanitation or "green" tourism projects undertaken to diversify rural
economic activities.
11. INTER-MINISTERIAL COORDINATION
Current status of administratve coordination
Coordination at the central level
28.    The Permanent Interministerial Rural Development Council. (Decree No. 2-98-9 74 dated January
5, 1999). At the national level, the Permanent Inter-Ministerial Rural Development Council (PIMRDC),
chaired by the Prime Minister, represents a significant step forward in strengthening coordination,
integrating activities and mobilizing rural financing. This inter-ministerial body, for which the MARDWF
is the Secretariat, has the mandate to strengthen inter-ministerial coordination mechanisms by reorganizing
local services and promoting the pooling of resources among decentralized services operating in the same
geographical area. In this context, the Rural Development Fund (RDF), which pursuant to the 1994
Finance Act receives a specific allocation under the direct control of the Prime Minister, is one of the
sources of budgetary support for the Council's activities. A committee of the same name has also been set
up with the mission to propose integrated rural development programs, in accordance with the Council's
guidelines, with priority going to sectoral programs of the various departments concemed. In recent
months, the PIMRDC has met regularly to prepare a drought control program. Under this emergency
program, the RDF has also been reactivated.
Coordination at the provincial level
29.   The provincial level. The province is the focus of activity for the field services of the various
ministries concerned, and is the main forum for coordination (provincial technical committee, PTC) and
popular representation (provincial assembly), starting at the local level of the RCs. It is at the provincial
level, therefore, that IRD activities must be integrated initially.
30.    The Governor. Successive legal instruments defining the role of the Governor have assigned him
the task of coordination, and this role has been strengthened over time. The 1993 law indicates that the
Governor, under the authority of the competent ministers, is to coordinate the activities of the field services
and public entities whose geographical area of competence does not extend beyond the prefecture or the
province. The 1993 law also requires the Govemor to present an annual progress report to each minister on
the status of investments financed by the ministry in question, and provides that he may on this occasion
propose any measure he deems useful for carrying out these investments. The revised Constitution of 1996
also stipulates that Governors "represent the State and are responsible for enforcing the laws. They are
responsible for carrying out govemment decisions and, to this end, for managing local services of the
central administrations." This new responsibility with respect to the management of local services has not
been further defined by subsequent regulations, however. Moreover, the Dahir of 1977 provides that the
Govemor may be deputized as the authorizing officer (sous-ordonnateur) for expenses charged to the
Special Regional Development Fund (SRDF), and also for investment spending by the various ministries
(for example, primary school construction loans). The Govemor also may name a single project manager
- 75 -



for all ministries within a given zone.
31.    The Provincial Technical Committee (PTC). Chaired by the Govemor, the PTC includes the
Secretary General of the province, the chiefs of the administrative units within the province, the heads (if
the state field services and the directors of local public entities. The Governor may also associate any
qualified person with the work of the PTC. Pursuant to the 1977 legislation, the PTC meets at least on e a
month and assists the Govemor in adopting and executing the portion of the Plan relating to the province,
in carrying out the Governor's coordination mission, and in executing decisions of the provincial assembly
(of which the Govemor is the executive). Nevertheless, the combination of a centralized sectoral approach
and a restrictive concept - sometimes merely informational - of the inter-ministerial role of the Govemor
and of services within the province means that there is little real discussion of programming between
services operating in the same province, and the PTC serves essentially to keep the Govemor and other
state services abreast of the progress of activities under way, and of any related problems. Restricted
technical meetings are also convened by the Govemor or his services to deal with more specific problems.
32.    Local coordination. It is clear from the legislation and regulations that the PTC is the natural fccal
point of local coordination - a position that successive legislation has sought to strengthen, define and
organize - and that it is responsible to the Governor. While this coordination role of the Govemor is clear
enough, the programming and planning dimension is not specifically referred to in the legislation.
Essentially, everything depends on how the Governor envisages his role in terms of coordination,
"promoting, controlling and monitoring" the activity of the services (1993 legislation), and monitoring
investment programs. Beyond this legislation, the key point is the way in which the Govemor defines and
exercises his inter-ministerial role at the local level. The Govemor is also legally empowered to assume this
role proactively, and to include in it a multiyear programming dimension. Yet there would appear to be
nothing that obliges him in this regard, and the PTC can limit itself to formnal exchanges of information as
part of the short-term execution of the annual budget.
33.    Other local coordination bodies. There are other bodies for local coordination, with a more limiled
scope from the sectoral viewpoint, and they seem to be multiplying. The proliferation of points of
coordination on a sectoral basis (technical committee for water) or within particular programs (BAJ,
PAGER) underlines the need for programming coordination at the local level and highlights the weaknesses
of conventional institutional coordination (PTC). It creates the risk of fragmentation, inconsistency or even
rivalry among different bodies, and may also induce a degree of weariness on the part of the services that
are supposed to participate in all these bodies, in one manner or another.
Coordination between the central level and provincial level of administration
34.    Within the vertical and sectoral programs such as those described above (PNRR, PERG, PAGER
and BAJ), the decentralization of certain responsibilities to the field services of each ministry in the
province is still limited. The role of the field services is largely confined to that of execution, rather than
actual programnming. Even with this execution role, the extent to which funding is delegated varies greatly
from one ministry to another. As to programming, this relies essentially on an initial compilation of needs
by the field services but (since total needs always exceed the means available) it is the central
administration that must ultimately arbitrate, without any system to preserve the coherence of programs at
the local level. Thus, not only does programming by the ministries at the local level suffer from inadequate
systemic coordination (at the local level), but, even when such an effort is made by the state services in <,
given province, nothing guarantees that the budgetary review by their respective central administrations
will preserve the coherence they have sought to achieve. The integration of activities at the provincial le, el
- 76 -



presupposes a growing role for the field services in planning and allocating funds for existing sectoral
programs.
The current status of coordination among administrations and local levels of government
Local levels of government (CL, collectivitds locales)
35.   The CLs include the regions, prefectures, provinces and municipalities (communes). In accordance
with the Constitution, they elect assemblies that are responsible for managing their affairs democratically,
under terms and conditions established by law. The Govemors are responsible by law for executing the
decisions of the provincial, prefecture and regional assemblies. The CLs are subordinate to the State, which
exercises supervision over them, defined to include the powers of approval, disallowance, substitution,
suspension or revocation of elected officials. In practice, this means that the most important decisions of the
CLs, including their budget, are subject to prior approval by the Governor, with the consent of the MEF.
36.   The regions. The 1992 Constitution raised the regions to the status of CLs. Their powers have yet
to be defined, and their revenues are still limited.
37.   The provinces. The provinces (and the prefectures, in urban areas) elect provincial assemblies for a
six-year term. Their members are selected from colleges composed of municipal councilors and
representatives of professional associations. They are empowered to vote funds for capital expenditures
that will reduce intra-provincial disparities, but their resources are still limited. The powers of the
provincial assembly are defined by law, and relate primarily to regional development and improvement.
38.   The municipalities (communes). The municipal charter of 1976 extended the responsibilities of the
municipalities with respect to economic and social development, expanded the powers of the president and
endowed the municipalities with their own financial resources. In 1992, the number of municipalities was
doubled: the number of rural municipalities was increased from 760 to 1298. In 1996, the VAT transfer
rules were reformed to guarantee each municipality a predictable flow of flmding with no strings attached.
Municipal councils are elected by direct universal suffrage for a term of six years. They are "responsible
for managing the affairs of the municipality." Supervision is exercised by the Governor through his
approval of the municipal budget and, at the central level, by the Ml, through the CL Department (DGCL).
According to the dahir of September 39, 1976, the CL is to play an active role in the economic, social and
cultural development of its respective area ofjurisdiction, in accordance with nationally determined
guidelines. It must mobilize human, technical and financial resources in order to play this role, particularly
in defining and executing capital spending programs. A key question here relates to the real financial
capacity of rural municipalities. In practice they are fulfilling only a small portion of the responsibilities
assigned to them in principle by the 1976 Municipal Charter, whether in terms of rural roads, water supply
and sanitation systems or social services and facilities.
Coordinatfon between state services and local elected authoritfes.
39.    With the municipalities. Coordination between the field services and the municipalities with respect
to investment projects is assured through the services of the Governor (the PTC, in particular), and the
provincial assembly. Thus, the Governors are responsible for learning the needs and hearing the complaints
of the municipalities in the course of preparing the Plan. Consolidation for each province (including the
plans of the municipalities and the provincial assembly) and subsequently for the region, is carried out by
- 77 -



the MI. Generally speaking, apart from the unique case of the Plan, the dialogue between the state services
and the municipalities still reflects the constraints imposed by the sectoral and vertical orientation of the
ministries, as noted earlier, and local elected officials still compete to win priority for their grievances.
40.    With the provincial assembly. This assembly is supposed to serve as a point of integration between
the state services in the province, the elected municipal officials and the province as a CL (with its own
capital budget). Yet the pattem of competition for assistance among elected officials, and the weight thal
urban concerns currently carry in the assembly's decisions, make it difficult to see how the assembly can in
the short run be the focal point for coordinating and programming IRD activities in the province.
41.   With the region. The regional role is expected to expand in future, but it is still at an embryonic
stage. In terms of the region as a CL, the assemblies are in place, but no legislation has been adopted yet to
define their role and powers. Their resources are limited (essentially consisting of a small portion of
revenues voted annually by Parliament) and insufficient for them to develop their own administrative
services base. With respect to external state services at the regional level, the work of defining their role
and resources is still under way. Ministries expect to amend the map of their regional delegations
(increasing them from 9 to 16) and to strengthen the role of their regional services. Yet the basic tendency
seems to be to place responsibility at the regional level (State and CL) for regional economic and social
development, through the preparation of regional and local development plans. With regard to rural
development, the regional level would appear to be too far removed from the field, particularly because
ministries have no significant local services and are unfamiliar with the territory. The main mandate at the
regional level, whether in terms of state services or those of the local government - depending on the
distribution of powers and resources that is finally adopted - would seem to be to make investments that
will have a significant structural impact within the region, such as in secondary and higher education,
training centers, and major infrastructure facilities.
111. INSTITUTIONAL STRUCTURE OF THE PROJECT
Organization of the project
42.    The proposed approach calls for institutional continuity, without the creation of any new
intermediaries or interlocutors to the extent possible, by making better use of existing organizations and
mechanisms. The following entities, as shown in the attached diagram, are involved in the project:
*   At the national level: The Permanent Interministerial Rural Development Council (PIMRDC); the
National Coordinating Committee (NCC); and the Project Management Unit (PMU).
* At the provincial level: The Core Rural Development Committee (CRDC); the Participatory
Programming Team (PPT); and the Provincial Management Unit (PMU).
* At the local level: The Extension Centers (ECs); the Rural Communities (RCs); and the Agricultural
Water Users' Associations (AWUAs).
Project coordination and programming
43.    The following entities are responsible for these activities:
- 78 -



The Permanent Interministerial Rural Development Council (PIMRDC). The IBCD Project should allow
PIMRDC to consolidate its position as the champion of integrated programs for the most disadvantaged
rural areas. Its principal role will be to square priority IBCD investments with the sectoral programs and to
activate the RDF to provide supplementary funding for activities not included in these programs. The
Council, or the Committee attached to it, will receive for approval the Provincial IBCD Reports that will be
prepared at the beginning of the project, dealing with the development zones selected, initial estimates of the
program and the approximate amounts of the investments proposed. It will also have the power to arbitrate
in cases where a member of the CRDC is in serious disagreement with a decision of that body. It will meet
annually to examine the conclusions of the project monitoring and evaluation reports and to review the
financial audit of the project.
The National Coordination Committee (NCC). This committee will be as a permanent technical
subcommittee of the Permanent Interministerial Rural Development Council. The DRAW would be the
secretariat for the NCC. The role of the committee will be to: (a) approve the Guide to Integrated
Programming; (b) comment on and issue prelimninary approval for the indicative four-year financial
program, as defined first in the provincial reports and subsequently in the partnership agreements flowing
from the local programs. In this respect, the NCC will analyze documents submitted by the CRDC and will
discuss with the latter any adjustments or clarifications deemed necessary; (c) monitor annual progress of
the project in each province, in close coordination with the CRDC, and make sure that this progress is
reflected in the annual budgetary allocations of the various ministries and of the RDF; (d) commission and
approve annual project monitoring and evaluation reports as well as the financial audit report and present
its conclusions to the PIMRDC.; and (e) before project closure, commission and approve the final project
evaluation report in preparation for phase two of the program.
The Core Rural Development Committee (CRDC). At the provincial level, a core PTC will be constituted
as a CRDC. This committee, chaired by the Govemor, will represent the provincial extension of the
PIMRDC. The PDA will serve as the Secretariat of the CRDC. With respect to the project, the
committee's specific responsibilities will be to dialogue with the participatory programming team
responsible for preparing the provincial reports and the community IBCD programs. It will approve the
provincial reports before their submission to the NCC. It will dialogue with the municipalities receiving
help from the PPT to translate the IBCD investment programs into partnership agreements, covering the
SMI and RDF components, after examining all sectoral programs for possible adjustments. It will monitor
execution of the programs called for under these agreements.
The Participatory Programming Team
44.   A Participatory Programming Team will be established in each province. This team will report to
the CRDC and, for purposes of its day-to-day management, to the PDA. The main task of this team will be
to help the rural communities formulate their programs, in the form of a community IBCD plan, and to
present them to the CRDC. The five-year community plan should provide solid input in this regard, but it
should not be regarded as decisive: the final say should be had by the target populations themselves. The
PPT will be made up of 3 PDA engineers, I staff each from the provincial branches of the ME, MI,
Ministry of Public Health, Ministry of National Education, as well as from the National Electricity Office,
and I Social/Participation Specialist. It will be supported by a technical assistance team.
Project management
45.   The Ministry of Agriculture, Rural Development and Water and Forests (MARDWF) will be
- 79 -



responsible for implementing the project, which will fall directly under the Department of
Hydro-Agricultural Works (DRAW). The project will be implemented through the following structures:
* Project Management Office. A Project Management Unit (PMU) within the DRAW will be established.
This unit will include the National Director (ND), two engineers, a Financial Management Specialist
and a Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist.
* Provincial Departments of Agriculture. The PDAs involved in the project will be responsible for
managing activities within their province. The Provincial Director of Agriculture will be the Provincial
Director and will be supported by a Provincial Management Unit (PMU), including an accountant.
* Extension Centers (ECs). The areas covered by the ECs correspond to "development zones" in each
province, representing homogeneous programming districts that lend themselves to an integrated rural
development approach. These development zones will cover groups of rural communities where the
traditional irrigation perimeters are clustered and where the technical services of the various ministries
can be concentrated and coordinated effectively. The ECs therefore constitute the branch of govemme.nt
closest to the beneficiaries and will form an indispensable link for establishing participatory diagnoses,
providing rural extension services and promoting agricultural development It is at this level that the
community IBCD investment programs will be focused and where decentralized databases will be
established with information on the areas of competence of the ECs.
v The rural communities (RCs). An IBCD investment program will be prepared for each community,
with the help of the Participatory Programming Team (PPT), through the local liaison structures
represented by the ECs. The RCs already have the financial capacity to contribute to the project. The
formn of their participation is then a question of priorities, of programming, of dimensioning of
subprojects and of using supplementary financing mechanisms for activities not included in the sectoral
programs.
Budget implementation
46.   Financing of SMI and agricultural development activities. Loan funds for financing SMI and
agricultural development activities will be allocated to the MARDWF budget, more specifically the
DHAW, which will then pass on funds to the PDAs and the ECs of the three provinces involved in the
project. The DHAW budget will have to include the operating costs of the ECs, in particular to cover tra-el
and consumables.
47.   Financing of supplementary IRD activities. Integration activities will require greater flexibility in
the use of funds: specifically, funds must be provided to the provinces without being earmarked in advance
for specific purposes by the central services. The RDF has the advantage that it is multisectoral and is
under the direct control of the Prime Minister. Consistent with what has just been decided in the emergency
anti-drought program, implementing the IRD policy will require supplementary funding, with no
predetermnined sectoral allocation, that can be managed by the provinces on a truly inter-ministerial basis.
The project therefore envisions naming the Governor as deputy authorizing officer for "supplementary IR)
activities" under the RDF, together with deputy authorizing officers in the provincial departments and
delegations.
48.   Resources of the Rural Development Fund (RDF). After agreement on their use, RDF resources
would be provided by adding resources to the budgets of the departments concerned.
- 80 -



49.    Rules governing the use of supplementary funds and control mechanisms. General criteria and
conditions for the IRD funds of the RDF must be established to ensure that these decentralized
inter-ministerial funds are properly used (they will be assigned to subprojects at the local level upon the
recommendation of the CRDC) and to determine the basis against which audits and controls will be
conducted, and the standards that these controls must meet, for purposes of commitment approval by the
Provincial Comptroller of Expenditures and for regular project audits. There will be several levels of
control:
*   Criteria for provincial control. Projects must be included in a community IRD plan and in the
partnership agreement between the community and the CRDC. Any proposal to finance a project under
the IRD line of the RDF must originate with the CRDC. The decision to finance a project must be
approved by a majority of CRDC members. It will be essential that these conditions be met before
provincial approval is given. It must be made clear, however - and instructions must be issued to this
effect to the province - that the project descriptions in the programming document (i.e., the partnership
agreement) will not always be complete or sufficiently detailed. In the course of implementing the
program, the project will be further refined and its details may change, as long as they do not affect the
nature of the project. The programming agreement will provide a summary description of the projects;
it will guarantee that any project financed has been the subject of proper consultations and that it fits
the agreed complementary local programming philosophy. On the other hand, the CRDC, rather than
the province, will be responsible for assessing the appropriateness of each subproject.
-   Criteria goveming CRJDC decisions and project audits. In the first place, the conditions described
above for approval by the province must be respected. Moreover, before it can be included in a
partnership agreement for supplementary IRD financing, a project, whatever its nature, must respect
the following principles: (a) it must not be part of the existing sectoral program budgets; (b) it must
have been discussed with the community and target groups concerned; (c) it must be an appropriate
public investment for which at least partial public funding is justified; (d) where a contribution is
required from the target population or the community itself, the project must be the subject of a specific
agreement (at the expenditure commitment stage, but not at the programming agreement stage)
describing in detail the commitments and responsibilities of each stakeholder and the implementation
procedures; and (e) it must meet the rules established for existing programs in these sectors, in
particular the technical criteria and rules for sharing contributions and responsibilities.
*   Finally, the principles governing the CRDC's allocation for funds in the IRD envelope must be set out
in an instruction from the Prime Minister, and the program audits examining the selection and
performance of subprojects, must certify that they have been properly implemented, both in terms of
procedures (coordination, etc.) and substance. The audits may also recommend improvements or
changes to these principles to the PIMRDC.
-81 -



Additional
Annex 12: Government Letter of Development Program
MOROCCO: IRRIGATION BASED COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
82



Rm'irninc alas M*in's
Mltinktrt ile 1 .Apl iv Idl-Et. d1u  1  fol"1j(1asswI)t $KQI lt v dr% Jl t I 9 i wft4
PROGRAMME DE D:VELOPPEMENT RURAL ITtGRt
CENTRt SUR LA PETITE ET MOYENNE HYDDAUAQU1C
(DRI-PMH)
LETTRE DE PROGRAMME DE DlFVELOPMIZNT
A - Convergence des politiques pour la stratigie de diveloppenuat ruraL
Le programnie de d6veloppement rural integrd ceat  ur Ia pete at moye.
hydraulique s'ins6re dans la t(Strat6gie de d6veloppement raml & I'horizon 2020* qui
constitue une orientation spdcifique de la politique de d6velopaeait du pas. Ss wise
en awvrc eat fbnde sur la convergence straugique de politiques de ddvmeopp td_
)es zones rurales  Lesa principaux champs de cAs politques soot  nle
suivants:
11 Ure polittque uacro-4onouulque fsvormble au dVeIsppe111mt .pIVIa h     I 
promotioD des zones rurals.
Le dEveloppement rural et It d6veloppement agricole soet intime t lib * run
ne peut atre atteint sans I'autre. Une politique de d6veloppem  rua dlt d
l'&roite vision de l'agiiculture en tant que imple sectew de p adtio  de produit
alimentaires pour seintiresser au secteur agricole dan  ss id_ pak aay  kg
autres secteurs de l'economie et en tant que secteur jouant un o8le Wnotw& dam Ia
production  nationale,  lc  financement, le  commmercc  extdrimr.  I'utmoi  ot
Il'environnement. D)ans cette large vision 3tmtdgique, I'agricuure deviet me vaie
locomotive du d6veloppement rural, et par consEquent, d'un ddlppaw iuc
et social gdndralis6.
La poursuite des r6formes mises en place depuis le dbut des amnss 1990,
pmettrm  probablement de maintenir une certaine stabilite macro-conoauique,. ali
scule unc accdldradio  de ces rdformes pourrit enrher une ctolsm       euile
supdrieur aux uaux actuels.
ADMINISTRATION DU 3iwle RUtJAL                                               %.,      " .I- *J
DzRacTyo,4 DSs A   NAGEMENTF HYDRO-AcRICOLES -j11  hI._YI 2
83



21 Une politique pour une croissance agricole efficace et  ifte laeomAi r a b
d'muvre.
Les stratigies de developpement agricole sersient detesr,i6a sur des bas
territoriales, A differcntes dchelles, en fonction d'un concept de a vocaton dnaiae p.
En dateniinant de telles vocations territoriales, on dnteno     s d'me  igic
possible ou des options pow des choix stratdgiques.
L'approche la plus determinante dans toutes les zones no bCtfflclut put d'iw
apport d'irrigation sdcurise se fondera essentiellement sur une pris en compte de M'alMa
climatique a travers des approches adapt6os I la diversit6 des systms de productm et
soucieuses de l'intdgration des exploitations agricoles  leur espace local.
L'autre dimension est celle d'une mneilleure valorisation des ressourcs hydriques
s'articulant autour de priorit6s visant & consolider les acquis de la politique du Million.
d'hectares i savoir:
I Jn renforcement des ORMVA pour azneliorer leurs missions eu matikife dgestide
1'eau, d'amenagement et de conseil.
  Une responsabilisation accrue des usagers dans les domains d; rentrten
rdseaux et de la gestion directe de leurs exploitaions.
D Des mesures destin6es 1 proteger les ressources en em mimi qua lcs instu umt do
leur mobilisation.
*  Une orientation des rthabilitations des equipements vdtustesversu  If drnsadton
L La mise en place de moyens de financenent ddcentralis6s, de atuetinos kicaus de
conseil et de l'apport d'un appui technique.
*  Le developpernent de programmes de petite et royenw bydr.uliqe iho gr  &as to
contexte regional et local de developpement rural, on fvoriat une approcha
nouvelle de crdation de p81les de ddveloppemcnt autour de gappes de pLtets intdzrds
3/ Une politique de getion de l'euvironnement et des reJ curee nabwiO 11afnd
sur Is responsabilisation des usagers.
La gestion de 1'environnement conceme principalement les zones ruaks oil se
trouve 1'essentiel des ressources naturelles renouvelables Une mdeLum gusdon const
la condition de la a durabilitd D de l'activite agricole.
La degradation acceleree des ressources naturelles rcenuvelabes s'accomupsg
de phenomenes de d6sertification. On ne peut s'attaquer aux probl&nes poss par la
restauration de 1'environnemnent qu'en responsabilisant les usages Dans ure largc
mesure aussi, les interventions requises ne peuvent avoir d'efficacitd que si GMles
s'inscrivent dans Ic cadre d'actions ou de disciplines A caract&re collectif (mises en
difens, rdg6n6ration des parcours, reforestation, a --a--nt de basins VessantS6
contr6le des caux a sauvages )), etc.).
2
84



41 Une politique pour soutenir l'emploi rural et la lutte contre k pawr
Une stratEgic de lutte contre la pauvmrt6 en milieu runl doit  , _etf,elemett
s'adresser aux ruraux a faibles revenus qui repr6sentent, aujourdlu, qudque 40% de 1a
population murale. Una politique adaptde serait celle qui pearmhalt de soulenir In
stragies de survie qu'adopte cette catigotic de uraumc. Cela sigiifieat esuenIfellemat.:
- des mesures et des actions en vue de crEa de meicures cuditiom pbt la
. pluri-activit, 6 et donc unc augmentation de la demande de la ma;in
dkcuvre agricole;
-  des mesures appropriees pour minimiser les risques de a &illite nuM M
lors des mauvaises annles;
*  de meilleures conditions de vie dans les zones nrlus pour madie ce ia-d
plus attruyantes.
51 Une politique d'equipement des zones rurales ralsonn(e data Ic mdi. de
1'aminagement du territoire.
La crcissance de la population urbaine est appelde i se pounuivr  en putcuier
par 1'exode des populations rurales vers les villes. DEsormais, it existe une alternative I
dI'exode rural ) que l'on a connu dams les derni4res d6cennies, celul-ci dtant nafrqu per
une rupture profonde de l'Enigrant avec son militu d'origine. Le ddveloppernmt des
petites villes offre la possibilitd de <e migrations de puoximit  a et  d'actiXtds
pcndulairesv', de sorte qu'elles ne so s6parent plus radicalement du milicu rral.  atu
contrair, tlles tenden ik en devenir le complEment et peuvent cn devei un motaL
Vans le contexte des politiques de ddvcloppomeat nal,  Iram  _ sguat dgr
territoire ne saurait cependant se limiter A des fonctions de mise en colher, de
rationalisation et de coordination des decisions d'implantation spatiale des is _
et des activitds de production ou de service. CeUe polidque devrait appamtre comm  l'u
des instruments esseatiels de la stratEgic de d6veloppemcrt rual. Celle-ci devrait se
proposer de favoriser la croissance des villes intemdiaires et des bourp runa  pepi6 
s'articuler de plus en plus avec le milieu nual.
6/ Une politique pour un meieur accs A Is santi at i l'6d41=toa.
Une politique de deve,oppement rural se donnunt Ic rd6veoppemnent hunnain e
comme firalit6 se doit de donner une place tr#s importante, sinon essentielle, mX
politiques de sante et d'dducation. Le developpement rural ne peut pas ae envisgd avec
une population anaIphab6te et peu prEparfe Ala gestion de l'inwovation  Le  cem.t
de la scolarisation en milieu rural apparait ainsi comme uie priorit.
7/ Une politique de tormation et de valorisadon des ruourca hunuer.
La formation cu le recyclage des cadres de developpefent constitte une priorM
et une condition pour une misc en cuvre effective des politiques de dEveloppement rural
Les politiques de valorisation des ressources humaines ne devmient pas, cependant, a
3
85



limiter aux aspects puerement professioimels. Elle devraient prcndre aussi en coaptel-
aspects culturels el sociaux qtii constituent l'environnemeat de base des cadXI% OL
responsables susceptibles d'apporter un soutien aux poJitiques de d6veloppemeat ruraL
U/ Une politique d'integralion effective de In femme rurale an procmcs de
diveloppement.
Lcs femmes font partie integrante de tout processus de d ppat et to
principal objectif devrait etre dc leur pernettre d'cen etre les  ddcideuu s  au m6me tiltr
que les hommes. Le d6fi est de crder les conditions pour que les fommes puiusent
effectivement devenir des acteurs et des partenaires A part entiAre dans les procuaus
engagEs.
B. - Buts sp6ciflques et phases du Programme DRI-PMH.
1/ Buts spEcifiques.
Le programme DRI-PMli sera le premier pas vers une application concrfte de Ja
nouvelle c' StratEgie 2020 de D6veloppcrnent Rural a. II aura pour objectif principal
1'amdlioration des revenus et des conditions de vie des communautds rurales organisees
autour des activites de la PMH. Ceci sera accompli, i la demande et avec la partcipaton.
des bin6ficiaires. par Ic renforcement des activites agricoles actuelles ou nouvelles
centrees sur la r6habilitation des equipements d'irrigation de petite et moyenne
hydraulique, ainsi que la mise en place d'infrastructures sociao-conomiques
complmrnentaires telles quo pistes rurales, adduction d'eau potable, dcola. disp_nsuizesct
4lectrification rurale.
2/ Phases du Programme.
Le programme DRI-PMH cst un programme prioritaim du Goulvenemnest IWm
dmarrage est envisagd au titre du plan quiinquennal en cours qui a retenu la rEhabilitatlon
de 62.700 ha de PMI. A tnoyen et A long terme. C'est ainsi que la r6habilitation de
46.000 ha de PMH dans 15 provinces devra ctre realisee sur une pEriode de 13 sos dans t
cadre d'une approche integr6e de developpement rural.
(a) La phase I du progranmme, prEvue sur S ans, entre 2000 et 2004, ser une phas
d'adaptation pour le nouveau mode d'inlervention.  Cone phase comprcndra la
rEhabilitation et la modemisation de 9.450 ha de perimttres de PMH dans lc provinces
d'Azilal, de Khdnifra et d'AI Haoiuz, ainsi que la programmation &igrde Ces
investissements dans six autres provinices.
Le programme de la I Ire phase pr6voit la prdparation dEtaillte conccrnant fes princes
de Khenifra et d'AAl Haouz pour lesguclles il est pr6vu de inettre au point les composantes,
estimer leur coats, faire les analyses financi6res et economiques, ainsi quo les dvaluations
sociale, environnementale, de gestion financiere et de passation des marchds La
m6thodologie d'intervention s'appuie sur une programmation locale de type glissante pour
definir, de concert avec les populations locales, les programmes d'investzssement.
(b) Les deux phases alterioures. d'unc durde approximnative de 4 ans chacune (soit mm
duree totale de 8 ans), scront des phascs d'extension gEographique du programme at
4
8 6



perfectionnement de ses modalites d'exkcution en vue de toucher uine supedcferew*t
36. 000 ha Au vu des r6sultats de la premi&re phase, il pourra &re d6cidd dacottm ls
moyens d6ployes afin d'accdlErer I'execution des phases 2 et 3 du programme.
C - Indicateurs cleft et criteres d'avancement d'une phase & une attrm.
Pour juger les performances du projet, un certain nombre de crittems cld& e
rapportant aux aspects ocio-economiques sur la base desquels sera fait le demrrage des
phases successives du programme sont proposEs pour le passage, respectivement, i Ia.
seconde et a la troisieme phase du programme. Ces indicateurs se prdsentent comme suit:
Pendant Is Rremicre gh
* Augmentation du revenu des populations participantes;
*  AmElioration  de  I'accAs des populations participantes aux  ia    u
communautaires;
*  Financement par le Fonds de Developpement Rural (FDR) des iavestisemts
compIEmentaires cornmunaux refl6tant la demande des populations;
*  Programmation de la deuxieme phase du prograrune selon. la nouvelle approche
participative et intEgree;
* Pour Ia composante PMH:
-  ia rdhabilitation de 9.450 ha dont 6.000 ha scion lt  prinipes de I.
programmation particapative integr6e;
-  le nombre d'AUEA constituEes.
Pasame A Is Phase IL
*  Evidence que le FDR est effectivement en train de favoser ine plus gmndi
intEgration des actions sectorielies;
  Poursuite des programmes nationaux existants tels que pr6vu pour evitr tout e   do
substitution entre le prEsent projet et ces programmes;
*  Preuve que les eqiipes de programmation participative ont un viai dilegue avc les
populations concemees sur It choix des prioritEs;
*  Constatation d'une demande chez les agriculteurs pour les services de  out=
agricole offerts par It Projet.
rassage A in Phase 111
*  Evidence d'une vraie integration entre actions sectorielles au-deLiL des activitft
additionnelles financEes par le FDR;
* Preuve que les equipes de programmation participative reflftent rdellanent fes
prioritds des populations concemEes et que celles-ci sont disposEes a particip   m
programme;
*  Constatation d'unc amelioration de la productivita des agriculteous siite m
services de soutien agricole offerts pendant les deux premieres phases.
8
87



D- Plan do suivi et d'6valuation.
Le projet mettra en ccuvre un systame de suivi-6vakuSn  pow  permettm
d'appricier a chaque phase tous les indicateurs et criteres qui out e adoptfs:
*  Pour les indicateurs clefs de performance, i sera procddd & l'dtablissmmt de
rapports  semnestriels du Projet et d'un rapport d'ach6vement du Projet;
*  Pour le passage de la premiCre a la deuxitme phase, les crit&es qui serot prs en
compte se rapportent A ce qui suit:
-  le respect des modalit6s dc participation des AUEA at des omtmues i
l'investissement ainsi qu'A la gestion et 1'entretien des inf t;
-  I'appropriation par le Comitd Restreint du D6veloppement Rral (CRDR) de
programmes annuels de travail intdgant les actions sectailes financ6es par
le FDR.
3 Pour le passage de la deuxieme A la troisieme phase, les crit&=es snt appr&cids &
partir d'une dvaluation inddpendante et d'enquetes de satisffaction des bfn6ficiuires.
E - Coufts indicatifs du programme DRI-PMH
Le cofit estimatif de la premiere phase du programme DRI-PMH adWoblit i 451
Millions de DH r6partis comme suit:
-  R6habilitation do PMH                          : 228 MDR (50%)
*  infrastmctures de base (pistes, points d'eau, dokls,
centres de sante et dlectrfication mrale)      : 145 MDH (32%)
*  Renforcement institutionnel                    :  64 MDF (14%)
*  Pr6paration de b phase 2                       :  21 MDH (4 %)
Pour les phases 2 ct 3, leur coOt peut tre estim6 par similiftde avec le caOt des
composantes de la phase 1, et s'6lverait i 920 MDH pour chacune de ces phase3.
Le coOt total du programme DRI-PMH sItablirait & 2.300 MDII
F - Mi3e en uruvre.
La conception de la mise en ceuvre du projet repose sur deux concpts
fondamentaux de la stratdgic 2020 de developpement rural:
*  Une approche globale et coherente A travers la programnmam    ale et rwtEgmim
des diff*onu acwdons de Iladministntion;
*  Une respomsabilisation et une participation des actcurs en matidre de dftion des
options de dEveloppement, de suivi des travaux  et de contributios awt
investissements ct A le entretien.
6
88



La mise en oeuvre du projet, pour utne province type, ea pr&w  scion ka phses
et etapes swvantes:
I - Phase do prormEnmatio:
Elle sera rdalis6e par l'Equipe de Programmation Participaive (EPP) appye par
1'Assistance technique (AT) et comprendra les 6tapes suivantes:
Identification provinciale dont Ic but principal est de dfnir la Comnmune Rurales
qui feront partie du projet et donner une premi&re estimation des actions & mdtewL
c3uvre;
*  Etablissenent du  programme d'investissement DRI-PMH  sur Ia base de
l'identification des besoins exprimes par les Communes Rurales et les populations
b6naficiaires
*  Etude gindrale de faisabilitd de la composante PMH sur l'ensemble de IL zme dc
projet.
2- Phase de concertation:
*  Envoi des rapports provinciaux DRI-PMH au Comitd Interministdrier Permat dix
Developpement Rural pour validation et cadrage des investissements pnioritaires
avec les programmes sectoriels;
*  Reunion du CRDR pour validation et ajustement eventucl des programme sectorieEs
et affectation du montant mobilisd dans le cadre du FDR.
3 - Phase d'execution :
*  Rdalisation des composantes du projet par les diffArents d ets min     k
concernds selon les modalit4s et normes de leurs programmes sectorics;
*  Pour la composante PMH, cite comprend les eapes suivantes:
-  Constitution des Associations d Usagers des Emux Agricoles (AUEA);
- Etudes techniques des r6seaux d'irrigation (un an en moyenne);
-  Realisation des travaux (2 ans en moyenne).
1.* N1v8 M.: t
G smstl ) ..
7
89



DIAGRAWE DU MONTAGE INSTTMONNEL DU PROJET DRI-PMH
wainazxau                 pmflhfliJeAl   yr jW                    uSflaM GE     DU    y            WI ECITIZD ET AMA    DOUVE
_ coiga. uia   ~      uiMT35 WEAL M    usaos  
I       Nr   I                           Mr (
Sq,u mvIgs,um(           la'r! mnwwa. 1L
MRALELEDG8A                                                             
I                                                  otIPO,Er(CrF)        1
l~~~ DP. ,K OK5                                                                      I OM OM I
__ _ __ _ _ I~0~PN                                                                                         AQoman1IA i   o , n5   
  ~       4 I_                                                                       _ _ _, __.__ _   XI jW_    _.__ _ 
Y~~~R-m                                 Ior                                   I:W=f ( 1 A 
st   I   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~allUUt1l  4 
ta  ~~   ~~                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s             0 m c r NB1 n00 mkj          1
S3i1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l9IN1 7(Delss01 1 wi 1ONSDA
a.                                tI   c#                             ~ I                                                             .arw  _,,__ _ __ _   I__ _ __
II                            TWSM           PWTW~1M (59)    --  --                                            bUNOS    MM f  fX All,N =
4~~~~ P3seWS01P  Iouow D                                      II                                                            ,   
L                              I$!Ml..
Aaadanma    ASOcUAOld                                                 _ __ __ __



ANNEXE Na2
-.4ONTAGE FINANCIER DU PR03ET DRI-PMH
ASZTAION KS MEZMEES 2RRXUES DE                              INFRASTPUCrUE IE CASE COMMOWAAES
PMH  ET DEV8l4EMOM AACOL                         5s. E  wrAeU aECT CATON. CENTES DE &AT. WOWS]
--- -                                [ ~~~~~~~~~Fonds de Developpement Rural  | |Caisse de 
8Ub6ET GENERAL DE L'ETAT
(Ordonnoteur: Premnier Ministre)      Compensation
(Ordonnoteur: MADREF)
bPA et CT                                    PROVINCE                       bdldgations / birections
(Sous-Ordonnateur: DPA)                   (Sous-Ordonnateur: 6ouverneur)                Provincioles
C Sous-Ordonnateurs:
L +bPE, ONE, DPSN, bPEN]
dldgiltions / blrectlons Provincidls
Sous-Ordonnateurs Supplilts;
DPE, ONE, DPSN, DPEN                                       _



Additonal
Annex 13: Implemeritatlon Schedule - Phase I
MOROCCO: IRRIGATION BASED COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT YEARS                               =         -
PROVINCES                   ACTIVITIES                         21                  202                              _      2004                2005
AZILAL        PARTICIPATORY PROGRAMMING'
CONSULTATIONS
EXECUTION
Consatuion of UA**
Technical Studies
Works
KIHENIFRA     PARTICIPATORY PROGRAMMING
CONSULTATIONS
EXECUTION
Consbtunin of UA**
Technical Studies
Works
AL HAOUZ    PARTICIPATORY PROGRAMMING
CONSULTATIONS
EXECUTION
Constitution of UA"                                                                               - _ _
Technical Studies
Works
2 For Azilo the participatory proramnrog and consultations phases only concern the complementary conmunuity infrastructure the SMI program is already determined.
*' Users Association
92



MAP SECTION






MOROCCO                                          T                                      .
IRRIGATION BASED                                               ) Diq                          a
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT                                                                       AlH mG
PROGRAM                                        Larache    19      a        IJebhi  o
MAROC                                                         ar a                                     Oujd
PROGRAMME DE DEVELOPPEMENT                                   Sock el                                                      Jerad
RURAL INTEGRE CENTRE                              KenTtr
SUR LA PETITE ET
MOYENNE HYDRAULIQUE                             R            at h0t  oM A
A  T L A  N  T I C         El-Jadida      re
O  C  E A  N           J.rf L.Sfo          )Sta                      r_                       / 
32'                            2                  6
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c IlSt9GumiL-__
Essaouira                         aout                                             rfoud
_etMell _l                                   < IX   i                   f         l                      100    150
/   (d   > >   j                                                      @~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ PROVINCE CAPITALS
^,$  ~~~~~~~,  r   ~ ~        ~        ~        ~        ~               ,fjF~~~~~  NATIONAL CAPITAL
/  V@Guelmime    /  19/                                                        tt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4'v'  MOUNTAINOUS AREAS
-~~~ RIVERS    EER
T94_.                 y F         ~     ~~~~~~~ This ,,opwosasprodcedhy theMop DesignUnit ofThe Wrld Bank.    PROVINCE BOUNDARIES  
/   @  D aa ~~~~pon |                         The boondories, coors, deonominations end any oiler infosnotios 
:>~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~ ~~~~~hw Goup thyis mo^p dno nrotimply, lo5n le poprt of The Wosid Book-        INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES              J
A                                                                                       ios th   Pro ince   of A l tnonz   w here   theP tc l    is T hh nts n ch   r
8                             ! ~ ~~~~~~~~~ 80                                                 40                                        '0
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r



