Report No. PID9794
Project Name                     Morrocco-Irrigation Based Community (@) ...
Development
Region                           Middle East and North Africa Region
Sector                           Irrigation & Drainage
Project ID                       MAPE56978
Borrower(s)                      KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, RURAL
DEVELOPMENT, WATER & FORESTS
Direction des Amenagements Hydro-Agricoles
(DAHA)
Quartier Administratif, B.P. 607, Rabat
Contact Person: Abdelkrim Rahali
Tel: 212 (0)37 75 17 10
Fax: 212 (0)37 75 20 42
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                December 20, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         March 28, 2000
Projected Board Date             March 27, 2001
1. Country and Sector Background
After making relatively good progress in the late 1980s (real
agricultural GDP growth of 4.0 percent per annum from 1986-91, compared to
population growth of 2.0 percent per), rural sector growth and poverty
alleviation deteriorated in the 1990s (real agricultural GDP growth of
-1.8 percent from 1991-98). An estimated 27 percent of the rural
population, or 4 million people, live on less than $1.00 a day. Among the
main sector issues are the following:Social indicators in rural areas are
similar to those for countries with much lower per capita incomes, and the
gap between urban and rural living standards is great, contributing to
growing rural exodus: for example, access to potable water is almost
universal in urban areas, but only 30t in rural areas;    illiteracy is 37T
in urban areas, but 75t in rural areas; andThe country's traditionally
centralized approach to rural development has provided little
encouragement for local participation and cost sharing which are essential
for sustainability. However, the Government is committed to addressing
these issues, and has recently issued a "2020 Rural Development
Strategy." It has also established a Permanent Inter-Ministerial Rural
Development Council at the ministerial level and an Inter-Ministerial
Rural Development Committee at the Secretary General level under the
leadership of the Ministry of Agriculture, Rural Development, Water and
Forests (MRDWF) to guide implementation of the strategy.
2. Objectives
Reflecting the goals of the IBCD Program (2001-14), the proposed
first-phase Project (2001-05) would seek to improve the incomes and
quality of life of rural communities centered on small and medium
irrigation (SMI) in the provinces of Azilal, Khenifra and Al Haouz through



investments in SMI rehabilitation and improvement and complementary
community infrastructure. As a way of piloting the shift to the new
demand-driven, integrated approach, additional resources would be provided
to finance additional investments in complementary community
infrastructure not covered by ongoing sectoral programs on an
un-predetermined basis, in accordance with the priorities of the rural
communities as expressed through a participatory planning process.
Similar investments in SMI rehabilitation and improvement and
complementary community infrastructure would be prepared on a
participatory, multi-sectoral basis for the 6 additional provinces to be
covered by the second phase.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
Morocco was selected as a "Focus Country" under the "Rural Development
Vision to Action" Program. Bank support provides continuity to the
Government in implementing its long-term national rural development
strategy which it also helped design, and may facilitate the involvement
of other donors in later phases of the Program;Having acquired
considerable experience in Morocco and around the world in community
participation and operations dealing with integrated rural development,
and recently championed community driven development, the Bank can
facilitate access to information and advisory capacity on design and
implementation issues and lessons learned with comparable projects; and
The new APL lending instrument provides greater flexibility in dealing
with client needs and local conditions as they evolve.
4. Description
Over 5 years (2001-05), the proposed first-phase Project would consist of
the following four components:
1. Rehabilitation of SMI - About 9,450 ha in total, of which 3,450 ha in
Azilal and an estimated 3,000 ha each in Khenifra and Al Haouz
2. Complementary Community Infrastructure - Additional rural road, water
supply/ sanitation, electrification, health and education facilities for
the selected rural communities not provided for by ongoing sectoral
programs
3. Institutional Strengthening - Support for the participatory,
integrated approach and for enhanced agricultural support services in the
selected rural communities
4. Preparation of Phase II - Support for participatory, integrated
programming of SMI rehabilitation and improvement and complementary
community infrastructure in 6 additional provinces
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Total Project Cost 46.55
6. Implementation
Project implementation arrangements have been designed to incorporate two
new dimensions: (a) beneficiary participation in the planning, design,
execution and O&M&R of project works and equipment; and (b) integration
of the various sectoral programs into a more coherent framework. Existing
policies and procedures for SMI rehabilitation and improvement works are
-2 -



already "participatory" in that an Agricultural Water Users Association
(AWUA) has to be formed in advance to collaborate in the design, execution
and O&M&R of the works. Similar policies and procedures apply to rural
water supply/sanitation works, so that under the Project the participatory
approach would mainly affect the choice of other complementary community
infrastructure investments (roads, electrification, schools and
clinics).   Beneficiary participation is one of the cornerstones of the
Government's new "2020 Rural Development Strategy" which calls for greater
involvement by concerned populations in the planning and execution of
rural development programs. It is based on the realization that the
top-down approach has largely failed to instill a sense of ownership among
the beneficiaries for project works and equipment which leads, in turn, to
shortcomings in their O&M&R, ultimately compromising their
sustainability. Following existing practice under the various sectoral
programs, beneficiary participation also implies a significant
contribution to the capital cost of Project works and a commitment to take
over responsibility for their O&M&R. Integration of the complementary
community infrastructure with the SMI rehabilitation and improvement works
to be provided under the Project is not an end in itself, but rather the
means to create a real sense of ownership and the conditions for a
sustainable improvement in incomes and living standards, following the
priorities of the rural communities concerned. Integration is also a way
for the Government to take advantage of synergy's (e.g., roads, water
supply/sanitation and electricity coordinated with school building or
clinic construction). Project Management Since the Ministry of
Agriculture, Rural Development, Water & Forests (MARDWF) would be
responsible for the Project, it would be administratively attached to the
Department of Hydro-Agricultural Works (DHAW) in the Ministry. The
Director of DHAW would be designated National Director (ND) of the
Project, and would coordinate its activities with the other ministries
involved through a National Coordinating Committee (NCC), of which DHAW
would be the Secretariat.. The ND would be assisted by two engineers and
a financial management specialist. Similarly, at the provincial level,
the Provincial Director of Agriculture (PDA) would be responsible for the
management of the Project within the province. He would be designated
Provincial Director (PD) for the Project, and would coordinate its
activities with the local branches of the other ministries involved
through a Core Rural Development Committee (CRDC), of which he would be
the Secretary. To assist the PD, a new Provincial Management Unit (PMU)
would be set up with four staff, including an accountant. Procurement
Procurement under the Project would be in accordance with the Guidelines
for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, dated January 1995,
revised in January 1999, using standard bidding documents and contract
forms agreed with the Bank. Consultants would be selected in accordance
with Bank's Guidelines on the Selection of Consultants, dated January 1997
and revised in September 1997 and January 1999, using standard contract
forms agreed by the Bank. Disbursement Retroactive financing for
eligible expenditures up to the limit of 10t of the loan amount would be
provided to help cover project expenditures incurred up to one year prior
to loan signature. The Borrower would establish a Special Account (SA) in
MAD with the Treasury. Financial Management The Financial Management
System (FMS) in place in the MARDWF in general and DHAW in particular, is
based on principles and procedures defined by the legal framework
applicable to the pubic sector and more specifically to governmental
institutions. DHAW maintains an accounting system on a cash basis and the
- 3 -



outline of budget components according to the provisions of the Public
Accounting Law. The management information system allows an acceptable
monitoring of operational activity Though satisfactory overall, the
existing financial management system should be improved in order to handle
the specific requirements of the Project (coordination with other agencies
involved), to meet the Bank requirements and to achieve the required
efficiency. The improvements would be reflected in an action plan to be
agreed at negotiations.   Accounting and Financial Reporting.   The National
Director (ND) would maintain acceptable project accounts with the
assistance of a financial management specialist.   This team would ensure
the issuing of   annual project financial statements and quarterly Project
Management Reports (PMR), as well as their submission to the Bank and to
the auditors. Procedures for accounting and financial reporting as well
as internal control mechanisms specific to the project aimed at meeting
the Bank requirements, would be developed by the specialist.     Audit.
MARDWF would appoint an auditor acceptable to the Bank to carry out an
annual audit according to the International Standards as issued by the
International Federation of Accountants, the Bank's Guidelines (e.g.
Financial, accounting, reporting and auditing handbook, "FARAH") and
specific Terms of Reference (TORs). The auditor would express a
professional opinion on the annual project financial statements and submit
annual audit reports to the Bank . Disbursements. Disbursements from the
Bank loan would be initially made in the traditional way (reimbursements
with full documentation and against Statements of Expenditure - SOEs, and
direct payments). The Government could opt for PMR-based disbursements
after the assessment of the financial management system, which aims at
ensuring that this system is operating satisfactorily. Monitoring and
Evaluation A participatory monitoring and evaluation system would be
designed by consultants     On this basis, the DPAs of Azilal, Al Haouz and
Khenifra, with input from the beneficiaries, would monitor and evaluate
implementation of the Project on an ongoing basis, and submit regular
progress reports to the Bank. They would also prepare and submit to the
Bank by mid-term an implementation review report on progress to date and
the measures required to successfully complete the project. The project
would be supervised twice yearly by the Bank.
7. Sustainability
n Technical sustainability would focus on arrangements for the O&M&R of
the infrastructure to be rehabilitated and improved and the appropriate
management of natural resources. The project would promote technologies
capable of avoiding soil degradation and erosion, and preserving other
natural resources; n Institutional sustainability would be promoted
through a decentralized organizational set up that would ensure local
coordination and ownership; andn Financial sustainability would be pursued
by promoting investments and activities that would generate regular income
streams and which the beneficiaries themselves would be capable of
managing and maintaining.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The proposed project would build on past experience with rural development
programs which indicate that flexibility and grass-roots, demand-driven
approaches are key in building ownership, defining local priorities and
laying the foundation for better implementation and sustainability. The
following main lessons can be drawn from these programs:the top-down
"integration" of rural roads, water supply and other socio-economic
- 4 -



infrastructure with agricultural projects proved unsustainable, due mainly
to inadequate counterpart funds and limited beneficiary commitment; and
the current budget process is highly centralized and not conducive to
community driven development. The proposed project would address these
issues by: (a) establishing a participatory process for the beneficiaries
to express their priorities and see that they are implemented; and (b)
provision of additional resources to be used flexibly to respond the
incremental needs of the beneficiaries in an integrated way.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     Y
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :   Given the integrated decentralized programming and
budgeting of rural development activities under the Project, the key issue
compared to a "standard type" project environmental assessment is that the
sub-projects/components are, for the most part, unknown. Consequently,
there is a need to develop a mechanism for applying EA and Environmental
Management Plan (EMP) procedures to the Program. The approach to be taken
combines features of financial intermediary operations with those of a
sector assessment.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Douglas W. Lister
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202-458-1285
Fax: 202-477-1981
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending January 26, 2001.
- 5 -



