Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4607-MOR
Loan Agreement
IRRIGATION BASED COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
between
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated April 12, 2002
LOAN NUMBER 4607-MOR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 12, 2002, between the KINGDOM OF MOROCCO (the 
Page  2
Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter dated April 18, 2001 from the Borrower 
describing a program of objectives, policies and actions (the Program) designed to promote 
integrated rural development centered on small and medium irrigation, and declaring the 
Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the said Program;
(B)
the Borrower has requested the Bank’s support in the execution of the Program 
over a period of approximately thirteen (13) years;
(C)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of the first 
phase of the Program (the Project) described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia
,
of
the foregoing, to extend the 
Loan to the Borrower in support of the Project upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements 
for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended through October 6, 
1999) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein 
set forth, and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“CMU” means the Coordination and Management Unit for the Project, 
established and maintained pursuant to the provisions of paragraph A.1 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement;
- 24 -
(b)
“CRDC” means the Core Rural Development Committee (Comite Restreint de 
Developpement Rural
)
established and operating under the Circular Letter dated November 28, 
2001, signed by the Borrower's Minister of Agriculture, Rural Development, Water and Forests;
(c)
“DHAW” means the Department of Hydro-Agricultural Works within 
MARDWF as defined in (j) below;
(d)
“Dirhams” and “MAD” mean the lawful currency of the Kingdom of Morocco;
(e)
“EA” means the Borrower’s environmental assessment for the Project, prepared 
by the Borrower and submitted to the Bank on February 20, 2001;
Page  3
(f)
“EMP” means the Project Environmental Management Plan satisfactory to the 
Bank to be developed pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Loan Agreement; 
(g)
“Fiscal Year” and “FY” mean the fiscal year of the Borrower, starting January 1 
and ending December 31 of each calendar year;
(h)
“ICRD” means the Interministerial Committee for Rural Development whose 
membership comprises the general secretaries of the ministries represented in the PIMRDC as 
defined in (n) below; 
(i)
“Implementation Manual” and “IM”, mean the manual for the implementation of 
the Project referred to in paragraph 7 of Annex 5 to this agreement;
(j)
“MARDWF” means the Ministry of Agriculture, Rural Development, Water and 
Forests of the Borrower or any successor thereto;
(k)
“MOF” means the Ministry of Economy, Finance, Privatization and Tourism of 
the Borrower, or any successor thereto;
(l) 
“NCC” means the National Coordination Committee under the Project, 
established and operating under the Circular Letter dated November 28, 2001, signed by the 
Borrower's Minister of Agriculture, Rural Development, Water and Forests;
(m)
“PDA” means the provincial department of agriculture within the MARDWF;
(n)
“PIMRDC” means the Permanent Interministerial Rural Development Council 
established and operating pursuant to decree number 298974 dated January 5, 1999;
(o)
“PMU” means the Provincial Management Unit under the Project, to be 
established and maintained pursuant to the provisions of paragraph A.2 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement;
(p)
“PPT” means the Participatory Programming Team in each of the three 
provinces of the Project Area including provincial government technical staff, facilitators and 
sociologists, designed to engage the local population in a joint planning process for rural 
development, reflecting the local populations’ priorities;
(q)
“Project Area” means the small and medium irrigation areas to be rehabilitated 
and improved under the Project, consisting of about 3,450 ha in the province of Azilal, 3,000 ha 
in the province of Khenifra and 3,000 ha in the province of Al-Haouz, and the area covered by 
the complementary community infrastructure serving these areas as identified by the Borrower 
and the Bank;
(r)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(s)
“RDF” means the Rural Development Fund established and operating pursuant 
to Article 44 of the Borrower’s budget law for the year 1994;
(t)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Page  4
(t)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement; and
(u)
 “Yen ” and “Y” mean the lawful currency of Japan.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set 
forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to three billion and eight hundred 
million Yen (Y3,800,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the 
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of works, goods and services 
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of  the Project, open and maintain in 
Dirhams a special deposit account in its general treasury (trésorerie générale du Royaume
)
on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2006 or such later date as the Bank 
shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one percent 
(1%) of the amount of the Loan. On or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount of said 
fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate of 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not 
withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to LIBOR 
Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the date of 
this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, each period from and 
including an Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the next following 
Interest Payment Date.
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement.
Page  5
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in yens for value the first 
day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial Interest Period, 
for value the Interest Payment Date occurring on or next preceding the 
first day of such Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank 
and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) three-fourths 
of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted average 
margin, for such Interest Period, below (or above) the London interbank 
offered rates, or other reference rates, for six-month deposits, in respect 
of the Bank’s outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by 
the Bank to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it 
that include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the determination of 
the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank determines that it is in the interest of 
its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining the interest rates 
applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to 
the Borrower of the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in which 
case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on February 15 
and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in accordance 
with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project, 
and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate agricultural, irrigation, engineering, environmental, natural resource 
management and general management practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the 
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
Page  6
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of goods, works and 
consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan 
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for 
this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the continued achievement of the 
objectives of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the Borrower 
on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, including 
records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to the Bank, 
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six 
months (6) after the end of each such year, (A) the financial statements 
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section as audited for such year and 
certified by such auditors, and (B) an opinion on such statements, 
records and accounts and report of such audit, by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records and 
accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the 
Bank may from time to time reasonably request.
Page  7
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan Account 
were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph (a) of 
this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account 
was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of such 
audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together 
with the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound Action Plan acceptable to the Bank for the 
strengthening of its financial management system for the Project in order to enable the Borrower, 
not later than twelve (12) months after the effectiveness of this agreement, or such later date as 
the Bank shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project Management Reports, acceptable to the Bank, 
each of which:
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the Project, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
projected sources and applications of funds for the Project for the 
six-month period following the period covered by said report, and (B) 
shows separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Loan 
during the period covered by said report and expenditures proposed to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan during the six-month period 
following the period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and (B) explains 
variances between the actual and previously forecast implementation 
targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and expenditures 
under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, as at the end of 
the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the Action Plan referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the Bank not later than forty five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter a 
Project Management Report for such period.
Page  8
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Economy, Finance, Privatization and Tourism of the 
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Economy, Finance, Privatization and Tourism
Avenue Mohamed V
Rabat
Kingdom of Morocco
Cable address: 
Telex:
Facsimile:
MINFIN
36715
037761072
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
  64145 (MCI)
Page  9
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Rabat, Kingdom of Morocco, as of the day and year first above written.
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO 
By /s/ Fathallah Oualalou
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Olivier Godron
Acting Regional Vice President
Middle East and North Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Category
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
(Expressed in
Yen Equivalent)
     % of 
Expenditures
To be Financed
(1)
Civil works
  2,441,000,000
80%
(2)
Goods
117,000,000
100% of foreign 
expenditures;
and 80% of 
items procured
locally
(3)
Consultants' services 
and Training 
843,000,000
100%
Page  10
(4)
Fee
38,000,000
Amount due
under Section
2.04 of this
Agreement
____________
(5) 
Unallocated                          
361,000,000
===========
TOTAL
3,800,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory of any 
country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in 
respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding Y380,000,000, may be made in respect of 
Categories (1), (2), and (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule on account of 
payments made for expenditures before that date but after June 15, 2000.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis of 
statements of expenditure under contracts not exceeding $300,000 equivalent for goods, 
$500,000 equivalent for works, $100,000 equivalent for consulting firms and $50,000 equivalent 
for individual consultants, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to enhance incomes and quality of life of rural 
communities centered on small and medium irrigation, through demand-driven integrated 
investments in small and medium irrigation rehabilitation, and complementary community 
infrastructure, including rural roads, water supply and sanitation, electrification, health and 
education facilities.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A
: Rehabilitation and Improvement of Small and Medium Irrigation Facilities
Carrying out a program to rehabilitate and improve small and medium irrigation 
facilities in the Project Area. 
Page  11
Part B
: Complementary Community Infrastructure
Construction and/or rehabilitation and improvement of rural road, water supply and 
sanitation systems and electrification, health and education facilities, as identified through a 
participatory process involving the local populations led by the PPT in the Project Area, as 
financed through the DRF. 
Part C
: Technical Assistance for Institutional Support
Support, through technical assistance, for (i) the participatory, integrated investment 
programming implemented by the PPT in each of the provinces in the Project Area, and (ii) the 
enhanced agricultural support services. 
Part D
: Technical Assistance for the Preparation of a Follow On Project
Preparation of studies to identify eligible development areas in six additional provinces 
to be selected for a follow on project.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2005
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(Expressed in Japanese Yen)
*
February 15, 2007
118,770,000.000
August 15, 2007
119,290,000.000
February 15, 2008
119,815,000.000
August 15, 2008
120,345,000.000
February 15, 2009
120,875,000.000
August 15, 2009
121,405,000.000
February 15, 2010
121,940,000.000
August 15, 2010
122,475,000.000
February 15, 2011
123,015,000.000
August 15, 2011
123,555,000.000
February 15, 2012
124,100,000.000
August 15, 2012
124,645,000.000
February 15, 2013
125,195,000.000
August 15, 2013
125,745,000.000
February 15, 2014
126,300,000.000
August 15, 2014
126,855,000.000
February 15, 2015
127,410,000.000
August 15, 2015
127,970,000.000
February 15, 2016
128,535.000.000
August 15, 2016
129,100,000.000
Page  12
February 15, 2017
129,670,000.000
August 15, 2017
130,240,000.000
February 15, 2018
130,810,000.000
August 15, 2018
131,390,000,000
February 15, 2019
131,965,000.000
August 15, 2019
132,545,000.000
February 15, 2020
133,130,000.000
August 15, 2020
133,715,000.000
February 15, 2021
134,305.000,000
August 15, 2021
134,890,000.000
TOTAL
         3,800,000,000.000
_____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Yen to be repaid, except as provided in 
Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
: General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B
: International Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and 
paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be 
grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $300,000 equivalent or more each.
Part C
: Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent per contract and works, except as 
otherwise provided in paragraph C.2 and C.3 below, shall be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price 
Page  13
contracts awarded on the basis of written quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic 
contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description 
of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of 
agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be 
made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has 
the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
3.
International and National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $250,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines.
Part D
: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement 
plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 
1
of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been agreed with the Bank, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or 
more and with respect to each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or 
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
: General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 
and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this 
Schedule.
Part B
: Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Page  14
Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection 
of consultants.
Part C
: Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Individual Consultants
Services for technical assistance and training for the Project shall be procured under 
contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 
through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Single Source Selection
Services for technical assistance under Parts C and D of the Project may, with the Bank's 
prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of 
the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D
: Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for 
the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines. 
Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan 
as shall have been agreed with the Bank and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than 
the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of 
reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior 
review and approval. The contract shall be awarded only after said approval shall have been 
given.
3.
Post Review
Page  15
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
A.
Project Implementation and Coordination
1.
At the national level
:
Responsibility for overall Project implementation and progress 
monitoring shall be vested with the DHAW. In order to assist DHAW in implementing the 
Project, the Borrower shall establish not later than December 31, 2001 and thereafter maintain, a 
CMU within DHAW to be headed by DHAW’s director in accordance with terms of reference 
and with personnel and resources acceptable to the Bank, including a specialist in charge of 
financial management, a specialist in charge of the environment and a specialist in charge of the 
monitoring and evaluation system.
2.
At the provincial level
:
Responsibility for Project implementation and progress 
monitoring shall be vested with the PDA. In order to assist the PDA in implementing the Project, 
the Borrower shall establish and thereafter maintain a PMU, to be headed by the PDA director in 
accordance with terms of reference and with personnel and resources acceptable to the Bank. 
PMU shall be vested with Project management responsibilities. 
3.
Responsibility for Project coordination shall be vested: (i) at the national level, with the 
ICRD for overall guidance and NCC for technical coordination; and (ii) at the provincial level, 
with the CRDC. 
4.
The Borrower shall, not later than six (6) months after the date of this Agreement for the 
province of Azilal, and not later than twelve (12) months after the date of the Agreement for the 
provinces of Al-Haouz and Khenifra: (a) prepare and update on a regular basis, as agreed with 
the Bank and on the basis of the EA, an EMP including: (i) mitigation measures for potentially 
adverse environmental impacts including aspects linked to the use of pesticides; and (ii) 
monitoring schemes to review the efficacy of the EMP in relation to mitigation measures; and (b) 
implement the EMP in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
5.
The Borrower shall, not later than thirty (30) days following the six (6) months period 
commencing at the Effectiveness Date and, thereafter, for every subsequent six (6) month period 
until completion of the Project, provide the Bank, for its review and comments, with progress 
reports prepared in accordance with environmental and performance monitoring indicators 
agreed upon between the Borrower and the Bank. 
6.
The Borrower shall ensure that funding through RDF for Part B of the Project shall be 
for investments determined in an integrated way in accordance with the priorities of the local 
populations as a result of the participatory planning process with the PPT. 
7.
The Borrower shall, not later than six (6) months after the date of this Agreement, or at a 
later date acceptable to the Bank, prepare the IM under terms of reference and guidelines agreed 
with the Bank, and submit the IM to the Bank.
Page  16
8.
The Borrower shall, twelve (12) months after the date of this Agreement, or at a later 
date acceptable to the Bank, prepare and submit a participatory system for the monitoring and 
evaluation, under terms of reference and guidelines agreed with the Bank.  
B.
Mid-Term Review
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate 
on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, the carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the 
Bank on or about June 30, 2003, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, and the findings of the progress 
reports referred to under paragraph A.5 of this Schedule on the progress achieved in the carrying 
out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Bank, by December 31, 2003, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all 
measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the 
Bank’s views on the matter. 
C.
Program Milestones
The Borrower shall:
1.
Prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than June 30, 2004 a report describing 
the progress in the fulfillment of the actions referred to in the Program, including the attainment 
of the milestones agreed between the Borrower and the Bank and required to be reached as a 
pre-requisite to initiate the second phase of the Program; and 
2.
Review with the Bank, not later than December 31, 2004, or such later date as 
the Bank shall request, the report referred to in sub-paragraph (1) above and, thereafter, take all 
measures required by the Bank to initiate the second phase of the Program.
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), and (3) set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Page  17
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to MAD 
24,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to MAD 
15,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total 
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 
of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of Y800,000,000. 
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures 
in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been 
duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish 
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which 
do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account at such intervals 
as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to 
para-graph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower shall, 
at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other 
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not be 
required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in accordance with the 
Page  18
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in accordance with the 
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this 
Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period of time 
specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be 
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records and accounts 
for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to 
suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan 
Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the 
amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the 
Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent 
that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the 
Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, 
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so 
eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into 
the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such 
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding 
amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this 
Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
