Page  1
December 21, 1998
H.E. Fathallah Oualalou
Minister of Economy and Finance
Ministry of Economy and Finance
Rabat
Kingdom of Morocco
Re:
Japanese Grant TF No. 029648-MOR
(Technical Assistance for the National
Rural Development Program)
Excellency:
I am writing on behalf of the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development (the Bank) to indicate the Bank’s agreement, as administrator of grant 
funds provided by Japan, to make a grant in an amount not exceeding six hundred fifty 
thousand Dollars ($650,000) (the Grant) to the Kingdom of Morocco (the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient's request for financial 
assistance and for the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex 
to this letter.  The Recipient hereby confirms its request that the Bank carry out the 
activities described in paragraph 1 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement.  The 
Recipient represents, by confirming its agreement below, that it is authorized to 
contract and withdraw the Grant for the said purposes and on the said terms and 
conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by 
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement. Upon 
receipt by the Bank of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this 
Letter Agreement will become effective as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
 AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Hassan Fazel                              
For Christian Delvoie
Director
Maghreb Department
Middle East and North Africa Region
AGREED:
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
By /s/ Noureddine Omary
Date: February 15, 1999
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms and Conditions of the Grant
1.
The purpose of the Grant is to assist the Recipient in preparing the National 
Rural Development Program, including: (i) the development of a labor-intensive 
development strategy and action plan and the defining of investment programs for 
target groups and areas required for the implementation of an integrated rural 
development strategy for the country; and (ii) the creation of an enabling 
institutional, financial and investment policy framework aimed at facilitating the 
Page  2
implementation of said strategy.
The Activities consist of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
there of as the Bank and the Recipient may agree upon from time to time to achieve 
such objectives:
(a)
carrying out of a program of studies designed to prepare a suitable 
national integrated rural development strategy, including the design of an enabling 
institutional, financial and human resources environment to facilitate the 
implementation of said strategy, consisting of:  (i) the analysis of policies 
regarding agriculture trade protection and its effect on income distribution within an 
efficient and equitable fiscal framework, quality management of executing agencies, 
vocational training institutions and professional associations, marketing approaches 
for rural output, subsidies for irrigation water and strategic commodities and their 
derivatives; (ii) the review of public expenditures affecting the delivery of 
infrastructure and services to rural areas and the preparation of a multisectoral 
medium term investment program; (iii) the review of the degree of centralization and 
the need for decentralization in the delivery of basic goods and services in rural 
areas; (iv) the examination of the legal and regulatory framework constraining 
economic and social prospects of rural populations with special emphasis on women; (v) 
the organization of seminars and workshops for government agencies and stakeholders to 
present the analytical results of the policy and institutional reforms; and (vi) the 
exchange of views among the government, the stakeholders, and the international 
community on the measures recommended on the basis of the foregoing and their 
inclusion into a viable action plan; and
(b)
the implementation of a set of studies aimed at preparing the technology 
support of an integrated rural development strategy for the country, and encompassing: 
(i) the targeting of relevant groups and areas; (ii) the organization of seminars and 
workshops to help identify, prioritize and formulate the financing for community and 
micro-enterprise projects; (iii) the assessment of stakeholder participation in 
project formulation and implementation; (iv) the specific changes required to be duly 
incorporated into the present agricultural extension program so as to properly reach 
women; (v) the promotion of micro-enterprises at the village level; and (vi) the 
enhancement of the quality of agricultural output through research and extension.
2.
The Grant shall be used to finance consultants’ services, seminars, workshops 
and goods, required for the Activities.
3.
The Bank shall carry out the Activities on behalf of the Recipient. The 
Recipient shall cooperate with the Bank to the extent necessary to permit the Bank to 
carry out the Activities promptly and effectively, and to evaluate the results of the 
Activities. The Recipient shall indemnify the Bank against any costs or liabilities 
incurred by the Bank as a result of claims against the Bank in connection with the 
Activities, except those resulting from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of 
its staff or external consultants.
4.
It is expected that the Activities will be completed by June 30, 2000. After 
that date, the Bank may at any time cancel the remaining balance of the Grant.
5.
The engagement and supervision of the consultants (the Consultants) required to 
assist in the carrying out of the Activities shall be the responsibility solely of the 
Bank and shall be done according to the Bank’s applicable procedures.
6.
The Recipient shall be responsible for the payment of any taxes levied by, or in 
the territory of, the Kingdom of Morocco on the Consultants or any of the Consultants’ 
personnel (other than nationals or permanent residents thereof) in connection with the 
Activities.
7.
The Recipient may at any time request the Bank in writing to terminate the 
Activities. Whether or not the Recipient has made such a request, the Bank may at any 
time suspend or, after consultation with the Recipient, terminate the right of the 
Recipient to receive Grant funds for the Activities if any of the following events has 
occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to perform any of its 
obligations under this Letter Agreement; or (b) the right of the Recipient, or any 
other entity to which the Bank has made a loan with the guarantee of the Kingdom of 
Morocco, to make withdrawals under any loan agreement with the Bank or any development 
credit agreement with the International Development Association shall have been 
suspended.
8.
The Bank is not an agent of or trustee for the Recipient and shall not have any 
fiduciary relationship with the Recipient. The Recipient shall have no right to any 
Page  3
portion of the Grant that is not expended by the Bank pursuant to this Agreement.
