                                      Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                    Report No: ICR00001096



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IBRD-46070)



                                        ON AN

                         ADAPTABLE PROGRAM LOAN

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF YEN 3.8 BILLION
                       (US$ 32.6 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                       TO THE

                           KINGDOM OF MOROCCO

    FOR THE IRRIGATION BASED COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT

                  IN SUPPORT OF THE FIRST PHASE OF THE

        IRRIGATION BASED COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM




                                  June 2nd, 2009




Sustainable Development Department
Middle East and North Africa Region
                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

          (Exchange Rate Effective December 31, 2008)

                    Currency Unit = MAD
                    MAD 1.00 = US$ 0.127
                    US$ 1.00 = MAD 7.89

                       FISCAL YEAR
                    January 1-December 31

            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

APL          Adaptable Program Lending
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
CIPDR        Permanent Inter-Ministerial Rural Development Council
CMU          Central Management Unit
CNC          National Coordination Committee
CPRDR        Core Provincial Rural Development Committee
CT           Centre de Travaux (Government extension center)
Douars       Villages
EA           Environmental Assessment
EMP          Environmental management Plan
ERR          Economic Rate of Return
FAO          Food and Agriculture Organization
FDR          Rural Development Fund
IBCD         Irrigation-Based Community Development
INDH         Initiative nationale de développement humain
INRA         National Institute of Agricultural Research
KfW          Kreditanstalt für Wiederaufbau
M&E          Monitoring and Evaluation
MoF          Ministry of Finance
O&M          Operation and Maintenance
ONE          National Authority for Electricity
ONEP         National Water Supply Authority
PAGER        National Program for Water Supply
PDA/DPA      Provincial Department of Agriculture
PMU          Provincial Management Unit
PPT/EPP      Participatory Programming Team
SEAT         Territorial Development Secretariat
SMI/PMH      Small and Medium Scale Irrigation
WUA          Water User Association
      Vice President: Daniela Gressani
    Country Director: Mats Karlsson
     Sector Manager: Luis. F. Constantino
Project Team Leader: Hassan Lamrani
   ICR Team Leader: Christopher Ward
                                      KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
                           Irrigation Based Community Development Project



                                                          CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

1.  Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
2.  Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 3
3.  Assessment of Outcomes ............................................................................................ 3
4.  Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome Rating: Moderate ........................... 8
5.  Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ....................................................... 9
6.  Lessons Learned........................................................................................................ 12
7.  Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners........... 13
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .............................................................................. 15
Annex 2. Outputs by Component...................................................................................... 16
Annex 3. Financial and Economic Analysis ..................................................................... 20
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes................. 26
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey results ................................................................................ 28
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ....................................................... 29
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ......................... 30
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other partners/Stakeholders ........................... 60
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents .......................................................................... 61
Annex 10. Assessment of the participatory process ......................................................... 62
MAP .................................................................................................................................. 76
A. Basic Information
                                                                           IRRIGATION BASED
Country:                Morocco                  Project Name:             COMMUNITY
                                                                           DEVELOPMENT
Project ID:             P056978                  L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-46070
ICR Date:               06/23/2009               ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                           KINGDOM OF
Lending Instrument:     APL                      Borrower:
                                                                           MOROCCO
Original Total
                        USD 32.6M                Disbursed Amount:         USD 27.8M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process               Original Date
                                                                                    Date(s)
Concept Review:       12/09/1999     Effectiveness:                               07/24/2002
Appraisal:            03/29/2000     Restructuring(s):
Approval:             05/31/2001     Mid-term Review:            05/08/2005       04/11/2005
                                     Closing:                    06/30/2006       12/31/2008

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                        Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                     Moderate
Bank Performance:                                Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                            Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower         Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Unsatisfactory          Government:      Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                             Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:




                                                 i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                              Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                          Quality at Entry
                           Yes                                              None
at any time (Yes/No):                               (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                             Quality of
                           Yes                                              Moderately Satisfactory
time (Yes/No):                                      Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                   Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector                       57                  65
General public administration sector                                   12
Other social services                                                   8                     8
Roads and highways                                                     15                  19
Water supply                                                           8                      8


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Decentralization                                                       25
Participation and civic engagement                                     25                  9
Rural services and infrastructure                                      25                  35
Water resource management                                              25                  56

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:            Daniela Gressani                      Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:          Mats Karlsson                         Christian Delvoie
Sector Manager:            Luis F. Constantino                   Petros Aklilu
Project Team Leader:       Hassan Lamrani                        Douglas W. Lister
ICR Team Leader:           Christopher S. Ward
ICR Primary Author:        Christopher S. Ward


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
 As the first-phase Project of a 13-year Program covering 15 provinces, expected to be
supported by 3 Adaptable Program Loans (APL), the PDO are:


                                                   ii
  (i) to improve the incomes and quality of life of rural communities centered on small
and medium irrigation (SMI) in 3 provinces (Azilal, Khenifra and Al Haouz),

  (ii) to pilot new institutional arrangements designed to ensure greater community
participation and integration of sectoral programs through Rural Development Fund
(RDF).

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)



(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target      Formally         Actual Value
                                              Values (from        Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value
                                                 approval          Target        Completion or
                                               documents)          Values         Target Years
Indicator 1 : % increase in fruit tree, vegetable, forage, cereal and other production from SMI
                                           fruit tree: +50%;                  fruit tree: +36%
Value
                                           vegetable: +110%;                  vegetable: +236%
quantitative or 100
                                           forage:+85%;                       forage: +186%
Qualitative)
                                           cereals:+65%                       cereals: -12%
Date achieved 04/30/2001                   04/30/2011                         12/31/2008
Comments        Original target values were not defined in the PAD; the figures above corespond
(incl. %        to hypothesis considered in the economic analysis. Actual values are the results
achievement) of the impact evaluation study carried out by FAO.
Indicator 2 : No of villages equipped with additional infrastructure and social services
Value
quantitative or 0                          239                                257
Qualitative)
Date achieved 04/30/2001                   12/31/2008                         12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 3 : number of meetings of the Core Rural Development Committees (CRDC)
Value
quantitative or 0                          30                                 44
Qualitative)
Date achieved 04/30/2001                   12/31/2008                         12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                share of financing of investments by the beneficiaries and rural communities
Indicator 4 :
                (number of WUAs having provided cash or kind contribution)
Value
                0
quantitative or                            69                                 66
Qualitative)


                                               iii
Date achieved 04/30/2001                12/31/2008                      12/31/2008
Comments
              The values above are related to the number of WUAs sharing cost. Information
(incl. %
              about the amount of WUAs contribution is not available
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                               Original Target                    Actual Value
                                                                  Formally
                                                 Values (from                      Achieved at
   Indicator            Baseline Value                             Revised
                                                   approval                       Completion or
                                                                Target Values
                                                  documents)                      Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Irrigated areas rehabilitated and improved (ha)
Value
(quantitative     0                           9450                              11022
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     04/30/2001                  12/31/2008                        12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     number of Water Users Associations formed
Value
(quantitative     0                           66                                69
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     04/30/2001                  12/31/2008                        12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 3 :     Additional access roads achieved (km)
Value
(quantitative     0                           256                               209
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     04/30/2001                  12/31/2008                        12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                     Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                              DO                            IP               Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                 (USD millions)
  1     06/28/2001             Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                    0.00
  2     12/21/2001             Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                    0.00
  3     05/14/2002             Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                    0.00
  4     11/13/2002             Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                    0.33
  5     05/08/2003             Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                    2.47
  6     06/26/2003             Satisfactory                Unsatisfactory                   2.47



                                                    iv
  7    12/23/2003       Satisfactory                 Unsatisfactory          2.47
  8    04/20/2004       Satisfactory                 Unsatisfactory          2.77
  9    06/22/2004       Satisfactory                  Satisfactory           2.77
 10    10/19/2004       Satisfactory                  Satisfactory           3.15
                         Moderately                    Moderately
 11    05/26/2005                                                            4.67
                       Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory
                         Moderately                    Moderately
 12    12/29/2005                                                            5.91
                       Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory
                         Moderately                    Moderately
 13    12/30/2005                                                            5.91
                       Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory
 14    04/06/2006   Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory    6.82
                                                       Moderately
 15    11/27/2006   Moderately Satisfactory                                  9.29
                                                     Unsatisfactory
                                                       Moderately
 16    05/03/2007   Moderately Satisfactory                                 10.56
                                                     Unsatisfactory
 17    10/12/2007   Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory   12.96
 18    05/28/2008       Satisfactory                  Satisfactory          20.62
 19    12/31/2008       Satisfactory                  Satisfactory          26.30


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable



I. Disbursement Profile




                                              v
    1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

The project was identified in the context of Morocco's serious problem of poverty, and of a widening
gap in living standards between the better off and the poor, especially the rural poor. At the time the
project was identified, about 27% of the rural population were living on less than $1 a day. The
disparity between the better off and the poor had been dubbed by the Bank ­ controversially at the
time - "the Two Moroccos". Rural poverty was primarily due to stagnant productivity in agriculture
and low levels of rural infrastructure, contributing to low standards of living.

Part of the Moroccan response was to develop a new "2020 Rural Development Strategy" that adopted
new approaches. A participatory and demand driven approach was to be introduced, articulated
bottom-up through community organizations and communes rurales (the lowest level of local
government). Investment programming and execution were to be decentralized, with the actions of the
various ministries integrated "horizontally" at the level of the province and below

At the time of identification, Government was setting up the oversight structures and a new rural
development fund (Fonds de développement rural, FDR) for the 2020 Strategy, and wanted to test out
implementation mechanisms. The role of "champion" was assigned to the Ministry of Agriculture,
which had for some time been investing in upgrading small and medium-scale irrigation (SMI) but had
encountered problems due to the "top down" nature of the implementation model. The ministry
therefore took the opportunity of grafting on the new approach in integrated and participatory rural
development to its plans for a more bottom-up approach to development of SMI in poor mountain
areas. The logic was that the decentralized participatory approach would create more ownership and
sustainability for the SMI program and thereby raise the incomes of the poor, and that the integration
of a broader range of rural development investments would vitalize the bottom-up planning process
and produce a significant development impact on standards of living for the rural poor.

Government therefore decided to develop a long term program over a thirteen year period for
"irrigation-based community development" (IBCD). In a first five year phase, the approach would be
tested in an IBCD project in poor areas of three provinces, with subsequent scaling up to a further
twelve provinces in two phases. Government requested Bank support for this IBCD project as a first
phase of a long-term program.

The Bank had long been the partner of Morocco in agriculture and rural development, had financed
SMI investments, and had helped through considerable sector work with the development of the 2020
Strategy. In addition, the 2020 Strategy matched the main thrusts of the Bank's recently published
paper Rural Development ­ from Vision to Action, and the Bank had selected Morocco as one of four
focus countries for promoting and monitoring the implementation of the recommended approaches.
The IBCD project also had a clear fit with the new CAS (which was presented to the Board along with
the project), meeting the CAS priorities of reducing disparities between urban and rural areas,
reducing rural poverty and improving access to basic economic infrastructure and social services. The
program concept also matched the CAS goal of greater decentralization and integration of the planning,
design and execution of rural programs and services, and of beneficiary participation. In addition, the
long term program approach to be implemented in three phases was very appropriate for the Adaptable
Program Loan (APL) instrument that the Bank had introduced.
1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

The objectives and key indicators set for the overall thirteen year program and for the five year first
phase project were as follows:

Hierarchy           Objectives                                    Key Performance Indicators
Sector-related      To reduce disparities between urban and       Sector indicators: Improved socio-
CAS Goal            rural areas and reducing rural poverty        economic indicators in rural areas
Program             To improve incomes and quality of life of     End of program indicators:
purpose             rural communities centered on SMI in 15        Increased incomes from SMI (20%)
                    provinces over a 13 year period (2001-         Greater access to basic economic
                    2013)                                             infrastructure in selected rural
                                                                      communities
Project             To improve incomes and quality of life of     Outcome/Impact Indicators:
Development         rural communities centered on SMI in          - % increase in fruit tree, vegetable,
Objective           three provinces 2001-6                            forage, cereal and other production
(PDO)                                                                 from SMI
                    To pilot new institutional arrangements       - Number of villages equipped with
                    designed to ensure greater community              additional infrastructure and social
                    participation and integration of sectoral         services
                    programs through the FDR.                     - Extent of beneficiary participation and
                                                                      integration of sectoral programs.

In addition a focus of the first phase project was to provide evidence that the newinstitutional
arrangements designed to achieve greater participation and integration of sectoral programs through
the FDR had been piloted successfully. Triggers for the second phase were set, to be reviewed before
the end of the first phase.

Trigger                                             Indicator
Experience from Phase I that the Project's          Participatory Programming Teams (PPT) supported by
institutional arrangements are successfully         technical assistance are established in each province,
piloting greater beneficiary participation in the   and are engaging the beneficiaries in a dialogue on their
selection, design, execution and O&M of             rural development priorities.
Project works in the selected communities.
Experience from Phase 1 indicates that the          The Core Provincial Rural Development Committees
Project's institutional arrangements are            (CPRDR), under the chairmanship of the Governor, is
successfully piloting greater integration of        established in each province, and is calling on the FDR
sectoral programs through flexible budgeting        to finance investments not included in ongoing sectoral
of activities financed by the FDR in the            programs in an integrated way.
selected rural communities.
                                                    Continuation of ongoing sectoral programs, as
                                                    evidenced by continued funding of these programs at
                                                    pre-Project levels.
Experience from Phase 1 indicates that there is     Number of farmers seeking advice from extension
demand from farmers for the support services        workers
offered by the Project.

1.3 Revised PDO           There was no revision of PDO or key indicators.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The target population consisted of the roughly 58,000 inhabitants of rural communities in three poor
mountainous provinces (Azilal, Khenifra, al Haouz) where standards of rural development were low
and agricultural water supplies uncertain. The beneficiaries were poor families farming small irrigated
plots, and other inhabitants of poor benefitting communities.




                                                                                                                2
1.5 Original Components

The project consisted of four components:

1. IImprovement of SMI schemes serving an area of approximately 9,450 ha, including: (i) 21 SMI
   perimeters in Azilal, serving 3,450 ha; (ii) approximately 3,000 ha each in the provinces of
   Khenifra and al Haouz.
2. Improvement of complementary community infrastructure not covered by ongoing sectoral
   programs, including (a) rural roads, (b) water supply systems, (c) electrification, (d) schools and
   (e) health centers.
3. Institutional support for (a) participatory, integrated investment programming through a training
   and technical assistance program, and (b) agricultural development activities to intensify
   production practices and thereby increase farmers' incomes.
4. Preparation of Phase II through participatory programming of IBCD activities in six additional
   provinces to be selected. Feasibility studies will also be carried out.

1.6 Revised Components There was no revision of project components. Component 4, Preparation
of Phase II, was not implemented as, up to the end of the project implementation period, Government
had not decided on a follow-on operation (see 2.5 below).

1.7 Other significant changes

Following the mid-term review (MTR), Government and Bank agreed in May 2006 to extend the Loan
closing date by two and a half years, to December 2008, and to cancel the equivalent of $6.0 million
from the Loan.according to revised execution and disbursement schedules.


    2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

The project, the first phase of a three phase APL, was prepared in 1999 and appraised in March/April
2000. Board presentation was not until one year later, and a further fourteen months passed before
effectiveness in July 20021.

In the PAD, the case for a participatory, decentralized and flexible approach to rural development in
Morocco is well argued, based on the lessons learned and incorporated in national strategy, and linked
to global strategic best practice (see Section 1.1 above). There was thus a fit with strategy and an
appropriate set of objectives. The organizational design, although elaborate, is clearly set out in the
PAD and proved largely realistic. Although design greatly underestimated the time it would take to
set up such a complex set of institutions, the structure, once set up, proved surprisingly workable.
Cost estimates were based on actual experience in Bank-financed and other projects, and proved quite
accurate.

However, many aspects of the project were under-prepared. The participatory programming process
and the procedures for integrated provincial level decision making and execution were only sketched


1
  Delays between apparaisal and board were due to late decision from Government on the use of the FDR for
financing the community infrastructure component. Delays between Board and effectiveness were due to delays
on the Government side in issuing a circular requested by the Bank establishing national and provincial
committees (CNC and CPRDR).



                                                                                                          3
out (with just eleven lines in a PAD annex devoted to them) and had not been tested. Design provided
for the preparation of guidelines on integrated participatory programming. Given that the typically
long participatory programming process would not in principle begin until the guidelines were
available, and teams set up and trained, it is surprising that preparation of draft guidelines was not a
priority, even before appraisal. No assessment was made of institutional capability for the
participatory approach nor of the availability of the needed staff. A major role was assigned to the
communes rurales, but this does not seem to have been based on evidence of capacity, and how this
role for the communes would work in practice was not spelled out.

Technical preparation was uneven. The irrigation engineering component was based on existing
technical packages, but the key agricultural productivity package for the specific conditions of the
mountainous project area had not been developed. One neglected aspect was the need to protect most
of the project schemes against the impacts of erosion in the catchments. In addition, the institutional
measures for agricultural development were not fully designed. The Ministry of Agriculture extension
centers - Centres de Travaux (CTs) - were to "play a vital intermediary role", but there was no
appraisal of their capacity. In addition, the PAD proposes "contracts with development organizations
(e.g. NGOs)" to provide extension support. There was no evaluation of the availability or capacity of
such organizations, nor any development of model contracts or terms of reference.

The time required to get the project started was greatly underestimated. The sketchy and unrealistic
implementation schedule in the PAD was based on the time taken to design and implement SMI
upgrading, of which there was good experience. It did not take account of the slower rhythm of
implementing the participatory approach, particularly when there was little methodological or
institutional base from which to start.

Although the Log Frame was well structured and appropriate, the indicators selected were inadequate
to capture project results, and no baseline data were collected.

Several of the risks analyzed in the PAD were correctly identified, as they did arise during
implementation. The risk that the FDR would not function as designed dogged the project for several
years, although the mitigation measure mentioned in the analysis­ that Government had already
assigned resources from the Compensation Fund ­ did nothing to mitigate future risk. Similarly, the
risk that there would not be staff with knowledge of the participatory approach was not really a risk ­
it was a fact ­ and the mitigation measure that "the project would assign staff" was poorly conceived,
as the project had no means to do this, and the staff scarcely existed. Ironically, the most important
problem encountered was not picked up as a risk at appraisal: lack of a full fledged project design and
related institutional capacity. For this the appropriate mitigation measure might have been intensive
technical assistance at the start of the project to prepare implementation manuals and to train staff.

The project was thus not ready for implementation at the time of Board approval. The two years that
intervened between appraisal and effectiveness might have been used to complete preparation and
even to begin piloting the approaches, especially as the irrigation component in one province (Azilal)
was ready to implement, and ministry staff in that province had relevant current experience of
participatory programming under the Bank-supported Lakhdar Project. However, little seems to have
happened during this long delay.

Although QAG did not specifically review quality at entry, in its Seventh Quality of Supervision
Assessment (December 2006), QAG (Q3) passes a bleak judgment: "a badly prepared project". With
hindsight, this judgment appears exaggerated, as in the event the project was implemented largely as
designed and achieved its objectives without the need for restructuring. The problem was that the
extent to which this was a pilot and innovative project was not fully recognized at the preparation and
appraisal stage, and the areas of institutional design that needed to be further elaborated and tested
immediately after appraisal were not identified. As a result, little was done to complete and test
design until well after the project was supposed to have started.



                                                                                                      4
Commitment within Government could be concluded from the 2020 Strategy, and this is emphasized
in the Letter of Development Program that Government sent to the Bank. . There were, however,
tensions. The three provinces and the beneficiary communities were enthusiastic, but some line
ministries, used to working on top-down national programs, were skeptical about the bottom up
approach, fearing loss of control over the planning process. The 2020 Strategy was never in fact
adopted by government as a whole and remained a Ministry of Agriculture document. The Ministry of
Finance also had doubts about the fiscal orthodoxy and the delivery mechanism of the FDR.
Borrower commitment at entry has, therefore, to be characterized as "mixed".

2.2 Implementation

After Loan effectiveness, implementation seemed to get off to a brisk start. Even before effectiveness,
the irrigation component was already underway in Azilal Province on retroactive financing. Terms of
reference for support to participatory programming and for the writing of the participatory
programming guide had been prepared, the Bank was providing materials for the writing of an
implementation manual and had sent materials on how to design the participatory M&E component.

However, after this promising start the project soon became mired in delays, and by mid-2003 was
being classified as a problem project. At this stage, the principal implementation problems included
weak capacity, particularly in the provincial management units (PMUs), slow contracting, and slow
decision making on key aspects such as the community infrastructure programs and the FDR, and on
how to implement the agricultural development component. Only a year later, in mid-2004, were
these start up problems beginning to be resolved: by that time, four years after appraisal and two years
after effectiveness, the project institutions were all set up, the teams were in place, and field work was
underway in all sites. The institutional mechanism for the participatory process (Annex 10) was
operational. Under this, Participatory Programming Teams, supported by consultants, helped
communities to develop plans and investment programs at irrigation scheme level and then at
Commune level. The plans and programs were then validated at provincial level by the Core
Provincial Rural Development Committee (CPRDR) chaired by the Governor, implemented, and
monitored by the community.

The mid-term review (MTR) took place in April 2005. The overall conclusion was that it was likely
that objectives would be met, provided that the one key issue, replenishment of the FDR, could be
solved. However, a long extension (two and a half years) would be required to complete project
implementation. Following the MTR, the closing date was extended (Section 1.7), justified by the
(correct) argument that the project could, with delays, still achieve objectives. Provincial teams were
up to strength, lessons had been learned, the participatory and integrated programming process was
now working, and the FDR issue was being satisfactorily resolved. A final, important argument was
that it would be wrong to scale down the project as commitments had been made to the beneficiaries

Following the MTR, the pace of implementation began to pick up. The "institutional dynamic"
continued to develop and proved promising. At the Loan closing date, implementation was
substantially complete, with remaining investments being financed during 2009 on the Government
budget.

Key factors influencing implementation

Six major factors influenced implementation. Of these, five were negative: (1) the inadequate
preparation of key innovative aspects of the project; (2) weak institutional capacity; (3) incomplete
institutional design; (4) slow government procedures; and (5) the specific challenge of working in poor
mountain areas. The positive factor was the very strong commitment of key stakeholders to make the
project work.

The inadequate preparation of key innovative aspects of the project



                                                                                                        5
Already at the time of "project launch" in February 2002, it was clear that certain aspects of the design
needed further work in order to become operational. These included: (a) the need for a detailed and
practical implementation manual; (b) the operational design of the participatory approach; and (c)
mechanisms to implement the agricultural development component.

A draft implementation manual was prepared in March 2002, before effectiveness, but it was judged
insufficiently detailed by the Bank. Due to administrative and procurement problems, the final version
was not issued until more than four years later, in June 2006.

The operational design of the participatory approach was to include technical assistance and training,
and the preparation of a Participatory Programming Guide. The technical assistance to support the
participatory programming teams, and provide training in participatory approaches for all stakeholders
was finally in place only in mid-2003. Even when delivery started, phasing was a problem as
participatory programming had already started before the technical assistance was in place or training
had been conducted. The Participatory Programming Guide was only finalized in 2004, after the
participatory process and the investment programs were substantially complete. Fortunately, the
mechanisms for setting up and training water user associations (WUAs) were already designed, thanks
to the existence of a specialized team and training modules that had been put in place with the support
of a KfW project. These models were adapted for the project, and WUA support units were set up in
each province.

The participatory approach for the drinking water component should have been straightforward and
easy to implement, following the well-proven demand-responsive approach under the national PAGER
program. One additional PAGER team was to be assigned in each province. However, there was no
mechanism to ensure this, and in the event the PAGER delivery model lost impetus once the Bank-
financed project supporting it came to an end. Institutional responsibility for the potable water
component became fragmented, with ONEP taking responsibility for one province, and the provincial
authorities assuming responsibility in the other two. As a result, the participatory model was
implemented haphazardly. The user associations were formed and some of the required financial
contribution was mobilized. However, training and supervision were not conducted to PAGER
standards, some social problems within the user associations were not followed up, and financial
management was not always according to the rules. In addition, design provided only for standpipes ,
whereas when offered freedom to choose, the communities all opted for house connections. In some
cases, the consequent need for waste water drainage was neglected.

The agricultural development component was to be implemented through three activities: (i)
preparation of a technical handbook; (ii) applied research adapted to conditions of poor mountain
agriculture; and (iii) extension of adapted technology packages. Only in 2003 was it decided that the
first two activities should be carried out by the Government's agricultural research institute, INRA,
and the third through the Government extension centers, the Centres de travaux (CTs). Even then the
implementation modalities, procurement and budgeting took some time. Contracting with INRA took
a long time to become effective, and the CTs did not receive the needed extra staff, equipment and
operating budgets until late in 2006. The technical handbook was only produced in July 2006.

Weak institutional capacity

The lack of institutional capacity, particularly the lack of experienced staff and the delays in posting
staff to the project, was apparent from the start of the project. Project management and staff were
assigned to the project later than expected, particularly in the key PMUs. Only three years after
effectiveness was the project fully staffed. The teams were of good quality but initially lacked
understanding and experience of participatory approaches. The tools needed to implement so complex
and innovative a project, such as the Participatory Programming Guide, were very late in being
provided. The projected training of project staff was never carried out. Later in the project, after the
MTR, Government's downsizing and early retirement policy began to reduce the availability of key
technical staff, especially in al Haouz province.


                                                                                                       6
The project took an excessive length of time to mobilize consultants effectively. In the end, a blanket
technical assistance contract was concluded with FAO only in March 2006. This allowed the project
to at last finalize the implementation manual, an M&E handbook and the environmental management
plan, but it proved too late to implement the staff training plan.

Incomplete institutional design

The project introduced four innovations to Morocco: (1) field-level bottom up participatory
programming; (2) inter-ministerial joint programming at provincial level; (3) deconcentrated
budgeting delegated to the provincial governor; and (4) the operation of the FDR. The resulting
institutional design was exceptionally complex and much of it was new. Not surprisingly, there were
teething problems in getting the multiple implementation and coordination mechanisms to work. This
affected the efficiency of implementation and contributed to implementation delays. Particular areas
of difficulty were the FDR, and the respective authority and roles of the various mechanisms of
coordination and approval.

The FDR was designed to be the mechanism for funding the integrated rural development programs at
the provincial level. However, two aspects of its operation had not been clearly worked out. First:
How, after the initial funds had been transferred, was it to be replenished on a regular basis? After
years of uncertainty, it was only following the MTR that the issue was solved: in March 2006,
Government finally transferred 97 million dirhams from the balance of the drought program. Second:
Who was actually to have the use of the money? Only in 2004 was it decided that this should be the
provincial governors, which was logical and effective, as scheme and communal level plans were
integrated at provincial level and implemented by the provincial departments.

Integration of various line ministry investments within a single program at provincial, commune and
scheme level required mechanisms of coordination and approval. At central level, an inter-ministerial
committee, the CIPDR had been set up to steer implementation of the 2020 Strategy. At provincial
level, an inter-ministerial committee under the governor, the CPRDR, was to approve programs,
assign the budget and oversee implementation. These new structures took some time to find their role.
As late as June 2003, decisions of the CPRDR were being questioned by the CIPDR. As a result, the
socio-economic infrastructure component was very delayed, through a combination of slow validation
of the program and delays with the FDR. For example, the Azilal investment program was approved
by the CPRDR in June 2002 and validated by a committee of the central CIPDR in March 2003

Slow government procedures

Implementing participatory development through a governmental structure was inevitably a challenge
and the project was predictably affected by contingent and structural implementation constraints,
including: (1) slow procurement procedures; (2) delayed approval of work programs; (3) heavy studies,
particularly with studies for the roads component which were too detailed considering that most were
upgrading of existing tracks; (4) long review procedures within ministries, again particularly for roads;
and (5) delays in the opening of budgets at the spending level. In addition, travel allowances for
government staff were typically inadequate, and facilities generally were sometimes inadequate.
These factors were not specific to the project, as they resulted from overall government policy and
procedures, but they had a heightened effect on implementation efficiency, as the project required
efficient field operations and the processing of very many, mostly small contracts.




                                                                                                      7
The specific challenge of working in poor mountain areas

Government had little prior experience in implementing an integrated rural development project in
poor and remote mountain areas, and a number of unforeseen challenges arose. First, it proved hard to
find quality contractors, and firms retained sometimes proved unable to deliver: the SMI component
was delayed due to the need to cancel and re-award some contracts. Some works had to be redone.
Second, climatic conditions made for a very short construction season, sometimes no more than half a
year. Third, physical conditions required roads of a higher standard than expected, with resulting
effect on costs.

Stakeholder commitment

Despite these constraints, all hurdles were eventually overcome. In large measure, this was due to the
commitment of government, project organizations and the Bank to implementing the project
successfully. Evidence of this is the high level of effort devoted to diagnosing problems, to finding
options, and to agreeing and implementing solutions. Evidence is also provided by the willingness of
agencies to adopt flexible and pragmatic changes, including:

    Introduction of revenue earning activities and the promotion of related women's groups
    Inclusion of environmental protection measures against erosion not foreseen at appraisal
    Development of a partnership approach with other agencies working on participatory rural
    development, notably NGOs, the Social Fund and INDH
    The development of a broader concept of the investment programs prepared as general
    development plans, that could become an instrument of negotiation with other financiers and
    partners.
    The promotion of an extended role for WUAs, encouraging them to branch out into input supply,
    marketing, and purchase of equipment.

QAG

In 2006, a QAG supervision review was carried out. This broad-ranging and well staffed review
picked up all the points that were affecting implementation and was useful in highlighting corrective
measures, including for environment and M&E. The review rated overall project implementation
progress up to mid-2006 as "moderately unsatisfactory"2




2
  See Section 5.1 (b) below for an assessment of the quality of supervision subsequent to the QAG review, and of
the overall contribution of supervision to outcomes.



                                                                                                              8
2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

The project design required two types of M&E. The first was regular tracking of implementation to
report on inputs, contract progress and outputs. The project appointed M&E officers in the central
management unit (CMU) and in the three provincial management units (PMUs), and this
implementation reporting was satisfactorily carried out.

In addition, participatory monitoring of outcomes, beginning with a baseline survey, was to be
conducted. From the beginning, this activity posed extraordinary conceptual and practical problems.
The M&E specialist appointed to the CMU was fully occupied with implementation reporting, and
several attempts to develop and pilot participatory monitoring, with consultants support, proved
fruitless. Finally in March 2008, the CMU produced a detailed M&E plan including an updated
results framework with additional and more relevant indicators. The baseline study was never
conducted, and project implementation drew to a close with little information on key outcome
indicators. Overall, stakeholders showed a weak understanding of the value of participatory, results-
based M&E. However, Government did use the revised result framework and indicators in its own
evaluation of the project (see Section 7 below)3carried out with FAO support. The system designed
will provide a sound starting point for a follow-on operation.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

The project triggered the environmental and pesticide safeguards. The project was classified
Category B for environment, and the PAD reports that the required EA and EMP had been prepared
and appraised for one province, Azilal. There was provision for EMPs to be prepared for the other
two provinces. The CMU was to have an environmental specialist, and in each province, the
Agriculture Department would be responsible for monitoring environmental impacts. Training would
be provided.

In the event, none of this happened until very late in the project. The EMPs were finally produced in
July 2007, noting a short list of negative environmental impacts and recommending mitigating
measures. Of these impacts, two of the most important were erosion of catchments above the SMI
schemes, and the pollution of irrigation water at one site (Lahrouna) by wastewater. On both of these
impacts, action was taken: the project had already in fact begun to invest in erosion control and had
formed a partnership with the Forestry Department to improve watershed management. Also, the
Water Supply Authority (ONEP) launched a study on waste water treatment to be conducted for the
town concerned (Demnate). However, one important action was not taken: to ensure that septic tanks
were constructed to take wastewater from the potable water systems where house connections were
being provided. Overall, the delays in conducting the EMPs were excessive and were partly to blame
for the late identification of the negative environmental impacts. The project did, nonetheless, respond
in the two most important cases. Concerns over the effect of increased use of pesticides were met by
the incorporation of integrated pest management approaches into extension advice.

Regarding fiduciary aspects, procurement, although slow, was satisfactorily carried out, as confirmed
by regular post-reviews conducted by the Bank. Financial management was adequate, Financial
management reports and audit reports were accurate and sent to the Bank in time, Bank follow-up was
regular and thorough..The only fiduciary issue encounterd concerns the delays recorded for the
replenishment of the designated account.




3
    The revised results framework and indicators are reproduced in Annex 5.
2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

Arrangements for transition

SMI investments have been handed over to WUAs, which will be responsible for O&M. Government,
through the PDAs, intends to provide follow up training and supervision. Experience with other
schemes in Morocco suggests that users are committed to sustainability as their livelihoods depend on
it and they will indeed ensure O&M, although not necessarily according to a blueprint. O&M of these
simple gravity schemes is in any case straightforward and low cost, and the risk is small except in the
case of major flood damage, when Government would normally have to intervene.

Access roads have been handed over to the communes rurales, which are responsible for maintenance.
Arrangements and capacity vary by commune. In most cases arrangements are in place to use pooled
equipment for maintenance, and the communes are likely to have the resources to finance maintenance
operations. In some cases, the Ministry of Works is intending to adopt and surface the roads. There is,
however, a risk that the communes will neglect or defer maintenance. Continuing M&E and follow-up
is indicated.

Drinking water facilities are handed over to the associations, which under PAGER had a good record
of sustainable O&M. However, there have been significant departures from the PAGER model under
the project ­ household connections instead of standpipes, less rigorous capital cost sharing,
incomplete training and supervision of the associations. There is therefore a risk that some schemes
will not prove sustainable. Again, continuing M&E and follow-up is indicated. Schools and clinics
have been taken over, staffed and equipped by the line ministries. The facilities are reported to be all
operational. Electricity investments have been handed over to the ONE and are functioning on normal
commercial terms.

Institutional capacity

The participatory approach pioneered by the project is captured in the Participatory Programming
Guide, which is already being used by other programs. The institutional capital created by the project
in participatory and integrated rural development programming is in the provincial level structures set
up for the project, the three CPRDRs, the inter-ministerial participatory programming teams (PPTs)
and the PMUs. Unless there is a follow-on operation, this institutional capacity is vulnerable to rapid
dissipation, although other rural development operations with a participatory approach such as the
INDH will profit from the experience acquired.

After many hesitations, the FDR worked as designed under the project, successfully enough that
Government, at parliamentary insistence, has greatly increased the resources allocated in 2008 and
2009. However, its funding mechanism (see below) make the future of the FDR as the financier of
integrated rural development uncertain.

Continuing M&E

Most project investments were completed only at the end of the implementation period, so that results
of productive investments are below what can be expected at full production, and evidence for the
institutional sustainability of the community infrastructure is still emerging. Therefore, it is important
that M&E of key performance indicators continue, and this should be a priority under any follow on
project.

Follow on project

As discussed in Section 1 above, the project was intended as the first phase of a long term
development program, and APL support was to be provided in three phases over a thirteen year period.
Triggers for the second phase were set, to be reviewed before the end of the first phase (see 1.2 above).


                                                                                                        2
Measured against the triggers and indicators, conditions for a second phase were, by the end of the
project and after much effort, largely fulfilled:

    The bottom-up, participatory programming model that was progressively developed has worked
    successfully
    Integrated investment programming at provincial level has proved in the end functional and
    efficient
    After many uncertainties, the FDR has proven an effective mechanism, although its funding is not
    from a dedicated source, being dependent on annual transfers from the general budget.
    Agricultural development has proven a profitable and popular complement to irrigation
    improvement

Despite continuous dialogue during first phase implementation, no decision has yet been taken on a
second phase to Government's program, nor on a follow-on project to support it. One major reason
for this is that in the last two years of the project, government began a rethink of both its rural
development and agriculture strategies. Two changes to rural development strategy have been
introduced. First, a new program for financing grass-roots community development has been set up,
the INDH. Second, responsibility for rural development has recently been assigned away from the
Ministry of Agriculture to the Territorial Development Secretariat (Secretariat d'état chargé de
l'aménagement territorial, SEAT), and the use of the FDR is currently split between the Ministry of
Agriculture and SEAT.

Government has also produced a new agricultural development strategy, the Plan Maroc Vert, which
is based on two pillars. Pillar one gives priority to commercialization of agriculture through
partnerships between agroprocessors and farmers. Pillar two of the new strategy aims at improving
agriculture in marginal areas. This second pillarshould be complementary to the IBCD approach and
add value to it, by helping small farmers to group into associations at an economic scale and helping
downstream markets to develop for the rising cash crop production from irrigated mountain farms.

Recently, Government has requested Bank support for this new agricultural development strategy.
Although Government has not yet made a decision, it seems that this might include a request for Bank
financing for a second phase IBCD project within the "pillar two" of the new strategy as set out above.
This would likely comprise just the three components directly relevant to SMI (i.e. irrigation
improvement, agricultural development, and access roads), delivered through a somewhat simplified
participatory process and institutional structure and linked to downstream processing and marketing.
Partnership agreements with FDR, INDH, the Social Fund and other public and NGO programs would
likely be employed to deliver the complementary community infrastructure within an integrated
framework. This set up is well justified by experience under the first phase, and implementation
would be considerably more efficient.

    3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The goal, program purpose and PDO described in Section 1 above remain relevant to both country and
global priorities, and to the Bank's assistance strategy. Reducing rural poverty and improving
incomes and quality of life in poor rural areas are still key objectives of policy in Morocco and for
Bank support, and rightly so. The model of an integrated package of income-generating investments
combined with socio-economic infrastructure and the development of community associations has
certainly been appreciated by the benefitting communities. "We never dreamed that all of this would
come to us at once. It has changed our lives forever," said a leader in Ait Wiksane in al Haouz
province.

The testing of bottom up participatory programming methodology has been conclusive, and the
methodology has already been transferred and scaled up in other programs in the country, including


                                                                                                     3
the INDH, to the design of which IBCD staff contributed. The integration of investment programs at
provincial level under the coordination of the governors has been effective. The use of the FDR to
finance socio-economic investments, after an over-long and difficult mobilization period (see Section
2 above), has demonstrated the workability and value of the FDR model, and that model is available
for scaling up if Government so decides.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

The goal, program purpose and PDO all set poverty reduction through income growth and enhanced
quality of life as targets. However, the key performance indicators in the PAD are neither specific nor
comprehensive, and lack of a baseline survey and a working M&E system (see 2.3 above) means that
end-of-project assessment can only be based on the limited parameters tracked during supervision and
on the FAO evaluation study carried out at completion. Project results measured against the PAD
indicators are listed in Annex 2 and summarized and discussed below.

Increase in incomes was measured at completion by a Production increases under the
sample survey. 4 Typically, incomes from SMI were project
estimated to have gone up from Dhs 24,000 annually to Crop                        Measured
Dhs 61,000, an increase of 160% (the PAD had targeted                             increase
                                                             Tree fruits and nuts     + 36%
an increase of only 20%, and that over the entire program
                                                             Vegetables              + 236%
to 2013). The increase in incomes results from a high
                                                             Fodder crops            + 186%
increase in production of three categories of higher value Cereals                    - 12%
products (see table). These increases are exclusively
attributable to the project and result from project-financed improvements in water availability
(Component 1), farm to market access roads (Component 2a), and agricultural production technology
development and transfer (Component 3b). Reported increases in income from livestock production
stemming from increased availability of fodder and marketing of products, especially milk, are also
attributable to the same three components. In addition, the introduction under the project of revenue
generating activities targeted at vulnerable groups, notably women, had the effect of increasing
incomes for the poorest. These impacts have not been quantified.

Improvement in the quality of life. In the PAD and the ISRs, the number of douars (villages)
equipped with socio-economic infrastructure and services is taken as a proxy for improved quality of
life. The result measured is 257 douars (target 239 douars) with access to operational health clinics,
primary schools, safe water source, and electricity. All douars are also served by rural roads. Certain
intermediate outcomes indicators (Annexe 2) confirm the impact, with the burdensome chore of water
fetching eliminated, a 60% increase in traffic on project roads, and an average 50% reduction in
journey times. In many communities, a three day return journey to the local market centre has now
become a one day affair. The outputs of Component 2 ­ improved access to basic rural infrastructure
and social services ­ have produced this satisfactory outcome. In addition, Component 3(a) ­
institutional mechanisms to ensure beneficiary participation and integration of sectoral programs at the
provincial level ­ ensured that the investment program corresponded to need, was owned by the
community, and was integrated at commune and provincial level. The outcome is thus attributable to
project investments.




4
  Production increases were measured on a sample of 135 farms on 9 schemes. There was no sampling of a
control but the input/output relationship was evident throughout the field visits of the completion mission:
increased production has resulted from agricultural improvements + improved water availability and control +
improved incentives due to market access. There were no extraordinary factors that could have produced these
changes. However, M&E throughout the project would clearly have helped here.



                                                                                                               4
New institutional arrangements for greater community Institutional arrangements
participation and for integration of sectoral programs at Indicator                Actual
local and provincial level. In the PAD, this outcome was      Meetings   of   the 3 times a year
                                                              CPRDRs               (6-12 times in
to be measured by the number of meetings of the                                    Khenifra)
CPRDRs and by the level of cost sharing. However, the Number of WUAs 66
project was unable to monitor cost sharing consistently, sharing costs
and the not very instructive indicator "Number of WUAs
sharing costs" was used as a proxy. Against these rather limiting indicators, performance was
satisfactory, as shown in the table. More generally, the project was certainly successful in developing
and testing models both for community-based participatory programming and for integrated
investment programming and implementation at the decentralized provincial level. Sixty nine
contracts for participatory development plans were signed with WUAs, and 25 contracts were signed
for commune-level development plans. Although the arrangements for working with communities to
develop investment programs were not clearly defined at the outset and varied between the three
provinces, the resulting programs were well owned by the communities and towards the end of the
project a consolidated methodology had been worked out and recorded in the Guide. Similarly, after
some trial and error, the PPTs worked well, and under the supportive chairmanship of governors, the
CPRDRs, attended by project staff, sector agencies and community representatives, became a first
class forum for agreeing and following up on the integrated investment program.

Although there is no indicator in the PAD or ISRs, the performance of the FDR is mentioned in
relation to the objective of piloting new institutional arrangements. Once the FDR became operational,
it financed the entire socio-economic investment program. As mentioned above (2.5), this successful
experience has encouraged Parliament to require increased resources for the FDR.

Whether cost sharing arrangements, also Cost contributions under the project
mentioned in the PAD in relation to the                    Commune       Beneficiaries
institutional objective, were successful is more SMI       0             10
debatable, as is the appropriateness of cost Water schemes 5             15
sharing as an indicator. The principle evoked    Roads     33            0
in the PAD is that capital cost sharing Electricity        20             25
demonstrates ownership, and varying rates of
capital cost participation were expected.

For irrigation works, it was envisaged that the irrigators would contribute (in cash and/or kind) the
equivalent of 10% of the rehabilitation costs of the irrigation structures. Contributions should in
principle have been paid to the Ministry of Finance (MoF), but no mechanism existed to do this. In
some cases, a contribution in kind was agreed: in Azilal for example, four associations contributed in
kind the equivalent of 2,286 working days. However, contributions in kind proved not always feasible
where work was being carried out by contractors. Where financial contributions were agreed,
performance was also uneven, and by the end of the project, it had been agreed to align on a formula
worked out in two other SMI projects (PMH Nord and PMH Dades), under which the 10% capital cost
contribution is paid in installments, with 2.5% up front and the balance over six years, deposited in a
blocked account as a reserve fund for major works. It is clear that the issue of capital cost recovery for
SMI was not coherently handled during the project. In fact, if capital cost recovery is required only as
a demonstration of ownership, this is amply demonstrated by the ownership generated through the
participatory process. Clarity on both objective and mechanisms is required for any follow-on project.

The contribution of the communes rurales to IBCD investments also proved problematic as a number
of communes lacked the necessary resources. In addition, cofinancing of a number of small contracts
was inefficient. In some cases, communes financed separate contracts (for example, the connecting
pipeline for a drinking water scheme). In one province (Khénifra), it was decided to lump the
communes' contributions to all project investments together and to pay the equivalent amount towards
the construction of the roads only. Seven communes disbursed a total of MAD 1.9 million this way,
which represents 73% of their calculated contribution. In Azilal, six communes did not contribute to


                                                                                                        5
the capital costs, but set aside an equivalent sum of MAD 2.0 million for road maintenance5. On the
whole, it is estimated that the communes paid only 34% of the aggregated total contribution expected
from them at appraisal.

3.3 Efficiency

At project appraisal, an internal Economic Rate of Return (ERR) was calculated only for the irrigation
and agricultural development investments in one province (Azilal) because feasibility studies were
available only for that one province at that time. For comparability, therefore, the ERR for the same
investments in that province has been recalculated. The costs included in the calculations consist of
those benefiting irrigated agriculture: rehabilitation/modernization of irrigation structures, rural roads,
research and extension services, and institutional and logistical support provided for setting up WUAs.
The benefits calculated consist of the value of the incremental crop production only. The financial
costs and benefits have been converted into economic values using conventional rules.
The results are based on field surveys carried out by an FAO team, which found that following the
rehabilitation works, with the increased and more stable supply of irrigation water to plots, there has
been a small increase in cropping intensity, a noticeable evolution from relatively low value crops
(mainly cereals) towards higher value crops (horticulture and tree crops), and significant yield
improvements, particularly for maize for fodder (up more than 100%)), and horticulture (e.g. peas up
40%). Moreover, the construction of rural roads has facilitated access to markets, resulting in greater
marketed volumes and higher prices. Average net revenue per hectare cultivated almost doubled
2004-8 as a result of project investment. The incremental (average) net revenue increase in Azilal
province is close to 90% 2004-8 for all irrigators.
The ERR is calculated at 21% over 30 years, above the 13.5 % estimated at appraisal (see Annex 3).
In addition, the substantial benefits from incremental livestock production and new income generating
activities such as bee keeping promoted under the project have not been included, as reliable
information was not available.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating          Rating: Satisfactory

As discussed above (3.1), the project's objectives remain relevant to both country and Bank priorities.
The project's outputs are in line with targets and cost estimates, and have directly contributed to
project outcomes, which are almost entirely attributable to the project. Efficiency as measured by the
ERR is above expectations, and is satisfactory for an irrigation improvement project. It is likely also
that the project-related income streams for livestock and off-farm activities will continue to grow. No
measure of the efficiency of the delivery model has been possible. Clearly there was a long and
inefficient development period, lasting at least until the MTR, to set up the institutional structure and
work out methodologies and working practices. Frank assessment of the delivery model once it
became fully operational was that it certainly worked and contributed to the successful project
outcomes, but that efficiencies were possible, particularly in the participatory planning process, in the
integrated programming at provincial level, and in the process of technical preparation and tendering
of investments. Clearly these possible efficiencies should be explored for any follow-on operation.

The rating of satisfactory is based on the assessment that, despite the problems with incomplete
preparation and the lengthy implementation period, the project was relevant and achieved its
objectives, with a satisfactory rate of return. The development of the new institutional arrangements
for greater community participation and for integration of sectoral programs was slow, and the
resulting "delivery model", although functional, was somewhat unwieldy and could perhaps have been


5
  For the water supply networks, five communes paid for the installation of individual connections as well as
some other works (MAD 1.95 millions). But these were not planned under the project and had therefore to be
financed in full outside of the project.



                                                                                                                6
more cost-effective. This shortcoming in efficiency, however, is minor in the light of overall project
results.

It should be noted that the lack of a baseline survey, the lack of substantive M&E data during the
project, and the absence of a control on a "without the project" situation weaken the information base
for the rating. However, the FAO sample survey was professionally carried out and succeeded in
largely reconstituting the baseline situation, and the measure of confidence that can be accorded to the
results is judged to be adequate to underpin the rating.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

Overall, the project has a positive impact on the incomes and quality of life of the poor target
population. Beyond the direct benefits recorded above (Section 3.2), the project brought three
contributions to the development of social capital. First, the project improved participation and access
of beneficiaries to decision-making processes and investment opportunities, thus not only enhancing
ownership for project investments and their sustainability but creating an awareness and demand for
further development. Second, the project increased organizational capacity for the user groups
involved, contributing to the formation of social capital. Third, the project created both physical and
imaginative access to markets and to the world. Previously cut-off communities began to see
themselves as part of a larger economy and society, and to act accordingly.

For women and girls, the impacts were mixed, largely positive. Access to clean water in or near the
house reduced the daily drudgery of water fetching, and this together with the provision of nearby
schools with latrines permitted greater girls' school enrollment. In the participatory programming,
women ­ and sometimes younger people - were consulted, but the list of investments on offer was
fixed, and it is not clear whether women's specific requests could always be taken into account. The
decision to include income-generating activities in the project was, however, a flexible response to
women's expressed demand.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

The project was successful in showing how the participatory process for rural development could be
institutionalized. Overall the process added value, creating bottom up identification of needs and
developing in the associations the embryo of formal development counterparts for the administration.
The associations found it useful and empowering to be involved in the identification, planning and
design of their own development. The process also created institutional capacity on the government
side, in the CTs and the DPA in field level relations with user associations, and in the EPP and the
CRPDR in bottom up integrated programming and integrated decision making at provincial level. All
stakeholders benefited from the forum of the CPRDR, which brought community representatives in
regular contact with public services at the provincial level under the chairmanship of the Governor.

Despite these successes, the project encountered risks common to all participatory planning projects: a
limited menu of investments on offer, consultations made difficult by an incomplete understanding of
local power dynamics, the risk of elite capture etc. In addition, the WUAs suffered from the typical
risks of power play and differential benefits along the canal and between upstream and downstream,
although there is no evidence that this compromised benefits or produced seriously inequitable
outcomes. These aspects of risk deserve more thorough study in the preparation of any follow-on
operation.

Two other positive institutional impacts also deserve mention. First, progress was made in creating an
agricultural growth momentum for poor mountain economies previously locked in a subsistence trap.
The involvement of INRA for the first time in the development of mountain agriculture packages and
applied research programs, the productive partnership between INRA and the CTs, and the positive


                                                                                                      7
response of farmers to new opportunities and incentives are a step forward. For the future it will be
important to decide how to finance and sustain INRA involvement, and to clarify the future of the CTs
in the Ministry of Agriculture's new strategy (Section 2.5).

Second, the IBCD project has already contributed to the development of participatory rural
development outside the project. The project helped with preparation of the INDH concept. The
Departments of Agriculture (DPAs) in the three project provinces are working with INDH. Some of
the IBCD WUAs are already benefitting from INDH projects, and some IBCD project actions are to
be completed on INDH financing.

3.6      Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey/Stakeholder Workshops: Not applicable


      4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome Rating: Moderate

The sustainability of income gains under the project is likely, as early income increases are very
attractive and farmers are committed to maintaining and improving their gains. Endogenous risks are
institutional: the income increases require sustained O&M efforts from functional WUAs, market
access preserved by road maintenance, and continued technology transfer and training. These risks are
moderate, but should be tracked under a follow-on operation. In particular, further strengthening of
WUAs through training, and a more active role for the Government member (the "septieme membre"),
are indicated. Exogenous risks are mainly climatic: drought and floods both occurred during the
implementation period, for which the mitigation measure is inherent in the project's introduction of
concrete structures capable of improving water availability and control and withstanding floods. Some
measure of risk nonetheless persists that will have to be dealt with through Government disaster
mitigation programs. In addition, the environmental risk of siltation from erosion in the catchments
exists. The watershed management measures agreed between the project and the Forestry Department
are the appropriate mitigation strategy.

The sustainability of gains in quality of life depends on the continued O&M of project-financed socio-
economic infrastructure (Section 2.5). In the case of schools, clinics and electricity, sustainability is
highly likely. Risks attach to the O&M of roads and drinking water facilities, and as discussed,
continuing M&E and follow up are indicated, particularly for the drinking water facilities where
further strengthening of the associations and their financial management is indicated.

Sustainability of the institutional approach is uncertain. The organizational structures and
methodologies have been well developed and proven (Section 3.2) but there is a risk that the
institutional capital created under the project will dissipate if there is no follow on operation. More
generally, the approach is at risk from changes in Government policy. If responsibility for rural
development and for programming the FDR is to be shifted to another agency, it seems unlikely that
the Ministry of Agriculture will be able ­ or motivated ­ to continue cross-sectoral participatory
planning or integrated inter-ministerial programming at the provincial level on the IBCD model.
However, Government's intentions are not yet clear. What is required is a concerted process to review
the policy changes in the light of experience, including that of IBCD, and to forge a new approach,
shared between Government and donors, that is built on the empirical base of the IBCD project. The
preparation of a follow-on project would be a good opportunity to conduct this concerted review.

Overall, the risk to development outcomes is moderate, with the most significant risks stemming from
the immaturity of some of the user associations (both irrigation and drinking water), and from the
current flux in Government's rural development strategy.




                                                                                                       8
    5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry            Rating: Unsatisfactory

As discussed above (Sections 1 and 2.1), IBCD was the "right project at the right time", and relevant
to Government and Bank objectives. Based on previous involvement, lessons learned and fit with the
Bank's global strategy, the case for a participatory, decentralized and flexible approach to rural
development and for the Bank to finance the project was persuasively made at appraisal.

Project design was well structured and appropriate to demonstrate the financial and economic case for
SMI development in poor mountain areas and to develop the institutional delivery model for
government's new 2020 Strategy. The PAD is a clear guide to the project as it was finally
implemented, and the Bank helped develop the outline organizational design.

However, appraisal of key aspects was sketchy, particularly of the participatory programming process,
the procedures for integrated provincial level decision making and execution, and the institutional
capability to implement the project. The implementation schedule was unrealistic, and the key
performance indicators were inadequate to capture project results. The risk assessment failed to note
the key problem: that this was essentially a large scale pilot project that should have started with
intensive technical assistance and capacity building to operationalize the delivery model. These
failures at appraisal were the direct cause of the subsequent slow implementation of the project right
up to the time of the MTR.

Two specific aspects of appraisal were particularly weak. The environmental appraisal is wordy but
lacks specificity, resembling a desk review. For example, it mentions that an EA was prepared by the
Borrower, but neglects to state what the EA said. The social appraisal is extraordinarily skimpy for a
pioneering participatory project.

Despite the relevance of the project and its sound structure, Bank performance in ensuring quality at
entry is rated unsatisfactory due to the shortcomings in appraisal. The Bank had the option of either
postponing the project and working with Government to complete preparation, or of building in
substantial extra technical assistance at the start of the project to develop all the necessary institutional
structures and procedures. However, neither of these options was explored. Instead, the PAD
declared the project ready for implementation, which was plainly not the case.

(b) Quality of Supervision       Rating: Satisfactory

From the outset it was recognized that the project would require intensive supervision ­ and this was
requested by Government at negotiations. Early Bank missions, including the Launch Mission, were
staffed to help operationalize the design, and they had an effective input into this. The October 2002
mission, the first after effectiveness, made a major input to arrangements for setting up the
participatory process, including WUA training and participatory M&E, as well as implementation of
the agricultural component,

The intensive rhythm and depth of supervision continued throughout the implementation period.
Missions were "hands on", spending considerable time in site visits and meeting with stakeholders at
all levels. Regular meetings with governors, CPRDRs, WUAs etc did much to explain the project to
stakeholders, to define implementation procedures and to foster ownership. In general, a pragmatic
problem identification and solving approach was adopted: implementation problems were identified
and assessed in a timely manner, and much effort was put into providing appropriate advice and
proposing solutions ­ to good effect. Various missions provided training on procurement and
financial management procedures and on M&E and environmental aspects.



                                                                                                           9
There was good staff continuity, and supervision benefitted from the presence of the team leader in the
Morocco Office. The skill mix was quite broad, and the team did well to invite the occasional
participation of other Bank team leaders for the Education and Administrative Reform Projects. There
was good interaction with the team leaders of the Rainfed and Roads Projects, although there was little
contact with the teams responsible for other donor projects (IFAD, KfW) in the SMI sector, which
could have been a fertile linkage. One shortcoming was that missions could from time to time have
benefitted from specialist expertise in environment, M&E, and institutional development. Aide
memoires were thorough and clear, and management letters were concise and focused on the main
issues. ISR reporting was clear and to the point, although the recording of progress against indicators
was erratic and not very revealing, reflecting the unsatisfactory nature of the indicators (see 2.1 above).

Supervision of safeguards was inadequate, with little attention paid to the failure of the project to
complete EMPs, which was a breach of a dated covenant. Not until after the QAG review picked up
the shortcoming was any real attention paid to environment during supervision. Supervision of
procurement was regular, with frequent post-reviews and comprehensive discussion in the aide
memoires. Financial management supervision was appropriate in frequency and quality. Issues were
identified and dealt with in a timely way, and supervision reporting was comprehensive. Review of
audits was prompt and clear reactions were given to the client in writing.

A QAG review of supervision was carried out QAG assessment of supervision
in 2006. The review rated supervision overall Overall                         3
"3" or "moderately satisfactory", concluding Development effectiveness        2
that "the team has done a good job of putting Fiduciary/safeguard             3
this difficult project on track." The main Supervision inputs                 3
criticism concerned the shortcomings on        Candor                         3
environmental aspects (see above) and the need to bring in expertise on M&E and institutional
development. Subsequent supervision paid considerable attention to all three aspects and responded
well to QAG's critique.

One failing during the implementation period should perhaps be laid more at the door of Bank
management than of the supervision team. This was the failure to sustain sector dialogue and to
ensure that the linkages between the IBCD project (and its sister Rainfed Project) and the evolving
reflexion on rural development strategy within Morocco were constantly drawn. There seems to have
been little continuity in supporting government in its rural development strategy. Links to other rural
development operations and donors in Morocco were weakly drawn both in the PAD and in practice.6
Even linkages with ­ and lessons from - the small Bank-financed pilot project in Oued Lakhdar, in the
IBCD province of Azilal, were weak. It appears that, whilst the Bank was helping the implementation
teams to struggle with the project, Government was rapidly rethinking its rural development strategy
and going on a somewhat different track

On the same lines, the PAD made much of the importance of the project for the Bank's own global
strategy (see Section 1), but there seems to have been little or no follow up on Morocco as a "Focus
Country". Despite promises in the PAD, the Bank's input to the IBCD project provided little or no
"facilitation of access to global experience on rural development", and in general links to global
expertise and experience were not evident.

This distancing of the Bank from evolving strategy is the more surprising as the project was a first
phase of an APL, so should have been constantly reviewed in the context of longer term strategy. In
fact, an APL is supposed to provide greater flexibility in dealing with client needs and local conditions



6
  IFAD-financed rural development operations in al Haouz, an IBCD province, are mentioned in the PAD but
there is no indication of linkages, lessons etc



                                                                                                           10
as they evolve, and the Bank could have engaged with Government on this basis during the life of the
project.

In 2009, after completion of the project, Government did request Bank cooperation in reviewing the
new agricultural strategy (see 2.5 above) and this may lead to a follow-on operation to the IBCD
project. However, Bank engagement on the new rural development strategy remains limited.

Bank performance on supervision is rated satisfactory. There were shortcomings on the supervision of
the environmental component and more could have been done to link the project to evolving sector
strategy, but these shortcomings were outweighed by positive aspects, notably: the participatory
approach adopted with the very broad range of stakeholders, including beneficiary representatives; the
field-oriented empirical problem-solving approach; the focus on development impact; the quality and
frankness of project reporting; and the attention to sustainability and to the possibility of a follow on
operation.

The ICR thus rates supervision quality through to completion somewhat higher than the judgment of
QAG in 2006, as during the three years that elapsed between the two evaluations, the supervision team
acted on the QAG recommendations and supervision had helped to guide the project to successful
achievement of its outcomes, a result not secure at the time of the QAG review.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

In accordance with Bank guidelines, overall Bank performance is rated moderately satisfactory, as
although performance on quality at entry was unsatisfactory, the quality of supervision was
satisfactory, and the outcome, to which the Bank contributed enormously, was also in the satisfactory
range.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance          Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The mixed Government commitment to the project at entry (Section 2.1) persisted throughout the
implementation period.

The Ministry of Finance was committed to the project objectives but was concerned about the slow
pace of implementation, and the corresponding costs from commitment fees and the opportunity cost
of FDR funds tied up unused. The delegation of budgets for the FDR and to the CTs was initially
slow, but once the project was fully operational after the MTR, this speeded up. Compliance with
fiduciary requirements was satisfactory.

The line ministries involved in programming and implementing investments under the FDR in general
showed willingness, particularly at provincial level where they participated actively in the PPTs and
the CPRDRs. Only for the roads component was the needed flexibility sometimes lacking.

Governors, as chairman of the CPRDR and budget holder (sous-ordonnateur) of the FDR,
showed commitment and enthusiasm, and dynamized the participatory and integrated programming
process at provincial level.

The Ministry of Agriculture committed the necessary human and financial resources to the project
(albeit late), and at least initially showed leadership. However, little was done to link the project to the
strategic framework of the 2020 Strategy or to monitor its progress in parallel with other integrated
rural development projects, including the Bank-financed Rainfed Areas Project. Towards the end of
the implementation period, the ministry became preoccupied with the development of its new
agricultural strategy, and seems to have participated little in the reflection that led to the changes in
rural development strategy that in a sense undermined the rationale of the IBCD project (see Section


                                                                                                         11
2.5 above). This shortcoming is, however, to be balanced against the likelihood that Government will
in fact build on the successful outcome of the project in a second phase operation (see 2.5 above).

Overall, Government performance is rated moderately satisfactory, as although there was commitment
to implementation, Government was sometimes slow to make the needed human and financial
resources available. Government did not properly consider the lessons of the IBCD project as it was
developing new strategic approaches to agriculture and rural development, but it is expected that those
lessons will be incorporated on the basis of the implementation completion evaluations carried out by
Government and the Bank.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Implementation arrangements for the project were complex and performance varied. At project
management level, the CMU and three PMUs were energetic and pragmatic throughout, although they
suffered from shortages of qualified staff. At the provincial programming level, the CPRDRs were a
privileged meeting place between technical services and the communes rurales, and acted as both a
decision making and problem solving forum, and the PPTs performed well. At implementation level,
the Provincial Departments of Agriculture carried out the SMI component competently; INRA and the
CTs performed well on agricultural development, after a very slow start and with a particularly big
delay in al Haouz province; and the socio-economic infrastructure components were in general
competently executed by the provincial services.

In view of their commitment to objectives and to the participatory process, and taking account of the
problem solving approach and hard work of the agencies, performance is rated moderately satisfactory.
Shortcomings in the pace of implementation - particularly on key aspects like the implementation
manual, the design of the participatory approach and the agricultural development component ­
preclude a higher rating.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The ratings of moderately satisfactory for both Government and agency performance, combined with
an outcome in the satisfactory range (Section 3.4), justify a rating of moderately satisfactory for
overall Borrower performance.

    6. Lessons Learned

The project demonstrated that participatory community-based planning and integrated local level
investment programming anchored in SMI are feasible in rural areas of Morocco and add value in
terms both of appropriation by the beneficiaries and of development impact. In fact, SMI proved the
optimal entry point for integrated development in mountain areas as all social and economic life in
these zones is organized around the irrigation perimeter. The project also demonstrated that
Government agencies are both able and willing to implement this approach, and that fiscal
decentralization ­ the FDR under the management of the Governor ­ aids the approach. The lesson is
that the IBCD model is an effective mechanism for reducing rural poverty and the project model is
ready, subject to some adjustments, to be extended to other areas and scaled up.

A second lesson is that the model of participatory planning and integrated investment programming
developed under the project (see Section 2.2 above and Annex 10) is workable and can be
implemented even through Government agencies which typically do not possess the flexibility and
grass-roots touch required. However, many more detailed lessons and recommendations about the
possible adjustments to the project model also emerged (see Annex 10). They can be grouped under:

Methodological
    The consultation process was too heavy for the relatively simple matter of getting community
      choice from a limited menu of investments: match the methodology to the objective.


                                                                                                    12
        The vulnerable or poorly empowered groups, especially women and youths, were not
        adequately included: adapt the consultation process to meet specific needs.
        The participatory process was uneven and sometimes out of sequence: get the phasing right
        and allow enough time.

Institutional
     Too much knowledge was left with short term consultants: create permanent institutional
         capacity in CDD.
     There was not enough cross-fertilization with other projects: create mechanisms to exchange
         and capitalize experience.
     Training was too limited and too late: for any follow on project, build local capacity early in
         the process and build in continuing training.
     Cost sharing was haphazard and did not meet the stated purpose: clarify the objective and
         mechanism for cost sharing.
     No progress was made with participatory M&E: draw a baseline and develop procedures,
         including for community involvement, as a first step during preparation.
     Some preparation and procurement processes were extremely heavy: agree streamlined study
         and procurement procedures appropriate to a CDD-type project at the outset.

These lessons can be used to adapt the IBCD approach (documented in its participatory planning
manual) to other programs such as the INDH which are adopting the participatory approach.

A negative lesson concerns the long term nature of the program. The IBCD program was designed to
run over thirteen years, backed by a Bank APL. In the event, Government never responded clearly to
the Bank's enquiries about the future of the program and a second phase project has not been prepared,
although there was provision in the first phase to finance it. At the end of the project, there was
enthusiasm to continue at the decentralized level and within the Ministry of Agriculture's
Infrastructure Department, but higher level policy makers seemed to have lost interest in the 2020
Strategy. This disappointing situation is now being corrected through the Bank/Government review of
the new agricultural strategy and also by a proposed workshop to examine the results of the IBCD
project, due to be held early in the second half of 2009. The lesson is that Government and donors
needed to maintain a continuous dialogue based on empirical findings from the various projects so that
the long term strategic context was kept constantly in view. A "joint annual review" forum would
have been appropriate.

A related lesson is that a project such as the IBCD project, introduced to pioneer the implementation
of a new strategy, should not only invest in M&E from the outset so as to provide empirical evidence
of results but also have an inbuilt communications program to ensure that emerging messages are
passed to decision makers and other key stakeholders, and so are fed back into the policy, strategy and
programming cycle.


    7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

The Borrower submitted a thorough summary report (March 2009). The report finds the project
relevant and coherent, with good qualitative and quantitative results. Prospects for sustainability are
rated good, but there is a need to continue to support and monitor the user groups. The report
recommends a second phase project, focused largely on income generation: SMI, roads, agricultural
development, processing and marketing, and watershed protection. The socio-economic infrastructure
would be carried out under sectoral programs or though the INDH within an integrated programming
framework.




                                                                                                    13
The report also makes a number of operational recommendations designed to improve the efficiency
of management for a follow-on project, to strengthen field operations and the links with local
governance, to reinforce the agricultural development component, to involve women more, and to link
upstream production with downstream marketing and processing. These recommendations are all
eminently sensible, and provide a good platform for starting preparation of a second phase project.

(b) Cofinanciers   Not applicable

(c) Other partners and stakeholders    Not applicable




                                                                                                14
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

   (a) Project Cost by Component

       a1. (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                                 Actual/Latest
                                     Appraisal Estimate                                Percentage of
          Components                                             Estimate (USD
                                      (USD millions)                                    Appraisal
                                                                    millions)
 REHABILITATION OF SMI                         20.90                   23.12               111%
 COMPLEMENTARY
COMMUNITY                                      13.34                    14.61              109%
INFRASTRUCTURE
 INSTITUTIONAL
                                                  5.87                   3.83              65%
STRENGTHENING
 PREPARATION OF PHASE II                        1.97                      0.00
               Total Project Costs             42.08                     41.56             99%
Front-end fee IBRD                              0.32                      0.32             100%
       Total Financing Required                42.40                     41.88             99%

       a2. In MAD millions
                                                                           Actual   Percentage
                                 Appraisal    Actual/Latest              estimates      of
                                                            Percentage
                                 Estimate       Estimate                 including  Appraisal
         Components                                         of
                                  (MAD           (MAD                  commitments
                                                            Appraisal
                                 millions)      millions)                  (MAD
                                                                          millions)
REHABILITATION OF SMI                  227.48         192.8    85%          233.4     102%
COMPLEMENTARY
COMMUNITY                              145.21            121.8          84%        146.8          101%
INFRASTRUCTURE
INSTITUTIONAL
                                          63.91           31.9          50%
STRENGTHENING                                                                      39.3           61%
PREPARATION OF PHASE II                    21.4             0            0
                                                                                     0             0
         Total Project Cost           458.00             346.5          76%        419.5           92


(b) Financing
                                           Appraisal      Actual/Latest
                                           Estimate         Estimate Percentage of
           Source of Funds
                                            (USD             (USD       Appraisal
                                           millions)        millions)
 Borrower                                    6.63             8.66       131%
 Local Communities                           3.20             1.08        34%
 International Bank for Reconstruction
                                             32.57              31.82            98%
and Development
                        Total Financing      42.40              41.56




                                                                                                        15
Annex 2. Outputs by Component


Component 1: Rehabilitation and improvement of SMI schemes
SMI areas rehabilitated and improved (in hectares)
  Province            PAD           Actual         % of PAD                 Number of
                                                                             schemes

Azilal                   3,450              4,100            119%              19
Khenifra                 3,000             3,400             113%              14
Al Haouz                 3,000             3,522             117%              22
Total                    9,450             11,022            117%              55

Actual outputs were 17% above target outputs. Beneficiaries took part in the identification,
preparation and supervision. Whilst this added value in terms of both "ownership" and
quality of design, it did contribute to delays in implementation. Works were on the whole
well done, but the inexperience of some contractors and the harsh climatic conditions led to
further delays and to some works having to be redone. Performance indicators show good
improvements in water control for a sample of SMI schemes:
Indicators of improved SMI performances (in %)
         Indicators              Ait Bouguemez      Ait Hamza    Lahroun      Ait       Taggart   Tassant
                                                                            Wiksane
Improved flow at entry to the         60               70              30     40          40        10
farm
Reduction in time for water to        67               75              56     67          67        25
reach the farm
Increase in irrigated area            10               15               0     20          0          0
Reduction in frequency of             83               60              50     75          60        30
cleaning

Component 2: Improved access to basic rural infrastructure and social services

2(a) Rural roads

Rural roads (in km)
  Province          PAD                    Actual           % of PAD

Azilal                     116              78                  67%
Khenifra                    70              61                  88%
Al Haouz                    70              70                  100%
Total                      256              209                 82%

Actual outputs were 18% below targets as actual costs in the difficult mountain terrain were higher
than estimated at appraisal. Also, the Ministry of Equipment insisted on a high standard of
construction. In al Haouz, targets were met by simply improving "black spots" rather than upgrading
the entire road. The component suffered long implementation delays, due in part to the heavy study
and checking procedures required by the Ministry of Equipment. A sample of five communities
showed excellent improvements in access due to the component.




                                                                                                            16
Indicators of improvements due to the roads component (in %)
      Indicators           Ait           Ait    Lahroun        Ait       Taggart     Tassant
                       Bouguemez       Hamza                 Wiksane
Increase in traffic        60%          60%       40%         80%          60%         50%
Reduction in journey       67%          67%       67%         96%          67%         50%
time
Reduction in closures      60%          70%       50%         80%          80%         80%

2(b) Drinking water schemes

Drinking water schemes
   Province         PAD              Actual          % du PAD

Azilal                 30              12              40%
Khenifra               15               8              53%
Al Haouz               15              28              187%
Total                  60              48              80%

Actual outputs were 20% below target as costs were under-estimated at appraisal. Implementation
was delayed because of:

        Responsibilities were unclear between ONEP and the provincial services
        Complex financing packages had to be negotiated between the project, the commune rurales
        and the beneficiaries
        There was a lack of follow up and training
        Problems arose in one or two places in finding an adequate water source

In addition, some schemes failed to develop systems for capturing waste water flows. However, the
results of the operational schemes were found by the FAO survey to be excellent:


Indicators of the impact of potable water supply
              Indicators                     Ait        Ait Wiksane       Taggart
                                         Bouguemez
Reduction in water fetching chores          100%           100%             100%
Reduction in water borne disease             50%            50%             50%
infection
Percentage of households with                60%           100%             100%
individual connections

In addition, school enrollment for girls has risen, with the elimination of the water fetching chore,
which in some cases was taking up to six hours a day.

2(c) Electrification

Only seven electrification schemes were carried out. All are functioning well. No target was set in the
PAD.

Electrification schemes
   Province           Actual
Khenifra                7




                                                                                                    17
2(d) Schools

There was no PAD target for this sub-component. Educational infrastructure was programmed
according to community requests, and agreed according to the "carte scolaire" with the Ministry of
Education. Each classroom is staffed with a teacher. Some investments were to add fencing, latrines
etc to complete existing schools. The FAO study found excellent impacts already, with an estimated
increase of 25% enrolment in the catchment area, largely girls.

Schools, classrooms and other
educational infrastructure (units)
   Province           Actual

Azilal                 41
Khenifra               27
Al Haouz               49
Total                  117

2(e) Health centers

There was no PAD target for this sub-component. Health centers were programmed according to
community requests, and agreed according to the "carte sanitaire" with the Ministry of Health. Each
center is staffed, equipped and supplied.

Health centers
           Province                     Actual

Azilal                                     1
Khenifra                                  7
Al Haouz                                  12
Total                                     20

Component 3: Institutional support

3(b) Support Services for Agricultural Production

The objective was to intensify production systems for cereals, fruit trees, garden produce and livestock
products, thereby increasing yields and farm incomes. The specific actions planned for achieving this
objective in each of the three provinces were as follows :
    Preparation of a technical manual (référentiel technique) for agricultural production in each of the
    three agro-ecological zones, taking into account all agricultural activities. This manual was to be
    prepared with the assistance of international and national consultants, in close collaboration with
    the target-groups.
    Carrying out of an applied research program aimed at enriching the technical manual, including
    the financing of research materials and travel allowances for researchers.
    Carrying out of demonstration activities on irrigators' plots, based on the technical manual plus
    the results of the applied research program. For crop production, this would involve better
    varieties as well as improved cropping patterns and farming practices. For livestock production,
    the demonstrations would focus on animal health and improved breeds.
    These actions were to be realized in close collaboration with the existing associations (for water,
    marketing, etc.) in the region. It was intended that bids be solicited for contracts with local
    organizations to provide technical support to producers. Training, transport and financing of
    operation costs were to be provided to the DPAs and CTs for monitoring and evaluation.
Bids for contracts were indeed solicited and received but found unsuccessful. It was decided instead to
make bilateral agreements (conventions) with the Institut national de la recherche agronomique


                                                                                                     18
(INRA) for applied research, and the Centre des travaux (CT) for the extension work (demonstration
plots, training visits, etc.). Because of the relative uncertainty at project start about the exact nature of
the research to be conducted and also the novelty of preparing agreements with other public entities
such as the INRA, the applied research program in each province as well as most of the extension
work started in 2004 only. One technical manual was prepared by the INRA for each province
(international consultancy was found unnecessary) but a number of planned field trials still remain to
be carried out in Khénifra and Haouz, due to the delays in starting the activities. The manuals will
have to be enriched later on the basis of these future results.
The CTs were given training as planned and some logistical support (essentially vehicles and some
field equipment). The interaction of these centers with the INRA, which also provided
technical/material support during the extension work, had the beneficial effect of "revitalizing" them,
although they were still always constrained by their structural shortage of human resources (above all
technicians to assist the engineers). Another initial constraint was the scarcity of technical packages
(adapted to the mountainous areas) to be disseminated. But once the applied research programs and
extension work gathered momentum towards 2005, they proved to be very popular with the irrigators
as well as successful in terms of outcomes. The following table illustrates the main extension activities
carried out in each province and the number of beneficiaries involved.

          Extension activities                      Nbr of activities         Nbr of beneficiaries

         Contact visits                                   7 251                       7 251
         Sensitization days                                771                       16 964
         Demonstration plots                              1 000                      10 825
         Training visits for irrigators                    42                         1 260
         Income generating activities                      41                          511
         Training of technicians                           30                         1 037

The demonstration plots and training visits were the activities most valued by the irrigators. The main
topics treated revolved around cereal crops (particularly maize for fodder), fruit tree crops (particularly
for olives and apples) and animal feeding/husbandry (particularly for cattle in the case of Haouz). In
addition, the promotion (mainly by the CTs) of off-farm income generating activities was very popular
with women ; for example beekeeping in Azilal.
The project helped the INRA extend its research activities into the mountainous areas where it was not
really active before, especially in Azilal7 . This resulted in the present availability of several technical
packages truly adapted to these areas, which were lacking previously. Furthermore, the project
provided an occasion for the INRA and CTs to work closely and productively together. In fact, the
INRA also assisted the CTs in the extension work; as already indicated, this had the effect of
"revitalizing" the CTs.
There is a wide consensus that the combined efforts of the INRA and CTs have resulted in a more
professional attitude among the irrigators. The general quality of their farming practices has improved;
for instance, they now prune and maintain otherwise the fruit trees more systematically and much
better. Also, new crops have been introduced ­ for example: saffron in Azilal, sesame and garlic in
Khénifra, and apples in Haouz. The annex 3 (financial/economic analysis) discusses the overall
impacts on the irrigators in terms of improvements in agricultural production.




7
 It is estimated that the farmers in the mountainous areas of Morocco account for around one third of the total
number.



                                                                                                              19
Annex 3. Financial and Economic Analysis

                                              Introduction
This annex summarizes the methodology used and results obtained in analyzing the estimated costs
and benefits of the Irrigation Based Community Development Project (DRI-PMH in French). Being
part of an ICR, the analysis must first replicate the calculations carried out at appraisal to compare the
results. But it will also provide some additional insights into the prevailing financial and economic
situation as well as the expectations for the future.
At project appraisal, an internal Economic Rate of Return (ERR) was calculated for the investments in
the province of Azilal (one of the three covered) ; mainly because only the feasibility studies for this
province were available at that time. In the present annex, this ERR will therefore be recalculated and
discussed. Furthermore, various financial calculations in the case of the three provinces will be
presented and also discussed. These calculations are generally based on the findings of an FAO post-
evaluation report which was carried out in March 2009.
It must be kept in mind that the calculations and their results are still indicative for the most part. This
is because the bulk of the rehabilitation works for the irrigation structures, as well as the agricultural
services provided to the irrigators, started in 2004 only. Therefore, the potential benefits ­ in terms of
increased cropping intensity, evolution of the cropping patterns towards higher value crops and yield
improvements ­ are not yet at full development. The results achieved until now must therefore be
considered as minimums.
Working Assumptions
The project was expected to "improve the incomes and quality of life of rural communities centered on
small and medium-size irrigation in the three provinces of Azilal, Khenifra and Al Haouz over a five-
year period (2001-06) ". These are remote communities ­ often almost land locked ­ with small
holdings (reportedly less than three hectares) which are highly fragmented into even smaller plots
(several irrigated and others rainfed). The main sources of income are irrigated agriculture, livestock
raising and off-farm activities in commerce, masonry, woodwork, etc. Because of the very limited size
of the plots and the difficulty of physical access to the communities, low input/output farming is the
norm with low coverage in terms of research and extension services.
The financial and economic calculations presented hereafter are generally based on the findings of the
FAO report mentioned in the introduction. The financial results should only be seen as illustrations
and examples; they have limited statistical value (the financial/economic impacts not having been
monitored properly during project implementation) and moreover do not reflect the final situation (the
potential benefits not being at full development yet). Nevertheless, these results are sufficiently
specific to demonstrate the substantial benefits for the irrigators so far with the project. The economic
calculations are based on verifiable information and, as indicated previously, the results should be
considered as minimums. They assume a continuation of the benefits at the same levels, beyond the
investment period and into the future, which implies the sustainability of the project's achievements
within the communities. This question will be dealt with by a discussion of the circumstantial evidence
collected so far.




                                                                                                         20
For the calculation of the ERR, the following assumptions are made. Similarly to the analysis carried
out at appraisal, the costs included in the calculations consist of those directly benefiting irrigated
agriculture with the project ­ i.e. the rehabilitation/modernization of irrigation structures (mainly the
lining of 142 kilometers of main canals [seguias]), the construction of 78 kilometers of rural roads, the
research and extension services provided to the irrigators by the Institut national de la recherche
agronomique (INRA) and two Centre des travaux (for Azilal and Demnate) as well as the
institutional/logistical support provided for the setting up of the Associations d'usagers des eaux
agricoles. In conformity with the appraisal report, the benefits calculated will consist of the value of
the incremental crop production only.
The financial costs and benefits will be converted into economic values using the following rules :
 There is no substantial economic distortion in the exchange rate of the Moroccan dirham (MAD);
 therefore no shadow pricing of the currency.
 All taxes are removed from the project costs; the value added tax (TVA) was 14% until 2007 and
 20% afterwards (there is no direct taxation on the irrigators' benefits as well as for the costs
 incurred by the INRA with the project).
 The manual labor in the rehabilitation works is estimated at 30% of the total cost and is shadow
 priced at 75% of its paid value.
 The manual labor in the construction of rural roads is estimated at 10% of the total cost and is
 shadow priced at 75% of its paid value.
 It is assumed that 20% of the maintenance costs for irrigation structures and rural roads consists of
 materials and is subject to the VAT.
 Except for wheat (which is marginal in the irrigators' cropping patterns), the market values of the
 various agricultural produce are acceptable proxies of their economic values; therefore no shadow
 pricing of the incremental production, similarly to the appraisal report.
 The manual labor in the irrigators' direct production costs is estimated at 13% on average and is
 shadow priced at 75% of its paid value.
 In conformity with the appraisal report, the ERR will be calculated over a period of 30 years.
Financial Results
The financial results are based on field surveys carried out by the FAO post-evaluation team in nine
irrigation perimeters (three in each of the three provinces). These surveys covered 135 households
with an average size close to nine persons per household. Despite the limited size of their holdings, the
livestock that the household owns is relatively important ; two heads of cattle and 37 sheep and goats
on average. The FAO survey results show that following the rehabilitation works, with the increased
and more stable supply of irrigation water to plots, there has been on the whole a slight increase of the
cropping intensity (from an overall increase of 128% in the cropping season 2004/5 to 136% in 2007/8
8
 ), as well as a noticeable evolution from relatively low value crops (mainly cereals) towards higher
value crops (horticulture and tree crops). But most of the incremental crop production generated
comes from yield improvements, particularly in the case of maize for fodder and horticulture.




8
  This calculation is including tree crops although other crops are grown under the trees, resulting (strictly
speaking) in some double counting of the same surface.



                                                                                                                 21
                    Examples of yield improvements (in quintals)
                                    Average yields in Average yields                   in
                  Crops                                                                     (%)
                                    2004/5                  20007/8
                  Wheat             13                      16                              23
                  Alfalfa           310                     361                             16
                  Maize/fodder      116                     309                             166
                  Small peas        15                      21                              40
                  Potatoes          100                     169                             69
                  Walnut trees      5,000 nuts per tree     6,000 nuts per tree             20
                  Olive trees       48                      49                              2
                  N.B.: See FAO report for further details.
Moreover, the construction of rural roads has facilitated access to markets, which resulted in
intensified marketing for the produce and at higher prices. As an overall result of these achievements,
it is estimated that the average net revenue per hectare cultivated (for all irrigators surveyed) has
almost doubled between 2004/5 (when the rehabilitation works and provision of agricultural services
really started) and 2007/8 ­ i.e. from the equivalent of around MAD 8,410 to 16,757 9.
This net revenue represents a wide ranging average taking into account the evolution of the irrigators'
cropping patterns as well as their yield improvements between 2004/5 and 2007/8. It is also after
accounting for all the production costs including family labor 10 . However, it does not integrate the
value of the fodder production given to the households' livestock (maize and alfalfa), neither the
consequential improvements in the livestock's physical conditions (mainly more weight) due to better
feeding 11 . More importantly, the calculation is in current MADs and does not therefore account for
inflation. When adjusted using the cost-of-living indexes available 12, the incremental (average) net
revenue would still be very attractive with an increase close to 90% over the period for all irrigators,
or an average of almost 24% (compounded) form one season to the other.
As already pointed out, this result must be considered as a minimum since all the potential benefits ­
particularly improvements in cropping patterns ­ are not yet at full development. This is also relevant
for livestock production, especially since the new rural roads have facilitated marketing, including
milk sales in neighboring towns. Finally, a number of off-farm income-generating activities have been
initiated under the project. Although not planned at appraisal and not closely monitored in terms of
their impacts, some of these activities ­ for example, bee keeping in the Haouz ­ are now in great
demand, suggesting that they are financially attractive.
It must be added that the financial calculations do not show the occasional disparities between
perimeters, sometimes due to inadequate availability of irrigation water. The following table illustrates
the most extreme disparities.




9
    From US$ 1,051 to 2,095 per hectare at the going exchange rate of MAD 8 for US$1.

10
  Manual labor is calculated at the going paid rate of MAD 40 per day. Labor can be difficult to find at peak
times during the cropping seasons, mainly because of migration to cities.

11
     Particularly if supplements in the form of concentrates are used in combination with fodder.

12
     The cost-of-living indexes were provided by the World Bank office in Morocco.



                                                                                                                22
            Average net revenue for some perimeters
                                                         MADs per hectare
                       Perimeters                     2004/5            2007/8            %
                   Ait Wiksane (Haouz)                2,616             14,362             5.49
                  Ait Bougemaz (Azilal)               12,250            24,760             2.02
                   Tahassante (Haouz)                 6,470              7,654             1.18
                    Taggarte (Haouz)                  10,106            10,932             1.08


For example, the FAO report relates the extreme cases of Tahassante and Taggarte in the Haouz where
an insufficient supply of water at times has constrained production development and resulted in
average net revenues of only 18% and 8% (respectively) for the irrigators over the period 2004/5 to
2007/8.
This reflects the importance of selecting carefully the perimeters for rehabilitation and the need to
promote alternative sources of incomes (including off-farm) in areas where the potentials for irrigation
are limited.
                                              Economic Results
The DPA of Azilal reported that the rehabilitation works carried out in the province under the project
have a direct impact on 4,000 hectares. The FAO surveyed three perimeters totaling 1,800 hectares
which represent 45% of the impacted area. For each perimeter (Ait Bougemaz, Lahrouna and Ai
Hamza), an incremental (average) net revenue per hectare was calculated for all irrigators surveyed,
taking into account the evolution of their cropping patterns as well as yield improvements. After
shadow pricing for manual labor (see working assumptions) and adjusting for inflation, the
incremental net revenues for the three perimeters were then consolidated into a single incremental
weighted average net revenue (per hectare and per year) on the basis of the degree of
" representativeness " of each perimeter in the impacted area, as discussed with the DPA staff
involved in project implementation. The revenues stream for the calculation of the ERR is therefore
the product of this all-inclusive net revenue by the number of hectares benefiting from the
rehabilitation works each year 13 (see summary table on last page).
The project costs were calculated on the basis of the working assumptions discussed earlier. The costs
of the rural roads were shadow priced at 75% of their financial values, to reflect the fact that not all of
them facilitated directly the incremental crop production under the project. The maintenance
(recurrent) costs for the irrigation structures and rural roads were estimated at conservative levels of
2% and 5% (respectively) of the investment costs, with a two-year time lag. In addition ; all
investment, replacement and recurrent costs were converted into (constant) MADs of 2008 by inflating
the amounts from project start up to that year, using the cost-of-living indexes provided by the World
Bank (see summary table and working sheets).
Based on these assumptions, the ERR is calculated at 21% over 30 years. This result compares
advantageously with the 13.5 % estimated at appraisal. In addition, as mentioned before, the revenues
stream calculated here does not include the substantial benefits from incremental livestock production
and new income generating activities. For example, the FAO estimates that the average net revenue
(per household) derived from livestock production, has increased from MAD 6,562 in 2004/5 to 9,810
in 2007/8 ­ i.e. by close to 50%. It is reported that this increase amounted to 70% in the case of Ait
Bougemaz. Unfortunately, the absence of a fully functioning monitoring/evaluation system during
project implementation does not allow for a systematic and reliable quantification of these revenues.


13
  A one-year lag is introduced because the irrigators will not see improvements on their farms before the next
cropping season after rehabilitation.



                                                                                                                 23
                                       Contribution of beneficiaries
At project appraisal, it was envisaged that the irrigators would contribute (in cash and/or kind) for the
equivalent of 10% of the rehabilitation costs of the irrigation structures. This was not systematically
achieved although such contributions were made sporadically by a number of users associations. In
Azilal for example, four associations contributed in kind for the equivalent of 2,286 working days.
Generally speaking, the existence of similar projects, where beneficiaries' contributions were not
required, clearly de-motivated the irrigators. However, it must be said that following the rehabilitation
works, less labor than before will normally be required for maintaining the canals. Only the repair of
occasional breaches with cement constitutes a new expense and this seems to be well within the
financial reach of the irrigators. The sustainability of the structures seems therefore to be probable.
It was also envisaged that the rural communes would contribute for 5% of the construction costs of the
rural roads. To simplify matters in Khénifra, it was decided to lump the communes' contributions with
other required contributions for the water supply (5%) and electrification (25%) networks. The
communes then paid the equivalent (aggregated) amount towards the construction of the roads only.
Seven communes have disbursed a total of MAD 1.9 million this way, which represents 73% of what
was calculated. Instead in Azilal, six communes have set aside a total of MAD two millions, but to be
used for road maintenance14. On the whole, it is estimated that the local communes have paid 34% of
the aggregated total contribution expected from them at appraisal (see the second table of the annex 1).
The financing of the maintenance of the rural roads remains therefore an outstanding issue to be
resolved.




14
   For the water supply networks, five communes paid for the installation of individual connections as well as
some other works (MAD 1.95 millions). But these were not planned under the project and had therefore to be
financed in full outside of the project.



                                                                                                                 24
                                                                 Summary of ERR calculation

                             Y 2001          Y 2002      Y 2003      Y 2004   Y 2005    Y 2006     Y 2007    Y 2008     Y 2009   Y 2020    Y 2030
Cash inflow
- Nbr of HAs impacted           0              157         415        445      1771      2830       3218     3622     4000     4000     4000
- Revenues stream (in constant MADs)            0           0          0      1251785   6233608   14194398 21994847 27201710 33756000 33756000
Cash outflow
- Investment costs             4237706      4026005     2323498    19115958 19295842    9935001   21319496 12232030    4736645      0         0
- Replacement costs                                                                                                               759840    759840
- Recurrent costs                                       103559      201944   258725   704304  1136990 1438363          2670476   3721766   3721766
- Total in current MADs        4237706      4026005     2427057    19317902 19554566 10639305 22456486 13670393        7407121   4481606   4481606
- Total in constant MADs       4949641      4573541     2725585    21365600 21412250 11277663 23332289 13670393        7407121   4481606   4481606
Net cashflow                   -4949641    -4573541     -2725585 -21365600 -20160465 -5044055     -9137891   8324454   19794589 29274394 29274394
   ERR                            21%

N.B.: See working sheets on file for details of calculations.




                                                                                                                                   25
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                         Responsibility/
          Names                           Title                 Unit
                                                                           Specialty
Lending

Supervision/ICR
Anas Abou El Mikias       Sr Financial Management Specia      MNAFM
Abderrahmane Ben Boubaker Consultant                          MNSSD
Meryem Benchemsi          Consultant                          MNCMA
Marie-Helene Collion      Lead Agriculturist                  LCSAR
Pierre J. Demangel        Consultant                           AFTP4
Ousmane Diagana           Country Manager                     AFMNE
Fatou Fall                Social Development Analyst          MNSSD
Jaafar Sadok Friaa        Sr Environmental Spec.              MNSSD
Abdelghani Inal           Consultant                          MNAPR
Mohamed Khatouri          Lead Monitoring and Evaluation      AFTRL
                                                              MNSRE
Douglas W. Lister         Consultant
                                                                - HIS
Moez Makhlouf             Consultant                          MNAFM
Mohamed Medouar           Senior Rural Development Speci      MNSSD
Alaleh Motamedi           Senior Procurement Specialist       MNAPR
Laila Moudden             Program Assistant                   MNCMA


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                         Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                        USD Thousands (including
                                       No. of staff weeks
                                                              travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY98                                                                     0.70
  FY99                                                                    37.45
  FY00                                        83                         425.07
  FY01                                        28                          90.48
  FY02                                         3                           8.27
  FY03                                                                    21.25
  FY04                                                                     0.00
  FY05                                                                     0.00
  FY06                                                                     0.00
  FY07                                                                     0.00
  FY08                                                                     0.00
                          Total:             114                         583.22



                                                                                        26
Supervision/ICR
  FY98                             0.00
  FY99                             0.00
  FY00                             0.00
  FY01                       1     3.09
  FY02                      19    67.17
  FY03                      25    77.77
  FY04                      19    60.50
  FY05                      25    80.89
  FY06                      22    56.69
  FY07                      20    77.42
  FY08                      21    89.56
  FY09                       6     0.00
                  Total:   158   513.09




                                          27
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey results

Not Applicable




                                      28
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Not Applicable




                                                   29
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR




                                                                  30
31
PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT RURAL INTEGRE
               CENTRE SUR
  LA PETITE ET MOYENNE HYDRAULIQUE
               (DRI-PMH)




   S Y N T H E S E D U R A P P O R T
          D ' E V A L U A T I O N
             D U P R O J E T




                          - Mars 2009 -
                                          32
 Le présent rapport fait la synthèse des résultats et conclusions de l'évaluation
 rétrospective du projet de développement rural intégré centré sur la petite et
 moyenne hydraulique. Ce rapport est préparé conformément à l'accord de prêt
 n°04607/MOR conclu entre le Gouvernement du Royaume du Maroc et la Banque
 Mondiale. Cette synthèse, qui traite les aspects suivants et met l'accent sur les
 leçons à tirer pour le futur, sera annexée au rapport d'achèvement à élaborer par
 la Banque Mondiale :
           Evaluation des objectifs du projet, de sa conception, de son exécution
           et de son exploitation;
           Evaluation des résultats du projet vis-à-vis des objectifs fixés;
           Evaluation des performances de l'emprunteur durant l'exécution du
           projet;
           Evaluation des performances de la Banque Mondiale et des autres
           partenaires engagés dans la réalisation du projet.
I.   RAPPEL DES OBJECTIFS ET DES COMPOSANTES DU PROJET :
Le projet de développement rural intégré centré sur la petite et moyenne hydraulique
(DRI-PMH) a été conçu et mis en oeuvre dans les provinces de Khénifra, Azilal et Al
Haouz en visant deux objectifs de développement représentés par i) l'amélioration
des revenus et de la qualité de vie des populations bénéficiaires et ii) le pilotage de
nouveaux dispositifs institutionnels pour assurer une plus grande participation
communautaire et l'intégration des programmes sectoriels par le biais du Fonds de
Développement Rural (FDR).
Le projet DRI-PMH comprend 4 composantes dont le coût total est estimé à 42.4
M$ :(1)Réhabilitation des périmètres sur 9450ha (20.9M$); (2)Infrastructure
communautaire complémentaire (13.34 M$); (3)Renforcement institutionnel et
Développement agricole (5.87 M$) et (4)Préparation de la phase 2 du programme
(1.97 M$).
Le projet a été préparé et évalué au cours de l'année 2000 et a été approuvé par la
Banque en mai 2001. L'accord de prêt d'un montant de 32.6 M$ a été signé en avril
2002 et est entré en vigueur en juillet 2002. Un financement rétroactif a été accordé
par la Banque pour les activités réalisées et payées dans l'année qui précède la
signature du prêt dans la limite de 10% de son montant total.




                                                                                 33
II.   PRINCIPALES CONCLUSIONS DE L'EVALUATION :

 1. Un bon niveau de pertinence et de cohérence dopé par le montage
 institutionnel et la mobilisation du Fonds de Développement Rural
La pertinence politique du projet DRI-PMH est soutenue par la pertinence
opérationnelle qui se base sur l'approche adoptée pour assurer son pilotage
institutionnel. A ce titre, le cheminement adopté pour l'élaboration des plans
d'investissement communaux (PIC) a été le meilleur moyen garantissant dans
une large mesure la participation de la population cible à la détermination de
ses besoins prioritaires.
La réussite de cette approche montre désormais que même si le contenu est
important, en l'occurrence les composantes du projet, la méthode prend
systématiquement le dessus puisque basée sur l'amélioration des capacités de
gestion du capital humain.
D'autre part, l'intégration des actions se situe au centre d'intérêt du projet qui
s'est attelé à engager les principales composantes liées au développement rural.
Cependant, certains domaines d'intérêt auraient pu être programmés dans le
montage initial dans le but de compléter davantage l'action du projet dans l'esprit du
développement durable. Il s'agit notamment des activités liées génératrices de
revenus pour les femmes et les jeunes et la valorisation technologique de certains
produits agricoles qui peuvent contribuer à une meilleure réalisation des objectifs de
développement socio-économique envisagés.
L'approche adoptée par le projet en matière d'intégration peut être qualifiée de
pionnière. La résultante des différentes actions intégrées ne peut que conduire à
l'amélioration du niveau de vie des populations cibles et la réduction de la pauvreté
dans les trois provinces de cette première phase du programme DRI-PMH.
Sur le plan environnemental, les objectifs spécifiques du projet DRI-PMH sont en
adéquation avec les objectifs de la stratégie nationale pour la protection de
l'environnement et le développement durable. Les impacts négatifs des
activités du projet sur l'environnement sont peu significatifs et dans tous les cas
réversibles dans leur grande majorité.
En ce qui concerne la cohérence du projet, l'appréciation du niveau de l'adéquation
entre les objectifs visés et les moyens humains mobilisés montre que le montage de
ce projet a été conçu de telle manière à assurer un encadrement rapproché des
activités sur toutes les étapes d'intervention. Certes, certaines insuffisances
humaines (sous-effectifs, manque de motivation matérielle, multiplicité des tâches)

                                                                                 34
ont limité le niveau d'adéquation souhaité, mais les déclarations recueillies sur le
terrain auprès des différentes équipes de gestion à l'échelle provinciale (CPGP, EPP,
CPRDR) et centrale (CCGP) s'entendent d'une manière unanime sur l'importance de
l'implication des moyens humains en matière de participation à la mise en oeuvre du
projet.
S'agissant des moyens financiers engagés pour la réalisation des actions, la
logique du projet a été respectée notamment en ce qui concerne sa concentration
autour de la réhabilitation de la PMH (près de 50% des crédits) et aussi l'importance
accordée au renforcement institutionnel (près de 14%). Le FDR a permis de rompre
avec la verticalité de l'approche sectorielle en matière de développement rural
pour insuffler une dynamique de concertation et de coordination transversale entre
tous les partenaires du projet. Cependant, l'absence de rubrique réservée à la
protection environnementale constitue un écueil qu'il faudra éviter lors de la
conception des phases suivantes du programme DRI-PMH.
2. Un niveau élevé des réalisations physiques et d'encadrement des
producteurs agricoles en dépit du retard accusé au lancement du projet et
des limites en ressources humaines
Le taux des réalisations physiques est assez élevé et dépasse même les
prévisions pour certaines composantes :
  a. Petite et Moyenne Hydraulique :
  le bétonnage d'environ 395 km de séguias principales, la construction des
  ouvrages de dérivation, des ouvrages de prises, des captages de source, des
  bassins d'accumulation et divers ouvrages d'art.
  Le nombre de périmètres touchés par la réhabilitation s'élève à 55 périmètres avec
  une superficie totale de près de 11.022 ha (4100 ha dans la province d'Azilal,
  3522 ha dans le Haouz et 3400 à Khénifra), ce qui dépasse de loin les prévisions
  du projet (9500 ha).
  69 AUEA ont été constituées et formées.
  b. Pistes rurales :
  La longueur des pistes aménagées pour le désenclavement des périmètres et
  douars est de 209,4 km (78 Km à Azilal, 61,4 Km à Khénifra et 70 Km à Al
  Haouz). Elle reste en dessous des prévisions initiales des PIC en raison des sous-
  estimations des couts d'aménagement des pistes au niveau de ces PIC. (Le taux



                                                                                35
  de réalisation global se situe à 75,6% avec 93% à Khénifra, 67,2% à Azilal
  et 73,7% à Marrakech).
  c. Autres infrastructures :
 Le programme d'alimentation en eau potable a concerné la réalisation de 40 SAEP
 (sur 57 initialement prévus). La construction de 41 unités scolaires pour la province
 d'Azilal, 49 unités pour le Haouz et 27 unités pour Khénifra. Les réalisations 20
 formations sanitaires ont été construites ou réhabilitées dans les 3 provinces sur un
 total de 22 prévues dans les PIC. Pour l'électrification des douars, le projet a permis
 d'électrifier 7 localités dans la province de Khénifra.
  d. Réalisations comptable :
            Composantes                     Montants engagés (DH)                Montants émis (DH)
  1. Réhabilitation                                           233,384,535                     192,809,205
  2. Infrastructures de base                                  146,797,275                     112,829,496
  3. Renforcement institutionnel                               39,306,550                      31,916,499
  4. Préparation de la Phase II
  Total (*)                                                 419,488,360                    337,555,200

 (*) Non compris la contribution des communes rurales estimée à 9.000.000 DH

  e. Décaissements :

      Designation            Montant en DH         Montant en Dollars            Montant en Yen        %

   Montant décaissable 265,413,780                   31,139,010                 3,070,000,000          100
   Montant décaissé           261,264,565            30,652,214                 3,022,006,679          98
   Montant en instance
                              4,149,215              486,796                     47,993,321            2
  de décaissement(*)
 (*)  Les pièces justificatives ont été transmises par la Direction du Budget   à la BIRD en date du
    5/3/2009 (Référence de l'envoi :DB1/Dfmfa/n°1942/E).

3. Un taux élevé d'efficacité et des effets quantitatifs et qualitatifs grâce à
l'engagement et la coordination des équipes de gestion du projet (cf.
annexe 1).
Le bon fonctionnement de la coordination des actions et de la participation des
partenaires est une réalité indéniable et très encourageante. Grâce à l'intervention
responsable des équipes de pilotage (EPP, CPRDR, CPGP, CCGP) qui ont pu rattraper
le retard accumulé au cours des premières étapes de démarrage des activités,
l'appréciation globale de l'efficacité du projet est jugée satisfaisante.
Le projet a, en effet, atteint l'ensemble de ses objectifs à des degrés divers. Ainsi, les
producteurs agricoles reconnaissent et louent les effets de réhabilitation de la PMH

                                                                                                 36
dans tous les périmètres. L'extension des superficies irriguées et l'augmentation de la
fréquence d'irrigation a conduit à l'adoption de cultures économiquement plus
rentables. Globalement les superficies des céréales ont diminué au profit de celles
des cultures fourragères, du maraîchage et de l'arboriculture fruitière. La mobilisation
des AUEA pour la participation aux travaux de réhabilitation a été très positive pour
certains périmètres où les bureaux sont dynamiques et actifs.
L'extension des superficies irriguées et l'augmentation de la fréquence d'irrigation
témoignent de l'efficacité de la composante réhabilitation de la PMH. En effet les
enquêtes exploitations montrent que 45% des enquêtés ont augmenté leurs
surfaces irrigués, 63% ont augmenté la fréquence d'irrigation et 97% affirment la
diminution du temps de curage des ouvrages.
Il faut également noter que le temps d'arrivée de l'eau en tête de parcelle a été
globalement réduit d'une manière satisfaisante. Le taux de réduction varie entre
25% et 75%. L'efficience du réseau s'est également améliorée à un taux qui se
situe entre 20% et 60%. Le débit en tête de parcelle a augmenté avec un taux
situé entre 10% 70%. Avec le temps de curage des ouvrages et séguias qui s'est
considérablement réduit de 30% à 83%
En matière d'introduction de nouvelles productions agricoles dans la zone du projet,
de nombreuses actions ont été menées par les CT au profit des agriculteurs. Elles
concernent notamment l'introduction du safran au périmètre d'Ait Bouguemaz, celle
du sésame, du safran et de l'ail à Fellat, et celle du pommier à Ait Wiksane.
Aussi, les aménagements de pistes réalisés dans le cadre du projet et l'encadrement
des producteurs se sont traduits par une meilleure intégration des exploitations au
marché.
Le revenu global estimé (y compris le revenu annexe) est passé de 23.785 DH à
près de 61.530 DH par ménage et par an, soit une augmentation de près de 159%.
Ce résultat est dû à l'amélioration des trois composantes du revenu de 300% pour
les productions végétales, de 50% pour les productions animales et de 49,5%
pour les revenus annexes. Le niveau élevé de l'amélioration du revenu végétal est dû
essentiellement à l'augmentation de la production des cultures maraîchères et de
l'arboriculture fruitière.
Concernant la composante environnementale, les objectifs escomptés à travers la
mise en place du PGE n'ont pas été atteints puisque les mesures proposées n'ont pas
accompagné les activités réalisées. Même si les effets observés sur
l'environnement sont pour la plupart réversibles, la détermination tardive de ces


                                                                                  37
mesures (18 mois avant la date officielle de clôture du projet) n'a pas aidé à
l'atténuation de leur ampleur.
Par ailleurs, la réalisation du projet a permis un renforcement des capacités des
agences d'exécution. Ce renforcement est une réalité observée sur le terrain. Elle
est bâtie sur les deux piliers de gestion adoptés par le projet DRI-PMH et représentés
par l'intégration et la participation.
En matière d'intégration, les agences d'exécution ont agi dans un cadre
multifonctionnel qui a accompagné le projet durant ses différentes étapes.
En ce qui concerne la participation, les agences ont renforcé leur apprentissage en
matière de gestion partagée des affaires en mettant la population cible au
centre d'intérêt de leur action. En effet, l'approche participative a été appliquée
par le projet en respectant les principes de sa conception et de son exécution grâce
au fondement de l'écoute que l'ensemble des intervenants a pris soin de privilégier et
d'adopter.
Un des résultats tangibles issus de ce renforcement est l'assimilation de l'approche
méthodologique de gestion des projets par les cadres et techniciens des agences
d'exécution. Que ce soit à Khénifra, à Azilal ou à Marrakech, les équipes impliquées
dans la gestion du projet DRI-PMH ont profité du processus d'apprentissage
managerial mis en place depuis le lancement des premières activités. Forts de leur
expérience acquise dans le cadre du projet, nombreux sont les agents qui ont
contribué à la mise en oeuvre des actions relatives au programme de l'Initiative
Nationale de Développement Humain (INDH) au niveau des provinces. D'une
manière évidente, les compétences acquises dans le cadre du projet DRI-PMH vont
aussi servir dans l'accompagnement d'autres projets de développement qui
pourraient être envisagés dans l'avenir.
4. Des indices de durabilité encourageants mais dépendants de la volonté
et de la capacité des organisations professionnelles et des communes
rurales en matière de gestion des ouvrages :
L'eau d'irrigation et les pistes rurales constituent deux composantes de grande
importance pour la population cible du projet et, de ce fait, l'entretien et la
maintenance de leurs réseaux devraient jouer un rôle central pour la durabilité des
actions qui ont été mises en place. Certes les AUEA ont montré des indices très
encourageants pour assumer leur responsabilité en matière de gestion des
infrastructures en s'impliquant activement dans la conception, le suivi et l'exécution
des travaux. L'approche partenariale développée par les DPA avec les associations
est de nature à améliorer la durabilité des réalisations du projet et leur prise en
                                                                                 38
  charge par des acteurs locaux directement intéressés. Les discussions, constatées,
  entre les bénéficiaires et les membres des associations et leur implication effective
  dans les choix techniques et les aménagements à mettre en place sont des signes
  d'appropriation des réalisations et présagent de leur durabilité, bien que le retrait
  prématuré de l'appui de l'état pourrait encore remettre ces acquis en cause. Dans la
  réalité, l'efficacité de leur mission reste largement tributaire de leurs capacités
  financières qui sont globalement déficitaires. Pour atténuer les effets pouvant
  découler des difficultés de financement, les agriculteurs et les AUEA auront besoin
  d'un encadrement rapproché par les CT et les DPA en ayant pour objectif d'assurer
  un suivi technique permanent des exploitations agricoles, principal garant de
  l'amélioration de leurs revenus.
  Concernant les pistes rurales, en dépit des problèmes budgétaires dont souffrent les
  communes, leur entretien reste toujours une priorité des élus soucieux du
  désenclavement des douars et de la dynamisation de l'activité économique dans leur
  zone d'action. A défaut du budget propre aux communes, les responsables
  communaux ont généralement recours aux budgets de la Promotion Nationale pour
  la réhabilitation et l'entretien des ouvrages. Aussi, avec le développement de l'activité
  économique projetée dans la zone du projet, certaines pistes seront classées par le
  Département de l'Équipement qui pourrait prendre en charge leur entretien.
III. PRINCIPALES RECOMMANDATIONS
  Sur la base des résultats obtenus et des forces et faiblesses relevées au niveau de
  chaque composante d'évaluation, deux catégories de recommandations sont
  proposées pour orienter l'action en préparation de la mise en oeuvre de la phase II
  du programme DRI-PMH.
    1. Recommandations d'ordre stratégique
   Tout en reconnaissant les efforts investis dans le but d'adopter une meilleure
  gestion du développement rural, l'évaluation invite les acteurs de développement à
  poursuivre cette stratégie d'action et recommande de :
   i. Réviser l'intégration des programmes : Assurer une meilleure intégration du
      projet en mettant l'accent sur la concentration de l'action autour de la
      PMH et des pistes, d'une part, et la promotion des activités génératrices
      de revenu au profit de groupes les plus vulnérables d'autre part, en
      accordant une attention particulière aux ressources naturelles et à
      l'environnement. Il conviendrait, en effet, de faire ressortir l'avantage
      significatif qu'il y aurait à réviser l'approche adoptée lors de la phase I du
      programme DRI-PMH en procédant aux ajustements suivants :
                                                                                     39
    La réhabilitation de la PMH et des pistes : Ce volet constitue un des
   principaux leviers de développement économiques des zones de montagne. Son
   renforcement mérite une mobilisation accrue des moyens humains et matériels
   dans le cadre du programme DRI-PMH. Par contre, et en dépit de son
   importance pour les populations locales, l'intégration des autres
   composantes liées à l'infrastructure de base, notamment la
   réhabilitation des écoles et des formations sanitaires, l'adduction en
   eau potable et l'électrification, pourrait être omise dans les prochaines
   phases du programme DRI-PMH. En effet, ces composantes sont inscrites au
   niveau des programmes sectoriels des différents départements ministériels et
   organismes publiques de tutelle qui se chargent de leur programmation et leur
   exécution.
    Les composantes de l'aval agricole : Il conviendrait d'intégrer, dans les
   nouveaux projets, des composantes concernant l'accès aux marchés et la
   transformation des produits agricoles (ex : Partenariat avec l'agro-industrie
   pour le développement de nouvelles filières), la valorisation des produits du
   terroir et des productions biologiques (céréales, fruits et légumes, lait, viande,
   ..) ;
ii. Renforcer l'approche de gouvernance du développement local adoptée
    lors de la première phase à travers une meilleure densification du tissu
    institutionnel et la déconcentration de la prise de décision. Les arrangements
    institutionnels et les modalités de mise en oeuvre des actions de la phase II du
    programme devraient refléter les principes d'implication effective, de
    participation et de responsabilisation de l'ensemble des acteurs de
    développement. Il convient donc de :
    Concevoir et mettre en place des nouvelles relations de partenariat dans
   l'esprit du Plan Maroc Vert notamment en ce qui concerne son pilier II de
   l'agriculture solidaire ;
    Prévoir un programme de formation des équipes de pilotage du projet aussi
   bien au niveau central que provincial en mettant à profit l'expérience
   d'organismes internationaux, comme la FAO, dans les domaines de
   programmation participative, de suivi-évaluation, de gestion financière et de
   suivi environnemental ;




                                                                                40
  2. Recommandations d'ordre opérationnel
 L'évaluation formule plusieurs recommandations d'ordre opérationnel qui peuvent
 être présentées comme suit :
i. Entamer le plus vite possible la phase II du programme DRI-PMH : Il
   conviendrait que les acteurs de développement mettent en place, dans les meilleurs
   délais, un dispositif institutionnel pour la préparation d'un plan d'actions de la phase
   II. Les points suivants sont particulièrement importants :
          Assurer la mise en place rapide de structures de gestion, de programmation
       et de concertation, dans les zones concernées par la phase II dans le but d'éviter
       le retard au niveau du démarrage et l'exécution des activités du projet. Il
       conviendrait, ainsi, de mettre en place des CPGP qui devraient être consacrées à
       plein temps à l'exécution du projet. Pour les aider à assimiler rapidement les
       objectifs et les dispositifs de mise en oeuvre du projet, il est conseillé de les faire
       accompagner par la CCGP et des membres des CPGP de la phase I durant toute
       la période du démarrage ;
          Entreprendre le plus vite possible l'identification des périmètres et la validation
       des PIC concernés par la phase II pour éviter le retard dans l'exécution des
       actions du projet. Le guide de programmation participative déjà élaboré durant la
       phase I pourrait grandement aider à passer rapidement cette étape moyennant
       des ajustements éventuels de sa structure. La priorité devrait continuer à être
       donnée aux périmètres ayant des ressources suffisantes en eau pour que les
       investissements consentis par l'Etat soient le mieux valorisés ;
ii. Adopter des approches innovatrices pour assurer une meilleure gestion
    du projet et surmonter les obstacles et lever les contraintes qui pourraient
    entraver le bon déroulement de la phase II, en particulier :
          Affecter les ressources (matérielles, humaines et financières) requises aux
       cellules de gestion du projet et recruter de l'assistance technique ponctuelle pour
       leur appui et leur permettre de travailler d'une façon permanente. Il conviendrait
       aussi d'oeuvrer à ce que les crédits mobilisés pour les actions d'encadrement
       soient octroyés dès le début de l'année fiscale pour que les institutions
       d'encadrement (notamment les CT) puissent intervenir pour l'ensemble des
       spéculations, et agir avec plus d'efficacité ;
          Etudier les meilleures modalités de délégation des crédits du FDR dans le but
       de leur affectation rapide aux provinces concernées par la phase II du projet,



                                                                                        41
           Prévoir un budget destiné à la mise en place d'un système de suivi-évaluation
        du projet ;
            Prévoir un budget destiné au renforcement des capacités dans le domaine de
        l'environnement et à l'acquisition du matériel d'analyse nécessaire au suivi
        environnemental du PGE ;
            Réserver un budget pour la visibilité du projet compte tenu de la diversité
        et l'importance des actions entreprises au profit des populations de montagne.
        Cette visibilité sera opérée à travers la mise en place des panneaux signalétiques
        d'information, la distribution d'affiches, dépliants, etc, pour mieux faire connaître
        les actions et travaux réalisés.
iii. Renforcer et valoriser davantage l'action de proximité en veillant à:
           Trouver notamment, des solutions au problème de relève, qui se pose en
        raison des départs en retraite des agents des CT ;
           Renforcer les conventions avec l'INRA pour la mise en oeuvre des activités
        de développement agricole ;
iv. Améliorer le processus de prise de décision par:
           Le soulagement des procédures administratives et la mise en place des
        mécanismes qui éviteront de répéter les retards enregistrés dans la signature et
        la mise en vigueur du prêt (une année) lors de la phase I ;
            L'appui et la collaboration des services du Ministère de l'Agriculture pour le
        renforcement des capacités en ressources humaines et moyens matériels des
        équipes affectées au projet et le renforcement de la coordination entre les
        différents services concernés par la mise en oeuvre de la composante
        de développement agricole ;
            L'intégration des aspects environnementaux dès les premières phases
        d'identification des activités de la phase II du programme. En effet, l'expérience
        acquise lors de la phase I du programme DRI-PMH a montré l'importance de
        l'intégration de ces aspects (développement de critères environnementaux pour
        le choix des périmètres).
v. Capitaliser sur les leçons de la phase I pour la programmation et la gestion de la
   phase II en accordant suffisamment de temps et d'énergie en particulier à :
           L'élaboration des ententes relatives aux prestations intégrées de services en
        cas de partenariat ;


                                                                                       42
      L'élaboration des référentiels et procédures afin d'assurer une meilleure
   coordination des actions ;
       Le renforcement de l'organisation des agriculteurs et des compétences au
   niveau local. En effet, la décentralisation et l'autonomisation des composantes de
   la société civile, en particulier les associations et les communautés locales, passe
   par la formation continue et l'assistance technique assurée par des équipes
   itinérantes qualifiées. L'initiation des associations des agriculteurs à la bonne
   gouvernance et aux bonnes pratiques en termes de gestion revêt une importance
   considérable à ce sujet;
      L'intégration des actions de formation et de recherche-
   développement dans le système de suivi-évaluation pour assurer une
   meilleure capitalisation par l'application et la diffusion des résultats de la
   recherche ;
      l'encadrement des agriculteurs et la vulgarisation de nouvelles techniques
   de production, en prenant en considération que :
     o la recherche agronomique, en zones de montagne, devrait recevoir le
      même niveau d'intérêt que les zones de plaines de la part des décideurs ;
     o des moyens humains devraient être mobilisés avec une formation adaptée,
      aux systèmes de productions des zones concernées. Le système
      d'encadrement devrait comporter des équipes pluridisciplinaires pour
      encadrer et compléter les travaux des vulgarisateurs ;
     o les zones de montage devraient être différenciées des autres zones de
      production agricoles en ce qui concerne les aides accordées dans le cadre du
      Fonds de développement Agricole.
       La promotion de nouvelles technologies de production agricole en
   renforçant les équipes pluridisciplinaires au niveau des DPA. Les sujets
   d'intérêt sont notamment :
     o Le suivi et l'équipement des parcelles de démonstration des nouvelles
      techniques d'irrigation qui permettent l'économie de l'eau (goutte à goutte) ;
     o La fertigation ;
     o La lutte intégrée contre certains ravageurs et maladies ;
     o Les techniques de conservation de produits agricoles ;
     o La commercialisation des produits agricoles.




                                                                                 43
            Le renforcement de l'encadrement technique des femmes : En dépit
         des efforts déjà enregistrés au niveau de certains CT, la femme rurale, vu son
         statut social dans les ménages, devrait bénéficier davantage d'un encadrement
         technique qui lui est spécifique en mobilisant du personnel féminin
         (vulgarisatrices) ;
              L'étude et la définition des circuits de commercialisation des principales
         filières de productions agricoles ;
             L'organisation d'ateliers d'information des agriculteurs sur les subventions
         accordées par l'Etat au secteur agricole en les aidant dans la constitution des
         dossiers de subvention afin de les encourager à reconvertir le système
         d'irrigation traditionnel aux systèmes économes d'eau ;
            La coordination des actions avec les programmes de développement en
         cours d'exécution dans les zones concernées, notamment ceux relevant de
         l'INDH.
  En définitive, cette évaluation appuie et recommande le renforcement de la stratégie
  d'action mise en oeuvre dans le cadre de la phase I du programme DRI-PMH. Elle
  réitère l'importance de l'approche participative et intégrée, le renforcement
  institutionnel et la mobilisation du FDR adoptés lors de cette première phase dans le
  but d'atteindre les objectifs de développement. La conception des phases suivantes
  du programme devrait s'inscrire dans la même approche avec des ajustements
  notamment au niveau de l'intégration des actions, de la gouvernance et du système
  de suivi-évaluation.
IV.   PERFORMANCE DES PARTENAIRES
  Malgré les retards enregistrés dans le démarrage des activités du en partie une
  insuffisance de préparation, de conception et d'évaluation du projet (Manuel de
  procédure n'a été préparé que 3 ans après le démarrage du projet, les modalités
  d'exécution de la composante « développement agricole » n'ont été arrêté qu'en
  2003), le projet a enregistré, grâce à l'effort conjugué de tous les partenaires
  impliqués dans son exécution, des taux élevés :
  (i) des réalisations physiques et d'encadrement des producteurs agricoles ;
  (ii) d'efficacité et des effets quantitatifs et qualitatifs.
   Banque Mondiale :
  Les missions techniques de suivi et d'appui réalisées par la Banque Mondiale, à partir
  de 2001 (2 missions par an), ont été d'un intérêt capital et de bonne qualité du point
  de vue analytique. Elles ont permis :
                                                                                    44
  la bonne compréhension, par les divers intervenants dans le projet, des concepts
  de base dudit projet et du programme DRI-PMH;
  L'accompagnement des partenaires concernés par le projet dans sa mise en
  oeuvre à travers l'appui des DPA et des services techniques des trois provinces
  concernés. Cet appui a concerné :
    - les procédures de passation des marchés selon la réglementation de la banque
      Mondiale (préparation des appels d'offres, évaluation des offres techniques et
      attribution des marchés);
    - les procédures de gestion financière du projet ;
  la résolution rapide des problèmes de gestion du projet en concertation avec tous
  les partenaires concernés par le projet (Ministère de l'agriculture et de la Pêche
  Maritime, Ministère de l'Economie et des Finances etc ........);
  La définition, en concertation avec la direction nationale du projet, les modalités
  d'exécution de certaines composantes du projet;
  L'identification des difficultés et proposition de recommandations pertinentes pour
  surmonter ces difficultés et permettant ainsi l'accélération et l'amélioration de la
  mise en oeuvre des activités du projet.
La Banque Mondiale a contribué également à l'amélioration des compétences et le
renforcement des capacités des équipes impliquées dans le suivi et la gestion du
projet à travers les formations dispensées à ces équipes en matière de :
  Passation des marchés en application des Directives de la Banque mondiale ;
  Gestion financière des projets ;
  Suivi-évaluation des projets de développement rural intégré ;
  Procédures d'évaluation environnementale et plan de gestion de l'environnement.
     Performance du gouvernement et de ses structures créées dans le
    cadre du projet.
Les performances des DPA et des autres structures ayant contribué à la réalisation
du projet peuvent être considérées comme globalement satisfaisantes comme en
témoigne le niveau des réalisations physiques, les taux de consommation des crédits
et la pertinence de la majorité des composantes mises en oeuvre. D'une manière
générale, le montage institutionnel mis en place dans le cadre du projet a bien
fonctionné. Les structures de gestion du projet (cellules centrale et provinciales qui
ont été bien renforcées en 2004), les structures de programmation et de suivi du

                                                                                 45
projet (EPP, CPRDR et CNC), les structures de mise en oeuvre du projet (services
techniques) et les structures de gestion des infrastructures (Communes et AUEA) ont
accompli leurs missions respectives de manière satisfaisante.
 Cellules de gestion du projet :
    - Au niveau central :
La CCGP instituée au sein de la DAHA le 20 juin 2001 a été constituée de deux
ingénieurs. La dite CCGP n'a pas cessé de jouer un rôle très actif et essentiel de
coordination d'appui aux DPA (agences d'exécution) et de suivi du projet.
    - Au niveau provincial :
Les directeurs provinciaux de l'agriculture ont été chargés de la direction du projet au
niveau provincial. Ils ont été assistés par des cellules provinciales de gestion de
projet (CPGP). Ces CPGP ont été créées au cours de l'année 2002, mais leur mise en
place effective n'a a eu lieu qu'au début de l'année 2004, après l'affectation du
personnel nécessaire. Chaque équipe est formée de 4 ingénieurs et d'un cadre
chargé de la gestion financière et comptable. Les CPGP, rattachées directement aux
DPA, se sont acquittées de leurs tâches de manière satisfaisante.


 Structures de programmation et de suivi du projet : EPP, CPRDR et CNC :
    - Au niveau national :
Le Conseil National de Coordination (CNC) s'est réuni à 5 reprises, principalement
pour valider le PIC d'Azilal, de Khenifra et du Haouz et faire le point sur l'état
d'avancement du projet.
  - Au niveau provincial :
 Les Comités Provinciaux Restreints du Développement Rural (CPRDR) ont
été institués dans les trois provinces en 2002 (17/01/2002 à Azilal, 31/01/2002 à
Khénifra et le 31/10/2002 au Haouz). Ils ont joué pleinement leur rôle dans le
processus de programmation participative (suivi des étapes d'élaboration des PIC,
arbitrage et validation des PIC, établissement des contrats de partenariat entre la
province et les CR pour réaliser le PIC). Les communes rurales ont été
systématiquement représentées par leurs présidents dans le CPRDR et ont participé
à toutes les réunions d'information et de concertations concernant le projet.
L'adhésion des autorités locales et provinciales à l'approche du projet et les efforts
déployés par les DPA et la CCGP ont permis de dynamiser le rôle des CPRDR. De



                                                                                  46
 nombreuses réunions et séances de travail ont été organisées pour le suivi de
 l'avancement du projet.
 Les Equipes de Programmation Participative (EPP) ont été mises en place
dans les trois provinces au cours de l'année 2002 (17/1/2002, 31/1/2002 à Khénifra
et 31/2/2002 au Haouz). Ces équipes, formées d'un ingénieur de la DPA et d'un
cadre ou technicien représentant chacune des délégations provinciales (DPE,
ONEP,ONE, DPS, DPEN) et appuyées par l'assistance technique, ont préparé les
programmes d'investissement communaux au niveau des provinces de Khenifra et
du Haouz.
 Structures de mise en oeuvre du projet
Globalement des études et les travaux d'aménagement hydro-agricole ont été
réalisés dans les règles de l'art par les services d'aménagement des DPA appuyés par
l'assistance technique.
L'exécution de la composante « développement agricole a été confiée aux services
de la production agricoles, CT et aux directions régionales de la recherche
agronomique. Le choix de cette option visait l'inscription les actions de vulgarisation
et de recherche-développement dans une logique de complémentarité, de continuité
et de durabilité et soutenir la mise en oeuvre des orientations nationales en la
matière :
-        L'implication des CT, qui ont été renforcés en personnel, en moyens de
 travail et financiers, a permis de redynamiser leur rôle, en tant que structure
 d'animation et d'appui-conseil.
-       L'implication des chercheurs de l'INRA dans le processus d'appui-conseil,
 mené en collaboration étroite avec les CT, a engagé une dynamique de recherche-
 développement multidisciplinaire dans des zones montagneuses, écartées jusque là
 de toute action en la matière.
Globalement, ce choix a été judicieux au niveau des provinces d'Azilal et de Khenifra.
Dans la province du Haouz, l'exécution de cette composante a accusé un retard
considérable (cf. Réalisations physiques du projet).
La mise en oeuvre de la composante Infrastructures a relevé de la responsabilité des
gouverneurs, en tant que présidents des CPRDR et sous-ordonnateurs du FDR. Les
services techniques provinciaux (équipement, santé, éducation, ONE, ONEP) ont
apporté l'appui et l'assistance nécessaires aux services desdits provinces pour la
préparation des CPS, la dévolution des marchés et l'exécution des travaux.


                                                                                 47
 Gestion financière du projet :
La procédure de décaissement mise en oeuvre directement par les services de la
Trésorerie (imputation sur le fonds spécial de fonds de roulement n° 71-27) a
enregistré durant l'exécution du projet des retards considérables. A ce titre, il y a lieu
de préciser qu'en fin 2007, les instances de décaissement par imputation sur ce fons
ont atteints 28,6 millions de Dh, soit environ deux fois le montant du compte spécial.
Ce montant comptait les dépenses réglées par les comptables assignataires pendant
les exercices budgétaires 2006 et 2007. La procédure de décaissement, mise en
oeuvre directement par le recours à l'établissement des relevés de dépenses par
les agences d'exécution, n' a pas soulevé de remarques particulières.




                                                                                    48
                                   ANNEXE 1
Tableau 1 : Indicateurs de réhabilitation de la PMH dans les périmètres
            de l'échantillon (%)
                                    Périmètres
Indicateurs
                                    AB      AH        Lah        AW        Tag       Tah
Amélioration du débit en tête de
                                       60        70         30        40     40            10
parcelles
Réduction du temps d'arrivée
                                      66,7       75     55,6      66,7      66,7           25
d'eau en tête de parcelle
Taux d'augmentation de la
                                       10        15         0         20         0          0
superficie irriguée
Taux augmentation de la
                                       15        10         15        20     15             5
fréquence d'irrigation
Amélioration efficience réseau         50        60     37,5          40     30            20
Réduction de fréquence de
                                       83        60         50        75     60            30
curage des ouvrages et seguias
AB : Ait Bouguemez; AH : Ait Hamza; Lah : Marouna; AW : Ait Wiksane; Tag :
Taggart; Tah : Tassant.
Tableau 2 : Variation des rendements des productions végétales avant
et après projet

                             Rendements Rendements Taux de variation
   Cultures       Unités
                             avant projet actuels        (%)
Blé tendre            Qx          13        16           23,1
Blé dur               Qx          12        16           33,3
Orge                  Qx          12         15          25,0
Mais grain            Qx           16        20          25,0
Bersim                Qx          388       438          12,9
Luzerne               Qx          310       361          16,5
Mais fourrager        Qx          116       309         166,4
Petit pois            Qx          15         21          40,0
Carotte               Qx          145       175          20,7
Navet                 Qx          160       175           9,4
Pomme de terre        Qx          100       169          69,0
Pommier               Qx          147       144          -2,0
Noyer             Noix/arbre     5000      6000          20,0
Olivier               Qx          48         49           2,1
Pêcher                Qx          98         99           1,0
Pépinière           Plant       31 750    33 500          5,5
Pépinière olivier   Plant       34 333    35 000          1,9



                                                                                     49
  Tableau 3: Indicateurs liés aux effets de l'aménagement des pistes
                                  (%)

           Indicateurs               AB       AH       Lah     AW      Tag     Tah

Taux d'amélioration du trafic
                                      60       60       40      80      60      50
Réduction de la durée du trajet
(souk ou centre)                     66,7   66,7     66,7      96,5    66,7     50

Taux d'amélioration
approvisionnement et
                                      60       30       10      80      30      10
écoulement des produits

Réduction de fréquence
d'impraticabilité de la piste         60       70       50      80      80      80

Réduction du coût du transport
                                      30       10       75      50       0          0
AB : Ait Bouguemez; AH : Ait Hamza; Lah : Marouna; AW : Ait Wiksane; Tag :
Taggart; Tah : Tassant
Les effets des aménagements des pistes peuvent être appréciés à travers le taux
d'amélioration du trafic qui se situe entre 40% pour Lahrouna et 80% pour Ait
Wiksane. La durée du trajet habituellement nécessaire pour se rendre au souk le
plus proche s'est réduite dans un intervalle compris entre 50% à Tahassante et
96,5% à Ait Wiksane. La fréquence des périodes où la piste devient impraticable
s'est également réduite entre 50% à Lhrouna et 80% à Tahassant, Taggart et Ait
Wiksane.
Ces conditions d'amélioration des accès se sont traduites par une réduction du
coût de transport entre le souk et le centre du périmètre à un taux compris entre
10% à Ait hamza et 75% à Lahrouna. De même, l'approvisionnement en produits
de nécessité (y compris alimentaires) et l'écoulement des produits agricoles se
sont nettement améliorés avec un taux compris entre 10% à Tahassant et
Lahrouna et 80% à Ait Wiksane.



                                                                              50
Tableau 4: Indicateurs liés aux effets de l'adduction en eau potable

                                             Ait
          Indicateur                                                 Ait Wiksane    Taggart
                                          Bouguemaz
Réduction     de    la   corvée
                                                   100                        100     100
d'approvisionnement en eau (%)
Réduction d'affection par les
                                                   50                         50      50
maladies hydriques (%)
Coût du m³ d'eau (DH/ m³)
                                                    -                          3       7
Taux de branchement au réseau
                                                   60                         100     100
d'eau potable (%)

 Figure 1 : Coût de production et marges dégagées par les productions
                       végétales (DH/Ha assolé)




            18 000
            16 000
            14 000                                                   16 757
            12 000
            10 000
             8 000
             6 000                                           8 410
             4 000               4 201
                       2 925
             2 000
                0
                       Charges                           Marges brutes




                                    Avant projet   2007-08




                                                                                            51
Tableau 5: Evolution des coûts et de la marge brute des productions
végétales (Cas d'Ait Bouguemaz et Tahassant)
                          Coût de production/ha                    Marge brute/ha
Périmètre              Avant    Campagne Variation        Avant      Campagne Variation
                       projet    2007-08      %           projet      2007-08     %
Ait Bouguemaz
                       3620      4200           16,0     12250        24760      102,1
Tahassant
                       3373      4779           41,7      6470         7654      18,3

La marge brute à l'hectare a augmenté de 102% à Ait Bouguemez contre 18% à
Tahassant. Comme pour la diversification des assolements qui s'est nettement
améliorée à Ait Bouguemez, le facteur de disponibilité de la ressource en eau
explique ces différences entre les deux périmètres. Le développement de la
culture du pommier dans ce périmètre a joué un rôle prépondérant dans la
formation de la marge brute moyenne par hectare assolé. Cette marge a en effet
augmenté de 31610 DH/ha avant projet à 57240 DH/ha actuellement, soit une
amélioration significative de 81%.
         Figure 2: Coût et marge brute des productions animales
                       (DH/exploitation moyenne)




                     10000

                     8000                                             9810


                     6000                                   6853
                                 6098    6562
                DH
                     4000

                     2000

                        0
                                Avant projet                2007-08

                                     Coût Moyen    Marge brute




Tableau 6: Evolution du revenu global
              Revenu/ménage          Revenu/actif        Revenu/membre
                                                                               Evolution
Source         Avant  2007-         Avant   2007-         Avant  2007-
                                                                                  %
               projet   08          projet   08           projet  08

                                                                                 52
Production
végétale        10390      41446     2474       9868      1181       4710        298,9
Production
animale          6562      9810      1562       2336       746       1115        49,5
Revenus
annexes         6833       10275     1627      2446       776        1168         50,4
Total           23785      61531     5663      14650      2703       6992        158,7

L'amélioration du revenu global serait due essentiellement à celle des
productions végétales qui ont enregistré une augmentation de près de 300%.
Certes cette évolution paraît énorme compte tenu de son ampleur pour une
période de 6 années (entre 2002 et 2008). Cependant, il ne faut pas oublier que
l'effet du projet au niveau des productions agricoles s'est fait beaucoup plus
sentir pour les productions fruitières et maraîchères. Avec une disponibilité
accrue en eau d'irrigation en plus de l'extension des superficies qui ont atteint la
mise à fruit, l'offre en ces produits a augmenté avec des répercussions positives
sur les revenus de mise en marché. Ces revenus ont également évolué suite à
l'augmentation des prix de tous les produits végétaux durant la période de mise
en oeuvre du projet.




                                                                                 53
                                                           ANNEXE 2
                                                   Cadre des résultats du projet


Objectif de Développement du projet n°1 :
                     Amélioration des revenus et de la qualité de vie des populations bénéficiaires

       Résultats et Produits                       Indicateurs de Résultats                     Avant projet             Après projet

  R.1 : Revenus des agriculteurs   -     Taux d'augmentation des revenus des
                                                                                                    23785                    61531
  améliorés                              agriculteurs ( Dh/ménage)
                                                                                                                           (158,7%)
  R.2 : Qualité de vie des         - Taux de réduction de la corvée de
                                                                                                      -                     100%
  bénéficiaires améliorée.           l'approvisionnement en eau potable.
     Résultats Intermédiaires
                                       Indicateurs de Résultats Intermédiaires (niveau 2)
              (niveau 2)
                                                                                                TIC 1 : 128 %           TIC 1 : 136 %
                                   -     Evolution du TIC.
                                                                                                TIC 2 : 93 %            TIC 2 : 97 %
                                                                                                 Blé dur : 12            Blé dur : 16
                                                                                               Blé tendre : 13         Blé tendre : 16
  R.1.1 :
                                                                                               Mais grain : 16         Mais grain : 20
  Production agricole améliorée    -     Evolution des Rendements des principales
                                                                                                Bersim : 388            Bersim : 438
                                         productions. (Qx/ha)
                                                                                             Pomme de terre : 100 Pomme de terre : 169
                                                                                            Noyer : 5000 noix/arbre Noyer : 6000 noix/arbre
                                                                                                  Olivier : 48            Olivier : 49
  R.1.2 :                          -     Valeur des productions commercialisées                                              48200
                                                                                                     31140
  Accès aux marchés amélioré             (Dh/exploitation)                                                                  (54,8%)
  R.2.1 :
                                   -     Taux de fréquence de déplacement aux centres les
  Accès aux services sociaux et                                                                       -                Entre 40 et 80%
                                         plus proches.
  administratifs amélioré


                                                                                                                                              54
R.2.2 :
                                      -     Taux d'accès à l'eau potable                                                  Entre 60 et 100%
Accès à l'eau potable amélioré
R.2.3 :
                                      -     Taux d'amélioration de la scolarisation                                              25%
Amélioration de la scolarité
R.2.4 :                               -     Taux de fréquentation de la formation sanitaire
                                                                                                                                   -
Service sanitaire amélioré                  aménagée.
    Résultats Intermédiaires
                                          Indicateurs de Résultats Intermédiaires (niveau 1)
            (niveau 1)
                                      -     Taux d'amélioration de l'Efficience hydrique du
                                                                                                                           Entre 20 à 60%
R.1.1.1 :                                   réseau d'irrigation.
Performance améliorée du              -     Taux d'augmentation du temps effectif de
système d'irrigation.                       l'irrigation lors du tour d'eau pour les utilisateurs à                        Entre 25 et 75%
                                            l'aval.
                                                                                                                       Adoption de la taille des
                                                                                                                       arbres
                                                                                                                       Introduction de
                                                                                                                       nouvelles espèces et
R.1.1.2 :                             -     Taux d'adoption des techniques culturales
                                                                                                                       techniques (Safran,
Nouvelles techniques et                     nouvelles
                                                                                                                       aille, sésame, mais
technologies agricoles adoptées
                                                                                                                       ensilage, sorgho
par les agriculteurs.
                                                                                                                       fourrager, semences
                                                                                                                       luzerne,
                                                                                                      Maraichage : 9   Maraichage : 16
                                      -     Evolution des superficies de cultures à HVA (%
                                                                                                      Rosacées : 11    Rosacées : 16
                                            de la superficie moyenne emblavée)
                                                                                                      Fourrage : 10    Fourrage : 15
R.1.1.3 : & R.2.1.1 :                 -     Taux de diminution de la fréquence de rupture                                   Entre 50 à 80%
Meilleure praticabilité de la route         d'accès au périmètre.
d'accès au périmètre.
                                      -     Taux de réduction de la durée du trajet.                                       Entre 50 à 96%




                                                                                                                                                   55
       Produits (Extrants)                         Indicateurs de produits
Composante 1
Réhabilitation des périmètres
de PMH
                                  -    Superficie irriguée réhabilitée (ha).                9450   11022

Réseaux d'irrigation modernisés   -    Longueur de seguias revêtues (Km).                           395

                                  -    Nombre d'Ouvrages de Prise construits/réhabilités.           395
Composante 2
Infrastructures de base
complémentaires
Pistes aménagées                  -    Longueur de pistes aménagées (km).                           209

                                  -    Nombre de SAEP aménagés.                                     40
SAEP construits
                                  -    Nombre de SAEP fonctionnels.                                 40

Ecoles qualifiées                 -    Nombre d'écoles construites / réhabilitées.                  117

Formations sanitaires réhabilitées -   Nombre de FS construites / réhabilitées.                     20

Localités électrifiées            -    Nombre de localités électrifiées.                             7
Composante 3.1
Appui à l'intégration et à la
participation
Guide PP établi                   -    Guide validé et utilisé                                       1



                                                                                                           56
                                                                                   11 au Haouz
PIC établis                   -   Nombre de PIC validés                            7 à Khénifra
                                                                                    7 à Azilal
                              -   Nbre AUEA                                            69
AUEA constituées et formées
                              -   % AUEA fonctionnelles                               70%

                              -   Nbre AUEP
AUEP constituées
                              -   % AUEP fonctionnelles
                              -   Nbre CPRDR
CPRDR constitués              -   Nombre de décisions importantes prises par le         3
                                  CPRDR
EPP constituées               -   Nbre EPP                                              3
Composante 3.2
Appui au développement
agricole
RTE établis et utilisés       -   Nombre RTE validés                                    2

                              -   Taux de réalisation des activités d'animation.      100%
Actions d'animation et de
vulgarisation réalisées
                              -   Taux de réalisation des activités d'appui.          100%




                                                                                                  57
Objectif de Développement du projet n°2 :
 Pilotage de nouveaux dispositifs institutionnels pour assurer une plus grande participation communautaire et l'intégration
                    des programmes sectoriels par le biais du Fonds de développement rural (FDR).



              Résultats et Produits                     Indicateurs de Résultats              Avant projet      Après projet

        R.1 :
        Approche pilotée par le projet est -    Taux d'adoption de l'approche par le                         - 100%
        adoptée par le programme de             programme de développement de la PMH.
        développement de la PMH et par -        Taux d'adoption de l'approche par d'autres                   - Adoption par le
        d'autres programmes de                  programmes de développement.                                 programme INDH
        développement.                                                                                       notamment au
                                                                                                             Haouz et Azilal
                                            Indicateurs de Résultats Intermédiaires (niveau
        Résultats Intermédiaires
                                            2)
                                                                                                             - 69 avec AUEA
        R.1.1 :                                                                                              - 25 avec
        Dispositifs de participation sont   -   Nombre de conventions signées.                               Communes rurales
        fonctionnels                                                                                         - 1 avec INRA
                                                                                                             - 1 avec FAO
                                                                                                             - 3 à 6 fois par an
                                            -   Nombre de réunions du CPRDR.                                 (Pour Khénifra, 6 à
        R.1.2 :
                                                                                                             12 fois par an)
        Dispositifs d'intégration
        fonctionnels.
                                            -   Montant du FDR alloué (DH).                                  - 146.902.393,77




                                                                                                                                   58
Produits (Extrants)             Indicateurs de produits
Composante 3.1
Appui à l'intégration et à la
participation
                                -   Nbre CPRDR/nbre réunions
                                                                                    - En moyenne : 6
CPRDR constitués                                                                    réunion/CPRDR/an
                                                                                             -
                                -   Nombre de décisions importantes prises par le
                                    CPRDR
                                                                                    - En moyenne : 20
EPP constituées                 -   Nbre EPP/nbre réunions
                                                                                    réunions/EPP/an
CCGP et CPGP constituées        -   Nbre CGP.                                               1

Guide PP établi                 -   Guide validé et utilisé                                 1
                                                                                           25
PIC établis                     -   Nombre de PIC validés




                                                                                                        59
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other partners/Stakeholders

Not Applicable




                                                                    60
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents


      Evaluation retrospective des résultats du projet DRI-PMH. FAO, Mars 2009.
      Etude réalisée par MM. A. Aït El Mekki (Agroéconomie), K. Anouar
      (Environnement), M. El Khattabi (Génie Rural), A. Ezzamiti (Agronomie) et Y.
      Ouadi (Suivi-Evaluation)




                                                                                61
Annex 10. Assessment of the participatory process15


Outline

       1.   Context
       2.   Participatory approach: contextual definition and process
       3.   Impact of the participatory and integrated approach
       4.   Assessment of sustainability of the community based associations: financial and
            institutional
       5. Achievement of PDO through the integrated participative approach?
       6. Lessons learned on integrated participatory approach and looking forward


Methodology of the report

This study attempts to analyze the impact of the integrated participatory approach as a tool and as
a process in the context of the DRI-PMH project. The methodology was based on the analysis of
the project appraisal document (PAD), aides memoires, the project midterm review, the
completion report prepared by the government, reports from the Agricultural Provincial
Departments and the Central Project Management Unit16. Field visits were organized in the three
provinces targeted by the project to discuss with project partners, stakeholders, water user
associations and other beneficiaries. The mission logistics and time constraints did not allow for
in a depth social assessment thus this analysis relies on general discussions with focus groups and
individual meetings with the DPA/CT staff to get a sense of the process, impacts and lessons
learned on the participatory approaches and integrated participative programming.

1. Context

The SMI areas targeted for the first phase Project are home to some of the poorest people in
Morocco who have historically benefited little from previous development initiatives.
The Irrigation Based Community Development Project (referred to as DRI-PMH in the text)
 was an "entry point" for the implementation of the Moroccan Government's "2020 Rural
Development Strategy" which called for a more participatory integrated approach to rural
development. The project sought to improve the incomes and quality of life of rural communities
centered on small and medium irrigation (SMI) in the provinces of Azilal, Al Haouz and Khénifra,
primarily through demand-driven coordinated investments in SMI rehabilitation and improvement,
improved access to complementary community infrastructure not covered by ongoing sectoral
programs including rural roads, water supply/sanitation, electrification, health and education
facilities.

Activities in these areas include dairy cattle raising, animal fattening, artisanal activities and
small-scale transformation of agricultural products. The SMI areas are also where most villagers



15
     This annex was prepared by Fatou Fall, Social development analyst (MNSSD)

16
     See annex of documents consulted


                                                                                                 62
live, and roads tend to serve these areas. These conditions explain why investment in SMI
provides an opportunity to improve the entire economic and social life of the community.

2. Participatory approach: contextual definition and process

Contextual definition:

Apart from the poverty reduction objective, two expected social benefits of the project were an
improved participation and access of beneficiaries to decision-making processes and investment
opportunities, thus enhancing ownership for project investments and their sustainability; and
increased organizational capacity for the user groups involved, contributing to the formation of
social capital. To achieve these benefits, the project required the creation of agricultural water
user associations (AUEA in this text) around the irrigation perimeters where irrigation canals
were to be improved and drinking water user associations, around the drinking water systems
installed in the project areas.

Process:

1. Participative programming guide

At design, the proposed project implementation took into account the fact that the project was
based on a "community-driven development"(CDD) approach. Project implementation
arrangements        were       designed      to     incorporate     two    new     dimensions:
- beneficiary participation in the planning, design, execution, operation and maintenance of
project works and equipment (use of participatory decision-making mode)
- integration of the various sectoral programs into a more coherent whole.

With the objective to grasp and entrust a bottom up participative approach, the central
management unit anchored at the Administration du Genie Rural hired a consulting firm (Conseil
Ingenierie et Developpement ­ CID) to undertake a participative programming guide (PPG) for
the activities of the project. This guide was supposed to be the guiding management tool for
community based participatory approaches. The guide was to help the participatory programming
teams (equipe de programmation participative- EPP) and the Provincial Agricultural Teams in
identifying needs and priorities of targeted communities, in conceiving the communal investment
plans (PIC) and Perimeter Development Plans (PDP). Thus the constitution of the EPP, the
training of project management units at local, provincial and central levels to the use of the
manual were imperative prior to any action aiming at the implementation of the project. In reality,
after several commented drafts, the final version of the PPG was delivered in 2004, two years
after effectiveness of the loan. This was also widely posterior to the elaboration of the PIC which
took place in 2003 for Al Haouz and Khénifra. In Azilal, activities were started much earlier. The
typical participatory approach was not used. Perimeters and rural communes were identified on
paper based on criteria set the EPP, the DPA and local authorities. Consultations were limited to
the rural communes to select the social and basic infrastructures. SMI plans were determined at
perimeters levels though recollection of this process differs depending on the interlocutors. The
DPA team was able to utilize prior experience of participatory approaches used in the Oued
Lakhdar project. In Khenifra, the DPA team indicated that the guide had not much served either
given that the participative diagnostic and the PIC had been already elaborated.

CDD elaborated the GPP by associating at different stages the project management teams at DPA
level and the other consulting firms involved in the preparation of PIC. All representatives of

                                                                                                63
implementation agencies in the three provinces then participated completely or partly in
readapted training sessions given that capacity building on GPP was originally planned prior to
elaboration of the PIC, with sessions lasting three to five days each. Participatory Programming
team members were particularly targeted though the trainings often took place after launch of
project activities. It is necessary to note however that the starting of activities in Azilal before the
two other provinces contributed to fine tuning the elaboration of the GPP and to obtain a better
sense of an adapted dynamic approach to all components. In Azilal and Al Haouz, the consulting
firms involved in the elaboration of the PICs took part also in the GPP training. Although plans
were not followed rigorously and timely, the involvement of these firms played a corrective role
in finalizing project activities envisaged as part of global and specific objectives.

2. Communal investment programs (PIC)

The PIC were established for Al Haouz and Khenifra through the contracting of consulting firms
and without a firm in Azilal. In order to gather relevant primary information, the EPP, DPA staff
and consulting firms followed several steps including the identification of communes and
perimeters; a participative diagnostic and identification of needs and priorities; the elaboration of
feasibility studies; the elaboration of perimeters development programs; and elaboration of the
final PIC 17 . This participatory methodology involved several meetings with focus groups,
discussions about the project activities and restitution of the discussions. In Azilal, the
consultation process seemed lighter and faster. It is important to note that one of the selection
criteria of the perimeters was the group cohesion.

In terms of bottom up participation and decision making, the approaches taken seemed to have
been initiated and achieved with different levels of success. One, communities were consulted but
the modalities of the choice of priorities remain unclear. Secondly, it is hard to establish whether
community consultations were widely participatory given that different firms were engaged in the
two provinces. In Al Haouz, SCET Maroc was contracted to lead the elaboration of the PIC. A
different firm was contracted to deliver training modules. It appears that women of several douars
in Al Haouz were sensitized on the role of the AUEA, were given the opportunity to raise issues
of concern and discuss them with committees' members of these AUEA. Yet these demands,
unless matching those provided in the context of the DRI-PMH, were not reflected in the
development plans for the perimeters. Thirdly, though consultations were wide, it seemed that
unnecessary expectations were raised. Fourth point, the PDD and PIC consulted during the
mission refer to communities as a whole (`population `) and do not distinguish women from men
nor report any consultations of women separately nor of youth. One association met during the
mission indicated that they reported back to women of their community regarding the community
consultations. Similarly for the GPP, the matrix action does not refer at all to specific
socioeconomic and gendered categories of population. Rather it refers only to the' population' or
villagers and agricultors.

Another point to make is that the PIC reviewed during the ICR mission indicated similar
community priorities leading to the conclusion that communities might have had a menu on the
basis of which they could select activities to be financed. In the PIC from the commune of Oum
Er Bia, a line indicated that the PPT retained a proposal from the Health delegate to rehabilitate
the health center. The objectivity of the priorities expressed could also be easily influenced by the



17
     SCET Maroc reports on assistance to DPA Al Haouz, Mission I, II and III, 2004-5


                                                                                                     64
composition of the interviewed groups in the douars. Instead of community representation, in
fact, the declarations can correspond to individual opinions therefore priorities and needs not
necessarily representatives of the community. Last but not least consideration to have is the
political and elite capture dimensions of the stakeholders including AUEA members which are
not discussed here but surely existent. Our interactions during the field visits were mostly limited
to committee members of the AUEA however the midterm review points to cases of mistrust,
misunderstanding and lack of recognition of the AUEA role in certain communities thus posing
the sustainability question of these structures.

Secondly, the geographical coverage of the AUEA has important implications for their
inclusiveness. AUEA typically include several douars along the irrigated perimeter but the AUEA
are by law only allowed to have six committee members. Hence some farmers may not have
considered the AUEA to be competent and aware to address their needs, and do not feel
represented in it. Yet others consider it only to be responsible for the village where its premises
are based. However, in the other AUEA, it seems that an agreement was reached that one
committee member would represent several villages so as to cover all villages associated with the
irrigated area among them.

At the level of every province, the PICs were validated by the Restrained Provincial Committee
of Rural Development chaired by the Governor in the presence of the presidents of the communes
and turned into contractual agreements.


In Azilal and Al Haouz, the PDP were translated in Arab and transmitted to the AUEA. On the
other hand in Khénifra, the PDP were not validated because of a disagreement between the DPA
and the consulting firm.
In some instances, PDP were apparently not widely discussed nor shared with the local
population. In short, important opportunities were missed to improve the quality of participation
and debate at this initial stage of the project by ensuring a transparent and fair process.


3. Capacity building of the AUEA

All AUEA benefitted from a capacity building program designed with several modules18. All
AUEA committee members met during the mission expressed their satisfaction on the training
modules which enabled participants to familiarize with organization and financial management,
accounting, conflict resolution and planning, among others19. Other impacts of this training are
the acquisition of a legal status, representativity vis a vis the administration, knowledge gained on
management and SMI maintenance20. Nevertheless several noted the necessity for a second phase
of capacity building and a more constant follow up. It was also noted that the implementation and
follow up of the AUEA action plans and other acquired tools abruptly stopped with the end of the


18
 participative diagnosis and establishment of AUEAs, distribution and management of water , technical
management of irrigation networks, sustainability of AUEAs, monitoring and evaluation

19
     Rapport du bureau d' etudes SCET Maroc, Province d' Al haouz.

20
     Presentation of project activities to CPRDR, DPA de Marrakech, March 2009


                                                                                                        65
training sessions. Two principal reasons were evoked to explain this situation: - the technicians
(7th members), that participated in the training cycle of the AUEA did not follow up on the first
trainers to consolidate the learning process and replicate it. The retiring of an important group of
the CT staff weakened this supervision. -The modules were not transmitted to the new members
after renewal (partial or total) of the management boards of the AUEA. In certain cases, the
training documents and the AUEA administrative documents were not transferred to the new
members.


3. Impact of the participatory and integrated approach


The key innovation of the project was participatory decision making in respect of irrigation and
the complementary infrastructure yet many government staff had to be trained on how to make it
work. Limited availability of government staff with a good knowledge of the participatory
approach was identified as a substantial risk in the PAD.

Implementation of the institutional framework and coordination mechanisms necessary for a
sustainable integrated and participative development at local and regional level asked for much
more time than envisaged. Also, the elaboration of participatory tools and planning and
programming methodological support (PIC, PDP) and the adhesion of target groups and
stakeholders to the process of participative development demanded a lot of effort and time.

The chosen approach seemed too complex for the investment plans originally planned with a
result of raising expectations from communities especially women which were not fulfilled.

Nevertheless, project institutional gains are very important in all 3 provinces despite slowness in
the implementation of the project. It campaigns in favor of the use of a participatory approach
while either improving its implementation process or adapting the approach contextually taking
into account time and context constraints.

The participatory decision-making process had not been piloted and the resources required to get
it working was greatly underestimated. There were no baseline data and outcome indicators were
poorly chosen. However, given the pioneering nature of the participatory approach as proposed
by the project, in the communities involved, it can be widely assessed that associations found it
useful, empowering and rewarding to be involved in the identification, planning, implementation
and design of their own development.

As a tool, the integrated participative approach seems to have been relatively successful as a tool
in creating formal associative counterparts vis a vis the administration, in enabling bottom up
identification of needs and priorities yet the tool remains to be strengthened in creating
sustainable structures able to drive their own development.

The institutional arrangements designed to achieve greater beneficiary participation and
integration of sectoral programs has been piloted quite successfully. Greater decentralization of
the planning, design and execution of rural programs and services in an integrated way was
achieved with involvement of the beneficiaries.

As a process, the development logic of an integrated approach, though relatively new in these
areas, proved useful in implementing components which took into account improvement of
agricultural production, improvement of access to markets and amelioration of health and

                                                                                                 66
education conditions. In short, the integrated approach proved essential to achieve the
improvement of living conditions (one of the development objectives) and poverty reduction in
the three provinces.

The integrated composition of the EPP with representatives from various ministries is another
positive outcome in the technical implementation of the project. In addition, the law requires that
an extension officer (i.e. a technician from the local agricultural extension centre) occupies the
function of the `seventh member' on the AUEA board; his task is to support the AUEA members
in technical matters.

The institutional reporting mechanism paid also much attention to fostering stakeholder
ownership and accountability by involving governors and water users associations among others
in provincial-level supervision meetings.

Nevertheless, it is necessary to signal certain insufficiencies to this approach, as a process in order
to derive lessons. Some of these limitations were mentioned by AUEA as well as execution
agencies.

        Insufficiency of community consultations including non systematic integration of women
        and youth in consultations.
        Insufficient technical monitoring human resources: additional fully trained and dedicated
        staff to the project would be essential to the success and sustainability of a CDD type
        project, which necessitates constant and close contact with communities. The staff
        background would need to also be reinforced by social profiles so as to ensure closer and
        adequate supervision of the activities of the project.
        Lack of availability of Government staff with a good knowledge of the participatory
        Programming approach21
        lack of training and learning opportunities of involved staff
        lack of inter consultation and capitalization from other projects (Lakhdar)

4. Assessment of sustainability of the community based associations: financial and
institutional

1. Financial

Together with integration, beneficiary participation constituted one of the basic concepts
underlying the DRI-PMH Project. However, the reluctance of water users to contribute to capital


21
   In Khenifra, the monitoring and institutional follow up of the associations was supposed to be
coordinated between the CT, represented by the seventh member and the DPA, in particular the Cellule d'
Appui aux AUEA. Based on our discussions in Khenifra, it appears that most support to the AUEA was
provided by the CT. It is important to note that the four CT of the province of Khenifra have different
staffing situations ranging from one seventh member covering one AUEA to one covering 11 AUEA. In the
DPA, the cellule d'Appui is composed of four staff, one from the services des Amenagements and four
from the CT. The role of the Cellule d ` Appui remained unclear; the mission did not obtain clear answers
regarding its mandate, framework of intervention, and the associations met cited the CT as sources of
support rather than the cellule d'appui.




                                                                                                      67
costs was identified as one of the substantial risks in the PAD. This participation implied on
one hand, that the beneficiaries be involved in programming, designing, constructing and
operating the infrastructure called for under the project, and on the other hand that the
beneficiaries committed to contribute to the initial investment and took responsibility for ongoing
operating and maintenance costs, in order to ensure the sustainability of the improvements.
Financial contribution meant also engagement and appropriateness of the project, a sense of
ownership and one of the conditions for a sustainable improvement in incomes and living
standards.
For the SMI rehabilitation program, the rate of contribution was determined and agreed as a flat
rate of 10 percent in the contractual agreements between the administration and the water users'
associations. For rural roads, the community was required to contribute at least 5% to the capital
cost. For potable water and sanitation, the required capital cost contribution by the community
and           beneficiaries         was         15%          and          5%           respectively.
Cost recovery from users has not been 100% effective in all AUEA. Results are mitigated.
Discussions with AUEA members and other stakeholders during the ICR mission led to several
explanations. In certain douars, the 10% contribution was possible after the achievement of the
works through progressive repayment amount (Aït Akka, Assif Aït N'Jaâ, Tigardi). In other
AUEA, it was not possible to honor on time the contribution due to a certain mistrust among
users (considering difficulties generated by the delay taken in launching the works), the lack of
revenues caused by two successive years of drought, the late construction of rural roads leading to
difficulties in marketing agricultural products), lack of sensibilisation of the users and the
insufficiency of supervision of the AUEA and their support.
In the past, the World bank had recommended that the DPA intensify their efforts to mobilize
beneficiary financial contribution which could be blocked in a bank account in order to face
repairs works if needed. Nevertheless, the focus on the financial contribution of users towards the
investments costs has often hidden the other forms of contribution and their participation to
development efforts in spite of their importance which is harder to measure.

In addition to contributions to investments, AUEA members must pay yearly dues. Most AUEA
seem to have been successful in collecting dues rather than the initial contribution to investment
costs.

Given the importance of user contributions and dues as proof of their commitment of the project
and as means of financial sustainability, the partial cost recovery may indicate limited opportunity
to succeed in this regard. It is also useful to pose the question of beneficiary contribution to
investment costs as an efficient measure of appropriation of beneficiaries, its timeliness, the
institutional mechanisms of accounting and collection and its relevance to a project timeframe.
Moroccan Law 84 stipulates that irrigation schemes beneficiaries contribute in nature or cash to
investments yet it appears that in national SMI programs, beneficiaries do not contribute. In
future projects, the Bank should seek to harmonize its practices with the national programs.

2. Institutional

AUEA

The constitution of AUEA remains one of the gains of project. If positive impact is measured by
the capacity to maintain and repair SMI, it is believed that AUEA can succeed and play
sustainably this role, granted the AUEA are in fact a formalized version of traditional and long
established water organizations. If AUEA are evaluated on their institutional capacity and


                                                                                                 68
autonomy to generate income generating projects and ultimately the development of their areas, it
seems that many associations have yet to succeed in this path.

The majority of the members of the AUEA met in the field are well conscious of the relevance of
their current role and future after the achievement of the project. They are motivated to preserve
and consolidate the project gains as some testify the numerous initiatives taken by the
associations to consolidate infrastructures set up (rural roads installation, protections and
discussion of certain sections). But they are also conscious of the limits of their current capacities
and they do not hide their worry as for the insufficiency of the supervision in comparison with the
needs and the challenges. This drawing was shared by many met during the field visits. They
underlined the importance and relevance of the economic, social and institutional outcomes of the
project (in terms of integration) but were unanimous about the fragility of these, given the very
short length of the project in comparison with the important needs in technical support, in
organization and in supervision of the farmers living in difficult areas and long isolated from the
administrative and technical services.

In Khenifra, Azilal and Al Haouz, AUEA members have indicated the need for continued support
from the DPA and CT. In particular, the training sessions, the monitoring and follow up from the
CT, the dynamism and vested interest of the members constitute strong basis of sustainability and
capacity to continue their DRI-PMH related activities. Most associations met, indicated
continuous support to strengthen either the cohesion of the group, the learning processes or the
capacity to build financial stability. Strengthening AUEA` s institutional capacity goes in pair
with reinforced human resources in the CT and provincial Departments of Agriculture (DPA),
adequate and continuous use of participatory tools and training (such as the Participatory
Programming Guide- GPP).

In other AUEA, the principles of participation, community mobilization and cohesion will need to
be reinstated because the AUEA do not either represent the interests of the community nor play
their management role. It is worth noting that in Azilal, the DPA has initiated discussion on ways
to consolidate the institutional capacity of the AUEA by seeking financial and capacity building
opportunities     with      non     governmental     organizations     and      state    initiatives.


Enlarged role of AUEA

From an integrated rural development perspective, the AUEA will be called to play a more active
role.

Certainly AUEA have showed very encouraging indications to take their responsibility in
management of SMI infrastructure by getting involved actively in the conception, monitoring and
execution of works. However, in reality, the effectiveness of their role remains broadly dependent
on their financial capacities which are on the whole showing a deficit. To attenuate potential
weakening effects that can rise from financing difficulties, AUEA will need a closer technical
monitoring by CT and DPA. Also, their capacities of administrative, technical and financial
management remain still rudimentary and require an additional support on behalf of the
administration.

A positive experience and which could be duplicated with AUEA has been led in the PABVOL
project (development plan of the Oued Lahdar). Committees of douars (similar to AUEA) were
structured in associations of local development (ADL) with identification and preparation of
various plans. Two structures operated as part of this project: ADS (social development agency)

                                                                                                   69
as a state structure for financing and capacity building and AADEC (Azilal association for
environment and marketing) as local structure of supervision and monitoring of the ADL. This
partnership allowed training and sustainability of 14 ADL out of 26 pre-existing committees.
Some elements of this success include knowledge of the ground and permanent presence in the
communities of AADEC as a local structure of intermediation, continuous monitoring, a wider
mandate of the ADL (than that of the AUEA) and adequate repartition of several douars per field
staff.


AUEP (association d' usager d' eau potable/ drinking water user association)

AUEP associations were constituted and responsible for use and management of drinking water
systems. As stipulated by the conventions signed between AUEP and rural communes,
management includes oversight of the functioning of pumps, maintenance and service of
equipment. AUEPS committees undertake also meters notation and bill establishments however
many have not benefited from training as have the AUEA.

Management performance differs based on financial capacities, committees' memberships and the
nature of the service provided. The mission visited only one AUEP in the province of Azilal.
Overall, it seems that AUEP do not benefit from enough supervision to allow them to manage
sustainably and properly drinking water systems. Financial and administrative management is in
the majority of the cases unpredictable and not correspondent to regulation in force. To put right
this situation, it is necessary to provide AUEP with a basic training allowing them to set up a
transparent system of financial management (opening of accounts, invoicing, and accounting) and
basic technical knowledge for service and maintenance.

Income generating activities

From a participative point of view, one of the limitations of the DRI-PMH has been the limited
inclusion of women and youth. Income generating activities were conceived at a latter stage and
entrusted mostly to women. Though not planned as a component, IGA have somewhat enabled
impacts in social and economic dimensions. Some positive outcomes are: increased revenues,
empowerment and capacity building. In the three DPA, 41 IGas were set up, an average of one
IGA per CT and year. Most activities were around sheep and goat raising and apiculture.

The design and planning of activities, their management and degree of success differ between
regions. In several localities, these structures not only targeted very few women but seemed
occupational and informal hence allocated budget and human resources were deficient to generate
sustainable impact. These associations did not benefit from trainings.

Lessons learned are that adequate staffing and budget must be programmed in order to set a
strong developmental basis for IGAs. Similarly an integrated approach would be crucial and
incorporate financing, production, valorization, capacity buiding and marketing.

5. Achievement of PDO through the integrated participative approach?

Achieved social benefits include:

- Improved rural incomes and living standards,
- Improved participation and access of beneficiaries to decision-making processes and investment


                                                                                               70
- Opportunities, enhancing ownership for project investments and their sustainability; and
- Increased organizational capacity for the rural communities involved and user groups,
contributing to the formation of social capital.

Acces to markets

Better roads have translated into improvement of access to markets for agricultural products,
either by farmers themselves or by means of intermediaries. Better access has meant thus
increased sales and revenues.

Access to drinking water

Access to drinking water contributed to improving the health of communities as it diminished
risks of spread of water related diseases. Individual connections constituted a radical change
inside houses and in the behaviour of women and girls. Surveys in certain douars have indicated
that housewives and girls have saved much time in daily water chores22.
The fact that more girls can now attend school can be attributed in part to the home access to
water. However, home connections has encouraged users to consume more water than before
which has led to increased wastewater. None of the localities visited envisaged the building of a
sanitary network. Thus, wastewater is evacuated in individual wells or simply rejected outside.
This situation risks polluting natural water sources, especially since these wells are constructed
without sceptical pits and in a traditional way.

Children schooling

Rural roads have eased the travel of school children. Construction and rehabilitation of school
facilities (electrification, connection of water and building of latrines) had a very positive effect
on enrolment and attendance.

Access to health services

The rehabilitation of health facilities was principally centered on the rehabilitation of health
centres and the building of accommodation for nurses made easier care conditions for targeted
communities.

Impact of the project is notably appreciated in terms of improvement of incomes and of living
standard of the target populations. In addition to data review23, focus groups discussions enabled
to draw the conclusion that access to school, health facilities and drinking water had a positive
impact, sometimes one activity reinforcing the effect of the other, in comparison with the
reference situation.

6. Lessons learned on integrated participatory approach and looking forward



22
     FAO

23
  the implementation of socio-economic facilities (rural roads, schools, drinking water, health structures
and electrification)


                                                                                                             71
Lessons learned from past rural development programs indicate that flexibility and grass-roots,
demand-driven approaches are key in building ownership, defining local priorities and laying the
foundation for better implementation and sustainability. However, community-based demand-
driven approaches have had mixed success in the promotion of rural Infrastructure and social
investments because of excessive involvement of local authorities.
With the DRI- PMH, the participatory approach was a gain but may have proved to be more
successful and sustainable if:
     adequate human resources were planned and made available to enable the participaroty
        approach to be implemented,
     the mechanism for beneficiary commitment was better designed and understood,
     the budget and contracting process was less highly centralized thus more conducive to
        community driven development,
     a participatory feedback and informative process for the beneficiaries to express their
        priorities and see that they are implemented was in place,
     additional and flexible resources were made available to the participating provinces to
        respond to the incremental needs of the beneficiaries in an integrated way,
     the participatory approach was itself better fit to respond to project objectives.




                                                                                             72
ANNEX OF REVIEWED DOCUMENTS.

1. Mars 2009. Royaume du Maroc, Ministère de l'Agriculture et la Pêche Maritime, DPA
D'Azilal, Programme de DRI, centré sur la petite et moyenne hydraulique : Rapport
d'achèvement.

2. Mars 2009. Royaume du Maroc, Ministère de l'Agriculture et la Pêche Maritime, DPA
D'Azilal, Programme de DRI, centré sur la petite et moyenne hydraulique : Rapport de la
Composante développement agricole.

3. Royaume du Maroc, Ministère de l'Agriculture et la Pêche Maritime, DPA de Marrakech.
Assistance Technique pour l ` Etablissement des Programmes d'Investissements Communaux de
D.R.I centré sur la petite et moyenne Hydraulique dans la province d'Al Haouz : Plan
D'investissement Communal (Commune Rurale de Ait Adel).

4. Royaume du Maroc, Ministère de l'Agriculture et la Pêche Maritime, DPA de Marrakech.
Assistance Technique pour l ` Etablissement des Programmes d'Investissements Communaux de
D.R.I centré sur la petite et moyenne Hydraulique dans la province d'Al Haouz : Plan
D'investissement Communal (Commune Rurale Tamagarte).

5. Mars 2009. Royaume du Maroc, Ministère de l'Agriculture et la Pêche Maritime, DPA de
Marrakech. Projet de Développement Rural Intégré centré sur la PMH : Rapport principal.

6. Mars 2009. Royaume du Maroc, Ministère de l'Agriculture et la Pêche Maritime, DPA de
Marrakech. Projet de Développement Rural Intégré centré sur la PMH : Fiches Projet et
Périmètres.

7. Décembre 2008. Royaume du Maroc, Ministère de l'Agriculture et la Pêche Maritime, DPA de
Marrakech. Service de la Production Agricole. Projet de Développement Rural Intégré centré sur
la PMH: Rapport sur l'Etat d'avancement du projet DRI-PMH. Composante Développement
Agricole.

8. Mars 2009. Royaume du Maroc, Ministère de l'Agriculture et la Pêche Maritime, DPA de
Marrakech. Projet de Développement Rural Intégré centré sur la PMH: Annexes.


9. Mars 2009. Royaume du Maroc, Ministère de l'Agriculture et la Pêche Maritime, DPA de
Khenifra. Projet de Développement Rural Intégré centré sur la PMH: Rapport sur l'Etat
d'avancement au 7. 03. 2009.

10. Mars 2005. Royaume du Maroc, Ministère de l'Agriculture et la Pêche Maritime.
Administration du Génie Rural. Direction des Aménagements Hydro-Agricoles. Projet de
Développement Rural Intégré centré sur la PMH: Rapport d'évaluation à mi parcours : rapport
principal.


10. Mars 2005. Royaume du Maroc, Ministère de l'Agriculture et la Pêche Maritime.
Administration du Génie Rural. Direction des Aménagements Hydro-Agricoles. Projet de
Développement Rural Intégré centré sur la PMH: Rapport d'évaluation à mi parcourt : annexes



                                                                                           73
11. Novembre 2004. Royaume du Maroc, Ministère de l'Agriculture et du Développement Rural.
DPA de Marrakech. Assistance Technique pour l ` Etablissement des Programmes
d'Investissements Communaux de D.R.I centré sur la petite et moyenne Hydraulique dans la
province d'Al Haouz. Mission II : Programme d'Investissement Communal (PIC) et Programme
D'investissement Provincial (PIP). SCET-Maroc

12. Novembre 2004. Royaume du Maroc, Ministère de l'Agriculture et du Développement Rural.
DPA de Marrakech. Assistance Technique pour l ` Etablissement des Programmes
d'Investissements Communaux de D.R.I centré sur la petite et moyenne Hydraulique dans la
province d'Al Haouz. Mission II : Identification des besoins et priorités. Mission II. 1. Fiches
périmètres et douars associes/ Communes Rurales : Ait Adel, Abadou et Tazarte. SCET-Maroc

13. Novembre 2004. Royaume du Maroc, Ministère de l'Agriculture et du Développement Rural.
DPA de Marrakech. Assistance Technique pour l ` Etablissement des Programmes
d'Investissements Communaux de D.R.I centré sur la petite et moyenne Hydraulique dans la
province d'Al Haouz. Mission I : Identification Communale. SCET-Maroc

14. Mai 2004. Royaume du Maroc, Ministère de l'Agriculture et du Développement Rural. DPA
de Marrakech. Assistance Technique pour l ` Etablissement des Programmes d'Investissements
Communaux de D.R.I centré sur la petite et moyenne Hydraulique dans la province d'Al Haouz.
Mission III : Programme d'Investissement Communal et Provincial : Etude De Faisabilité. SCET-
Maroc

15. Novembre 2004. Royaume du Maroc, Ministère de l'Agriculture et du Développement Rural.
DPA de Marrakech. Assistance Technique pour l ` Etablissement des Programmes
d'Investissements Communaux de D.R.I centré sur la petite et moyenne Hydraulique dans la
province d'Al Haouz. Mission II : Identification des besoins et priorites.
Mission II. 1 : rapport de présentation. Edition provisoire. SCET-Maroc

16. Mars 2009. FAO. Assistance Technique aux cellules de gestion du projet de développement
rural centré sur la petite et moyenne hydraulique (DRI-PMH). Consultation pour l'évaluation
rétrospective des résultats du projet DRI-PMH : rapport principal. SCET-Maroc

17. Mars 2006. Royaume du Maroc, Ministère de l'Agriculture, du Développement Rural et des
Pêches maritimes. Direction Provinciale de l'Agriculture de Marrakech. Formation- Animation
des Associations d'Usagers des Eaux Agricoles (AUEA) des Périmètres de Petite et Moyenne
Hydraulique d'Al Haouz - Lot 1 : rapport d'exécution de la phase 1 : sensibilisation
concertation. A.D.I, groupe ONA.

18. Juin 2006. Royaume du Maroc, Ministère de l'Agriculture, du Développement Rural et des
Pêches maritimes. Direction Provinciale de l'Agriculture de Marrakech. Formation- Animation
des Associations d'Usagers des Eaux Agricoles (AUEA) des Périmètres de Petite et Moyenne
Hydraulique d'Al Haouz - Lot 1 et 2: rapport d'exécution de la phase 3 : session spécialisée :
gestion administrative et financière de l'AUEA. A.D.I, groupe ONA

19. Mars 2006. Royaume du Maroc, Ministère de l'Agriculture, du Développement Rural et des
Pêches maritimes. Direction Provinciale de l'Agriculture de Marrakech. Formation- Animation
des Associations d'Usagers des Eaux Agricoles (AUEA) des Périmètres de Petite et Moyenne
Hydraulique d'Al Haouz - Lot 1 : rapport d'exécution de la phase 1 : session 1 : Fondement de
l'AUEA et diagnostic participatif. A.D.I, groupe ONA


                                                                                             74
20. Mars 2006. Royaume du Maroc, Ministère de l'Agriculture, du Développement Rural et des
Pêches maritimes. Direction Provinciale de l'Agriculture de Marrakech. Formation- Animation
des Associations d'Usagers des Eaux Agricoles (AUEA) des Périmètres de Petite et Moyenne
Hydraulique d'Al Haouz - Lot 1 : rapport d'exécution de la phase 2 : session 2: Valorisation de
l'eau a la parcelle et répartition et distribution de l`eau. A.D.I, groupe ONA

21. Mars 2006. Royaume du Maroc, Ministère de l'Agriculture, du Développement Rural et des
Pêches maritimes. Direction Provinciale de l'Agriculture de Marrakech. Formation- Animation
des Associations d'Usagers des Eaux Agricoles (AUEA) des Périmètres de Petite et Moyenne
Hydraulique d'Al Haouz - Lot 1 : rapport d'exécution de la phase 2 : session 3: gestion
technique et entretien des réseaux. A.D.I, groupe ONA

22. Juin 2006. Royaume du Maroc, Ministère de l'Agriculture, du Développement Rural et des
Pêches maritimes. Direction Provinciale de l'Agriculture de Marrakech. Formation- Animation
des Associations d'Usagers des Eaux Agricoles (AUEA) des Périmètres de Petite et Moyenne
Hydraulique d'Al Haouz - Lot 1 : rapport d'exécution de la phase 3 : session 4: vie de l'AUEA.
A.D.I, groupe ONA

23. Octobre 2006. Royaume du Maroc, Ministère de l'Agriculture, du Développement Rural et
des Pêches maritimes. Direction Provinciale de l'Agriculture de Marrakech. Formation-
Animation des Associations d'Usagers des Eaux Agricoles (AUEA) des Périmètres de Petite et
Moyenne Hydraulique d'Al Haouz - Lot 2 : rapport d'exécution de la phase 3 : session 5: Suivi
évaluation. A.D.I, groupe ONA

25. Juin 2006. Royaume du Maroc, Ministère de l'Agriculture, du Développement Rural et des
Pêches maritimes. Direction Provinciale de l'Agriculture de Marrakech. Formation- Animation
des Associations d'Usagers des Eaux Agricoles (AUEA) des Périmètres de Petite et Moyenne
Hydraulique d'Al Haouz - Lot 1 et 2: Implication de la femme a la vie de l'AUEA. Rapport
d'exécution des séances de sensibilisation auprès des femmes. A.D.I, groupe ONA

26. World Bank. DRI-PMH supervision mission aide memoires

27. World Bank. DRI-PMH =roject Appraisal Document




                                                                                            75
