                                                                                          86356
                              ,~~A     ~ ~ ~     ~IOp            6                 CONFIDENTIAL

  WORLD   BANK                  7          W         ,                                 EDS2001-0245
                                         \~~~~~~ ~
                                     ~~ ~~~j\jj       ~   ~                             May 30, 2001
                                        ~~. ~~~ ~~INA~~~4C~~~                             04:52:51 PM



Statementby BalmikiPrasad Singh
Date of Meeting:May 31, 2001

               Morocco: (1) CountryAssistance Strategy;(2) Information
              Infrastructure Sector Development Project; and (3) Irrigation
                     Based Community Development Program (APL)

        We welcomethe discussionon the Morocco CAS, the InformationInfrastructureSector
DevelopmentProgram Loan and the Irrigation BasedCommunityDevelopmentAdaptable
Program Loan. The OED's Country AssistanceEvaluationand the discussionsof the CODE
Sub Committeehave been particularly helpfulin better appreciatingthe CAS. Management
also needs to be congratulatedfor taking accountthese deliberations, which is reflected in
better focussingof the Bank's strategy for Morocco.

2.     Consensual Decision-Making:

       The evolutionof participatory decisionmaking in Morocco is obviously impacting on
the political economyof the country. Economicstagnationand increasedpoverty and
unemploymentform the backdrop under which new governancestructures are coming up. The
country faces tremendouschallenges, both economicand social, and understandablydecision
making 'slows' down. Morocco's developmentpartners should appreciate these conditions.
Therefore the back loading of reforms, whether those relating to the public sector, education,
agriculturalprotectionor tariffs, should be expected. What is essential is that consensus
emerges within the country so that there is little risk of backsliding. Towards this end, we see
several positive developments.The formation of a popularlyelected government, with the
coming together of seven parties and the evolvingof a nationalconsensuson education,
drafting of various laws relating to liberalizingthe economy, etc. The civil society has
acquired a degree of vibrancy and there is greater dialogueamong various elementsof society
on the future vision of the country. This would keep the consensusbuilding. Management
seems to have understoodthis generally.

3.     Macro-economic Situation:

        The macroeconomicsituation makes well wishers of Moroccounderstandablynervous.
The country has obviously to step up public investmentin the social sector, particularly for
better and equitous access to education, health and to mitigate problems faced by the
                                                           2




vulnerable. At the same time, total public expenditure would have to kept under check, by
scaling back other activities and by levying adequate user charges for utilities till they could be
privatized. In this context we are left a little confused about what should be best way to deal
with windfall gains of privatization? It is suggested (page 7) that Morocco should 'use them to
key social priorities such' as education reform or the extension of health insurance, as well as
stronger structural reforms in support of growth-oriented policies". This would imply a step in
public expenditures, as it is difficult to visualize too many one-off investments in the social
sectors, or even structurally, that would have sustained effects. Paragraph 12 and page 8
rightly cautions that "allocating them (      i.e. windfall gains ) to current expenditure would
endanger the sustainability of the already fragile overall fiscal position". Management may like
to clarify as to what they think is a viable option available to the country to use these revenues
productively without increasing medium-to-long term risks to the macro regime. In this
connection we would also like to have more details of the Hassan II fund, and whether outside
budget/sinking funds could be used to promote sustainable social development without adding
to recurrent expenditure of the treasury?

        Greater accountability over the use of public funds, clearer and simpler rules and
greater decentralization are all priorities for the prevailing situation. We are glad to note that
the Bank would be devoting considerable resources to study the extant systems and work with
the govermnent to carry out the necessary changes. Specifically, the Public Expenditure
Review (PER) and related activities like Sources of Growth, Municipal Study, FSAP,
Fiduciary Assessment Update etc would help the Government in moving on the right lines. We
hope that these studies and analyses would have a significant spin-off by way of capacity
building.

4.       Environmentally Sustainable Rural Development:

         Agriculture, rural development and fragility of the natural environment are intimately
linked if growth rates are to be stepped up and poverty reduced. The CAS has done admirable
analyses of the situation and we are generally in agreement with the strategy proposed. 70% of
the poor live in rural areas. Availability of water is a real issue, particularly as about 85% of
the water is used in agriculture. Low user charges for irrigation and increased tariff protection
have obviously exacerbated the situation in a country whose water availability is only 700
m3/person/year, a figure likely to be halved by 2020. Over grazing and degraded lands limit
the potential that agriculture and related activities can do to reduce poverty. The CAS has a
pipeline of projects including LILs and analytic work to help address these issues, which are
on the right lines. However, it is our view that it is inappropriate for management to rule out
stand-alone environment projects (page 31). Restoration of local forests, rivers clean up,
development of wastelands - all employment generating - could be potential projects that
would seem to fit the needs of the Moroccan society. We would like Management's reactions
to this.

5.       Comprehensive Development Framework:

         Morocco is one of the pilot CDF countries and we were looking forward to a detailed

This documenthasa restricteddistributionand may be usedby recipientsonlyin the performance             duties.
                                                                                        of theirofficial     Its corntents
maynot otherwisebe disclosedwithoutthe consentof the ExecutiveDirectorconcerned.
                                                             3




presentation of what is happening in this country. OED's evaluation had shown major
shortcomings, implicitly arising from two weaknesses. One, it was supply-driven, i.e. it was
the Bank which was pushing the whole process. Two, the Bank saw elements of CDF in the
work that the Government was doing or wanted the Bank to do. The series of activities listed
in the CAS (paragraph 44 and Box 3 on pages 22-23) confirm this impression. The silver
lining as it were, lies in the Government taking a more active role, rather controlling the
development process including aid co-ordination. We see donors being asked to conmmit
resources to specific sectors/sub sectors of the national development plans, and all donor
assistance flowing to the national budget, similar to Brazil. The latter approach has the
advantage of improving the budget process, and increasing transparency as Government's
specific commitment of resources to the social sector becomes clear. The issue of fungibility
also gets addressed.

6.       CAS lending scenarios:

        We are generally supportive of the lending and non-lending scenarios worked out in the
CAS. On the whole it is a cautious one, and inclined towards achieving the base case. The
experience of the 1997 CAS, where all projections were turned topsy-turvy and a
single-tranche operation, not planned earlier, amounted to one third of all lending, has had a
sobering effect. At the same time, we support the flexibility built into the lending scenario. We
agree that Morocco may need two sector support loans and it is best not to name the sectors,
but rather to judge the efficacy of the sectoral reform process on the basis of criteria
mentioned on page 25 and then to proceed with the support loan. On the whole, Bank's
support seems selective and strategic, though it could be argued that this is at the cost of
forgoing possible opportunity to protect institutional reputation. Management may wish to
substantiate the rationale behind the projected lending commitments.

7.       Present Loans:

        Morocco has made a good beginning with the opening up of the telecom sector, and we
support the Bank's active support to the country, which should have positive development
impact. Besides the value addition that would accrue to the economy by way of increased
creation of jobs, reduction in transaction costs and modernization of the government, we also
see it as pointing the way to encouraging fundamental reforms in other sectors of the economy.
Countries need help to tide over the transitional period and this single tranche operation in
conjunction with the efforts of the AfDB, would strengthen the reform impulses in the
government and in the economy. Similarly, we support the Irrigation Based APL. At the same
time, we caution against any thinking that such operations will fundamentally change the
inefficient water usage practices prevailing in the country. These best practices, while
empowering communities to utilize their natural resources better, need to be up-scaled and
more importantly, matched with significant restructuring of the sector to promote efficient and
equitious use.

8.       Conclusion:


This documenthas a restricteddistribution
                                        and maybe used by recipients
                                                                   only in the performance
                                                                                         of their officialduties. lts conterts
maynot otherwisebe disclosedwithoutthe consentof the ExecutiveDirectorconcerned.
                                                              4




       We support the Bank's lending and non-lending strategy in the CAS, and the two loan
proposals before us today. We wish the people of Morocco all the best as they seek to reduce
poverty and grow in a sustained manner.




This documenthas a restricteddistribution
                                        and may be usedby recipientsonly in the performance
                                                                                          of their officialduties. Its contents
may not otherwisebe disclosedwithoutthe consentof the ExecutiveDirectorconcerned.
