CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 400 IND
Project Agreement
(Smallholder and Private Estate Tea Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
BANK RAKYAT INDONESIA
DATED JUNE 22, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 400 IND
Project Agreement
(Smallholder and Private Estate Tea Project)
BE"'WEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
BANK RAKYAT INDONESIA
DATED JUNE 22, 1973


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 22, 1973, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and BANK
RAKYAT INDONESIA (hereinafter called BRI).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date heiewith
between Republic of Indonesia (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to seven million eight hundred thousand
dollars ($7,800,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development
Credit Agreement, and on the condition that BRI agree to undertake such
obligations toward the Association as hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and BRI, the proceeds of the credit provided for under the Development
Credit Agreement relating to Parts A and B of the Project will be made available
to BRI on the terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS BRI, in consideration of the Association's entering into the
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional term has the following meaning:
"Sub-loan contract" means the contract to be entered into with each
Sub-borrower pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.02(b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. BRI shall provide, through Sub-loans to assist Sub-borrowers
in carrying out Parts A and B of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the


﻿4
Development Credit Agreement, financial assistance with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, agricultural, financial
and engineering practices.
Section 2.02. (a) BRI shall exercise its rights in relation to each Sub-loan
in such manner as to protect the interests of the Association and BRI, to comply
with its obligations under this Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and
to achieve the purposes of the Project.
(b)   In complying with its obligation under paragraph (a) of this Section,
unless the Association shall otherwise agree, BRI shall process and make Sub-loans
to Sub-borrowers pursuant to the provisions set forth in Schedule I to this
Agreement and, in addition, BRI shall make Sub-loans on terms whereby BRI shall
obtain, by written contract or by other appropriate legal means satisfactory to
the Association with the Sub-borrower, rights adequate to protect the interests
of the Association and BRI, including security arrangements satisfactory to the
Association adequate to secure the due service of the Sub-loan, and the right of
BRI to:
(i)         require the Sub-borrower to carry out the field or factory
rehabilitation or new factory construction with due diligence and
efficiency and in accordance with appropriate technical, financial
and managerial standards and in the case of private tea. estates
and PTPs, to maintain adequate records;
(ii)        require that (1) factory machinery for PTPs and vehicles for
private tea estates and PTPs to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Sub-loan be procured pursuant to the Guidelines; (2) all
other goods (other than fertilizers and pesticides) and services
(other than the services of consultants) to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Sub-loan by private tea estates and PTPs
shall be purchased at a reasonable price and shall include the
solicitation of not less than three price quotations, account being
taken also of other relevant factors such as time of delivery and
efficiency and reliability of the goods and availability of
maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor, and, in the case
of services, of their quality and the competence of the parties
rendering them; provided, however, that for the purpose of
standardization, factory machinery and equipment included in
Part B(i) of the Project may be procured directly from the
original supplier with the recommendation of the consultants
referred to in Section 3.04(i) of the Development Credit


﻿5
Agreement and the approval of the Association; and (3) the
goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Sub-loan   shall be   used   exclusively  by  each  respective
Sub-borrower in the carrying out of the field or factory
rehabilitation or new factory construction;
(iii)       require that all proposed contracts for the procurement of goods
and services included in Parts A(ii) and B of the Project be
submitted to BRI for approval prior to the award thereof;
(iv)        inspect, by   itself or jointly  with  representatives of the
Association if the Association shall so request, such goods and
the sites, works, plants and construction included in the field
or factory rehabilitation or new factory construction, the
operation thereof and any relevant records and documents;
(v)         require that the Sub-borrower, in the case of private tea estates
and PTPs, shall employ the consultants referred to in Section
3.04(i) of tle Development Credit Agreement;
(vi)        require that the Sub-borrower, in the case of private tea estates
and PTPs, shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers
such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall
be consistent with appropriate business practice and that,
without any limitation upon the foregoing, such insurance shall
cover marine, transit and     other hazards incident to    the
acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods financed out
of the proceeds of the Sub-loan to the place of use or
installation, and that any indemnity thereunder shall be payable
in a currency freely usable by such Sub-borrower to replace or
repair such goods;
(vii)       require that the Sub-borrower, in the case of private tea estates
and PTPs, shall maintain records adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices its operations and financial resources and expenditures
with respect to its respective Part of the Project and shall also
(1) have its accounts and financial statements (balance sheets,
statements of income and expenses and related statements) for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing
principles  consistently  applied, by   independent   auditors
acceptable to BRI; (2) furnish to BRI as soon as available, but


﻿6
in any case not later than four months after the end of each
such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for
such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as BRI shall have
reasonably requested; and (3) furnish to BRI such other
information concerning the accounts and financial statements of
such Sub-borrowers and the audit thereof as BRI shall from time
to time reasonably request;
(viii)      obtain all such information as the Association or BRI shall
reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the
administration,  operations   and   financial  resources  and
expenditures of the Sub-borrower; and
(ix)        suspend or terminate the right of the Sub-borrower to the use
of the proceeds of the Sub-loan upon failure by such
Sub-borrower to perform    its obligations under the Sub-loan
contract with BRI. In the case of private tea estates and PTPs,
BRI shall also provide for the riLlht to call for immediate
repayment of the Sub-loan by the Sub-borrower upon failure
by Sub-borrower to perform its obligations under the Sub-loan
contract with BRI.
(c)   BRI shall review the interest rates referred to in paragraph B of
Schedule I to this Agreement whenever the Borrower makes adjustments in the
interest rates in effect in the territories of the Borrower and, after consulting with
the Borrower on its adjusted lending and discount rates, BRI shall make its best
efforts to make appropriate adjustments in the interest rates contained in the
Sub-loan contracts referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and in the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement.
Section 2,03. (a) BRI shall cause the PTPs to construct the black tea factories
referred to in Part B(ii) of the Project on sites approved by PMU and in accordance
with the designs and specifications prepared by the consultants referred to in
Section 3.04(i) of the Development Credit Agreement and approved by PMU and
the Association.
(b)   BRI shall cause the PTPs to employ adequate and competent staff,
including a full time resident factory manager, for each such factory.
Section 2.04. (a) With respect to its Part of the Project, BRI: (i) shall maintain
records adequate to record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof)


﻿7
and to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
relent to it by the Borrower and out of its own funds, and to disclose the use
thereof in the Project; (ii) shall, without limitation upon the provisions of Section
5.03 of this Agreement, enable the Association's representatives to examine the
Project, the goods financed out of such proceeds and funds and any relevant records
and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all such information as
the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Credit so relent to it and of its own funds and the goods
and services financed out of such proceeds and funds.
(b)   Without limitation upon its obligations contained in paragraph (a) of
this Section, BRI shall establish and maintain a separate account in respect of
Parts A and B of the Project, and shall send to PMU and the Association: (i)
quarterly statements of such account within six weeks after the end of each quarter
and (ii) promptly upon their preparation but not later than four months after
the end of the period covered thereby, annual statements of such account, certified
by auditors acceptable to the Association.
Section 2.05. BRI shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, BRI shall not
take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
ARTICLE Ill
Management and Operations of BRI
Section 3.01. BRI shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or
make other provisions satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association and BRI shall otherwise agree, BRI:
(i) shall not sell. lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of its property or
assets used in the execution of its Part of the Projiect, except in the ordinary
course of business: and (ii) shall take all action necessary to maintain its corporate
existence and right to carry on operations and to acquire, maintain and renew
all rights, powers, privileges and franchises necessary or useful in the conduct of
its business.
Section 3.03. (a) BRI shall ensure that adequate and competent managerial
and operational staff shall he employed in its Bandung office and in its branch
and field olfices participating in the Project.


﻿8
(b)   BRI shall employ a financial advisor acceptable to the Association on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association to carry out Part F(iii) of
the Project.
Section 3.04. BRI shall regularly inspect the financial condition of
Sub-borrowers under the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. BRI shall maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices and with the
recommendations of the financial advisor referred to in Section 3.03(b) of this
Agreement which are consistent with such practices, its operations and financial
resources and expenditures relating to the Project.
Section 4.02. BRI shall: (i) have its accounts and financial statements (balance
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied,
by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the
Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than four months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of BRI and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Association and BRI shall cooperate fully to assure that
the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the Association
and BRI shall from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views
through their representatives with regard to the performance of their respective
obligations under this Agreement, the administration, operations and financial
condition of BRI and other matters relating to the purpose of the Credit.
Section 5.02. The Association and BRI shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the


﻿9
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the performance by either of them
of its obligations under this Agreement or the performance by the Borrower and
BRI of their respective obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 5.03. BRI shall enable the Association's representatives to examine
all sites, offices. properties and equipment of BRI and any relevant records and
documents relating to the Project.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 6.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 6.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and
of BRI thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)        the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)       a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify BRI of this event.
Section 6.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Development
Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 7.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted


﻿10
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For BRI:
Kantor Besar Bank Rakyat Indonesia
Jalan Veteran 8
Jakarta, Indonesia
P. 0. Box 94-JKT.
Cable address:
KABEBRI
Jakarta
Section 7.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of BRI may be taken or executed by BRI or such other person or persons as
BRI shall designate in writing.
Section 7.03. BRI shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person or persons who
will, on behalf of BRI, take any action or execute any documents required or
permitted to be taken or executed by BRI pursuant to any of the provisions of
this Agreement.
Section 7.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.


﻿11
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United States
of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ I.P.M. Cargill
Regional Vice President
Asia
BANK RAKYAT INDONESIA
By /s/ Sjarif Thajeb
Auithorized Representative


﻿12
SCHEDULE 1
Sub-loans
A.    Processing of Sub-loans by BRI
1.    Smallholders
Smallholders who seek Sub-loans under the Project may apply for credit
in the form of input supplies (fertilizers, pesticides and planting materials) and
cash (for incremental hired labor) by submitting an application to BRI which
specifies that: (a) the applicant's holdings include at least one-quarter ha of tea,
(b) such land is suitable for tea planting, (c) the applicant holds cultivation rights
for his land, (d) the applicant's land is within the area referred to in Schedule
2 to the Development Credit Agreement and (e) the applicant will restrict replanting
to 50% of his existing tea holdings, up to a maximum of one ha. Each smallholder's
application will be prepared with the assistance of a PMU Tea Officer who will
specify the applicant's input and cash requirements for the proposed Sub-loan.
Such application will include the Tea Officer's verification that the applicant has
demonstrated sound tea husbandry practices. BRI will enter into a written Sub-loan
contract with the applicant provided that BRI has: (i) approved the creditworthiness
of the applicant, and (ii) received satisfactory evidence of the applicant's right
to cultivate the area of land specified in the application.
Input supplies will be obtained by the smallholder upon presentation to
specified distributors of supply certificates issued by BRI under the Sub-loan
contract. BRI will then disburse to the distributors under the contracts referred
to in Section 2.03(b) of the Development Credit Agreement. Cash credit will be
disbursed to the smallholder under the Sub-loan contract on a monthly basis
pursuant to the requirements stated in the approved application.
BRI will obtain written confirmation annually from PMU that the
smallholder's performance under the Sub-loan contract is technically satisfactory.
BRI will extend further credit to the smallholder only upon such confirmation
from PMU of the smallholder's satisfactory technical performance and upon
confirmation by BRI of the smallholder's continued satisfactory creditworthiness.
2.    Private tea estates
a.    Private tea estates which seek Sub-loans under Part A(ii) of the Project
will be required initially to prepare and submit a development plan for field
development to PMU for approval. PMU will assist in the preparation of


﻿13
development plans as required and will specify the applicant's input requirements
for field development under the proposed Sub-loan. Such application will also
specify that: (i) the applicant is a legal entity established under the laws of the
Borrower and domiciled in the territories of the Borrower, and (ii) the applicant
holds an undisputed right of exploitation to lands covered in the proposed
development plan, which right is registered in the appropriate Land Registry Office
and shall remain valid until the final repayment date of the proposed Sub-loan.
BRI will then enter into a written Sub-loan contract with the applicant if it approves
the creditworthiness and managerial capacity of the applicant.
Goods (other than fertilizers and pesticides) and services (other than the
services of consultants) for field rehabilitations will be procured by the
Sub-borrower pursuant to the approved development plan. For such goods and
services, BRI will disburse against invoices and pay receipts. BRI will obtain written
confirmation semi-annually from PMU that the estate's performance under the
development plan and the Sub-loan contract is technically satisfactory.
Fertilizers and pesticides will be obtained by the private tea estates upon
presentation to specified distributors of supply certificates issued by BRI under
the Sub-loan contract. BRI will then disburse to the distributors under the contracts
referred to in Section 2.03(b) of the Development Credit Agreement.
b.    Private tea estates which seek Sub-loans under Part B(i) of the Project
will be required initially to submit an application for factory rehabilitations to
PMU and BRI for their respective approval. Such application will also specify that:
(i) the applicant is a legal entity established under the laws of the Borrower and
domiciled in the territories of the Borrower, and (ii) the applicant holds an
undisputed right of exploitation to lands covered in the proposed application, which
right is registered in the appropriate Land Registry Office and shall remain valid
until the final repayment date of the proposed Sub-loan. BRI will then enter into
a written Sub-loan contract with the applicant if it approves the creditworthiness
and managerial capacity of the applicant.
Goods and services (other than the services of consultants) for factory
rehabilitations will be procured by the Sub-borrower pursuant to the designs and
specifications prepared by the consultants referred to in Section 3.04(i) of the
Development Credit Agreement and approved by PMU and the Association. For
such goods and services, BRI will disburse against invoices and evidences of
payment, and for directly imported goods, evidences of shipment, pursuant to the
terms of the contracts with suppliers and civil works contractors and to the
approved designs and specifications.


﻿14
3.    PTPs
PTPs which seek Sub-loans under Part B(ii) of the Project will be required
initially to submit an application for new factory construction to PMU and BRI
for their respective approval. Such application will specify, inter alia, that the
applicant holds a right of exploitation to lands covered in the proposed application,
which right is registered in the appropriate Land Registry Office and shall remain
valid until the final repayment of the proposed Sub-loan. BRI will then enter into
a written Sub-loan contract with the applicant if it approves the proposed
managerial capacity of the applicant with respect to the new factory.
Goods and services (other than the serices of consultants) for new factory
construction will be procured by the Sub-borrower pursuant to the designs and
specifications prepared by the consultants referred to in Section 3.04(i) of the
Development Credit Agreement and approved by PMU and the Association.' For
such goods and services, BRI will disburse against invoices and evidences of
payment, and for directly imported goods, evidences of shipment, pursuant to the
terms of the contracts with suppliers and civil works contractors and to the
approved designs and specifications.
B.    Terms and Conditions of Sub-loans
1.   Sinallholders
(a)   Amount: BRI will finance the total investment cost of goods and
services as stated in the approved application.
(b)   Repayment terms: a maximum of 15 years including a maximum grace
period of 5 years.
(c)   Interest rate: 12%  per annum    on the amounts withdrawn and
outstanding. Interest will also be payable during the grace period.
(d)   Security: Pursuant to BRI's standard practices.
2.    Private tea estates: field rehabilitations
(a)   Amount: BRI will finance about 90% of the total investment cost
of goods and services as stated in the approved development plan.
(b)   Repayment terms: a maximum of 18 years including a maximum grace
period of 8 years.


﻿15
(c)   Interest rate: 12% per annum on amounts withdrawn and outstanding.
Interest will also be payable during the grace period.
(d)   Security: On fixed and movable assets financed under the Project and
such other security as BRI shall reasonably request.
3.    For the purposes of sub-paragraphs I and 2 of this paragraph, the term
"investment cost" means, for areas proposed to be rehabilitated, the additional
cost of goods and services to be incurred from year to year for the first three
years of such rehabilitation, and for areas proposed to be replanted, the cost to
be incurred during the first three years of such replanting and 100% of the land
clearing cost.
4.    Private tea estates: factory rehabilitations
(a)   Amount: BRI will finance about 7517 of the total investment cost
of goods and services as stated in the approved designs and
specifications.
(b)   Repayment terms: a maximum of 15 years including a maximum grace
period of 5 years.
(c)   Interest rate: 12% per annum on amounts withdrawn and outstanding.
Interest will also be payable during the grace period.
(d)   Security: On fixed and movable assets financed under the Project and
such other security as BRI shall reasonably request.
5.    PTPs: New tea factories
(a)   Amount: BRI will finance about 65% of the total investment cos*t
as stated in the approved designs and specifications.
(b)   Repayment terms: a maximum of 15 years including a maximum grace
period of 5 years.
(c)   Interest rate: 12% per annum on amounts withdrawn and outstanding.
Interest will also be payable during the grace period.
(d)   Security: On fixed and movable assets financed under the Project and
such other security as BRI shall reasonably request.


