CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 400 IND
Development Credit
Agreement
(Smallholder and Private Estate Tea Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 22, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 400 IND
Development Credit
Agreement
(Smallholder and Private Estate Tea Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 22, 1973


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 22, 1973, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided; and
(B)   The Association is willing to make the Credit available upon the terms
and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project agreement of even date
herewith between the Association and Bank Rakyat Indonesia;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to    Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following modifications thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions):
(a)   The following sub-paragraph is added to Section 2.01:
"13. The term "Project Agreement" has the meaning set forth in
paragraph (b) of Section 1.02 of the Development Credit Agreement."
(b)   Section 5.01 is deleted.
(c)   Section 6.02(h) is deleted and Section 6.02(i) becomes 6.02(h).
(d)   In Section 6.06 the words "the Project Agreement" are added after
the words "the Development Credit Agreement."
(e)   In Section 8.02 the words "or the Project Agreement" are added after
ite words "the Development Credit Agreement."


﻿4
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "BRI" means Bank Rakyat Indonesia, and any successor or successors
thereto;
(b)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association
and BRI of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes all schedules to the Project Agreement;
(c)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and BRI pursuant to Section 3.01(b) of this Agreement,
as the same may be amended from time to time;
(d)   "PMU" means the Project Management Unit to be established by the
Borrower pursuant to Section 3.02(a) of this Agreement, and after the completion
of the Project, means the Directorate General of Estates in the Ministry of
Agriculture, and any successor or successors thereto;
(e)   "PMB" means the Project Management Board to be established by the
Borrower pursuant to Section 3.02(b) of this Agreement;
(f)   "Project Manager" means the person to be employed by the Borrower
as head of PMU pursuant to Section 3.02(a)(i) of this Agreement;
(g)   "Basic Agrarian Law" means Law No. 5 of 1960 of the Borrower,
which entered into force on September 24, 1960, as the same may be amended
from time to time;
(h)   "PTP" means Perseroan Terbatas Perkebunan XII and XIII established
by Decree No. 25/71 dated May 11, 1971 and Decree No. 24/71 dated May 6,
1971, resp2ctively, pursuant to Law No. 9 of 1969 of the Borrower, and any
successor or successors thereto;
(i)   "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by BRI to
a smallholder, private tea estate or PTP for the purpose of carrying out Parts A
or B of the Project;
(j)   "Sub-borrower" means a smallholder, private tea estate or PTP to
which BRI proposes to make or has made a Sub-loan; and


﻿5
(k)   "Guidelines" means the Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank
Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank in April 1972, as revised in
October 1972.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to seven million eight hundred thousand
dollars ($7,800,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed under the
Development Credit Agreement; provided, however, that, except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account of expenditures
in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank (other than
Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods
and services (other than services of consultants) required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured on the basis
of international competition under procedures consistent with the Guidelines, and
in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
(b) The Borrower shall cause the contracts for the distribution of fertilizers
and pesticides referred to in paragraph 1(b) of Schedule 3 to this Agreement to
be entered into by PMU on terms and conditions acceptable to the Association.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1982 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on April 15 and
October 15 in each year.


﻿6
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each April 15 and October 15 commencing
October 15, 1983 and ending April 15, 2023, each installment to and including
the installment payable on April 15, 1993 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out, or cause to be carried out,
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, agricultural, economic, engineering and financial practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
(b)   The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit relating to
Sub-loans to BRI under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and BRI under terms and conditions which shall have been approved
by the Association.
(c)   Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations
Linder the Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower shall cause BRI to perform
in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement all the obligations therein set forth, shall take and cause to be
taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable BRI to perform such obligations, and
shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere
with such performance.
(d)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
(e)   Whenever the Borrower makes adjustments in the interest rates in effect
in its territories, the Borrower shall consider, after consultation with BRI on its


﻿I
7
adjusted lending and discount rates, making appropriate adjustments in the interest
rate contained in the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall, for the purpose of carrying out the Project:
(a)   establish, and maintain until the completion of the Project, within its
Ministry of Agriculture, a project management unit (PMU) with headquarters at
Bandung to direct and administer tea extension services, coordinate and conduct
training of tea extension officers and tea growers, operate tea nurseries, provide
technical assistance for the field rehabilitations included in Part A of the Project,
and advise on and approve the construction and rehabilitations included in Part
B of the Project, all under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association. To
PMU the Borrower shall:
(i)         appoint a qualified and experienced person to serve as Project
Manager. Before any such appointment is made, the Borrower
shall inform the Association of the names, qualifications and
experience of the persons being considered for such appointment
and shall afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to
exchange views with the Borrower on the qualifications and
experience of the proposed appointees; and
(ii)        provide adequate and qualified staff;
(b)   establish a project management board (PMB) to review PMU's policies
and recommend changes therein to the Ministry of Agriculture, and review PMU's
annual work programs and approve the budgets required to carry out such programs.
The composition of PMB and terms of reference thereof shall be satisfactory to
the Association.
Section 3.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree and without
restriction or limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement:
(i)         The Borrower shall establish and maintain within PMU a Project
Account in which all payments for the cost of goods and services
required for Parts C, D, E and F(ii) of the Project shall be
recorded;
(ii)        the funds made available for such Parts of the Project shall be
administered by PMU under annual budgets approved by PMB,
zi]ch budgets to be revised as necessary; and


﻿8
(iii)       the Borrower shall ensure that sufficient liquid funds to cover
the budgeted expenditures estimated by PMU to be made during
each calendar quarter for such Parts of the Project shall be
available to such Unit not later than the fifteenth day of such
quarter.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall review from time to time the
effectiveness of the financial procedures under which the funds required for Parts
C, D, E and F(ii) of the Project are made available including those described in
paragraph (a) of this Section and the Borrower shall implement such procedures
as the Borrower and the Association shall agree are necessary for the diligent and
efficient carrying out of such Parts of the Project.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall employ, or cause to be employed, by dates
to be agreed between the Borrower and the Association, consultants acceptable
to the Association on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association for the
following purposes:
(i)         To assist in preparing the designs and specifications for Part B
of the Project;
(ii)        To carry out Part F(i), (ii) and (iv) of the Project; and
(iii)       To assist the Project Manager in the discharge of his functions
by assigning to PMU a Chief Project Advisor and three executive
assistants to be responsible for accounting systems, technical
development and factories, respectively.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall cause PMU's extension service officers to
regularly inspect the operations of all Sub-borrowers who receive Sub-loans under
Part A of the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall cause the staff of PMU to be compensated
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association. Such compensation
shall be reviewed annually by the Borrower in consultation with the Association
until the completion of the Project.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, cause to be insured,
or make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.


﻿9
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower shall furnish, or cause to be furnished, to
the Association, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports,
contract documents and construction and procurement schedules for the Project,
and any material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall cause PMU to maintain records adequate to
record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit for use by PMU,
and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's
accredited representatives to examine the Project, the goods financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit for use by PMU and any relevant records and documents;
and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all such information as the Association
shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds
of the Credit and the goods and services out of such proceeds for use by PMU.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall make available such land and rights in
respect of land as shall be required for carrying out Parts B(ii), D(i) and E of
the Project.
Section 3.10. (a) The Borrower shall cause the price to be paid for green
tea leaf by the private tea estates and the PTPs participating in the Project to
be in accordance with a formula to be agreed between the Borrower and the
Association.
(b)   The Borrower shall review    such formula from    time to time in
consultation with the Association.
Section 3.11. (a) The Borrower shall cause the PTPs to construct, own and
manage the black tea factories referred to in Part B(ii) of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower shall take all necessary action which may be required
to enable the PTPs to carry out their obligations under the Sub-loan contracts
referred to in Section 2.02(b) of the Project Agreement.
(c)   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, the
Borrower shall make arrangements satisfactory to the Association to enable
smallholders who sell green tea leaf to such factories to eventually acquire ownership
of such factories.


﻿10
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause PMU to maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices and with the recommendati-ns of the executive assistant responsible for
accounting systems referred to in Section 3.04(iii) of this Agreement which are
consistent with such practices, the operations and financial resources and
expenditures of PMU.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause PMU to: (i) have the Project Account and
financial statements specifying the aggregate amounts received and spent under each
of the main categories of the Project Account for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as
available, but in any case not later than four months after the end of each such
year, (A) certified copies of such financial statements for such year as so audited
and (B) the report of such audits by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the
Association such other information concerning the Project Account and such
financial statements of PMU and the audit thereof as the Association shall from
time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall ensure that all roads in the area of the
Project are adequately maintained and promptly repaired, and shall ensure that
all funds and other resources shall be made available, promptly as needed, for
that purpose.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall ensure that the granting of licenses for
the construction of new tea factories in Central and West Java shall be done only
upon the recommendation of PMU, such recommendation to be based, inter alia,
upon the suitability of the location and size of any such proposed tea factories.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:


﻿11
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the performance by BRI of its obligations under the Project Agreement,
the administration, operations and financial resources and expenditures of PMU
and, in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out any part of the Project, and other matters relating
to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations and financial resources and expenditures
of PMU and, in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the
Borrower responsible for carrying out any part of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof, the performance by either of them of its obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement or the performance by BRI of its obligations under the Project
Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, md service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement and the Project Agreement
shall be free from  any taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery


﻿12
or registration thereof, imposed under the laws of the Borrower or.laws in effect
in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 7.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon and upon any such declaration such
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contrary in the Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 7.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   BRI shall have failed to perform any covenant, agreement or obligation
of BRI under the Project Agreement;
(b)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that BRI will be able to perform its O[, ,ations under the Project
Agreement; and
(c)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of BRI or for the suspension
of its operations.
Section 7.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   Any of the events specified in Section 7.02(a) and (h) of this
Agreement shall occur; and
(b)   The event specified in Section 7.02(c) of this Agreement shall occur
and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been
given by the Association to the Borrower and BRL.


﻿13
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   the execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of BRI
have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental
action;
(b)   the execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on behalf
of the Borrower and BRI, respectively, have been duly authorized or ratified by
all necessary corporate and governmental action;
(c)   the Borrower has established PMU; has appointed thereto the Project
Manager pursuant to Section 3.02(a)(i) of this Agreement and the Chief Project
Advisor and executive assistants responsible for accounting systems and technical
development pursuant to Section 3.04(iii) of this Agreement; and the Project
Manager has taken up his duties;
(d)   the Borrower has established PMB and appointed the members thereof
pursuant to Section 3.02(b) of this Agreement; and
(e)   the budget of PMU up to March 31, 1974 has been approved by the
Borrower.
Section 8.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 10.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)   that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, BRI, and constitutes a valid and binding
obligation of BRI in accordance with its terms;
(b)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and BRI,
respectively, and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the Borrower and
BRI in accordance with its terms,
(c)   that PMU has been duly and lawfully established within the Ministry
of \grt(ulture pursuant to Section 3.02(a) of this Agreement; and


﻿14
(d)   that PMB has been duly and lawfully established pursuant to Section
3.02(b) of this Agreement.
Section 8.03. The date October 26, 1973 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Article IV of this
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit
Agreement shall terminate or on a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement,
whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O.Box 21
Jakarta, Indonesia
Cable address:
Ministry Finance
Jakarta
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿15
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By /s / Sjarif Thajeb
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ I.P.M. Cargill
Regional Vice President
Asia


﻿I
16
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % Of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Ca tegoiv                 Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
I.   Sub-loans to small-            2,400,000          85%X of amounts
holders for fertil-                              disbursed
izers and pesticides
and Sub-loans to
private tea estates
for fertilizers,
pesticides and field
equipment
II.  Sub-loans for tea
factory rehabilita-
tions and construc-
tion of new tea
factories:
(a)  Civil Works                250,000          35'X of amounts
disbursed
(b)   Factory Equipment        1,600,000         100I  of' amounts dis-
and vehicles                                bursed on account of
foreign expenditures
(c.i.f.), 95( of
amounts disbursed on
account of local ex-
penditures (ex-factory)
or 831 of amounts dis-
bursed on account of
all other local ex-
penditures (off the
shelf)
Ill.  PMU Expenditures
(a)  Office and field            75,000          100% of foreign ex-
equipment, teach-                           penditures, 95% of
ing aids and ve-                           local expenditures
hicles for PMU                              (ex-factory) or 83N
of other local ex-
penditures (off the
shelf)


﻿17
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Categoty                 Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(b)  Civil Works                 45,000         35% of total ex-
penditures
IV.  Consultants' services         1,160,000          100% of foreign
and overseas training                           expenditures
V.   Unallocated                   2,270,000
TOTAL         7,800,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the   term  "foreign  expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower;
(b)   the term  "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower, or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the territories
of the Borrower; and
(c)   the term  "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign and local
expenditures.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(b)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes,
such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Credit will
be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph 1 above:


﻿18
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures; and
(c)  if the Association    shall have reasonably  determined  that the
procurement of any itern in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in Section 2.03(a) of this Agreement, no expenditures for
such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Association
may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy
of the Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿19
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Borrower's program for the rehabilitation and
development of its tea industry in that part of West Java which is within a radius
of about 100 km of Bandung and that part of Central Java which is within a
radius of 100 km of Jogjakarta. The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A.     Field Rehabiliation and Replanting
(i)         Rehabilitation of about 6,500 ha and replanting of about
3,500 ha of tea by about 7,700 smallholders with
financial assistance through  Sub-loans from  BRI for
fertilizers, pesticides, planting materials and labor, and
technical assistance from PMU; and
(ii)        Rehabilitation of about 1,200 ha and replanting of about
2,000 ha of tea holdings by private tea estates with
financial assistance through Sub-loans from BRI for
fertilizers, pesticides, planting materials, field equipment,
staff housing and labor, and technical assistance from
PMU.
Part B:     Factory Rehabilitation and Construction
(i)         Rehabilitation of five black tea factories by private tea
estates with financial assistance through Sub-loans from
BRI, and technical assistance from PMU; and
(ii)        Construction of two new black tea factories by PTPs, one
in Purwakarta to be owned by Perseroan Terbatas
Perkebunan XII and one in Tasikmalaya to be owned by
Perseroan Terbatas Perkebunan XIll, in order to process
smallholder green tea leaf with financial assistance through
Sub-loans from BRI, and technical assistance from PMU.
Part C.     Extension Services
Expansion by the Borrower of its extension services for tea growers
by providing PMU with about 125 full-time, competent tea extension
officers.


﻿20
Part D:      Training
(i)         Training of PMU's tea extension officers and selected tea
growers at tea research centers in West Java which, as
required, shall be expanded and equipped with additional
dormitories, staff housing, classroom facilities and teaching
aids;
(ii)        Training of BRI staff to      assist in the appraisal of
applications for, and supervision of, Sub-loans; and
(iii)       Overseas training for selected PMU staff.
Part E:     Nurseries
Establishment by the Borrower of tea multiplication plots and nurseries
on suitable sites in West Java to provide proven planting materials for
replanting programs.
Part F:      Technical Assistance
(i)         Management study of BRI to identify the most suitable
means of strengthening BRI's capacity to extend medium-
and long-term credit in rural areas and assistance in the
implementation thereof.
(ii)         Study of demand potential and distribution network of
the Borrower's domestic tea market.
(iii)        Services  of  a  financial  advisor  to  assist BRI    in
implementing an accounting system for its part of the
Project.
(iv)         Study of the possibility of tea growers in West Java
diversifying into alternative crops.
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1981.


﻿NO                                               21
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.    Responsibility for Procurement
1.    (a)   Fertilizers and pesticides, and vehicles for use by PMU, shall be
procured pursuant to the Guidelines.
(b)   For fertilizers and pesticides, PMU    shall award contracts for the
distribution of such fertilizers and pesticides on the basis of local competitive
bidding.
2.    Training facilities, teaching aids and office equipment for use by PMU shall
be procured by PMU without resort to international competition, provided that
PMU procures such items on a basis of reasonable and competitive procurement
procedures, including but not limited to the solicitation of not less than three
price quotations.
3.    All other goods and services (other than the services of consultants) shall
be procured by private tea estates and PTPs pursuant to the terms and conditions
of the Sub-loan contracts with BRI which are referred to in Section 2.02(b) of
the Project Agreement: provided, however, that factory machinery for use by PTPs
and vehicles for use by private tea estates and PTPs shall be procured pursuant
to the Guidelines except that, for the purpose of standardization, private tea estates
may procure such factory machinery without resort to international competition
with the prior approval of the Association.
B.    Contracts Governed by Guidelines
1.    With respect to any contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000
or more:
(a)   If bidders are required to prequalify, before qualification is invited,
private tea estates and PTPs shall inform BRI and the Association and PMU shall
inform the Association in detail of the procedure to be followed and private tea
estates, PTPs and PMU shall introduce such modifications in said procedure as
BRI and the Association with respect to private tea estates and PTPs, and the
Association with respect to PMU, shall reasonably request. The list of prequalified
bidders, together with a statement of their qualifications and of the reasons for
the exclusion of any applicant for prequalification, shall be furnished by the private


﻿22
tea estates and PTPs to BRI and the Association and by PMU to the Association
for their comments before the applicants are notified and private tea estates, PTPs
and PMU shall make such additions to or deletions from the said list as BRI and
the Association with respect to private tea estates and PTPs, and the Association
with respect to PMU, shall reasonably request.
(b)   Before bids are ir-vited, private tea estates and PTPs shall furnish, or
cause to be furnished, to BRI and the Association and PMU shall furnish, or cause
to be furnished to the Association for their comments, the text of the invitations
to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with a
description of the advertising procedures to be followed for the bidding, and shall
make, or cause to be made, such modifications in the said documents or procedures
as BRI and the Association with respect to private tea estates and PTPs, and the
Association with respect to PMU, shall reasonably request. Any further modification
to the bidding documents shall require BRI's and the Association's concurrence
with respect to private tea estates and PTPs, and the Association's concurrence
with respect to PMU, before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(c)   After bids have been received and evaluated private tea estates and
PTPs shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform or cause to be
informed, BRI and the Association, and PMU shall inform, or cause to be informed,
the Association, of the name of the bidder to whom the contract is intended to
be awarded and shall furnish, or cause to be furnished to BRI and the Association
with respect to private tea estates and PTPs, and the Association with respect to
PMU, in sufficient time for their review, a detailed report on the evaluation and
comparison of the bids received, together with the reasons for the intended award.
With respect to factory machinery, such report shall include comments and
recommendations by the consultants referred to in Section 3.04(i) of this
Agreement. The Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would
be inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in Section 2.03(a)
of this Agreement, promptly so inform    the Borrower and BRI with respect to
private tea estates and PTPs and the Borrower with respect to PMU, and state
the reasons for such determination.
(d)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without BRI's
and the Association's concurrence with respect to private tea estates and PTPs,
and the Association's concurrence with respect to PMU, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked.
(e)   With respect to contracts for fertilizers and pesticides, all references
in sub-paragraphs (a) to (d) of this paragraph to PMU's obligation to inform the


﻿I
23
Association of, and furnish the Association with, various documentation shall
include an obligation of PMU to inform BRI of, and furnish BRI with, the same
documentation.
(f)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to BRI and
the Association by private tea estates and the PTPs and to the Association by
PMU promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect
of any such contract.
2.    With respect to any other contract, private tea estates and PTPs shall furnish,
or cause to be furnished, to BRI and the Association and PMU shall furnish, or
cause to be furnished, to the Association, promptly after its execution and prior
to the delivery to the Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Credit Account in respect of any such contract, two conformed copies
of such contract, together with the analysis of bids, recommcndations for award
and such other information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the award of the contract is not consistent
with the procedures set forth or referred to in Section 2.03(a) of this Agreement,
promptly so inform the Borrower and BRI with respect to private tea estates and
-      PTPs, and the Borrower with respect to PMU, and state the reasons for such
determination.
C.    Supplemental Rules on Bid Evaluation and Comparison
I.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for goods to be
procured under international competitive bidding, customs duties and other import
taxes on imported goods, and sales and similar taxes on locally produced goods,
shall be excluded, except to the extent hereinafter provided, and bidders shall be
required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for locally produced goods. The cost to the Borrower or
Sub-borrowers of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery
of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be taken into account in
the evaluation of bids in accordance with paragraph 4.7 of the Guidelines; provided,
however, that for fertilizers and pesticides, the cost of inland freight and other
expenditures incidental to the delivery thereof to the place of their use shall not
be taken into account in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.    For purposes of the provisions hereinafter set forth, the following terms shall
have the following meanings:


﻿24
(a)   Preferred Domestic Bid means a bid offering goods manufactured in
Indonesia if the bidder shall have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower
and the Association that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in Indonesia of not less than 20% of the ex-factory bid price.
(b)   Non-preferred Domestic Bid means any other bid offering goods
manufactured in Indonesia.
(c)   Foreign Bid means any bid other than those specified in (a) or (b)
above.
3.    For goods included in Categories I, 11(b) and 111(a) of the table set out
in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, a margin of preference may be
granted by the Borrower to Preferred Domestic Bids. Such preference shall be
granted by adding to each Foreign Bid, for the purpose only of comparison with
Preferred Domestic Bids, an amount (hereinafter called "Domestic Preference
Margin") equal to the smaller of (i) the amount of customs duties and other import
taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the goods offered
in the bid, or (ii) 15%   of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods.
4.    If Preferred Domestic Bids are received, the comparison among all evaluated
bids for each contract shall be made in the stages and with the preferences indicated
below:
Stage                     Bids to be Compared               Preference
1.              All Preferred Domestic Bids and            None
Non-preferred Domestic Bids.
II.        (a)  Lowest evaluated bid under Stage 1,        Add Domestic
if Preferred Domestic Bid, with all        Preference
Foreign Bids;                              Margin to
Foreign Bids
or
(b)  Lowest evaluated bid under Stage I,         None
if Non-preferred Domestic Bid, with
all Foreign Bids.
III,            If lowest evaluated bid under Stage        None
11 is not the lowest evaluated bid
under Stage 1, all Foreign Bids.
5.    The bidding documents shall clearly indicate any preference which will be
granted to Preferred Domestic Bids, the information required to establish the
eligibility of a bid for such preference and the methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids to give effect to such preference.


