Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C,(  RoS4-/we/~~4
Report No. P-5010-MLI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$26.0 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF MALI
FOR AN
EDUCATION SECTOR CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
MAY 17, 1989
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its co- 4cnts may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit             CFA Franc (CFAP)  1/
US$1.00        -          CFAF 314 (April 1989)
CFAF 1 million -         US$3,185
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB       African Development Bank/Banque Africaine de Developpement
CFEPC      Primary School Diploma/Certificat de Fin d'Etudes du Premier Cycle
CFP        Vocational Training Center/Centre de Formation Professionnelle
CIDA       Canadian International Development Agency/Agence Canadienne pour le
Developpement International
DAF        Directorate for Administrative and Financial Affairs/Dire2ction des
Affaires Administratives et Financieres
DEF        Basic Education Diploma/Dipleme d'Mnseignement Pondamental
DET        Technical Studies Division/Division des Etudes Techniques
DNEF       National Directorate for Basic Education/Direction Nationale de
1'Enseignement Fondamental
DNESGTP    National Directorate for Secondary General, Technical and
Vocational Education/Direction Nationale de l'Enseignement
Secondaire GenEral, Technique et Professionnel
DNESRS     National Directorate for Higher Education and Scientific
Research/Direction Nationale des Enseignements Superieurs et de la
Recherche Scientifique
DNPES      National Directorate for Planning and Schcol Equipment/ Direction
Nationale de la Planification et de l'Equipement Scolaires
DRE        Regional Education Directorate/Direction Regionale de l'Education
ECICA      Central School for Industry, Commerce and Administration/Ecole Centrale
pour l'Industrie, le Commerce et l'Administration
EF         Basic Education/Enseignement Fondamental
EHEP       School of Business Administration/Ecole des Hautes Etudes Pratiques
ERA        School of Public Administration/Ecole Nationale d'Administration
ENI        Engineering School/Ecole Nationale d'Ingenieurs
ENMP       School of Medicine and Pharmacy/Ecole Nationale de Medecine et de
Pharmacie
ENSEC      Lower Secondary Teacher Training College/Ecole Normale Secondaire
ENSUP      Upper Secondary Teacher Training College/Ecole Normale Superieure
ES         Secondary Education/Enseignement Secondaire
FAC        French Bilateral Aid Agency/Ponds d'Aide et de Cooperation
FED        European Development Fund/Fonds Europeen de Developpement
IEF        Basic Education Inspectorate/Inspection de l'Enseignement Fondamental
IPEG       Pedagogical Institute for General Education (Primary Teacher
Training College)/Institut Pedagogique d'Enseignement General
IPN        National Pedagogical Institute/Institut Pedagogique National
IPR        Rural Polytechnic Institute/Institut Polytechnique Rural
HEN        Ministry of Education/Ministere de l'Education Nationale
PCU        Project Coordinating Unit/Bureau du Projet (Direction des Projets
Education)
SPA        Special Program of Assistaice to low-income, debt distressed Sub-Saharan
Africa
USAID      United States Agency for International Development/Agence des Etats-Unis
d'Amerique pour le Ddveloppement International
FISCAL YEAR:  January 1 - December 31         SCHOOL YEAR:  October - June
1/ The CFA Franc is tied to the French Franc (FF) in the ratio of FF 1.0 to CFAF
50.0. The French Franc is currently floating.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF MALI
EDUCATION SECTOR CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
pase
CREDIT SUM4MARY ..i..........................................
PART I. THE ECONOMY ....................................1 ............
A. Background             ....................................   1
B. Recent Economic Developments .....................................   2
C. Medium-Term Prospects and Policies ..................................    3
PART II. THE EDUCATION SECTOR .      ....................................   4
A. Educational Structure .....................................        .       4
B. Main Issues in Education .....................................   4
1. An Unbalanced Education System ...................................  S
2. Poor Performance and Limited Relevance ............ ...............   7
3. Inefficient Management of Scarce Resources .....        .................. 10
PART II. THE PROPOSED HYBRID PROJECTs AN INTEGRATED PROGRAM
OF REFORMS AND INVESTMENT ..........       ....................................  13
A. The Government's Strategy ............................................ 13
B. Rationale, History and Objectives  ...       . ............................. 14
C. Sectoral Adjustment Program .     ....................................  16
1. Measures to Improve Access and Equity ............................  16
2. Measures to Improve Performance and Relevance at all levels ...... 17
3. Measures to Improve the Management of Sectoral Resources .... ..... 19
D. Investment Element    ........................ ..........................  22
1. Increasing the Supply of, and Demand for, Primary Education ...... 22
2. Improving the Performance and Relevance of Primary Education .....  24
3. Developing and Initiating a Strategy for Restructuring
Secondary and Higher Education ...................................  27
4. Strengthening the Education Sector Planning and
Management Capacity ..........       ....................................  28
E. Costs and Financing, Credit Amount .. ................................ 30
P. Itpact of the Proposed Project ....................................  31
1. Educational Impact ...........         .........................  31
2. Social Impact ....................................  32
3. Financial Impact ..........          ..........................  32
G. Implementation      ..................          ..................  34
1. Implementation Responsibilities, Readiness and
Institution Building .............................  34
2. Procurement, Disbursements, and Special Account ................... 35
3. Monitoring and Tranche Release ..........      .........................  37
4. Accounting, Auditing and Reporting ........      .......................  38
B. Benefits and Risks .................................................  38
PART IV. BANK GROUP'OPERATIONS .........................................  39-
PART V. COLLABORATION WITH THE IN? AND OTHER DONORS ......... ........... 40
This document has a restricted distibution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued)
Page
PART  VI.  RECOMMENDATION   ... . . ............. .   ..... .....    .  ......... .*.. .   41
TEXT TABLES
Table 1. Projected Primary Enrollment Ratio by 1994 .. ................ .. 31
Table 2. Ministry of Education's Budget, with and without
Adjustment, by Level of Expenditure  ........ .......,....  33
Table 3. Ministry of Education's Budget, with and without
Adjustment, by Type of Expenditure ............   ..........  33
ANNEXES
Annex I      Table 1 - Key Macroeconomic Indicators ................. *... 42
Table 2 - Balance of Payments ......        ................. 43
Table 3 - External Financing Requirements (1987-92) ........ 44
Annex II    Basic Data ....................................................... 45
Table 1 - Total and Female Enrollment by Level of
Education ... .... .. . ................... .. ......... 46
Table 2 - Urban/Rural Breakdown Data (Cycle I) ............. 46
Table 3 - Structure of the Education Sector .......... ...... 47
Table 4 - Organization Chart of the Ministry of Education .. 48
Annex III    Government's Letter of Education Policy ............   ........ 49
Annex IV    Policy Matrix and Review Criteria for Implementation
of the Adjustment Program and of the Investment Element .... 55
Annex V     Investment Element ......................................... 62
Annex VI     Education Budget, Unit Costs, and Financing      . .     66
Table 1 - MEN's Budget, by Level of Education     .............. 66
Table 2 - MEN's Budget, by Type of Expenditure .... ......... 67
Table 3 - MEN's Recurrent Budget, by Level of Education
and Type of Expenditure . ..... ......... ..#. ....... 68
Table 4 - Private Financing of Basic Education, 1984-86 .... 69
Table 5 - Unit Costs, by Level of Education, 1985-87 ....... 70
Table 6 - Detailed Breakdown of Unit Costs in
Secondary Education ..... ....... *. ...... .............. . 71
Table 7 - Breakdown of Unit Costs in Higher Education ...... 72
Table 8 - Breakdown of Scholarship Budget, 1986-88  ......  73
Table 9 - Government-Borne Costs Associated With
Scholarships Abroad .......... .  .............................. . 73
Table 10 - Scholarship Recipients in Higher Education . ..... 74
Table 11 - Financial and Enrollment Implications
of the Program ...... *.... ..................... .. 76
Annex VII    Educational Internal and External Efficiency   ................ 77
Table 1 - Internal Efficiency in Basic and Secondary
Education .........  ....................... 77
Table 2 - Graduates from Basic, Secondary and
Higher Education ......... ...... ................ 78
Table 3 - Graduate Unemployment .................... 79
Table 4 - Social and Private Returns to Education .......... 80
Table 5 - Sensitivity of Unit Costs/Basic Education
Graduate to Increases in Quality Inputs .......... 81
Annex VIII   Education Personnel ................... ................ 82
Tab]  1 - Education Personnel    ....... ................ 82
Tab._ 2 - Student/Teacher Ratio ............................ 83
Table 3 - Primary Education Personnel ...................... 83



TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued)                                                Pate
Table 4 - Structure of Salary Scales by Country  ............ 85
Table 5 - Output and Recruitment of Teachers    ............... 86
Table 6 - Demand for New Primary School Teachers, 1990-94 .. 86
Table 7 - Balance Between Projected Demand for, and
Supply of Primary Teachers (1989-94)       ............. 88
Annex IX     Project Costs, Recurrent Costs Implications, and
Capital Cost Savings .......                   . ..  ..         89
Table 1 - Project Costs Summary        .     .. ......91
Table 2 - Cost Savings and Incremental Recurrent Costs
Generated by the Project ........................ 92
Table 3 - Summary Table       ........            .......... 93
Table 4 - Capital Cost Savings Generated by the Investment
Element of the Project.                .    ......  93
Annex X      Procurement and Disbursement           ...     .......    ....  95
Table 1 - Amount and Methols of Procurement ................0 00
Table 2 - Disbursement Profile          ..........       .     101
Table 3 - Allocation and Disbursement of the IDA Credit .      102
Annex XI      Implementation ..........                  .        . .      .. . 103
Table 1 - Implementation Schedule              .       .103
Table 2 - Government and Local Contributions .1         0
Table 3 - Summary of Local and Foreign Specialist
Services.       .....   ..    ...... lS...... 4.105
Table 4 - Sumhary of Local and Foreign Training. 19
Table 5 - Summary of Civil Works        ..114
Annex XII    Supplementary Credit Data sheet                   .. 117
Annex XIII   Status of Bank Group Operations ............................ 121
Annex XIV    Selected Documents Available in the Project File .......       123



REPUBLIC 0P MALI
EDUCATION SECTOR CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
CREDIT SUMMARY
Borrower   s Republic of Mali
Beneficiary: Ministry of Education
Amount     s SDR 20.2 million (US$26.0 million equivalent)
Terms         Standard
Project
Description:  This project would assist the Government to implement an integrated package
of reforms and investments air-4 at reshaping the unbalanced Malian
education system, improving its performance and relevance and promoting a
more cost-effective use of scarce resources. It would be hybrid in nature,
consisting of, first, a quick-disbursing element to be released in three
yearly tranches against implementation of a sectoral adiustment program and
second, an investment element focusing on primary education and the management
of sectoral resources.
A.   The sectoral adjustment program would ensure the sustained implementation of
a comprehensive set of far-reaching policy and institutional reforms required
for the achievement of the above objectives by: (1) promoting more effective
and equitable resource use through controlling student flows into secondary
and higher education in line with projected budgetary resources and trends
in labor market demand, actions to expand and improve private education and
to increase female participa-ton; (2) enhancing performance and relevance at
all levels, through a revision of textbook and teacher training policies and
of the primary curricula; and supporting the development of low-cost, efficient
options for restructuring secondary general and higher education; (3) improving
the effectiveness and efficiency of resource allocation through a budget
restructuring in favor of primary education and allocations for materials,
a more intensive use of staff and facilities, the mobilization of private
resources and a more competitive packaging of procurement (US$12 million,
representing the foreign exchange equivalent of a US$20.7 million package of
mainly pedagogic goods to be purchased by the Ministry of Education over a
three-year period).
B.  Within this policy and institutional framework, the investment element would,
as a first step toward achieving the long-term objectives stated above, aim
at:
1.   increasing the Supply of, and Demand for, Primary Education in Three  Regions
of the Country through a major school construction/ rehabilitation/repair
program based on matching fund contributions, low-cost participatory
techniques, a more efficient use of classrooms and teachers, incentives to the
development of private educational services and increased participation from
disavantaged groups (rural children and females) (US$ 14.8 million);
2.   Imroving the Performance and Relevance of Primary Education Country-wide
through the establishment of systematic qualitative monitoring and evaluation
(M & E), revision of the teacher training and primary curricula, a major in-
service training program for primary education personnel, the strengthening
of pedagogic support and control, and provision of textbooks and pedagogic
materials (US$ 9.9 million);



ii
3.   Developing and Initiatina a Strateav for the Restructurint of Secondary and
HRiher Education through a strengthening of the relevant Directorates,
including the Scholarship Service, to implement the proposed scholarship
reduction, improvements in study conditions in three existing higher education
institutions, and assistance to young graduates for the creation of micro-
enterprises (USS 4.0 million).
4.   Strenathening the Education Sector Plannina and Management Canacitv through
reinforcing the Ministry of Education's (MEN) Directorates responsible for
planning, budgeting, personnel and physical resources management, decentralized
management, project implementation and preparation (US$ 6.7 million).
Benefits
and Risks:    By reversing the recent decline in the primary enrollment ratio and the quality
indicators, the proposed operation would begin to alleviate a critical
constraint to Mali's long-term growth prospects. The adjustment program would
improve the overall efficiency of the Malian education sector, allowing a major
reallocation of resources in favor of primary education, to help broaden the
base of the education system, and of materials, to improve quality at all
levels. A combination of actions from the supply and the demand side would
result by 1994 in an increase in the total primary enrollment ratio from 31
to about 362 (compared to a decline in the public enrollment ratio from 28
percent in 1979 to 24 percent in 1987), and in the female total enrollment
ratio from about 22 to about 28S. Improvements in the policy and institutional
contexts would heighten the productivity of the proposed and future
investments, facilitating the mobilization of additional resources for the
sector. The positive impact on quality of more relevant programs, adequate
supplies of textbooks, and more motivated, better trained teachers, following
more active pedagogic approaches would translate into better student
achievements (savings of up to 362 on the unit cost per primary education
graduate through a reduction of repeater and drop-out rates) not only in
primary education, but eventually in the other levels as well; graduates
entering the labor force would be more adaptable and more productive. Overall,
the project would initiate a gradual shift toward an education system that
would be more equitable, more cost-effective and better adapted to Mali's
projected fiscal constraints and job market opportunities. Finally, support
to a critical social sector would alleviate the effects of the on-going
structural adjustment process.
The main risks concern: (i) the Government's ability to implement the more
politically s,.nsitive elements of the adjustment program (scholarships
reductions and tighter personnel management) if faced with strong resistance
from vocal, vepted interest groups; (ii) the fact that demand constraints on
the enrollment ratio are more difficult to address than supply constraints;
and (iii) MEN's capacity to absorb change. The first risk is mitigated, first,
by the Government's recognition of a crisis in the education sector and its
commitment to the program; and second, by the flexibility built into the
adjustment program to achieve specific objectives through various combinations
of measured. The other two risks would be reduced through the introduction of
school promotional activities, systematic monitoring from the beneficiaries
viewpoint, careful phasing of project activities, and yearly in-depth reviews.
On balance, these risks are manageable and well worth taking, given
Government's determination to improve the linkage between education and
employmer.t, and the deepening of our policy dialogue.



iii
Summary of Project Cost Estimatest
Local Foreign Total
---- (US$ million) ---
A. SectorUA Adjustment Program (qu.,ck-disbursing element)        8.7    12.0    20.7 a)
B. Investment element
1. Increasing the Supply of, and Demand for, Primary              5.4     6.2    11.6
Education
2. Improving the Performance and Relevance of Primary             1.7     6.5     8.2
Education
3. Developing and Initiating a Strategy for Restructuring         1.6     1.9     3.5
Secondary and Higher Education
4. Strengthening Education Sector Planning and Management         0.9     4.7     5.6
Capacity
Total B (investment element)                              9.6    19.3    28.9
Total Project Base Costs (A+B)                           18.3    31.3    49.6
Physical Contingencies  bI                                    0.7      1.6     2.3
Price Contingencies  b/                                        1.8     2.5     4.3
Sub-total                                                 2.5      4.1     6.6
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                                          20.8    35.4    56.2
zss      n_
a/ Net of taxes and duties on imported goods.
b/ For the investment element only.



iv
Financina Plan:
Local    Foreign      Total
------- (U8Smillion) -----
- Quick-disbursing element                   0.0        3.0         3.0
- Investment elemnt                          6.7       16.2        22.9
USAID
- Quick-disbursing element (SPA) a/          0.0        4.3         4.3
- Investment elem,et                         1.8        1.5         3.3
FAC
- Quick-disbursing element (SPA)             0.0        1.0         1.0
- Investment element                         0.1        2.6         2.7
Notway
- Quick-disbursing element (SPA)             0.0        3.0         3.0
CIDA
- Quick-disbursing element (SPA)             0.0        0.8         0.8
UNDP
- Investment element                         0.0        0.5         0.5
Government                                     10.0 bI     0.2        10.2
Local coamunities                               2.2        2.3         4.5
TOTAL                   20 8       35.4        56.2
Estimated Disbursements of   ------------------- IDA Fiscal Years ---------
the IDA Creditt                  1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995
_-_______------ (USSaillion) ------------------
A. Ouick-diubursina Element
Annual                       1.0     1.0      1.0     -        _      _
Cumulative                   1.0     2.0      3.0     -       -       -
D.  Investment Element
Annual                       3.6     6.4      6.8      4.3      1.5     0.4
Cumulative                   3.6    10.0    16.8      21.1    22.6    22.9
Total A + I
Annual                       4.6     7.4      7.8      4.3      1.5     0.4
Cumulative                   4.6    12.0    19.8      24.1    25.6    26.0
Economic Rate of Returns   Not applicable
Staff Appraisal
Regorts               This is a combined Staff Appraisal and President's Report.
aJ Special Program of Assistance to low-income, debt-distressed countries in Sub-Saharan
Africa.
bI Of thlis amount, US$8.7 million represent the local cost equivalent of sectoral purchases
of goods, totalling US$20.7 million over a 3-year period, which Government would pre-finance.
b:coverpr.wp (NaliB)
'a.



INTERNATIISAAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF MALI FOR AN
EDUCATION SECTOR CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
1.    I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed Development Credit
for SDR 20.2 million (US$26.0 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms with a maturity
of 40 years to the Republic of Mali. The credit would help the Government of Mali to
sustain the momentum of far-reaching educational policy reforms and to implement a core
package of critically needed related investment. This integrated program of reforms and
investment aims at reshaping Mali's unbalanced education system, improving its
performance and relevance and promoting a more cost-effective use of scarce sectoral
resources.   The proposed project would be a hybrid consisting oft  (i) a sectoral
adiustment program supported by a quick-disbursing element of about US$12 million
equivalent (IDAt US$3.0 million; cofinancing from the United States Agency for
International Development (USAID), the Kingdom of Norway, the French Fonds d 'Aide et de
Cooperation (FAC) and the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) under the
Special Program of Assistance to low-income debt distressed Sub-saharan Africa (SPA)
totalling US$9.0 miliion) and Government contribution (US$8.7 million); and (ii) an
investment element, focusing on primary education and improved management of sectoral
resources, whose total costs are estimated at US$35.5 million equivalent (net of taxes
and duties) with a foreign exchange component of US$23.4 million. The Government would
contribute US$1.3 million; Parents Associations (APEs) would contribute in kind (labor
and materials) or in cash the equivalent of US$4.5 mil1ion; USAID, FAC and lJNDP would
contribute as grants a total of US$6.5 million; and the remaining US$22.9 million would
be financed by IDA.
2.    The proposed project would be IDA's fourth contribution to the development of
education in Mali; it would introduce, at the sectoral level, important elements of
the Adjustment Programs supported by IDA and the IMF, while creating the initial
conditions for renewed, sustainable growth in education. The policy measures supported
by the project were developed through a sectoral dialogue conducted with the Malian
authorities during 1987-88.
PART I. THE ECONOMY
A.    Background
3.    Mali is a vast, landlocked, and resource-poor country located in the Sahelian
zone of western Africa. Only about a quarter of its 1.2 million square kilometers is
arable. Nearly 90 percent of the population, estimated at 7.8 million in mid-1987, is
dependent on the agricultural sector which accounts for roughly 50 percent of GDP. Per
capita income was estimated at US$200 in 1987 and social indicators, such as life
expectancy and school enrollment rates, are among the lowest in the world. Population
growth is an estimated 2.7 percent per annum. About 44 percent of the population is
under age 15. Key macroeconomic data are provided in Annex I.



- 2 -
4.    Structural problems.  Mali's economic performance is constrained by a narrow
resource base and legacy of inappropriate past policies, including inefficient public
resource management and distortions in the structure of economic incentives.
5.    Weak resource base.  Mali's potential for long-term growth is limited by harsh
resource constraints. Infrastructure is sparse, and growth in the agricultural sector
is constrained by low rainfall, fragile soils, and low-productivity traditional
technologies. In addition, the weak human resource base represents a serious obstacle
to future growth.  Primary education enrollment rates are among the lowest in the world
and basic health services are not widely available. These problems are compounded by
population growth which puts severe pressure on both the limited natural resource base
and the financial resources available for the provision of basic public services.
6.    Public resource management.  The state-dominated development strategy pursued
until the early 19808 led to serious inefficiencies with regard to both resource
mobilization and allocation. High levels of personnel expenditure and subsidies left
inadequate  funds  for non-salary operation and maintenance  expenditure.   Public
investment decisions gave insufficient attention to financial and economic selection
criteria, including debt service and recurrent cost implications. The fiscal system
became overly complex, severely distorted resource allocation signals, and gave little
attention tc cost recovery for public services.   In addition, non-market credit
allocation procedures led to rapid credit growth, particularly to the public sector.
The performance of the public enterprise (PE) sector constituted a particularly acute
manifestation of poor public resource management.
7.    Incentives  framework.    In  addition  to  the  public  resource  management
inefficiencies mentioned above, an appreciating real effective exchange rate, price
controls, a restrictive trade regime, and excessive economic regulation have distorted
incentives, skewed resource allocation, and thus impeded growth throughout the economy.
B.    Recent Economic Developments
8.    Macroeconomic Performance.  Mali's structural problems combined with a highly
variable climate have resulted in erratic economic performance. Although real GDP
growth averaged 2.7 percent per annum during 1981-88, output fell in t ree years of
the period.  GDP is estimated to have fallen slightly in 1988 as a rtsult of poor
weather conditions in the 1987/88 crop year. Real growth of approximately 9 percent is
projected for 1989 as a result of improved weather conditions and policy reforms
implemented in previous years.
9.    Despite erratic growth, both consumption and investment have been sustained by
inflows of official development assistance which, in real terms, increased more than
sixfold between 1970 and 1985. Roughly half of this assistance has been in the form of
loans and by end-1987 total public debt outstanding and disbursed reached 106 percent
of GDP. Although most of Mali's external debt is contracted on concessional terms, debt
service obligations rose by more than 50 percent between 1983-85 and 1986-88. Current
debt service obligations reached 30 percent of exports and 31 percent of Government
revenue in 1988. External arrears at end-1987 represented an additional 34 percent of
1988 export earnings and 35 percent of Government revenues. Mali sought debt relief
from its Paris Club creditors in October 1988 and rescheduled US$72 million in 1988
obligations and arrears. In addition, it rescheduled US$5 million with non-Paris Club
creditors.



10.   The current account deficit is estimated to have fallen to 17 percent of CDP in
1988 (5 percent including grants) from a peak of 31 percent in 1985, largely because
of price and volume increases for cotton exports and a fall in the value of food and
petroleum imports.   The consolidated current budget excluding grants moved froe a
deficit of 3.9 percent of GDP in 1981 to overall balance in 1988 (commitment basis).
11.   Adiustment efforts.  Confronted with unsustainable fiscal and external deficits,
the Government launched a stabilization program in 1982, supported by Fund resources,
under which a number of measures were introduced to reduce budgetary deficits, PE
operating losses, and public sector arrears. In addition, initial reforms -- including
market liberalization and improved price incentives -- were introduced to increase the
efficiency of resource allocation.
12.   The pace of reform slowed noticeably in late 1986 and early 1987, however, when
the Government failed to implement a number of policy measures agreed upon in the
context of Bank sector adjustment discussions and the third IMP Standby.  The public
sector accumulated substantial arrears in 1987, and the banking system was seriously
threatened by the illiquidity of a state-owned bank, the Banque de D4veloppement du Mali
(BDM) and the postal checking system (CCP).
13.   The Government has demonstrated a renewed commitment to reform since late 1987
when it made a number of long-delayed decisions regarding its adjustment program and
took steps to implement them rapidly. This culminated in approval of: (a) a Policy
Framework Paper (PFP) for 1988-90; (b) an IDA adjustment credit in support of the
Government's PE Sector Adjustment Program (PESAP); (c) an IMF Standby and Structural
Adjustment Facility (SAF) program for 1988/89; and (d) Mali's eligibility for SPA.
14.   The  Government's  policy  reforms  have  led  to  a  number  cf  significant
accomplishments.   Civil service recruitment has been tightly controlled and higher
education graduates are no longer guaranteed public sector employment. Major reforms
have been introduced in the cotton sector, which adjusted rapidly to the fall in export
prices in 1985/86. Cereals markets have been liberalized and price controls, which had
covered virtually all products, now cover only a small number of essential products.
Numerous public tariffs, including those for water, electricity, railroad, and postal
services, have been substantially increased to be more in line with costs. In addition,
all export monopolies and most import monopolies have been abolished.
15.   Impler.ntation of the reform program in 1988 was mixed.  The structural measures
envisioned under the PESAP and SAP were implemented largely as scheduled and the first
tranche of  the PESAP was  released  in September  1988.    Nonetheless,  poor  tax
administration and increased fraud led to a major shortfall in Government revenues which
was offset by higher levels of external financing than originally projected.  As a
result, the macroeconomic objectives of the program were attained.
C.    Medium-Term Prospects and Policies
16.   Policy Framework Paper (PFP).   Mali's medium-term PFP aims at achieving a
sustainable rate of growth consonant with domestic and externei. financial stability.
The three key objectives of the program for 1988-90 ares  (a) to attain an average
annual growth rate of real GDP of about 4.5 percent in 1989-90; (b) to reduce the annual
rate of inflation, as measured by the GDP deflator, to about 3.5 percent in 1990; and
(c) to reach a viable and sustainable external sector position by the early 1990s.



- 4 -
17.   The PFP focuses on reform in five key areas t agricultural policy, economic
incentives, efficiency of public resource management, public enterprise reform, and
sound financial policies. In addition, the PESAP aims to improve the performance of the
PE sector and to reduce its burden on public finances.  These objectives are to be
achieved by: budget reform, price liberalization, financial sector reforms (including
reduction of government shareholding in BDM to 20 percent), institutional and legal
reforms redefining relations between government and public enterprises, and
rationalization of the sector through restructuring and divestiture.
18.   The authorities have reiterated their commitment to the objectives, strategy and
policy measures outlined in the PFP. In light of the economic and financial results for
1988 they have proposed to strengthen certin elements of the program. In particular,
they propose to: (a) introduce measures to reduce the poor revenue performance in 1988;
(b) speed up efforts to restructure the BDM; tc) adopt a cotton sector adjustment
program before the next marketing season; (d) accelerate the timetable for price
liberalization and trade reform; (e) strengthen public enterprise divestiture efforts;
and (f) introduce an improved mechanism for interministerial monitoring and coordination
of the adjustment program. Effective implementation of the modified adjustment program
would permit attainment of the PFP objectives as originally scheduled.
PART II. THE EDUCATION SECTOR
A.    Educational Structure
19.   The education system consists oft  (a) basic education, comprising a six year
primary "Cycle I and a three year  Cycle II; (b) three years of secondary schooling;
and (c) higher education in seven 3Grandes Ecolesn (GEs) located, with only one
exception, in Bamako, the capital, complemented by an extensive program of overseas
study. Teachers are trained, for basic education, in ten teacher training colleges
recruiting at the post-basic level (maltres du Premier Cycle, or MPCs, and maltres du
Second Cycle, or MSCs); and for secondary education (professeurs de l'enseignement
secondaire), in a University level program at Ecole Normale Superieure (or ENSUP, one
of the seven GEs). Koranic schools are found in most villages but only teach the Quran
by rote; medersas -- private muslim schools which use Arabic as the language of
instruction and teach traditional academic subjects along with religion -- have
experienced rapid growth in urban areas in recent years.   There is also a small,
subsidized catholic sector. Responsibility lies with the Ministry of National Education
(Ministbre de l'Education Nationale - MEN) for all levels of formal education, including
accredited medersas and catholic schools, and for adult literacy programs; in addition,
the technical ministries run their own small-scale training programs. Administrative
authority for primary and secondary education is decentralized to Regional Directorates
(seven plus Bamako). Since the sixties, APEs have assumed a major role in financing
primary education investment (four times the total MEN investment budget), but this has
not been matched by a commensurate sharing of decision-making. Annex II shows basic
data on the sector, the structure of the education system and the organization chart of
MEN.
B.    Main Issues in Education
20.   Mali should be credited for having pioneered original educational approaches
such as the use of national languages in the early years of instruction, cost recovery,
and a stated policy of tailoring the output of graduates to match the needs of the
economy. Nevertheless, however good the initial intentions, the system has been allowed



- 5 -
to develop in an unbalanced and uncontrolled fashion. Today, it is faced with a demand
problem at the primary level, and a paradoxical and unique combination of declining
enrollmerts and excess supply of graduates at the higher levels, all three phenomena
being linked to deteriorating quality and relevance.  While the contraction of the
system in secondary and higher education contributes to reshaping the distorted
education pyramid, at Mali's low level of human capital formation this is an undesirable
trend which should be reversed. However, it does offer Government a respite to tackle
the issues in a rational and systematic manner.
1. An Unbalanced Education System
21.   Low and declining primary enrollment ratio.  Mali features one of th- world's
lowest adult literacy rates -- 15 percent in 1987 -- and primary enrollmen ratios --
24 percent (public schools), down from a peak of 28 percent in 1979, due to a stagnation
of enrollments for the past eight years. These statistics obscure wide differences by
sex and between regions. For instance, girls in Cycle I represent only about 37 percent
of total enrollment, and regional enrollment ratios range from 11 to 58 percent. In
urban areas, enrollment growth is limited by school capacity constraints, resulting in
overcrowded classes particularly in the lower grades (60 students/teacher on average)
and restrictions on admissions each year, a situation exacerbated by rural to urban
migration since the 1984 drought.  Part of this demand has been met through a -.st
expansion, under Arab financing, of the medersas (about 15 percent p.a. over 1983184 -
1986/87), which bring the total enrollment ratio to about 31 percent and the urban
ratio to about 80 percent.   In rural areas, enrollment growth is constrained by a
combination of supply and demand factors: due to low population density, the provision
of schools is costly (with average class size at about 30 students), and the large
catchment radius means long walking distances, with special problems for girls, school
feeding, etc. The issue has been partly addressed through multigrade teaching and bi-
annual admission of students.   Factors constraining demand include: low perceived
benefits from education in the context of limited wage-earning employment, notably since
1983, when the practice of guaranteed civil service employment for secondaryjhigher
education graduates was discontinued; the coercive methods used to collect parents'
contributions in the rural areas as a tax, the revenues from which are occasionally
diverted to competing priorities; the high opportunity costs of keeping the children in
schools, especially in the wake of the drought which increased male adult migration; an
unfavorable school environment; and the reluctance of conservative Muslim families to
send their children to non-religious schools. If left unattended, this deteriorating
trend would seriously jeopardize the country's already limited prospects for long-term
growth, as schooling has been shown to have a positive impact on productivity, health,
nutrition and fertility as well as on social, political and individual development.
22.   Weak modern sector demand for secondary and hisher education graduates. Although
Mali is the only country in the Sahel where enrollments at those levels have declined
in recent years, the output of graduates continues to exceed the present absorptive
capacity of the modern sector labor market. Student numbers have fallen by almost 20
percent in Cycle II of basic education (1980-88), 31 percent in secondary education
(1982-88), about 60 percent in teacher training (1982-88) and 35 percent in the GEs
(1985-88); the only exceptions to this downtrend have been vocational education, with
stable enrollments, and higher education students abroad, with an increase of 48 percent
over 1985-88. Today, the higher education student body consists of about 4,700 students
in Mali, and 2,400 abroad.  Higher education experienced rapid growth in the early
eighties due to an 'open door" enrollment policy and generous subsidies to students
continuing to the next level (para. 34) so as to staff Government services. However,



- 6 -
the number of graduates rose sharply at a time when the civil service became saturated,
prompting Government courageous decision (1981) to practically freeze new recruitment
and to make it subject to a competitive examination in 1983.
23.   The public and parapublic sectors, traditionally the main source of modern
employment (estimated by ILO at 94 percent of a total of 86,000 modern wage earnir.,
positions in 1987), are contracting, whereas the private sector (about 5,000 employees)
is not yet dynamic enough to be an engine of growth. The number of new civil servants
recruited (gross) each year declined from 2,426 to 530 between 1984 and 1988, and will
be frozen at 250 under the IMF program in 1988-89.  In the parastatal sector, the
adjustment process has resulted in a 7 percent annual reduction in staff numbers in
1983-1987, and in the private sector, demand for wage-earning personnel with the type
of skills acquired in the GEs is likely to remain limited. For instance, in 1986, the
GEs alone graduated some 1,265 students; of this total, only about 300 found salaried
jobs -- 160 (13 percent) in the civil service (A level positions), the rest in the
modern private sector. A 1987 Government-financed consultant study projects a maximum
modern sector (public and private) demand for 625 post secondary graduates per annum for
the next five years, i.e., less than 20 percent of the annual labor market entrants.
As a result, ILO estimates that some 8,000 to 10,000 secondary and higher education
graduates (including about 2,600 from the GEs and abroad) are unemployed while some
3,500 enter the labor market each year. Graduate unemployment is concentrated in Bamako
(about 7,500). The stagnation of recruitment is aggravated by the fact that replacement
needs are minimal, given the young age structure of the labor force (attrition rate of
the order of 1.3 percent in the education sector).   The next few years will be
especially critical, as the output of graduates reflects the peak intake of the mid-
eighties, while labor market recruitment is at an all-time low.  This is a growing
concern for the Government and the donors, who in recent months have begun working in
a coordinated fashion to help alleviate the situation (ILO/UNDP Unit in the Ministry of
Labor to assist graduate aspiring entrepreneurs; USAID's early departure program for
Government employees; European Development Fund line of credit for the creation of small
and medium etterprises).  However, the effect of these initiatives will be negated
unless they are coupled with efforts to control and orient the output of graduates in
line with trends in labor market demand.
24.   Skill mismatch.  Although not enough is known in this area, it is clear that the
match between the output of the education/training system and the labor market should
be improved not only quantitatively (para. 22) but also qualitatively (levels and types
of training), as oversupply in some areas is juxtaposed with shortages of critical
technical and managerial skills. By levels of training, the structure of the modern
sector labor force shows a high proportion of both post-secondary graduates (ranging
from 10 to 20 percent depending on the type of economic activity) and unskilled
employees (range of 70 to 30 percent), but a low percentage of middle-level cadres,
technicians, and skilled workers (25 percent on average, with a peak of 50 percent in
Government services). The latter face a stronger demand, as shown by the placement
record of such schools as ECICA (Ecole Centrale pour l'Industrie, le Commerce et
l'Administration) and EHEP (Ecole des Hautes Etudes Pratiques). This has not been lost
on the students, and the proportion of those opting for professional streams has
increased from 28 percent of secondary level enrollments in 1980 to 39 percent in 1988;
this is high for Sub-Saharan Africa, and has led to a proliferation of private
vocational training institutions. Globally, however, the output of these levels of the
system continues to be about 1/3 senior managers, (longer-stream, higher education
graduates), 1/3 middle level managers and technicians (longer-stream, technical
education), and 1/3 skilled workers and technicians (shorter-streams, technical



- 7 -
education). By types of training (disciplines and approaches), the system has not
responded adequately to evolving needs. The most blatant examples are provided in
higher education by ENA (Ecole Natioi le d'Administration) and ENSUP (Ecole Normale
SupGrieure), which in 1987 graduated respectively 292 and 519 students, although the
demand for civil servants and for secondary teachers (except for small numbers of math
and science teachers) is practically saturated for the next decade. By contrast, in
1988, 21 of the 450 positions opened in the civil service could not be filled through
the  competitive exam system for lack of qualified candidates.   Even in agriculture,
where some employment prospects exist, the instruction provided is theoretical (90
percent of the timetables), rather than practical. This has led some private employers,
in this as in other sectors, to resort to recruiting foreigners despite the high level
of unemployment.
25.    Several conclusions can be drawn from the above analysiss  (i) given its
critically low enrollment ratio, primary education should be the highest priority for
development, because it determines the overall educational level of the population and
affects living standards and productivity; (ii) given Mali's extreme resource
constraints and the limited employment prospects for the types of graduates trained at
the GE., the allocation of public funds for secondary and higher education should
increasingly be subject to stringent economic and financial criteria; (iii) external
efficiency in secondary and higher education should be improved through a combination
oft increased student selectivity; curriculum reorientation in consultation with
employers so as to promote more entrepreneurial and adaptable behaviors as well as the
acquisition of more practical skills and to prepare graduates for employment in the
private modern, and informal sectors, including self-employment; more effective
information on the labor market; and increased orientation of students towards shorter,
more flexible training programs. Details are in Annex VII.
2.   Poor Performance and Limited Relevance
26.   A 1986 study estimated that about 2/3 of MEN's total expenditures were spent on
students who either were repeating or would leave school prior to completing
successfully the cycle. The issues underlying this inefficient use of resources are
discussed below, in greater detail for primary education, which is the focus of the
investment element of the proposed project, than for the other levels.
27.   In primary education, internal efficiency indicators are among the lowest on the
continent and deteriorating. In 1988, one out of every twenty young Malians is likely
to complete primary education, versus one out of fifteen ten years ago. Taking into
account repeater and dropout rates (averaging respectively 30 and 10 percent), it costs
the Government 24 pupil/years of instruction for every Cycie I graduate instead of a
theoretical six; in 1979, the cost was l7p/y. Apart from being costly, many primary
drop-outs relapse into illiteracy, while repetition increases costs and limits access
for non-enrolled children. This poor performance stems from several factors:
(a)   lack of teaching and learning materials:  due to an ill-conceived cost-recovery
policy and weak book development capacity, school children do not have access
to the minimum reading material required for efficient learning. The resources
allocated by Government to instructional materials are insufficient (para. 29)
and responsibility for purchasing textbooks lies with the parents, whose meager
resources are solicited by many competing priority uses. Even when books have
been provided free to MEN (e.g., about 500,000 books donated by France in
1987/88), they have been priced out of the reach of most families (600 CFAP/book



- 8 -
or about US$2).  As a result, there is a dearth of textbooks (one third of
classrooms without any textbooks prior to the French grant). Teachers guides and
the most basic teaching materials are equally scarce. This leads to teaching
methods which rely heavily on copying and rote learning, stifling the
intellectual autonomy of children. Locally developed textbooks, although still
weak in content and organization, could be improved and present an attractive
alternative. Because books have been shown to be a critical determinant of
student achievement, designing and implementing a more appropriate policy for
the development and distribution of reading materials which are both affordable
and instructionally sound, should be a high priority;
(b)   poorly trained teachers: pre- and in-service training do not adequately prepare
teachers for real classroom situations. Too much emphasis is put on lengthy and
expensive initial training, and not enough on continuous skills upgrading, which
is known to have a stronger positive effect on pupil learning. In 1986, the
Government decided to double the duration of training in the priary teacher
training colleges (Institutes pedagogiques d'enseignement g4n4ral, or IPEGs) to
four years at the upper secondary level, in the belief that this would allow an
improvement in teachers' mastery of basic disciplines, especially French; it
also decided to make admission into IPEGs subject to a rigorous competitive exam
to adjust the intake to civil service recruitment, and to recruit the new
graduates at a higher grade (maitres du second cycle, or MSC, instead of mattre
du premier cycle, or MPC). Such a decision would be costly, raising the cost
of training + salary by about 30 percent, if the system were growing fast, which
is not the case. More importantly for the short term, the revised programs were
hastily prepared, and continue to be heavily biased towards general education
(68 percent) at the expense of professional disciplines (27 percent) and
classroom practice (5 percent).   Objectives and means have not been clearly
defined, teaching methods fail to encourage experimentation and initiative,
instruction in the various disciplines remains compartmentalized, and student
evaluation is limited to academic achievement. In-service training courses --
held during the summer to reduce the need for substitute teachers -- have had
to be suspended for lack of recurrent funding. These conditions are not conducive
to the production of imaginative teachers, capable of compensating for the lack
of materials and poor facilities, or of adapting to new techniques such as
double-shift or multigrade;
(c)   insufficient pedagogic support and control:  each of the 31 primary inspectors
supervise, with the assistance of two pedagogic advisors, a range of 20-80
schools (300-600 teachers), a high ratio further complicated by the large
distances involved. They cannot properly discharge their functions because they
have not received any specialized training (in pedagogic support as well as
management techniques) and are often too close to retirement to catch up with
state-of-the-art educational developments; in addition, they do not have the
vehicles, fuel, spare parts for maintenance needed for mobility so that some
schools have only been visited once in two or three years.  Finally, much of
their time is spent on repetitive and unnecessary administrative chores. This,
combined with the lack of instructional materials, insufficient teacher in-
service training and delays in salary payments, generates a feeling of
helplessness and abandonment among teachers, especially those who are young and
inexperienced;



- 9 -
(d)   cluttered curriculums  the primary education curriculum is ill-adapted in two
major ways.   First, the work load has been increased over the years to 32.5
hours/week. This figure, to be compared to 27 hours in France or 24 in the US,
exceeds  the absorptive capacity of young children.   Second,  in 1982 the
Government introduced "ruralization' in the nine grades of basic education. The
goal was to rehabilitate manual labor through gardening, carpentry, etc.
However, these activities have been introduced hastily, without proper attention
being paid to objectives, content, input requirements and linkages with other
disciplines (science, math). Additionally, they have tended to divert time away
from the learning of basic literacy and numeracy skills (the 3 Rs), primary
school's main purpose. As a result the experiment, despite a few successes, is
often quest'oned by teachers; it is resisted by urban parents who fail to
perceive its usefulness, and by rural parents who resent the loss of child labor
and question the ability of teachers to teach manual skills. It is also costly.
Similarly, the experimental use of natural languages in the early years of
instruction has experienced some difficulties, so that evaluation and
consolidation are required before extension could be envisaged. There is a need
to reduce the weekly number of classhours, to increase effective instructional
time in the 3Rs, and to scale down non-essential other activities.
28.   Internal efficiency in the other levels of education is also low by African
standards. In Cycle II, the proportion of repeaters and drop-outs are about 34 and 20
percent on average, and pass rates at the basic graduation exam (DiplOme d'enseignement
fondamental, or DEF) vary widely (13.9 percent in 1987, 34.8 percent in 1988).   In
secondary education, similarly, the proportion of repeaters vary broadly, ranging from
7.6 percent in 1981 to 37.5 percent in 1987 in general streams, and slightly better in
technical secondary, without any clear pattern.  While the flow of basic education
graduates has been steady over the decade at about 6,000, the output of secondary
graduates (baccalaureate holders) has declined by half, from about 2,845 in 1983 to
about 1,420 in 1988 despite increasing pass-rates (from about 48 to 65 percent over the
same period). Given the slowdown in enrollment growth in basic education, this decline
will continue in the medium-term and should be used as an opportunity to consolidate the
system as a whole.   The situation in Cycle 1I is largely attributable to the same
factors as for primary education (para. 27). As for secondary education, it is better
endowed than basic education in terms of materials and teachers (ratio of about 8
studentslteacher).   It suffers from other difficulties, such as the low level of
entrants; unclear and ambitious objectives; the theoretical bias of the curriculum and
passive teaching methods, which are especially ill-adapted to the scientific and
technical streams; and an examination system where tests are not related to well-defined
skills expectations by grade.
29.   In hiaher education, internal efficiency, as measured by graduation rates, would
appear to be well above the regional average (50 to 70 percent, versus 25 to 40 percent
in francophone Africa) despite the low level of material expenditures (less than 1
percent); individual results are also puzzling, as the more selective schools (such as
ENI, the national engineering school) also have the lowest graduation rate (50 percent)
whereas the more open schools (ENSUP, IPR or agronomic institute) have much higher rates
(80 percent). Obvious constraints to raising quality ares insufficient selectivity,
resulting in student numbers well in excess of GE capacity (about 4,700 versus 3,'00),
and thinly spread resources for pedagogic material and equipment. Libraries have few
recent books and no subscriptions; computer science is taught without computers; there
is a shortage of microscopes and fresh supplies in laboratories; facilities and
equipment are not maintained. As a result, students are not prepared for practical



- 10 -
problem-solving, and it is difficult to perform research and experiments and to develop
the technical, scientific and managerial leadership which the country needs to harness
worldwide technological advances for its development.
3.   Inefficient Management of Scarce Resources
30.   Weak managerial and planning capacities.  MEN employs about 30 percent of the
civil service and manages about 25 percent of the Government budget, but is not equipped
to use these resources efficiently. The organization chart of the Ministry is simple
and clear, with seven National Directorates, a National Pedagogic Institute (IPN) and
eight Regional Directorates.   However, roles and functions tend to duplicate, and
efficiency suffers from the fact that MEN's staff consists largely of educators who have
not been trained in strategic thinking, policy analysis, investment planning and
programming, modern budget preparation and control, or personnel management techniques.
Internal communications and coordination with the Central Ministries have not been
effective, the sharing of experiences with the rest of the world has been limited, and
the creation of Regional Directorates has not been accompanied by sufficient delegation
of authority. As a result in recent years, MEN often has not been able to anticipate
problems until a crisis has emerged. Therefore there is an eagerness to develop a more
global vision of the sector and its linkages with the labor market and the economy, and
to acquire a better understanding and control of cost and financing issues, staffing
needs, physical and pedagogic developments in the sector, as a basis for more rational
decision-making.
31.   Severe budgetarv constraints.   In 1987, the share of education in the total
Government recurrent budget was about 25.2 percent, down from 29.4 percent in 1983.
Although this is above the average for Francophone Africa (21.7 percent in 1983), the
small size of the total budget means that the sector is underfinanced. The share of GDP
allocated to the sector was only 3 percent in 1987 (down from 3.7 percent in 1983) vs
5 percent for francophone Africa in 1983.   At the same time, given the country's
economic constraints, the many competing claims on Government's meager resources, and
the slackening of demand for education, it is unlikely that either the sectoral share
of the budget or the amounts involved will increase significantly in the near future.
These concerns are aggravated by the fact that, under proposals made at a national
seminar held in Gao (March 1987), revenues from the APE and other taxes would be merged
into a single "Development Tax", revenues from which would be retained at the regional
level in a Development Fund, for priority uses to be determined by Development
Committees.   Sector work has documented MEN's fear that implementation of these
proposals would entail a risk of decline in the level of sectoral expenditures. Since
these constrained resources will have to cater to the needs of a fast growing population
(2.7 percent p.a., and more for the 7-12 year old population), and personnel
expenditures will increase as teachers progress on the salary scale, even partial
solution of the issues described above will require at least maintaining the share of
the sectoral budget, _ncreasing the mobilization of private and external resources for
education, and improving allocative efficiency.
32.   Skewed spending pattern.   The budgetary constraints are aggravated by an
inequitable and inefficient spending pattern.   By level of education,  Cycle I,
representing 81 percent of enrollments, receives less than 35 percent of the sectoral
recurrent budget, versus 38 percent for Cycle II + secondary (including teacher
training), totalling 17 percent of enrollments, and 19 percent for higher education (2
percent of enrollments); the rest is spent on administration (4 percent), and subsidies
to private education (4 percent). Investment is mostly financed by external sources,



- 11 -
and has received only 1 percent of MEN's total budget. Corresponding budget shares for
francophone Africa are substantially higher for primary, much lower for secondary
education, and similar for higher education. This pattern is inequitable because primary
school is the only exposure to education that most children will ever have, and
inefficient because it has encouraged students (mainly from urban elites) to continue
their studies beyond what can be justified on the basis of social returns to public
investments. By type of expenditures, the structure of the budget is similar to the
regional average. The share of personnel has risen to 74 percent (98 percent in primary
education). This is not because salaries are too high (they have fallen by 10 percent
in real terms since the beginning of the decade) but because of the large proportion of
teachers not actually teaching in Cycle T, and because of overstaffing in Cycle II and
secondary education.   Scholarships have declined from 23 to 17.6 percent of total
educational expenditure over the 1985-1988 period, due to the decline in student numbers
and tighter controls (para. 34). Materials allocations were also reduced, from 3.9
percent in 1985 to 3.4 percent in 1988, or 2.4 percent once the share of central
administration is taken out. Basic education was especially hard hit by these cuts,
crippling the productivity of even the best teachers.   Computer simulations of
alternative financing policies have shown that continuation of present trends (with a
3 percent real growth rate) would result in a decline of the (total) primary enrollment
ratio from about 31 percent to about 27 percent in 2003 and in further quality
deterioration. Details are in Annex VI.
33.   Rising unit costs.  Unit costs per student (i) are close to the regional average
for primary education (about 26 percent of p.c. GDP); (ii) since 1985, have risen
considerably in secondary general education (to reach 370 percent of p.c. GDP) and in
teacher training (to 785 percent), where there is considerable scope for savings; and
(iii) in higher education, have also increased (to 441 percent of p.c. GDP) but remain
substantially below the average for francophone Africa (18 times the unit cost per
primary student, vs 50 to 80 times). The increase in unit costs at the secondary and
higher education levels is due the exceptionally low and falling students/teacher ratios
-- 14/1 in Cycle II, 7.5/1 in secondary, 3/1 at IPEGs,   10 to 8/1 in the GEs --
resulting from the decline in student numbers, combined with conservative regulations
concerning the assignment of teachers, their degree of specialization and the number of
hours they teach. This has meant that the teacher training colleges, IPEGs for Cycle
I teachers and ENSECs for Cycle 1I teachers, are seriously underutilized. In higher
education, scholarships have been the other largest cost element (para. 34). These two
items (teacher salaries + scholarships) have absorbed practically all the budget, and
the remaining element of unit costs (materials) is too low to allow the attainment of
satisfactory quality standards, especially in the more technical disciplines. Given the
poor efficiency indicators, unit costs per graduate are high, and the pre-requisite for
reducing them, at least in primary education, is an increase in the unit cost per
student, in the   form of an  injection of quality inputs (pedagogic material and
support, teacher in-service training). Details are in Annex VI.
34.   High student subsidies.  Student subsidies have declined but continue to absorb
an excessive share of resources.        The decreasing share of scholarships in the
educational budget (from about 40 percent in 1980 to about 17.6 percent in 1988) results
from a combination of deliberate policies (closing of secondary boarding schools,
transferring part of the cost of foreign scholarships to host Governments, stricter
controls of student numbers) and mechanistic effects (the decline in enrollments in
secondary and higher education). The real share is actually 50 percent lower, as the
budget nomenclature still classifies as "scholarships to secondary education"
allocations for materials which are directly paid to the schools. Nevertheless, student



- 12 -
subsidies still represent no less than 63 percent of the higher education budget and
fail to serve as a tool for improving internal and external efficiency and for promoting
equity. Practically all students in higher education are entitled to a scholarship.
As a result, the GEs operate beyond capacity, the resources remaining for pedagogic and
operating inputs are inadequate (0.3 percent of the sub-sectoral budget) reinforcing the
theoretical bias of instruction. Additionally, about 44 percent of the higher education
scholarship budget still goes to pay travel and complementary allowances for students
abroad, who represent only 34 percent of enrollments, and whose expenses are supposedly
paid by the host governments. Given, on one hand, the limited employment prospects for
higher education graduates and on the other hand, the need to free up resources to
restore the GEs to academic excellence and expand primary education, continuing to
carefully reduce scholarships would send a consistent, rational economic signal to the
student population while allowing MEN to progress towards its global objectives.
Details are in Annex VI.
35.   Deteriorating capital stock and hilh amortization costs. The lack of maintenance
of the existing school buildings results in unnecessary capital losses and a dilapidated
physical environment, while low construction standards lead to high amortization costs
(due to replacements, repairs, etc.). About 60 percent of the 7,250 existing primary
classrooms have been built by Government or foreign donors. The remainder have been
built by APEs, in line with Government policy of transferring to them full
responsibility for primary school construction since the 1960s. Classrooms financed by
Government or donors using imported building materials and sturdy construction
techniques, are valued at the high capital cost of US$19,600 (US$417 per pupil-place).
Due to a number of constraints -- a decline in disposable income in the wake of the
drought, insufficient technical skills and lack of guidance or support from Government
services, uncertainties as to their future and competing priorities -- in recent years
the APEs have been unable to expand and maintain the stock of schools, which is rapidly
deteriorating.   On the other hand, classrooms built by the APEs, which cost about
US$5,800 (US$125 per pupil/place) require frequent replacement because of poor
construction standards (technical specifications, designs and construction methods) and,
again, lack of maintenance. The annual amortization cost for the two types of schools
(financed by Government and by APEs) taking into account maintenance cost and life-
cycle cost over a 25-year period, are quite similar (about $32-36 per pupil/year).
Preparation studies indicate that the use of simple, low cost/low maintenance
construction techniques, based on local materials, would enable local comnunities to
build more durable schools for less than US$12,800 per classroom, provided those
communities receive support from trained technicians and complementary financing aid.
While this is about twice the investment costs for classrooms built by APEs, the annual
amortization cost would be reduced to about US$14/pupil year. This clearly shows that
there is an urgent need to: (i) reduce unit capital costs through a more intensive use
of facilities -- in basic education, this should begin with the introduction of double-
shift techniques in urban areas and the development of multigrade teaching in rural
areas; (ii) preserve the existing investment through rehabilitation and maintenance; and
(iii) base any new school construction on low cost/low maintenance construction
techniques.



- 13 -
PART III. THE PROPOSED HYBRID PROJECTs
AN INTEGRATED PROGRAM OP REFORMS AND INVESTMENT
A.    The Government's Strategy
36.   Outside MEN, the Ministry's priorities, the quality of the service it provides,
and the usefulness of its product for employers have often been questioned.  Until
recently the seriousness of the primary education and graduate unemployment crisis,
and the decline in secondary and higher education enrollments were not fully realized;
therefore, top priority was given to an expansion of higher education (para. 39).
During the past two years, a more pragmatic, realistic approach has developed, and a
more balanced strategy has emerged with two main objectives: (i) to restore the balance
of the education systebi, principally by expanding access to primary education (Cycle I),
but also by developing viable options for general secondary and higher education and
returning the GEs to their initial function, which was to train limited numbers of
highly qualified professionals and scholars in line with the trends in the labor market
and projected resource constraints; and (ii) to improve quality and relevance at all
levels of the education system. In order to meet these two objectives, Government also
proposes to promote a more efficient use of budgetary. human and physical resources for
education, to broaden the resource base for the sector by mobilizing increased support
from all the parties concerned, and to decentralize the management of the system to the
regions and the parents.
37.   This  strategy  represents  a major  improvement  and  an  impressive  agenda.
Implementing it will require, on the part of the Government, a sustained adjustment
effort and political determination; and on the part of donors, increasing, well-
coordinated action to support the reform process and the required investments.  The
reforms would focus on the control and orientation of student flows, the introduction
of more objective tools to monitor quality, and the efficiency of resource allocation
and use. On the investment side, immediate external assistance is critically needed,
in particular for primary education where the needs are greatest, have been clearly
identified, and have not received sufficient donor attention (para. 115).  The key
elements of the approach retained by Government, and supported by this project, are
(i) to expand access: increased resource allocations for Cycle I, a partnership with
the APEs for school construction, incentives to the development of private education,
a more intensive utilization of teachers and facilities; and (ii) to improve performance
and relevance: a new emphasis on *basics", i.e., the 3Rs, teacher retraining, textbooks,
more pedagogic support. This includes an agreement to use objective testing and M & E
to guide experiments, such as ruralization and the use of national languages, where the
record needs to be more firmly established.
38.   For secondary education, Government proposes to:  (i) continue to orient an
increasing proportion of students towards technical and vocational streams, developed
and managed with active private sector involvement and located in the regions; these
training programs could be accommodated partly through the merging and/or the
rehabilitation of existing, underused facilities (IPEGs, ENSECs); (ii) on the basis of
an evaluation, redirect the content and delivery of existing programs and strengthening,
in particular, the teaching of math and science; and (iii) review the linkage (exams,
orientation and admission mechanism) between Cycle II/secondary, and between
secondary/higher education. Such a strategy could be supported by the donors and will
be refined under the proposed project.



- 14 -
39.   For higher education, Government's proposal has been to create a decentralized,
vocationalized University consisting of six regional campuses (comprising three
"facultes8 and five technical "instituts") to cater to social demand for higher
edacation, stimulate the economic development of the regions and decongest Bamako. The
University would operate as a junior college, largely self-financed; graduates would be
admitted by competitive examination into the GEs which would be returned to their
original mission, i.e., to train a limited number of highly skilled professionals.
Government has requested the assistance of the African Development Bank (AfDB) and IDA.
In close coordination, both institutions are working with MEN to develop a policy and
institutional framework that includes an assessment of the feasibility of Government's
proposals.
40.   While there is agreement with Government on the strateg, for primary and
secondary education, initial IDA studies have found that for educational, financial and
logistical reasons, decentralization of higher education is not a viable option for Mali
in the years ahead; any move towards regionalization should be modest, cautiously
phased, and experimental. On the other hand, emphasizing the vocational orientation and
the regionalization of education, as prcposed by the Government, would be highly
appropriate at the secondary level. In all cases, quality, employment prospects and
cost should be priority concerns.   An alternative approach under discussion could
therefore involve: (i) establishing the University of Mali in existing, underutilized
facilities (the Bamako ENSEC, following renovation, would be a good candidate); (ii)
transforming ENA and ENSUP, whose missions need to be reviewed anyway, respectively into
a Law/Economics and a Humanities Faculty offering first and second university cycle
degrees; (iii) following a feasibility study, testing decentralization on a limited
scale by transforming onc of the regional IPEGs or ENSECs into a science Faculty
offering first university cycle degrees leading to admission into: ENMP, the school of
medicine and pharmacy; ENSUP for higher scientific degrees; EtI, the engineering school
and IPR, the agronomic institute; (iv) reorganizing those GEs requiring reorientation
to give them a more practical approach, (IPR, located some 60 kms from the capital,
ENSUP, and ENA); (v) reinforcing those GEs that remain relevant (EHEP, ENI, discussed
in paras. 21 and 26; ENMP, and ENPT, the school for Posts and Telecommunications)
through increased resource allocations and selectivity; (vi) strengthening research and
gradually develop, in closed coordination with agricultural sector projects, a regional
network for the dissemination of its findings; and (vii) bringing greater transparency
and efficiency in the management of resources. Given the limited number of students,
the creation of competing nfacultis" and Oinstitutse should be avoided. Further review
and discussion of these, and other options which will be proposed under the AfDB-
financed study, are planned, in a donor-coordinated framework, to develop a full
proposal. In the meantime, several of the policy elements underlying the above approach
(students orientation, budgetary targets, scholarship reductions) would be put in place
under the proposed project; the program of studies required (inventory of existing
facilities, tracer studies, program evaluation, 0 & M diagnosis) has already begun under
IDA and AfDB financing.
B.    Rationale, History, and Obiectives
41.   Rationale.    The proposed project would assist the Government  in further
articulating and in implementing its education strategy. It wauld be hybrid in nature,
i.e, an integrated package of far-reaching policy measures and critically needed
investments designed to help reshape Mali's unbalanced education system and improve its
performance and relevance, taking into account the needs and resource constraints of the
Malian economy. The hybrid format was retained because it is well adapted to the Malian



- 15 -
situation, whcze the ne64 for sustained, difficult adjustment and immediate budgetary
support coexists with the need to maintain an acceptable level of well-targeted
investment (in primary education, in rehabilitation, and in software). The request for
budgetary support was triggered by the Minister of Education's concern for solidifying
support for the reforms by showing quick and visible improvements in key areas where the
impact of resource constraints had been felt most, such as insufficient materials
allocations. The prospect of quick disbursements (three equal tranches over three
years, each roughly equivalent to the savings that would be achieved through the
program) facilitated agreement and upfront action on a broader and deeper set of reforms
than had been thought feasible in the early phases of identification and preparation.
These reforms extend beyond primary education, the focus of the investment element, and
beyond what could have been achived through regular project lending. They concern, in
particular, ceiling, on new enrollments into secondary general and higher education
(para. 45); a modification of the 1985 decision on primary teacher training (para.
27(b)  and a rationalization of the teacher training apparatus  (para.  48); the
development of a framework to restructure secondary and higher education, which will
modify the composition of investment and recurrent expenditures in favor of primary
education and of quality inputs more rapidly than would have been the case without the
sectoral adjustment program (para. 50); reductions in higher education scholarships,
beyond the nominal freeze included in the program agreed with the IMP in June 1988
(para. 51) and a more efficient management of MEN's procurement procedures (para. 56).
Thus, the quick-disbursement element would both ease and accelerate the reform process,
the investment element would strengthen institutional capacities, while the combined
package would ensure that adequate investment and operating resources are channelled to
this key sector and that they are efficiently used.
42.   History.  Most of the policy issues were identified as early as the 1986 Public
Expenditure Review. Because of limited initial policy agreement, preparation, done by
the UNESCO/Bank Group Cooperative Program, centered on primary education anti on the
hard-core policy conditionality which was a sine qua non for IDA's involvement in the
project. By the pre-appraisal stage, the deepening of the sectoral dialogue and the
adoption of a structural adjustment program allowed IDA to respond positively to
Government's request for assistance in developing a full adjustment program.
43.   Objectives. Both elements of the proposed project would complement and mirror
each other. The sectoral adiustment prozram (paras. 44-59), which would be supported
by a quick-disbursing element, would establish the global policy and institutional
framework for improving, at all levels of the system, (i) access and equity, (ii)
performance and relevance, and (iii) the cost-effective management of human, financial
and physical resources. Within this framework, the investment element (paras. 60-83)
would represent the core package of a long-term investment program which other donors
will be invited to support. It would focus on primary education (Cycle I), where the
needs are greatest, to (a) increase enrollments from the supply and the demand side, in
three of Mali's seven regions; and (b) improve the performance and relevance of primary
education countrywide. It would also: (c) help develop and implement a strategy for
restructuring secondary and higher education; and (d) at the sectoral level, strengthen
MEN's institutional capabilities. The proposed project is justified as an important
element of IDA's strategy of assistance to Mali both at the macro (para. 59) and
sectoral (paras. 36-40) levels and as the main source of investment in education. The
process thus initiated should gradually consolidate the Malian education system, making
it more equitable by broadening its base, primary education, and more efficient by
adapting its output and management to the requirements of the labor market and resource
availability.



- 16 -
C.    Sectoral Adiustment Program
44.   The Government has already taken a number of measures tot (i) improve the linkage
with employment -- introduction of a competitive examination for recruitment into the
civil service (1983) and for admission into the teacher training colleges (1986),
orientation of an increasing proportion of students away from secondary general and
higher education, toward shorter, technical and vocational streams (cince 1985) and
establishment of a USAID early departure program under which about 340 teachers have
left the civil service since 1987; (ii) increase the efficiency of resource use with
major scholarship reductions since 1985, the closing of all secondary boarding schools
(1984), enactment of legislation to promote the development of a private educational
sector (1986) and the testing of a new mechanism to leverage parents contributions to
primary school construction (1988); the closing down of three out of six primary teacher
training colleges (1989); and (iii) improve the relevance of education through
beneficiary assessments of existing programs and tracer studies (1988). The eleven
points in the sectoral adjustment program supported by the proposed project would
further and deepen thei reform process. The policy measures and their implementation
schedule are incorporated in the Letter of Education Policy, dated April 28, 1989 and
signed by the Minister of Labor and Civil Service, on behalf of the Minister of
Education (Annex III). Conditionality, including monitorable targets, is listed in
Annex XII. Supporting actions to be taken and the review criteria are in Anuex IV.
Implementation and monitoring arrangements are described in paras. 93 and 105.
1.   Measures to Improve Access and Equity:
45.   Measure #1.  The Government plans to better control the number of new entrants
Into (upper) secondary general isnd higher education, while continuing to orient more
students towards technical and vocational streams.   Based on a three-year rolling
average of historic and projected cohorts, the ceiling would fall during school years
1989-92, within & range of 2,200-2,500 for secondary general education and of 1,100-
1,500 (GEs + students abroad) for higher education. These numbers are to be compared
to peaks of 2,650 for the former (in 1986) and 3,040 for the latter (in 1984). Without
excessively contriving an already thinning flow of students (1 higher education graduate
per 3,000 population),  this measure would: (i) free up resources to expand primary
education, thus favoring the poorer, rural segments of the population who will never go
beyond that level of education; (ii) ensure that resources for higher education are not
spread too thin over too many students; (iii) reduce graduate unemployment by
encouraging students to enter streams whose graduates are in higher demand; and (iv)
preveut a lowering of examination atandards. Assurances were given at negotiations that
the number of new entrants into secondary general and higher education would not exceed
the agreed ceiling of 2,500 p.a. for the former and a total of 4,500 over 3 years (1,500
p.a. on average) for the latter during school years 1989-90 through 1991-92.   The
targets would be reviewed in 1992.
46.   Measure #2.  In line with Government's philosophy of promoting private sector
activities, MEN already subsidizes catholic schools, provides accredited medersas with
pedagogic control and support and in 1986 enacted legislation authorizing the
establishment of small non-denominational, self-financing schools. To broaden access
to quality primary education without further straining the Government budget, MEN
proposes to offer: (i) matching funds and incentives such as teacher training and
learning materials to existing private schools for physical and pedagogic improvements;
and (ii) start-up subsidies-cum-training to unemployed trained teachers supported by



- 17 -
potential APEs for the creation of about 30 district schools (ecoles de base) in urban
areas and about 30 village schools (4coles de village) in rural areas. The former would
charge fees, while for the latter the village association would support the teacher.
Progress would be monitored each year.   Although t)he potential for the two new
approaches proposed is .learer for the district than for the village schools, the
savings achieved on public resources could be reallocated towards the poorer, rural
parts of the country. At negotiations, Government gave assurances that by November
1989, it would: (i) issue norms and regulations (pedagogic, financial, safety)
applicable to the new proposed types of schools; and (ii) submit to IDA proposals for
additional incentives to the private provision of education such as tax reductions, and
management or licensing arrangements.
47.   Measure 13. Enrollment of Rirls, which in Mali are low even by African standards
(37 percent of total enrollments in Cycle I, 32 percent in Cycle II, 25 percent in
secondary, and 13 percent in higher education), are a source of concern for the
Government. Commonly invoked reasons include the early age of marriage and the fear of
traditional parents that an educated woman will not be a good wife and mother. A 1988
UNICEF study on "Children and women in Mali" pointed to a general deterioration of
women's lot as producers, procreators and providers. On the other hand, when girls
continue into the higher levels of education, they perform very well (23 percent of the
students in the medical school are girls). On the labor market, women well trained in
clerical and commercial skills are in high demand; at a higher level., a few women have
established themselves as strong Directors and Cabinet members.   In the education
sector, a fairly low 21 percent of primary teachers are females. There are no legal
impediments to their recruitment in the profession, and they have earned a good
reputation as pedagogues.   Previous Government attempts at introducing affirmative
action in favor of women have been perceived as coercive and counterproductive, so that
sensitivity to the cultural context is essential in addressing these issues. At the
policy level, Government has agreed (i) for the short-term, to include in the revised
curriculum outlined in para. 49 basic principles in health, nutrition, and child care
so as to overcome parents' initial reluctance; and (ii) for the medium term, to conduct,
with punctual assistance from a women-in-development specialist fully familiar with the
Sahelian cultural context, a study identifying the influence of factors such as the
family environment, school characteristics, community characteristics and proposing
realistic, concrete solutions; these solutions (legal measures such as lowering the
admission age for girls, incentives, media campaign, etc.) could, as far as primary
education is concerned, be supported through the investment part of the project; for
secondary and higher education, the proposed solutions would be explicitly taken into
account and translated into actionable proposals in the Master Plan discussed in para.
50. Draft T.O.R.s for the study are in the Implementation Book (I.B.) for the Project,
Annex 3-2. Assurances were given at negotiations that the study would be submitted to
IDA for joint review by March 31, 1990, and that the agreed-upon recommendations would
be implemented along an agreed schedule.   At the operational level, complementary
actions are discussed in para. 66.
2.   Measures to Improve Performance and Relevance at all Levels:
48.   Measure 14.  In an effort to improve the effectiveness of teachers and to reduce
the cost of their training, Government, in a reversal of its 1985 decision, proposes to
revise the recruitment level and the curriculum in the primary teacher training colleges
(IPEGs) and has taken steps to rationalize the use of their facilities (IPEGs and
ENSECs). As of 1990-91, student teachers would be recruited among upper, instead of
lower secondary education graduates (Baccalaureate, instead of DEF holders), and would



- is -
be trained for two years instead of four, reducing the cost/graduate by about one-third.
This new policy would offer Government more flezibility in training rapidly (2 years)
new primary teachers, should the accelerated expansion of the system require it;
conversely, young IPEG graduates, having previously completed their secondary studies,
could more easily adapt to employment opportunities other than teaching if the planned
expansion did not materialize. In addition, MEN has begun merging its six teacher-
training colleges: all student teachers are being relocated into three colleges while
one of tht. IPEGs (Bamako) would be transfo%rmed, under the proposed project, into a
Center for Continuous Upgrading to reflect the greater emphasis put on in-service
training (para. 71). Similarly, students from the four lower secondary teacher training
colleges (ENSECs) would be regrouped on the basis of a complementary Utilization Plan
under preparation.   Thus, up to five teacher training colleges out of 10 would be
assigned to other uses (mostly in-service training) until the preparatory studies for
the restructuring strategy for secondary education (para. 50) identify a more
economically justified use for them. Teachers released will be encouraged to apply
for voluntary departure severance benefits (the on-going USAID program which will be
extended, with education personnel as a specific target, in support of the proposed
project) or to create private schools, with incentives provided under the investment
element of the proposed project (para. 65); however, they may remain on the Government
payroll for some time and they have not been included in the savings. The savings
achieved by the time the mergers are completed (1991) could reach 300 million CFAF
p.a.,or 36 percent of the 1988 budget for Cycle I and II teacher training.  Second
Tranche release would be conditional upon:  ti) issuance of a legal text modifying
Decision No. 0346 (dated March 23, 1986), and Arrete No. 5728 (dated June 6, 1986) to
specify the new recruitment level (Bac) and the new duration of training (two years);
(ii) agreement on the Utilization plan for ENSECs and (iii) introduction of the new IPEG
curriculum, as agreed with IDA.
49.   Measure t5.  As a first step towards increasing the relevance of the education
system, the Cycle I curricula would be adapted so as to reinforce pupils learning
achievements in basic disciplines (the 3 Rs). This would be done by reducing the total
weekly work load (from 32.5 hours to international practices of about 25-27 hours),
allocating more instructional time (about 3/4 of the total) to these key disciplines,
defining the pedagogic objectives to be achieved for each subject and each grade,
adapting the content of the program to the cultural context of Mali, and improving the
linkage between practical activities (ruralizat' )n) and said pedagogic objectives. This
return to, and increased emphasis on basics, ,s expected to produce more literate and
numerate graduates, capable of being more productive and adaptable to the demands of an
evolving  labor market or successfully continuing into the higher levels.   The
availability of learning material (para. 73) would encourage individual study, and
therefore more independent thinking and greater self-reliance. Agreement on the work
program for the Task Force in charge of this revision, taking into account the findings
of evaluations of ruralization and national language experiments discussed with IDA
would be a condition of third Tranche release.
50.   Measure 16.  The Government, with assistance from IDA and the AfDB, is exploring
the policy and investment options for a rational long-term development of secondary and
higher education. Agreement would be reached, as a condition of second Tranche release,
on a Master Plan to restructure secondary general, technical and vocational, and higher
education, in line with the other parameters of the program, trends in labor market
requirements and resource constraints.   The points to be covered would include:(i)
desirable enrollment targets (in Mali and abroad); (ii) priority streams, given
national, regional and international employment opportunities; (iii) locations and



- 19 -
organizational structures to reconcile the need for academic excellence, social demand
and cross fertilization between the education system and the private sector; this would
include appropriate incentives to the development of private educational services
(especially for technical/vocational training) and to employer participation in the
design, delivery and financing of secondary and higher education programs; (iv)
investment requirements (hardware vs software, rehabilitation vs new structures on the
basis of an inventory of the existing stock); (v) recurrent costs requirements, with a
view to achieving an efficient balance between salary, non-salary (scholarships) and
operating expenditures, with in the agreed budgetary framework (para. 51); (vi) a viable
plan for both investment and recurrent financing, including the scope for cost-recovery;
<vii) proposals to improve student information/orientation/selectiont admission and the
examination system (fairness, cost) while ensuring more equal access for less privileged
social groups; (viii) norms and standards in the areas of staffing, pedagogy,
construction, planning, budgeting; and (ix) a realistic, phased implementation plan.
Satisfactory progress towards implementation of the Master Plan would be a condition for
third Tranche release.   Assurances were given at negotiations that any new sectoral
investment in excess of CFAP 300 million would be reviewed and agreed upon with IDA on
the basis of a financial and economic study.
3.   Measures to Improve the Management of Resources:
51.   Measure #7.  During 1989-1994, MEN's recurrent budRet would be restructured so
as to increase the resources available to expand primary education (Cycle I) and enhance
quality at all levels. First, the Ministry's share in the Government's recurrent budget
would be maintained at least at 25 percent, and MEN would retain, for internal
reallocations in favor of primary education and materials, the cost reductions achieved
through efficiency gains at the other levels or on other budget items. Second, within
MEN's budget, by level of education, the share of primary education would be gradually
increased from 35 percent to 45 percent through reallocation from savings at the other
levels. This would be achieved mainly by freezing in nominal terms, and if possible
reducing, the budgets for Cycle II (CFAF 3.1 billion), secondary general education
(CFAF 1.7 billion) and teacher training (CFAF 0.83 billion). A ceiling would be placed
on the share of higher education at its present level (19 percent).   By type of
expenditure, higher education scholarships (in Mali and abroad) would be further reduced
by 10 percent p.a. (current terms) in 1989, 1990, and by 5 percent p.a. in 1991 and 1992
and would thus decline from about CFAP 2.4 (of which CFAF 900 million for travel) to
1.76 billion; the share of materials in total education expenditures would be increased
from 4 percent to about 12 percent (including a reclassification of secondary
scholarships as materials, which they already are). These reallocations represent a
significant departure from previous practice, which favored the higher levels of the
education system and salary/social expenditures at the expense of non salary operating
costs.  Para. 91 compares MEN's budget under the adjustment and the non-adjustment
scenarios. The criteria for reducing the scholarships would be as indicated in
Annex VI.   Effectiveness would be conditional upon a modification of MEN's budget
nomenclature to separate Cycle I from Cycle II budgets and to reclassify as such the
"materials, element of scholarships.   Second and third Tranche release would be
conditional, for the first three years of the program, upon: (i) the allocation of at
least 25Z of the Government recurrent budget to MEN; (ii) implementation of the above
scholarship reductions on schedule; (iii) satisfactory increases in the primary (Cycle
I) budget to 40 (second Tranche) and 42 percent (third Tranche) and in the materials
budget to 8 (second Tranche) and 9 percent (third Tranche) of MEN's recurrent budget;
and (iv) maintaining the share of higher education below 192 of MEN's recurrent budget.



- 20 -
52.   Measure #8.  A number of steps would also be taken to control the growth of the
wane element of unit costs beyond the freeze of the salary bill (current terms) included
in the IMF program through 1989. Government proposes to increase the students/teacher
ratios from 38:1 to 42sl in Cycle I, from 14sl to 25:1 in Cycle II, and from 8sl to 15sl
in secondary education by 1994. A staffing plan would be agreed each year between
Government and IDA. For Cycle I, about 10 percent of replacement teachers and teachers
exempted from classroom duties (totalling respectively about 700 and 923 at the Cycle
I level) would be redeployed annually towards the classroom. Double-shift teaching
would be introduced, on an experimental basis, in at least 5 urban classrooms per annum
and per region of project concentration (totals 150 by 1994).  Multigrade teaching
techniques would be extended to at least 250 (50 per annum) existing rural schools with
students/teacher ratios below 20:1. For Cycle II and secondary education, the staffing
plan would include redeployment to Cycle I, early retirements under the USAID funded
program, and practically limiting new recruitment to math and science teachers. All
redeployed teachers would be eligible for special in-service training.   The core
measures would make it possible to expand primary enrollments by about 9 percent p.a.
within the present recruitment ceilings, saving resources for increases in materials
budgetary allocations.
53.   As a condition for second Tranche release, (i) the students/teacher ratio should
have increased from 38:1 in 1988 to at least 39:1 in Cycle I, from 14sl to at least 18:1
for Cycle II, and from 8sl to at least 10:1 for secondary education; and (ii) a major
personnel study (T.O.R.s available in the Implementation Book, Annex 2-6) covering
staffing ratios, recruitment/promotion/compensation policies, career prospects and
training needs, proposals to further rationalize the students/teacher ratios in Cycle
II and secondary education, and recommendations on appropriate entry levels into the
civil service for IPEG and ENSEC graduates should have been discussed with IDA. The
release of the third Tranche would be conditional upon attainment of at least a 40:1
students/teacher ratio in Cycle I, 20:1 in Cycle II and 12:1 in secondary education and
implementation of the recommendations of the personnel study along an agreed schedule.
54.   Measure #9.   Government's  long-standing policy of cost-recovery  in basic
education needs to be made more effective. In order to mobilize additional resources
for the expansion and improvement of primary education, MEN is already testing a new
financial mechanism, the Basic Education Support Fund (Fonds d'appui a l'enseignement
fondamental or FAEF). Under the project, the FAEF would be funded by donors (initially
IDA and USAID) to match contributions from APEs, leveraged by the resources of NGOs and
Development Committees. The matching ratio, initially 50:50, could vary depending on
the type of activity supported or the region of intervention, providing a flexible tool
to compensate for economic disparities. Details on the operation of FAEF, which would
involve technical guidance to Parents' Associations for school construction, are in
para. 62.   Its legal establishment would be a first Tranche release/effectiveness
condition. Additiorally, assurances were received at negotiations that, to counter
the decline in sectoral resources likely to result from introduction of the Development
Tax (as described in para. 31), Government would ensure, starting January 1, 1990, that
at least 30Z of the yield from said Tax would be earmarked to the financing of
educational activities.
55.   Measure #10.  To ensure consistency between the proposed strategy and public
resource allocation, each year from 1989 through 1994 the Government and IDA would agree
on a three-year rolling investment program reflecting the priority to be given to (i)
expanding and improving primary education; (ii) rehabilitation over new construction;
and (iii) software over hardware. This agreement would also result in more coherent



- 21 -
donor interventions  (Annex V).   The 1989-1991 investment program was agreed at
negotiations.
56.   Measure #11.  In order to achieve savings on its purchases, the MEN would use
existing procurement procedures in a different manner so as to increase competition
between bidders through better planning and packaging. At present, about 25 percent
(value terms) of MEN's purchases are procured under local competitive bidding (excluding
firms not incorporated in Mali) and 75 percent under direct contracting. As a matter of
policy, MEN has decided to increase the share of its procurement by competitive bidding.
In the future, the Ministry will base its purchases on: (il international competitive
bidding for at least 25 percent in value terms; (ii) local competitive bidding for at
least 50 percent; and (iii) direct purchases for no more than 25 percent. In the Malian
context, this means that imported goods estimated at more than US$100,000 equivalent
would be procured through competitive bidding advertised locally and internationally -
- in at least one newspaper of wide circulation abroad. Foreign firms would not be
precluded from participation and would not be required to be incorporated in Mali. For
specialized equipment and textbooks, prequalification could also be utilized to deal
with a limited number of registered local and foreign suppliers. These arrangements
would be specified in an internal administrative text of MEN.
57.   Contribution of the guick-disbursements to external caPital requirements.  The
Government has prepared a medium-term financing plan which is consistent with the
macroeconomic framework and available financial resources. On the basis of these needs,
gross external financing requirements are estimated to be US$546 million in 1989, US$443
million in 1990, and US$421 million in 1991.
58.   Disbursements from existing loan commitments are projected to cover about 17
percent (US$239 million) of the external financing required for 1989-91. Grants and
expected new loan commitments would provide an additional US$907 million. The remaining
gap of US$264 million would be financed by the Paris Club and/or other debt relief and
new quick-disbursing non-project aid commitments, including IDA adjustment lending and
W   resources.  The adjustment component of the proposed education sector adjustment
credit plus cofinancing (totalling US$12 million equivalent), would cover 4.5 percent
of this remaining gap while ensuring a sustainable flow of essential imports to the
education sector. Given Mali's debt servicing capacity, the viability of the financing
plan will depend on success in mobilizing additional assistance in grant form or on
terms comparable to those of IDA.
59.   Linkage between the sectoral and the structural adiustment programs.   The
proposed program would reinforce at the sectoral levels reforms which are key elements
of the IMF and IDA - supported adjustment programs, principally in four areas:
(i)   improving the efficiency with which public (and private) educational resources
are mobilized, allocated and used, and to that effect, strengthening budgetary
and expenditure control procedures and bringing greater transparency in the
budget (paras. 51, 55 and 56);
(ii) promoting the role of the private sector in three different ways: (a) stimulating
the private financing of education through matching contributions at the primary
level (para. 54) and by determining the scope of, and modalities for, introducing
cost-recovery at the secondary and higher levels (para. 50); (b) providing
incentives for the improvement of existing muslim and catholic schools and for
the creation of new types of private schools (paras. 46 and 65); and (c)



- 22 -
encouraging students' initiative and entrepreneurship to better prepare them for
self or small enterprise employment through the introduction of more interactive
pedagogic methods and an adaptation of curricula   (para.  72) and through
technical advice and the establishment of an experimental line of credit to help
young graduates create microenterprises (para. 77);
(iii) ensuring that the flow of investment and operating resources allocated to
education is sufficient to bring about a noticeable improvement in human capital
formation in Mali. Renewed and sustained sectoral development, in turn allowing
better exploitation of the country's natural resource potential, will ultimately
be one of the key determinants of its long-term growth performance; and
(iv)  mitigating the effects of the adjustment process during the present transitory
period by providing support to a critical social sector.
D.    Investment Element
60.  'While the adjustment program would provide the policy and institutional framework
necessary to increase the efficiency of the sector at large, this element of the
proposed project would be focused on primary education and on reinforcing the sector
planning and management capacity.  It would support the core package of investments
required to reach the four objectives listed in para 43.
1.   Increasins the SupplV of. and Demand for, Primary Education
61.   This component would: (i) in the urban areas, increase the supply of primary
school places; (ii) in the rural areas, support actions to reverse the decline in social
demand for education; (iii) provide incentives to the development of private education;
and (iv) test new ways to stimulate female participation. These activities would be
geographically limited to three regions (Bamako, Segou, Sikasso) selected by MEN for
having a large unmet demand for education and a strong contributive capacity. Details
concerning this component are in Annex 3-2 of the Implementation Book (I.B.).
62.   Approach Proposed. As indicated in para. 54, a new mechanism, the "Fonds d'appui
A l'enseignement fondamentall (FAEF) would be established to mobilize additional
resources from external donors, NGOs and APEs and channel them towards project
activities. Under the project, the FAEF would be funded by the IDA credit and the US
grant to match APE contributions in the three regions of concentration. In subsequent
projects, if the approach proves conclusive, it could be extended to other regions of
Mali and other donors.   This approach is already under experimentation,  for the
construction of six prototype schools in the Segou area with 'ACTION-ECOLE', an umbrella
organization working with 18 NGOs in Mali. FAEF funding would be available for sub-
projects submitted by APEs representing individual schools or groups of schools, meeting
certain pedagogic, financial and technical criteria and agreeing to specific conditions.
Following and information/sensitization campaign, APE applications would be screened
at the inspectorate (IEF) and regional Directorate (DRE) levels, then approved at the
Central level by a FAEF Steering Committee, for inclusion in the yearly program.  The
goal is that selected APEs would contribute, on average, about 50 percent of the total
cost estimates, based on their own resources and ad hoc contributions (e.g., Regional
Development Funds, NGOs). This figure might have to be revised in light of experience.
A simple agreement specifying the obligations of both parties would be signed, and FAEF
funds would be released in tranches upon satisfactory completion of pre-agreed work
phases and technical requirements certifications by MEN's Technical Studies Division



- 23 -
(para. 82). Of the activities described in paras. 63 - 66 below, about half or US$5.5
million, would be funded through the FAEF. Legal establishment of the FAEF would be an
effectiveness condition. Experience with the mobilization of APE contributions would be
reviewed jointly by Government and IDA each year.
63.    Increasing the supply of primary education in urban areas.  In order to maximize
the productivity of existing investments prior to undertaking new ones, this sub-
component would, in the 'communesa of the three regions of concentrations (i) introduce
minimum comfort conditions (cross ventilation, false ceilings, broader windows) in about
375 existing classrooms (30 percent of present stock in the three concerned regions) so
as to intensify the use of teachers and facilities through the extension of double-
shift teaching techniques even under the harsh afternoon climatic conditions; (ii)
repair about 1,000 classrooms and rehabilitate another 235 to maintain the capital
stock; and (iii) construct about 275 new classrooms using low amortization cost
techniques so as to expand the capacity of the primary school system. Double-shift
would be extended gradually (para. 52) with all the necessary safeguards: sensitization
campaign with inspectors, teachers and parents, the design of new experimental
curricula, special teacher training and continuous evaluation. Teachers selected for
the p -ogram would receive for overtime worked (40 contact hours vs 32.5), a compensation
equal to 25 percent of their salary during the nine months of the school year (half of
which financed under the credit through 1994). This measure could allow a 27 percent
increase in urban enrollments in the three project areas for less than one-third of what
a similar increase would cost under a one-shift regime (including salaries,
construction, maintenance, etc, amortized over a 20 year period).   Low-cost/low-
maintenance construction design using regionally available materials and labor-intensive
techniques, were refined during preparation through the building of prototypes. The
construction program would be based on a two-tiered organization withs  (a) overall
management supportlsupervision at the central level; and (b) operational coordination
at the regional level from three Regional Centers,each staffed with two nationals (one
technician, one community organizer) and one Volunteer (construction specialist) to
provide technical advice and guidance to the APEs/communities. A preventive school
maintenance system would also be established (para. 82). A school-of-the-year contest
would be organized to promote principles of sound resource management. Annex VIII shows
how the needs for new teachers could be met within existing teacher training capacities
and recruitment ceilings. A condition of disbursement against the whole FAEF-supported
school constructionlrehabilitation component would be the signature of a contract with
a Volunteers Association. Details of what the Proiect would finance (total: VS$9.4
million) are in Annex V.
64.   Stimulating social demand in rural areas. In order to reverse the decline in the
primary enrollment ratio in the "hors-communes" areas, about US$0.5 million would be
earmarked out of the credit to finance corrective measures. The exact nature of these
actions was determined by a beneficiary assessment of the responsiveness of schooling
to local needs, in particular parents' expectations from education, attitudes vis-a-
vis schooling for girls, the role of religion, the degree of learning and utility of
what is learned, distance from school, physical environment, language of instruction,
impact of schooling on farm productivity.   The assessment showed that the costs
associated with distance from school and the low perceived benefits of education are key
issues.   The FAEF would therefore leverage APE contributions under cofinancing
arrangements with NGOs for improvements in the schooling environment, including
borewells; it would finance equipment for school canteens run by APEs or with NGO
assistance (the European Development Fund would be prepared, under its Cereal Market
Restructuring Program, to fund the purchase of food staples from local producers to run



- 24 -
such programs) and a media campaign aimed at convincing parents that education is a
worthwhile investment,  even with limited modern employment prospects.   Curriculum
adaptation (para. 72) should also contribute to redress this negative trend. The rules
of the FAEF with respect to initial financial community commitment could be adapted to
fit the promotional nature of the activities envisaged. Details of what the proiect
would finance (total: US$0.5 million) are in Annex V.
65.    Support to private education.  In order to operationalize the Government's policy
of developing quality private educational services (para. 46) under this sub-component
existing catholic schools and medersas would be eligible for FAEF assistance for
construction and renovation, equipment and pedagogic materials (to become eligible,
the medersas would have to sign a contract with MEN under which they would agree to
follow the Ministry's programs and regulations); selected schools would then receive
books (in French or Arabic) and their teachers would gain access to project-financed
in-service training and receive pedagogic support/supervision. In addition, the project
would support Government's experiment with two new formulae, namely about 30 district
schools (ecole de base) in urban areas and 30 village schools (ecole de village) in
rural areas. Details of what the proiect would finance (total: US$1.6 million) are in
Annex V.
66.   Encouraeements to female participation. In support of the short and medium term
policy measures outlined in para. 47 to address the issue of low girls enrollments and
female participation in the teaching corps, under this sub-component: (i) a more
detailed and systematic data collection and analysis of gender-specific issues in all
levels of the education system (regional and socio-economic patterns, repeater and drop
out rates, orientation, tracer studies, female professors, etc) would be undertaken by
MEN's  Planning  Directorate;  and  (ii)  for  secondary  education,  following  a
market/feasibility/pre-investment study, one of several possible options would be
retained to reinforce female vocational training (rehabilitating the existing Bamako
National Technological School for Women, ENTF, or an alternative to be determined).
Details of what the proiect would finance (US$O.1 million) are in Annex V.
2.   Improving the Performance and Relevance of Primary Education
67.   To  attain  this  objective  countrywide  this  component would  reinforce  the
capabilities of the National Pedagogic Institute (IPN) to: (i) monitor and evaluate the
qualitative impact of program activities; (ii) raise teacher effectiveness through the
new approach to pre-service training and the reactivation of in-service training; (iii)
support the adaptation of the primary curriculum agreed under the program; (iv) provide
all primary schools with an adequate supply of affordable, pedagogically relevant
textbooks and pedagogic materials; and (v) strengthen pedagogic support and control.
Details are in Annex 3-3 of the I.B.
68.   Approach Proposed.  IPN wishes to create in its midst nuclei of competence so as
to carry its work program especially in the areas of curricula and textbook development,
rationalization of the teacher training system, the design and administration of tests
and surveys, decentralized school management, library and information science.   To
achieve that capacity-building objective, IPN, following a management review undertaken
with USAID funding, would be "twinned' with two reputable institutions, capable of: (i)
offering to carefully selected IPN specialists (many of whom have studied in Canada or
the US) complementary training in the required disciplines; and (ii) flexibly providing
short-term specialist  services in the same disciplines.   Most of the pedagogic
improvements described in paras. 69-74 would involve the same approach: (a) training of



- 25 -
IPN specialists at the twin institution; (b) upon their re,,urn, their participating,
with experienced Malian field staff (inspectors, teachers, pedagogic advisors) in Task
Forces given specific assignments  (e.g. curriculum or textbook revision); and (c)
punctual technical assistance of the twin institution to these Malian teams for the
timely completion of the assignment.  The twin institutions would be, under French
financing, the International Center for Pedagogic Studies (Centre International d'Etudes
Pedagogiques, or CIEP), for pre-service training and program development, and under US
financing, a university-type institution, for M & E and in-service training.
69.   Monitoring and evaluation.   In order to assess the qualitative improvements
expected from the proposed investment and to make adjustments as necessary, a pedagogic
"Tableau de bord'  ("control panel") would be developed.   It would focus on three
aspects: (i) student achievements: in PYl (first project year), a stratified sample
of about 3,000 pupils in second, third, fourth, and fifth grades would be tested in
Arabic/French and arithmetic to determine their initial skill levels; the tests would
then be repeated every other year to follow progress; the ruralization and national
language experiments would also be covered in the sample; (ii) classroom working
conditions: each year a sample of about 100 schools would be surveyed to monitor the
availability and use of pedagogic materials, school physical environment and
staff/pupils attitudes; and (iii) parental perceptions about education: periodic surveys
would be conducted, using the  'beneficiary-assessment' approach to monitor parents
expectations and opinions.  This information would be fed back to IPN's Evaluation
Division for analysis; it would provide MEN's officials a scientific basis, missing
hitherto, on which to decide whether to expand, reorient, scale down or discontinue
specific activities. Details on what the proiect would finance (totalt US$0.4 million)
are in Annex V.
70.   Teacher pre- and in-service trAining.  To enhance the basic and professional
skills of the primary teaching corps, this sub-component would: (i) finance the
investment required to revise the organization, curriculum and teaching methods for pre-
service training at the IPEGs as agreed under the program; and (ii) support a major in-
service training program for primary education personnel. The revision proposed for
IPEGs is discussed in para. 48. Starting from the results of the initial achievement
tests, which would highlight the weaknesses in instructional practices, the Malian team
would develop the new IPEG program in PY2, test it in PY3 and introduce it in PY4. This
program would take into account the higher level of general education of new recruits,
as well as the need to develop them into resourceful, flexible, practically-oriented and
innovative teachers.
71.   The in-service training program would be three-tiered, involving in sequence:
(i) all the 93 inspectors and pedagogic advisors; (ii) about 1,000 primary school
principals (3/4 of the total); and (iii) about 3,000 primary school teachers (1/3 of the
total). Trainees would be selected on a combination of first come, first served and
performance criteria, with efforts to constitute 'teams' at the school level.  The
program would be designed by IPN, using the results of the achievement tests and of an
evaluation of existing curricula (para. 72). The duration would be two weeks for the
inspectors, advisors and directors, to be trained at the Bamako IPEG (transformed into
a Center for Continuous Upgrading, operating year-round) and three weeks for the
teachers, to be trained in existing DRE or IEF facilities.   Topics covered would
include: (a) for the inspectors: decentralized educational administration (including
personnel management, statistics and planning, reporting and inspection, finance,
examinations); (b) for pedagogic advisors: pedagogic support, especially to support
young teachers; (c) for principals: relations with teachers and APEs, school budget and



- 26 -
accounting, timetabling, preventive maintenance, safety; and (d) for teacherss remedial
instruction in basic disciplines, new teaching methods, multigrade and double-shift,
resource management. Details of what the proiect would finance (totals US$1.3 million)
are in Annex V.
72.   Curriculam adaptation.  In order to ensure that primary school pupils acquire not
only the basic literacy and numeracy skills, but also the attitudes and values required
to promote economic and social development, this sub-component would support the
adaptation of Cycle I curriculum agreed under the adjustment program. The thrust of the
reform is given in para. 49, and the methodological approach in para. 68. The IPN team
would base its work on the results of the achievement tests, of an in-depth evaluation
of the ruralization and national language (bambara) experiments, and of the beneficiary
assessment of the causes behind the decline in social demand for education. Initiation
to environmental issues and to health/nutrition /child care would be included, taking
into account work already done by the Malian Institute of Agricultural Economy tIER),
UNICEF and NGOs, and with support from the US Peace Corps.   The new programs and
textbooks would be ready for testing by PY3 in pilot schools. Following a national
seminar to review the experiment and make the necessary adjustments, the new programs
would be introduced in school year 1992/93, and their impact monitored as per para. 69.
Details of what the proiect would finance (total: US$0.5 million) are in Annex V.
73.   Pedaaogic materials.   In order to promote more active teaching and learning
methods and thus, enhance the effectiveness of primary education, this sub-component
would ensure that each Cycle I teacher and pupil has access to a minimum set of
pedagogically relevant material in basic disciplines (reading, mathematics and basic
science, adapted to the Malian context). To that effect, the proposed project woulds
(i) support the distribution of the remaining textbooks provided as a grant to Mali by
FAC, but sold to pupils by Government, cf para. 27(a); (ii) complete the development and
testing of about 11 titles, three of which are at an advanced stage of drafting, the
others in line with the new curriculum development program; and prepare matching
teachers guides; (iii) print or reprint about 1.1 million books from these 11 titles and
4 existing ones, plus about 40,000 teachers guides; and (iv) strengthen the existing
storage and distribution system at the central and regional levels. These actions would
be complemented by the provision of basic kits of documentation for each school and of
materials for each classroom under the construction component. A new textbook policy
(based on payment by installments and, for future books, on lower unit prices, the
creation of a second-hand market and the establishment of a book renewal fund) was
reviewed at negotiations and is being finalized with specialized assistance.   The
printing or reprinting of existing or future manuscripts would follow international
competitive bidding and simplified production specifications so as to reduce unit costs
by as much as 50 percent. Transport and delivery of the books to the DREs would be
covered under a contract with UNICEF, which has a broad network of field staff and a
fleet of vehicles. Details of what the proiect would finance (totalt US$4.1 million)
are in Annex V.
74.   Pedaiogic support and control.  In order to reinforce pedagogic supervision and
guidance to primary teachers countrywide, this sub-component would strengthen the 31
inspectorates (IEFs)in two ways. First, pre- and in-service training would be provided
to all primary inspectors and pedagogic advisers (paras. 70-71) both in their
professional field and to prepare them to run and/or supervise teacher in-service
training. The administrative part of this training would reinforce the decentralization
of MEN and the training provided to the DREs (para. 81), while the pedagogic part,
combined with the in-service training of principals, would promote a more efficient use



- 27 -
of teachers, classrooms, classhours and other educational resources, including vehicles
for inspection. This would be combined with a streamlining of the administrative tasks
requested. from the inspectors so as to allow them to devote more time to advising the
teachers, especially those who are young and inexperienced. Second, the project would
provide logistical means for each of the IEFs to permit regular school visits. These
measures, combined with the availability of bools and better trained teachers, represent
the key ingredients for improving the effectiveness of the delivery system,
independently of the content of the curriculum. Details of what the proiect would
finance (total: US$1.6 million) are in Annex V.
3.   Developing and Initiating a StrateRt for Restructuring Secondary and Hiaher
Education.
75.   In recent months, the Government has made concerted efforts to explore solutions
to the issues of secondary and higher education. For instance, scholarships have been
reduced, studies have been conducted on the underutilization of facilities, and some of
the GEs, such as ERA, are trying to adjust to the need for preparing students to self
or private employment.  To ensure that these efforts are sustained to a successful
fruition, this sub-component wouldt (i) reinforce the capacities of the Directorate for
secondary education (DESGT) and the National Directorate for Higher Education and
Scientific Research (DNESRS), especially its scholarship service, to execute the program
and formulate a Master Plan for the restructuring and development of these levels of
education, in line with the country's human capital formation needs and its budgetary
constraints (para. 50); (ii) finance (in coordination with the AfDB) the pre-investment
studies needed to fully develop that Master Plan into a project; (iii) support, at these
levels, some immediate improvements so as to ease the first phase of the reform process,
i.e., (a) the renovation and replenishment of the libraries in three of the GEs so as
to encourage independent study and improve the effectiveness of the learning process in
these schools; and (b) the opening of an experimental line of credit for the creation
of micro enterprises by young graduates, so as to stimulate the emergence of a class of
young entrepreneurs. Details on this component are in Annex 3-4 of the I.B.
76.   Through training and outside expertise provided under a twinning arrangement
with a reputable institution specialized in educational economics (Burgundy University's
Institute for Research on Educational Economics, or IREDU which provided support to the
Planning Directorate throughout the Third Education Project), the Directorates for
secondary and higher education would sharpen their analysis of the problems in their
respective sub-sectors, propose realistic options and implement them. These studies
would form an integral part of the strategy formulation process (para. 50). The DNESRS
would be relocated in more functional premises on the MEN compound, and both
Directorates  would  be  computerized,  especially  the  scholarship  service.    For
rationalization of the University Library system,following a review of various options,
it was decided to rehabilitate the existing libraries at ENI, ERA and ENSUP which are
centrally located, have the greatest needs and   together span a broad range of
disciplines. An initial supply of 20,000 commonly used books would be provided. Details
of what the Project would finance (total: US$0.4 million for the two Directorates,
US$0.1 million for pre-investments studies, and US$1.4 million for the Libraries) are
in Annex V.
77.   Experimental line of credit for graduate employment creation.   The proposed
project would, as part of a broad employment-creation scheme supported by various donors
(Canada, European Economic Communities, France, Federal Republic of Germany, United
States), promote on an experimental basis, the emergence of a class of young



- 28 -
entrepreneurs. This part of the scheme would be the only one exclusively targeted at
young higher education graduates. More specifically, this sub-component would give
operational content to the existing ILO/UNDP Unit for the placement of graduates, based
at the Ministry of Labor, which has developed a good data base and efficient screening
and advisory techniques. Under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement, to be approved by IDA, a
US$1.0 million line of credit would be opened with a local private Bank to provide seed
money to selected groups of aspiring young entrepreneurs meeting well-defined technical
and financial criteria as defined by the ILO/UNDP Unit. The operating conditions of the
line of credit would draw on the experience of the European Development Fund (EDF),
which has successfully run a technical support and monitoring Unit for Small and Medium
Enterprise (SME) creation. The line of credit would be on-lent by Government to the
participating Bank at a 3 percent annual interest rate with a reimbursement period of
10 years, including 3 years grace.  Sub-loans to students would carry a 12 percent
annual interest rate, with a 6-year reimbursement period, including one year grace. Out
of the 12 percent interest rate charged to students, the participating Benk would pay
the equivalent of 3 percentage points to the Government, 4 points to a Guarantee Fund,
and would retain the remaining 5 points as a fee. The foreign exchange risk would be
borne by the Government. The line of credit would operate as a revolving fund. M&E
would be, for this as for all similar operations, the responsibility of the technical
secretariat of the Donors' Cor'ittee on employment creation. On the technical side, the
selection of applicants, processing and follow-up aspects would be entrusted to the
ILOIUNDP Unit, which would be expanded (from one to three micro-enterprise specialists,
each with a Malian counterpart for training purposes) under separate UNDP financing.
On the financing side, bankable dossiers would be submitted to the participating Bank.
The latter's financial and technical capabilities would be reinforced through the
training of its investment officers by a nNDP-financed senior banking techniques
specialist posted in the Bank for 3 years.   A condition of disbursement for this
component would be the effective reinforcement of the ILOIUNDP Unit to IDA's
satisfaction.  The experience would be reviewed regularly in coordination with the
Donors Committee and in-depth after three years by the Government/ILO)UNDP/and IDA to
decide whether adjustments are needed and the formula should be expanded, discontinued
or reoriented. Details of what the nroiect would finance (total: US$1.6 million) are
in Annex V.
4.   Strengthening the Education Sector Planning and Management Canacity.
78.   To improve 2IEN's capacity to efficiently manage scarce educational resources and
meet the program's policy objectives, this component would strengthen (i) MEN's
Education Planning and School Equipment Directorate (DNPES); (ii) its Directorate
responsible for planning, managing and controlling the sector's financial and human
resources (DAP); (iii) the decentralized management of education, especially for the
basic level (DNEF at the Central level, DREs in the regions, and IEFs at the local
level); and (iv) the Project Coordination Unit (Pf:U) for physical resource management,
project coordination and preparation. Details are in Annex 3-4 of the I.B.
79.   Educational planning and statistics.  The objective would be to enhance MEN's
ability to plan and monitor the development of education in line with Mali's
developmental needs, labor market opportunities and resource constraints, as well as
to formulate and implement measures to increase sectoral cost-efficiency. This sub-
component would reinforce DNPES' capacity to (i) ensure the timely collection, analysis
and publication of educational statistics; (ii) maintain a country-wide school map and
better control the student flow; (iii) conduct surveys and studies designed to propose
viable options for addressing key sectoral issues and disseminate their findings within



- 29 _
and outside MEN; (iv) inform and train the other directorates in basic statistics and
sectoral policy analysis; and (v) prepare and quarterly update a control panel*
("Tableau de bord") aimed at helping MEN to monitor critical developments in the sector
to allow the early adoption of corrective measures.   The approach would be based on:
(a) a twinning arrangement with the institute mentioned in para. 76; (b) the
computerization of DNPES, successfully started under the Third Project, with gradual
use of the regional Directorates as data collection and processing centers; and (cl a
work program agreed during appraisal. Details uf what the Project would finance (total:
US$0.8 million) are in Annex V.
80.    Financial and personnel management.  In order to increase the efficiency with
which MEN's financial and human resources are allocated and used, this sub-component
would help DAP establish the management information system required to implement the
budget restructuring, staff redeployment and procurement rationalization measures
included in the sectoral adjustment program (paras. 51, 52, 56). With assistance from
the twin institution mentioned in para. 76, the budget would be made more accurate and
transparent through a revision of procedures for budget preparation and execution,
accounting,and the introduction of a cost and expenditures monitoring and control
system. The procurement process would be made more competitive. MEN's personnel records
-ould be updated, reorganized and computerized, and merged with that of the Finance and
Civil Service Ministries for completeness and accuracy. The personnel study mentioned
in para. 53 would provide a rational basis for improving staff efficiency and
motivation.  Details of what the %roiect would finance (total: US$0.7 million) are in
Annex V.
81.   Decentralized management.  In order to ensure that all three levels of the basic
education management structure effectively play their respective roles in a synergetic
manner, this sub-component would: (i) at the central level, strengthen the DNEF, which
oversees a total of about 13,000 teachers and about 100 inspectors and pedagogic
advisers; (ii) at the regional level, provide the DREs with the training and technical
means they need to efficiently manage and control the resources for which they are
responsible and to furnish to MEN the quantitative and qualitative information required
to develop and implement its strategy; and (iii) at the local level, build up the IEFs,
not only for pedagogic control and support but also to disseminate some of the project's
resource management approaches.  To achieve these objectives, logistical and office
equipment would be provided, and sensitization seminars and training would be offered
in appropriate managerial and pedagogic techniques.   A Task Force consisting of
representatives of each level would prepare, during the first six months of
implementation, concrete proposals for gradually delegating more responsibility to the
DREs, avoiding duplication and wastage, and reducing costs and delays. Details of what
the proiect would finance (total: US$0.6 million) are in Annex V.
82.   Physical resource manaxement.   In order to reduce the capital losses discussed
in para. 35, this sub-component would establish a physical resource management
capability. Since historically, MEN's PCU has been assigned full responsibility for
donor financed school construction,this sub-component would be under its supervision.
It would reinforce: ti) the PCU itself, as executing agency and manager of the FAEF;
(ii) its Technical Studies Division (DET) for implementation purposes; and (iii) the
DREs, especially to provide support to the APEs in school construction and maintenance.
DET would be responsible for programming, budgeting, and supervising all activities
related to physical resource management. It would provide guidance to the DREs
concerning technical advice to APEs, establish construction norms and standards, develop
prototypes, plan/program school construction/repair, including procurement aspects, and



- 30 -
prepare the yearly civil works program. DET would be reorganized and reinforced by a
school facility specialit . while the three regional technical teams described in para.
63 would assist with field level implementation, including information and sensitization
of the APEs/local communities.   DET would receive assistance through a twinning
arrangement with an architectural firm which provided support under the Third Education
Project.  Details of what the project would finance (totals US$1.2 million) are in
Annex V.
83.    Proiect coordination.   Each investment component would be executed by the
relevant Directorate. To ensure overall coordination of these components, as well as
the management of relatively complex activities, such as the PAEF, the PCU would also
be strengthened, rationalized and reoriented in its project management capacity. It
would organize the Annual Reviews, monitor and control FAEF projects; as for the Third
Project, it would ensure supervision, coordination and support in the areas of
procurement, financial administration (disbursements, accounting), documentation,
monitoring and reporting, and liaison with other Government services and IDA. The full-
time, experienced project Director would be assisted by: (i) a deputy Director; (ii)
the DET, reinforced as indicated above; (iii) a reorganized administration/accounting
division; and (iv) an experienced technical advisor to be financed by PAC. The project
would also provide the consulting services necessary to maintain adequate standards for
accounting, auditing and reporting.  At negotiations, Government and IDA agreed on the
organizational structure, responsibilities and functions of the PCU, and on the terms
of reference for the technical advisor to the Director. A condition of effectiveness
would be that the PCU has been reorganized as agreed with IDA. Details of what the
proiect would finance (total: US$2.3 million) are in Annex V.
E.    Costs and Financing. Credit Amount
84.    Total costs over the six years of implementation are estimated at US$56.2 million
equivalent (net of taxes/duties), of which US$20.7 million (US$12 million foreign
exchange, US$8.7 million local costs) for the sectoral adjustment component. Foreign
costs amount to US$35,4 million (63 percent). Base cost estimates are at April 1989
prices, using the exchange rate of US$1 - CFAF 314. The project would be financed by
IDA (US$26.0 million or 46 percent of total costs), SPA (USAID, the Kingdom of Norway,
FAC, CIDA for a total of US$9.0 million or 16 percent of total costs) for the quick-
disbursing element, other donors (USAID, PAC, UNDP, for a total amount of US$6.5
million, or 12 percent of total costs) in parallel for the investment element, local
communities (APEs of schools selected for FAEF funding), in the form of contributions
to primary school rehabilitation/construction (US$4.5 million or 8 percent of total
costs) and budgetary allocations from the Government of Mali (US$10.2 million or 18
percent of total costs; of this, US$8.7 million represents the local cost element of
MEN's purchases against which the quick disbursements would be made). Details on cost
assumptions are found in Annex IX of this Report, and further details in Annex 3 - 6 of
the I.B.
85.   Th   DA credit, totalling US$26.0 million (46 percent of total costs), would
consist ef two elements: (i) the quick-disbursing element in support of the sectoral
adjustment program (US$3.0 million equivalent); together with the proposed US$9.0
million equivalent from SPA, this element would finance about 100 percent of the
education sector's estimated merchandise imports in the period April 1989 to December
1991. This corresponds to about 1.1 percent of Mali's total merchandise imports and .9
percent of its gross capital requirements during the period (Annex I, Table 3); and (ii)
the investment element (US$22.9 million equivalent).



- 31 -
86.   The USAID would contribute USS7.6 milLion (13 percent of total costs. broken
down into US$4.3 million for the adjustment element and US$3.3 million for the
investment element); this contribution would form part of a US-financed package of
approximately US$100. million, involving complementary project elements still being
designed. It would finance on a parallel basis part of the female promotion component
(para. 47), improvements in the performance and relevance of primary education (paras.
67-74, except for the pre-service traiAing and curriculum adaptation, financed by FAC,
and for the provision of vehicles and the production of textbooks, supported by IDA),
the strengthening of DAF personnel management (para. 80, except for the IREDU twinning
arrangement, financed by FAC), and of MEN's decentralized management (para. 81 except
for vehicles, to be financed by IDA). PAC would contribute US$3.7 million (US$1.0
million for the adjustment element. and US$2.7 million for the investment element); it
would finance the services of the volunteers and the Project Director's technical
advisor for the construction component (para. 61-66, and 82), pre-service training,
curriculum adaptation, books for the GE Libraries (paras. 70, 72, 74 and 76) and the
twinning with IREDU (paras. 76 and 79). The UNDP would, in addition to reinforcing its
ILOIUNDP Unit, finance for three years the services of the banking technique specialist
(US$0.5 million) to be seconded to the Bank participating in the line of credit scheme
(para. 77). Effectiveness of the IDA credit would be conditional upon fulfillment of
effectiveness conditions of the USAID grant and signing of the contract for the
technical advisor to the Project Director.
P.    Impact of the Proposed Proiect
87.   The no-adiustment  scenario  (N.A.S.).    Computer  simulations  indicate that
continuation of present policies would, even writh a budget real growth rate of 3 percent
p.a., make it impossible to achieve by year 2000 a total primary enrollment ratio
exceeding its 1988 level of about 31 percent. A lower budgetary growth (considered more
likely), would lead to decline in the enrollment ratio and further quality deterioration
(for example, the ratio would decline to about 27 percent in year 2000 if the budget
were to grow by 2.4 percent). Thus, the N.A.S. would mean that, by the start of the
21st century, Mali would be sinking further into iiliteracy, which would seriously
impair its ability to achieve its broad development goals. By contrast, the following
paragraphs illustrate the positive impact of the adjustment scenario (A.S.).
1.   Educational Impact
88.   Enrollments.  Allowing for institutional constraints in the regions outside the
three areas of project concentration, the program would make it possible to increase
the primary enrollment ratio (public + private) to about 36 percent (Table 1) by 1994.
This would be equivalent to an annual enrollment growth rate of about 9 percent. Once
the approach has been tested, and other donors join in supporting the program, progress
could accelerate towards the Government goal of a 50 percent gross enrollment ratio.
Reaching that goal by the end of the century will require sustained political comitment
and policy refocs.
table 1. Pratecto* ?rlMarol1aUt R-tio by 1994
|           I            1_1  Im 1.
C4mriae, ... f .r.. of_ j
aceaitratb.e (sineS, Sa"IIa- 
Ike*  *r  e   re11                     1             1
metof os "not" (GAO,i I i           u s s
i,.l1k.cX ineam TteabrkSII it' ll    us
*mll.I   _S_ w   l^_mm 1    >> 



- 32 -
89.   Quality and relevance.  Increased allocations for quality inputs and revisions
in the content and delivery mode of primary education would improve the effectiveness
of the learning process. Sensitivity analyses suggest that, even with increases in the
cost per primary pupil of CFAF 2,000 (11 percent), the savings achieved through a
reduction of repeater and drop-out rates could range from 9 to 36 percent of the cost
per primary graduate and 11 to 41 percent of the cost per basic education graduate
(Annex VII). Although it is difficult to quantify the causal effect of an increase in
quality inputs on repetition and dropout rates, it should be noted that even a five
percentage point reduction in average repetition in primary education (i.e from the
present 30 percent to 25 percent) would generate savings equal to the additional costs
of CFAF 2,000. Eventually the improved skill level and more entrepreneurial behavior
of entrants into secondary and higher education would also have a favorable impact on
the internal end external efficiency of these higher levels and would contribute to
reducing graduate unemployment.
2.   Social Impact
90.   Efficiency and equity. The proposed project would increase the effectiveness and
efficiency of resource use (budgetary reallocations, staff redeployment, more intensive
use of physical and human resources, incentives to the private sector) and ensure the
productivity of this and future investments (rehabilitation and maintenance, synergy
between various quality inputs, M&E). It would also address equity concerns by expanding
access to primary education, notably in the poorer rural areas. To do so, the findings
of the beneficiary assessment process (para. 64) would guide a revision of the content
and the delivery of education; a flexible financing mechanism (FAEF, para. 54) would be
introduced  to  compensate  for  economic  inequities  between  regions,  gradual
decentralization would bring the management of the system closer to local concerns;
finally, specific actions would be targeted at girls (para. 47) for whom the enrollment
ratio could be expected to increase from about 23 percent to about 28 percent (boys:
from 38 percent to 43 percent).
3.   Financial Impact
91.   The program would yield total cost reductions equivalent to about CFAP 2.7
billion (US$9 million), or about 17.3 percent of MEN's 1988 budget by 1994.  These
"savings" would come from higher education scholarship reductions, a freeze on the Cycle
II/secondary/teacher training budget, school mergers, a more competitive procurement
system, and teacher redeployment instead of new recruitment. They would be entirely
reallocated to allow the 8.5 percent annual increase in the primary education budget and
the near tripling of materials allocations by 1994 which would be required to achieve
the program's objectives of expanding the primary education enrollment to about 36Z and
improving quality at all levels of the system. By 1993, unless further reallocations
are undertaken, net incremental costs would occur, increasing from the equivalent of
1.2Z of MEN's 1988 current budget to 2.9% in 1994 (Details in Annex IX). While the
level and share of MEN's budget, compared to the N.A.S., would only marginally increase
by the end of the project, its structure would be substantially altered, (i) by level
of expenditures, with a Cycle I budget 23 percent higher than under the N.A.S in order
to improve equity and (ii) by type of expenditures, with a near tripling of the
materials budget to improve internal efficiency. Private financing of education would
also increase substantially, including a target 50 percent increase in APE financing in
the three project areas. These findings are summarized in the two tables below.



- 33 -
Tab h 2. Projected MEN Budget, by Lovel of Educatlon
Without and With Adjustment
(million CFAF, current torm.)
------------------1988----1      ---I---- ------I
t                                            |  No Adjustment    I    Adjustment
I                           Amount     X    I  Amount       X    I  Amount      X
~~~~~~~~~~~-  - ----- - - - - -    - -    --  _ __ -- -    -_ ----
Primary (Cycle I)          5,838    84.6  I   7,149    80.9  I   8,t80        46.0
Secondary
. Cycle II                 8,189    18.8  I   B,949    19.0  I   8,189    16.0
. Secondary genoral        1,712    10.0       1,799      9. 2      1,712     8.2
. Secondary tech./voc.        90     a.6         S o9o    8.60        789     4.0
. Teacher training           884     4.9  1      942      4.8  I     665      2.8
| Subtotal                   6,275    87.0       7,1980     8.8  |   8,195    81.9  |
Higher Education                           I                   I                    I
|  GE.                       2,e45    12.0  |   2,166    11.0  I   1,971    10.0  |
. Abroad                   1,828     7.8  1   1,420       7.8         967     4.9
Subtotal                   8,868    19.8  I   8,686    18.8  I   2,908    14.9
Administration               680      3.7  I     630      8.2  !      780      3.7
Subsidies                    615      8.9        718      4.8         718 a     .8  I
Other (literacy progrms)      89      0.5         89      9.4         I 198    0.5  |
Total EN Budget          18,80t s 100.0       19,847 .100.0  |  19,448   100.9
As of percontage of
I  Government recurrent                      I                   I                   I
budget                             25.5                25.4  I              26.6  1
_ Totals may not add up due to rounding.
Source: Mission estimates.
Table 8. ProJected MEN Budget, by Type of Expenditure
Without and With Adjustment
(million CFAF, current terms)
l ------1988 -----19                                                  ----__-- 3---
I  No Adjustment         Adjustment     I
l                           Amount     X    l  Amount       X    l  Amount      %    l
I Personnel                 18,234    76.7  I  18,059    82.9  I  16,670    80.6  I
I Scholarship                2,994    17.8  I   2,700    13.9  I   1,240        8.4
I Materials                    581     8.4         800      3.1  I   2,826    12.0
jOther                          0      0.0  1        0      0.0  1      142     0.7  l
| Total MEN Budget          18,809 . 100.0  |  10         100.0  I  19,877 * 100.0  I
* Totals may not add up due to rounding.
Source: Mission estimates.
b:tab2-8/sm



- 34 -
92.   The olirious conclusion is that the potential benefits of the A.S. far outweigh
the risks assnciated with the N.A. S., provided the required sensitivity and flexibility
are applied to its implementation. This is why special attention has been paid, in the
design of the program, to realistic phasing in of the reforms, to alternative strategies
for achieving specific objectives, and to the monitoring of their social impact.
G.    Implementation
1.   Implementation Responsibilities. Readiness and Institution Building
93.   Day-to-day implementation of the nroaram would be entrusted to MEN's concerned
Directors, forming a Comite de suivi, which would hold at least one monthly meeting on
implementation of all aspects of the project and one quarterly meeting to examine the
"Tableau de Bord' showing progress toward the key indicators in the adjustment program.
This MEN Comnittee would be assisted by the Interministerial Ccmission created under
the Chairmanship of the Minister of Finance to monitor the macro and financial impact
of ongoing and forthcoming adjustment projects in Mali. This high level Commission
would be involved only in preparing the Joint Annual Review, participating in it, and
ensuring that the Draft Budget (Loi de Finances) and three-year investment program
reflect the agreements reached under the program. Each year a joint Government - IDA
review would be held, to cover implementation of (i) the adjustment program, (ii) the
accompanying work program (studies and measures); and (iii) the investment element. All
the donors supporting the Program/Project would participate, and arrangements have been
developped to ensure close operational coordination between them. At negotiations,
assurances were received from the Government that beginning in 1989, the review would
be held no later than November 30 of each project year (i.e., when statistics for the
previous school year are known and before the budget law is finalized).
94.   For each component of the investment element, implementation responsibility would
rest with the relevant MEN Directorate, while the PCU would act as liaison with IDA for
all matters related to project execution and providing support in specific areas as
indicated in para.  83.   All preparatory activities -- implementation plans and
schedules, survey of construction needs, designs and guides for the construction
program, requirements for goods -- have been taken to an advanced stage of preparation
and start-up activities have begun under a Project Preparation Facility. Draft bid
documents are being prepared with the assistance of ILO's Equipro and would be available
by credit effectiveness. Although previous experience with the sector has been good,
implementation has been cautiously planned over a six-year period to take into account
the greater complexity of this project. The implementation arrangements and schedules
agreed to at appraisal are summarized in Annex XI and detailed in Annex 3-5 of the I.B.
95.   The proposed project would provide a total of 137 man-years of specialist
services (of which 65 percent by local staff), and a total of 454 man-years of training
(of which 94 percent locally arranged) comprising 35 man-years for initial training, 370
man-years for in-service training, 49 man-years for management training. Priorities,
criteria and arrangements for staffing and training were agreed at appraisal. Terms of
reference for the specialist services and training were agreed upon at negotiations.
Conditions of disbursement of the IDA credit would be: 8)  for the construction
component (paras. 61-66), signing of the FAC-financed contract for the volunteers; and
(ii) for the management component (paras. 78-83) signing of the FAC-financed twinning
contract with the Institute for Research on Educational Economics mentioned in para. 76.
Details are given in Annex XI. Tables 4 and 5.



- 35 -
2.   Procurement, Disbursements and Special Account
96.    Procurement  under  the  investment  element.    Procurement  arrangements  are
summarized in Annex X. Works for general contracts and goods (including furniture,
vehicles, computers, equipment, pedagogical materials and printing of textbooks)
totalling US$8.0 million equivalent, or about 35 percent of the total value of contracts
for works and goods financed by IDA, would be procured through international competitive
bidding (ICB) in accordance with IDA guidelines and grouped, to the eKtent practical,
to facilitate competition in bidding, into bid packages of at least US$100,000
equivalent.  Where ICB procedures are used, a preference margin would be given to
domestic contractors and manufacturers in accordance with IDA guidelines; this margin
would not exceed 7.5 percent for works, and 15 percent or the applicable customs duty,
whichever is less, for goods manufactured locally.
97.   Other contracts for civil works,  school furniture, office supplies and non
pedagogical equipment, estimated to cost less than US$100,000 and financed by IDA
(totalling US$3.0 million equivalent), because they:   (i) are small in size; (ii)
involve widely dispersed sites; (iii) apply labor intensive techniques; and (iv)
correspond to goods available locally at prices below the international market, would
be awarded through competitive bidding advertised locally (LCB) in accordance with
procedures acceptable to IDA. During negotiations the Halian delegation indicated MEN's
agreement to apply the following principles: (a) the aggregate amount of such
procurement would not exceed the equivalent of US$3.1 million equivalent; (b) they would
be advertised locally and bidders would be allowed sufficient period for submission of
bids (45 days minimum); (c) evaluation criteria would be clearly specified -- price,
capacity and capability to perform, adequacy of equipment and personnel, and financial
capacity; (d) all bids would be opened in public and bidders' representatives would be
allowed to be present; (e) no preference margin would be granted to domestic
contractors, suppliers and manufacturers; (f) eligible foreign firms would not be
precluded from participation and would not be required to be incorporated in Mali in
order to participate in the bidding; and (g) copy of draft standard bidding documents
would be submitted to, and found acceptable by, IDA prior to approval of the first
contract by the Association.
98.   Incremental operating costs over a six-year period and items (office supplies,
spare parts, fuel) which cannot be grouped into bid packages of at least US$10,000,
provided the aggregate amount of such procurement does not exceed US$1.93 million
equivalent, would be procured through international andlor local shopping on the basis
of price quotations obtained   from at least three reliable suppliers to ensure
competitive prices, in accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA.
99.   IDA-financed "Matching Funds' would be channelled through the Primary Education
Fund (FAEP) to leverage the financial efforts of communities to construct, rehabilitate
and equip primary schools.   They would be paid to established APE committees on a
tranche basis, provided works and/or equipment have been delivered and prefinanced in
accordance with quantity and quality agreed with the FAEP. Given their number (about
160) and small size (less than US$60,000 equivalent each), contracts for works and
construction materials totalling US$9.99 million equivalent, would be procured following
established commercial practices (local shopping), provided the contract awards would
be based on a comparison of price quotations from at least three contractors. The
Project Coordinating Unit would be responsible for verifying and certifying to IDA that
this procedure is followed.



- 36 -
100.   Specialist services and training financed by IDA (totalling US$3.44 million
equivalent) would be contracted in accordance with IDA's Guidelines for the use of
consultants.
101.  About 190 bidding packages/contracts for works and goods financed by IDA are
expected to add up to US$21.14 million equivalent. With a threshold of US$100.000 for
prior Bank review of procurement documentation, about 10 percent of the total number of
contracts would cover about 45 percent of the value contracted for works and goods. The
remaining 55 percent of the value contracted would be subject to either: (i) post review
for contracts estimated at between USS1O.000 and US$100.000 equivalent; or (ii) random
review by IDA supervision missions for contracts estimated at less than US$10,000 for
which expenditures will be made out of certified statements of expenditures (SOEs),
and for which documentation would be retained at the Project Coordination Unit.
102.   Procurement under the Sectoral Adiustment Program.  The quick-disbursing element
(totalling US$20.7 million of which US$3 million would be financed by the IDA credit,
US$9.0 million under SPA and the rest by Government) would provide foreign exchange to
support eligible imports for the general development of all levels of the education
sector.   It would finance a positive list of expenditures comprising:   textbooks,
pedagogical materials, science/laboratory equipment, office supplies, equipment,
furniture, computers, vehicles, spare parts and consumables.  Goods financed by IDA
would be limited to direct imports to cover the CIF price of goods and would be grouped
into bid packages of at least US$100,000; procurement would be made through ICB in
accordance with IDA guidelines. Where funds provided by other donors under SPA are not
untied, procurement of goods would be made in accordance with the procurement
requirements of other donors. Reimbursement of fuel for operational activities, would
not exceed 5 percent of the total value of the quick-disbursing element. The Borrower,
with the PCU's support, would be responsible for ensuring that    the disbursement
requests submitted concern only eligible items procured in accordance with procedures
consistent with  the  different  Guidelines  for Procurement.    If any  particular
disbursement  request were  rejected due to either  ineligibility or unacceptable
procurement procedures, the Borrower would be allowed to substitute it with other
eligible and acceptable procurement.  The Credit Agreement would modify the standard
procurement procedures  for ICB set out for the investment program by including
simplification of the bid invitation procedure -- limited to a General Procurement
notice in 'Development Business" --- and the elimination of domestic and regional
preferences.   Under the adjustment program, Government agreed, within the existing
malian procedures, to a major improvement in MEN's procurement packaging and planning
(para. 56) which would result in savings of at least 10 percent on the Ministry's
purchases of goods. The PCU and DAF would receive assistance in procurement through a
twinning arrangement with EQUIPRO (a branch of ILO). The procurement procedures and
arrangements outlined above, which are detailed in Annex X and in, the Development
Credit Agreement, will apply throughout the life of the project.
103.  Disbursements would follow two different procedures.  For the Quick-disbursing
element, they  would be made against direct imports of goods purchased by MEN; a
positive list of eligible expenditures is shown in Annex X.  The counterpart funds
generated would be used to finance general development expenditures in the sector.
Disbursements would be made in three equal tranches during the first three years of the
project (effectiveness, and following November 1990 and 1991 Joint Annual Reviews);
release of each tranche would be conditional on satisfactory progress in implementing
the policies and meeting the quantified targets of the adjustment program (detailed,
monitorable conditions are in Annex XII). The Borrower would prefinance all procurement



- 37 -
and subsequently claim reimbursement from IDA; the credit would reimburse 100 percent
of the cost of directly imported goods on the basis of evidence that they were purchased
and paid for by Mali not more than four months prior to credit signing. The minimum
application for reimbursements would normally be for the equivalent of US$500,000. For
the investment element, the regional disbursement profile is seven years. However,
because most IDA-f inanced activities are scheduled to be completed during the first five
years of the project, the IDA credit would be disbursed over a period of six years on
the basis of the categories shown in Annex X (Table 2). The physical investment element
of the project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1994. Given the availability of
the Special Account, the minimum application for direct payments would normally be for
the equivalent of US$10,000.   The amounts to be financed under each category are
presented in Annex X. The estimated quarterly disbursements for the IDA credit are
shown in Annex X, Table 3, while Table 2 summarizes national contributions to the
project.
104.  Special account.   To facilitate disbursement (excluding the quick-disbursing
element, for which withdrawals will be used for reimbursing payments already made by
Government), US$1.5 million equivalent, denominated in CFA francs, would be advanced
from the IDA credit and deposited in a Special Account opened by the Borrower in a local
commercial bank. The amount is estimated to cover about three months of expenditures.
The Special Account would be replenished by su'bmitting withdrawal applications (WAs) to
IDA. WAs would be aggregated into pack, ges of at least US$20,000 equivalent and would
be fully documented; expenses related to matching funds for the Primary Education Funds
(PAEP) and to contracts valued at less than US$10,000 equivalent, would be reimbursed
against Certified Statements of Expenditures (SOEs), for which documentation would be
retained at the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) for random review by Bank staff during
supervision missions and for regular annual audits andlor special audits.  In addition
to the normal procedure, SOEs under the 'Matching Funds' category, would be subject to
certification by an independent auditor that payments are made and works performed in
accordance with FAEF's  regulations.   Reimbursement applications would include a
statement of account movements since the last application, with the balance certified
by the bank holding the account, and a reconciliation showing that the balance
represented is the original amount less payments awaiting reimbursement of small working
advances.
3. Monitoring and Tranche Release
105.  Para. 93 describes the implementation responsibilities agreed with Government.
The joint reviews would cover implementation of the program and the investment element
including annual budgets and work programs for each component.  The release of the
second and third Tranches would be conditional upon satisfactory completion of the
Annual Reviews, based on the monitorable conditions listed in Annex XII. In the event
these conditions were not met and the tranches were not released, disbursements under
the investment element would normally not be held up. However, Government performance
in implementing its structural adjustment program, insofar as it would impact on the
proposed operation, would be taken into account in the tranche release decisions. In
order to assist MEN in organizing the Annual Reviews, two missions by the Institute
for Research on Educational Economics twinned with MEN would be scheduled each year,
respectively in July for preparation of the budget and in September for preparation of
the Annual Review documentation, which would be the responsibility of the PCU and would
involve clearance by the Interministerial Commission. The Project Director would serve
as Secretariat for the Comite de suivi and would send to IDA a quarterly interim report
on the Comit4's Review of implementation and the Tableau de Bord. The Secretariat for



- 38 -
the Interministerial Commission (the Project and DAP Directors), would prepare the
documentation on which the Annual Review would be based. At negotiations, assurances
were received thats (i) by November 30 each year starting in 1989, Government and IDA
would exchange views on Project implementation, including the sectoral adjustment
Program; and (ii) by September 30 each year, Government would send IDA a progress report
on the Project and the Program, its revised three-year rolling Program of Investments
and Public expenditures, and its draft budget for the following fiscal year.
4. Accounting, Auditing and Reporting
106.  The PCU would maintain separate accounts for the IDA credit, the line of credit,
the quick-disbursing component, the FAEF funds, the co-financing funds and Government
counterpart financing. These accounts would be further subdivided into categories of
expenditures incurred for each component.  At negotiations, Government gave assurances
thats (i) all project accounts, including disbursements against SOEs, will be audited
annually by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA; (ii) the Government will submit
the audit reports to IDA for review not later than March 31 of each year, beginning in
1990; (iii) the audit reports will certify that the funds were used for the purposes for
which they were provided; and (iv) the PCU will submit to IDA: (a) semi-annual reports
on project implementation and expenditures by June 30 and December 31 of each year,
beginning in 1989; (b) by September 30 each year, beginning in 1989, a preparatory
report for the November annual review with IDA showing progress in implementing the
program and the investment element; (c) the draft budget for education for the upcoming
fiscal year; and (d) a completion report within six months of the IDA credit closing
date. Revolving Funds for the FAEF and the line of credit for young graduates will be
subject to SpeSial Audits. These audits would be carried out on a routine basis, by an
independent auditor; the annual audit report would be concluded by a separate auditor.
H.    Benefits and Risks
107.  Benefits.  By reversing the recent decline in the primary enrollment ratio and
efficiency indicators and focusing human capital formation on the highest priorities
(primary education and quality), the proposed project would begin to alleviate a
critical constraint to the country s long-term growth prospects. The adjustment progr&m
would improve the overall efficiency of the sector, allowing a major reallocation of
resources in favor of primary education to help broaden the base of the education
pyramid and of materials to improve quality at all levels. A combination of actions on
the supply and the demand side would result, by 1994, in an increase in the total
(public and private) primary enrollment ratio from 31 to about 36 percent, and in the
female enrollment rate from 24 to about 28 percent.  Improvements in the policy and
institutional context would heighten the productivity of the proposed, and other future,
investments, facilitating the mobilization of additional resources for the sector.
108.  The positive impact on quality of more relevant programs, adequate supplies  of
textbooks, and more motivated, better trained teachers, following more active pedagogic
approaches would translate into better student achievements. The impact would be felt,
not only in primary education (with savings of 9 to 36 percent in the unit costs per
primary graduate through a reduction of repeater and drop-out rates) but, eventually in
the other levels as well. Graduates entering the labor force would be more adaptable
and more productive. Overall, the project would initiate a gradual shift toward an
education system that would be more equitable, more cost-effective and better adapted
to Mali's projected trends in fiscal revenues and job market opportunities.



- 39 -
109. Risks. The main risks concern: ti) the Government's ability to implement the
more politically sensitive elements of the sectoral adjustment program (scholarship
reductions and tighter perronnel management) if faced with strong resistance from vocal,
vested interest groups; (ii) the fact that demand constraints on the enrollment ratio
are more difficult to address than supply constraints; and (iii) MEN's capacity to
absorb change. The first risk is mitigated, first, by the commitment of Government to
the program; second, by the flexibility built into the sectoral adjustment program to
achieve specific objectives through various combinations of measures. The other two
risks would be reduced through systematic monitoring from the beneficiaries viewpoint,
careful phasing of project activities, and yearly in-depth reviews. These risks are
manageable and well worth taking, given MEN's determination to improve the linkage
between education and employment and the deepening of our policy dialogue.
PART IV. BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
110.  CountrY strategy.  IDA's operations in Mali have become increasingly policy-
oriented since 1983. However, while past lending sought to support structural change
through operations in the major sectors, the pressing nature of Mali's macroeconomic
problems has now made macroeconomic adjustment a central aim of the Bank's support in
the immediate future. As a result of Government's renewed commitment to its reform
program, the Public Enterprise Sector Adjustment Credit was approved by the Board late
FY88. Moreover, an IMP Standby and SAF program have been approved for 1988-89 and IDA
has begun discussions aimed at formulating a medium-term structural adjustment program,
which could be suppor-ed by a first SAL in FY91. The resulting adjustment framework
would be deepened by sector adjustment operations in human resources (including the
proposed project), r;riculture and infrastructure over the 1989-92 period.
111.  Past performance. As of March 31, 1989, the Association had extended 39 credits
to Mali, totalling US$555 million equivalent. Of these operations, 14 have been for
agriculture and related activities; 9 for transport; 3 for education; 2 for
telecommunications; 2 for energy; 2 for urban development; one each for small-scale
industries, water supply, technical assistance, rural water supply, and health; 2 for
power and 1 public enterprise sector adjustment credit which represents Kali's first
adjustment operation. In addition, the International Finance Corporation has made two
investments totalling US$2.3 million. Mali's disbursement ratio rose to 24 percent in
FY87 and 35 percent in FY88 which was relatively high for a country with no quick-
disbursing  adjustment  operations.    Project  implementation  has  been  generally
satisfactory, despite difficulties and delays caused by inadequate Government
counterpart financing. Annual IDA commitments to Mali rose from an average of US$27
million in FY82-83 to US$83 million in FY86, before falling to zero in FY87 as a result
of Government delays in implementing key policy reforms related to the proposed Public
Enterprise and Office du Niger operations.  Both of these operations have now been
approved by the Board, yielding FY88 commitments of US$98.3 million. Indicative IDA
commitments planned for FY89-90 amount to approximately US$83 million, of which about
US$50 million would be for adjustment operations in agriculture and human resources, and
US$33 million for the Second Power Project, which was presented to the Board in March
1989.
112.  Forthcoming proiects. Mali's long-term growth prospects ultimately depend on the
full realization of its natural and human resource potential. Highest priority will
continue to be given to the development of the productive sectors, and in particular the
rural sector which remains the most important for longer-term growth in the Malian
economy. Major emphasis will also be placed on human resource development, through the



- 40 -
proposed operation and a second health/population project, under preparation. which will
improve the delivery of basic health services, help reinforce the implementation of
family-planning programs, while building on successful approaches developed under the
on-going first health project in the areas of community participation and cost-
recovery.Future infrastructure projects, such as the Power II Project approved in March
1989, will attempt to ensure that the benefits of past investments are fully realized
and that Mali's long-term growth is not hampered by inadequate infrastructure.  To
maximize IDA's impact, these projects will, whenever possible, reflect a broad sectoral
orientation, focusing on the issues of investment strategy and institutional
development. Furthermore, and as a result of Mali'1 recent accession to SPA financing,
all projects, and particularly the sectoral adjustment projects, will place emphasis on
cofinancing in order to better coordinate the flow of resources in support of Mali's
growth efforts.
113.  Three projects have been approved in the education sector.  The First Education
Project (CR 420-MLI for US$ 5.0 million, effective in PY73) was closed in June 30, 1983;
the Second Education Project (CR 733-MLI, for US$10.0 million, effective in 1978) was
closed on June 30, 1983; and the Third Education Project (CR 1442-MLI and SFA 010-MLI,
totalling USS 17.3 million, effective in FY84) is now completed. These projects have
been concerned principally with technical and scientific, adult and basic education, and
plrnning. They have had a positive contribution in technical education (creation of
ECICA and a Division for technical education, support to agricultural and assistant
veterinary training), and in the establishment of a planning and 4 project management
capacities.  However, their global impact on the sector has been limited because:
Mi) their focus was too dispersed under each single operation; (ii) they did not seem
to form part of a long-term, sustained strategy; (iii) the technological choices were
not always adequate (overdesign of facilities, high cost of equipment, premature
introduction of pre-vocational subjects); (iv) in basic and primary education, their
support went to marginal experimental programs without objective qualitative evaluation
instead of addressing the central issues of access and basic inputs; and (v) the
institution building effort required to implement their policy content did not receive
sufficient attention.  Two areas of notable improvement are physical implementation
because of thorough preparation in the areas of procurement, equipment and construction,
and accounting and auditing performance.   On the other hand, the more qualitative
aspects tended to lag behind during the first two years of implementation:   for
instance, the decisions concerning IPEGs (para. 27 (b) were taken unilaterally;
technical assistance was not efficiently managed; and it took a long time for IDA-funded
studies on cost and financing issues to be accepted and for efficiency considerations
to be taken into account. The tone and level of the dialogue have considerably improved,
and the lessons from these projects have guided the design of the proposed project.
Apart from the political risks linked to the newness of the adjustment process in Mali,
the main difficulty in implementing the program will be to ensure that expedient
solutions, such as the proliferation of new institutions or hasty reversal to uneconomic
approaches are not preferred over a more systematic route which will require political
courage but offer the only chance of durably reversing the negative trends observed in
recent years.
PART V. COLLABORATION WITH THE IMP AND OTHER DONORS
114. IMF. IMF and Bank staff worked closely on preparation of the Medium-Term Policy
Framework Paper (PFP) and the first year program to be supported by the Fund's
Structural Adjustment Facility (SAF). DMF staff is in agreement with the proposed
Sectoral Adjustment Program which is fully consistent with, and complementary to the
overall macroeconomic framework.



- 41 -
115.  Other donors.  In education, other donors have systematically been kept informed
of IDA's policy dialogue with the Government. Because of the relatively low priority
assigned to the sector in the 1987-91 Development Plan and the lack of a coherent,
comprehensive long-term Government educational strategy, their interventions until
recently were, in most cases, limited and uncoordinated, focusing on secondary
technical, vocational training, PRT and individual GEs, all of which are more visible
and less diffuse than primary education. The main donors have traditionally been France
(secondary and higher education), the USSR and China (vocational and technical, higher
education), AfDB (co-financier of the Third Project and now reviewing higher education
options jointly with IDA). Following the Association and the cofinanciers involved in
the proposed operation, a number of other donors have now indicated a readiness to step
up their aid to the sector, including Cycle I, within a coordinated framework, as a
fully articulated, realistic program is put in place. Given IDA's lead role in the
sector, the strategy developed during project preparation should therefore have a
catalytic effect in attracting additional finance for the development of education in
Mali. A forum for donor coordination is providea by the UNDP-sponsored 'Groupe de suivi
EducationlFormation', and a Round Table is tentatively scheduled for 1990.
PART VI. RECOMMENDATION
116.  I am satisfied that the proposed IDA credit would comply with the Articles of
Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive Directors approve the
proposed Credit.
Barber B. Conable
President
Washington, D.C.                           by Moeen A. Qureshi
May 17, 1989



-42-                                            ANNEX I
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF MALI
EDUCATION SECTOR CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
Table 1. Key Macroeconomic Indicators
19b3    1984     1985    1986    1987    1i98        1989     1990     1991     1992
Est.   Proj.   Proj.   Proj.   Proj.
-----------------------------------------------------------------__----------__----------------------------------------------------
CP Growth Rate                              -5.23     0.9t   -0.n1   18.6S       1.01   -1.03      9.0s    0.s1      3.9W     4.11
*DP/Capit. Growth Rate                      -7.S3    -1.51   -3.1S    15.83   -1.43    -3.63       6.23    -2.23     1.2%     1.43
Consuption/Capite Orowth Rate               -1.73    -0.6S     S.S3     1.63    -2.03i   -2.93     l.O3     0.93     0.63     0.53
Debt Service (US$ m;li@sn) (a)              89.8  S9.9  46.3    79.4    88.0    90.8   101.5    88.0    88.6    82.8
Debt Service/X01S (a)                       19.12    17.2%    21.03    30.98    27.SS   29.63    30.2%1   24.6S    21.1%    18.5S
Debt Service/)MM (b)                        19.1S    17.2ti   21.03i   30.93   27.53i    0.2S    42.1S    24.83    21.13    18.53
Debt Service/DP (a)                          3.73      .8.6    4.45     5.23     4.73     4.73     4.73     8.93     3.63     3.1S
CFO" Investment/88P                         14.63i   15.2%    19.63    22.83    16.63i   14.81    16.13    12.73    12.8    11.83
Cosetic Sav-ti.ngOP                         -4.SS    -3.43   -14.s3    -1.83    -0.81    -8.53    -0.9S    -4.1S    -2.83    -1.43
Publ ic Investment/GOP (c)                    ...     ...      ...      ...      ...      ...      ...
Private Investment/JCP (c)                    ...     ...      ...      ...      ...      ...      ...               ...      ...
Ratio of Public/Private Inv.                  ...     ...      ...      ...      ...      ...      ...      ...      ...
Government Revenue&/CDP                     13.1   1t.33t   14.93    17.93    1. 1t.          5.1   5      18.83    16S.SS    15.73
Governmnt Expenditurea/0OP (d)              26.S3    25.1S    80.2S    30.43    26.03    24.63    24.03    24.2ti   23.63    21.73
Deficit (-) or Surplus (*)/QDP             -13.43  -11.86  -15.2S   -12.53  -10.911  -9.5S    -8.6s   -8.61    -7.8S    -6.03
Export Vol. Crowth Rate                     21.03    13.93   -18.1S    14.6S     8.1U   -0.86    19.03      8.1S     8.2!    7.93
Exports (fob)/QDP                           15.S3    18.1S    16.73    18.53    13.531   13.15    13.23    13.43    13.5S    13.8S
Ieport Vol. Orowth Rats (e)                  1.93     6.1S   1t.1S    -8.53    -1.01      0.6S    4.2%      4.13     4.1S    4.8S
Imports (cif)/COP                           82.58    84.73    44.43    81.73    25.33    26.43    25.2Si   28.61    24.13    22.73
Current Account (US$ million)              207.2   196.5   329.5   346.8   29.7 929.7   384.6   367.3   352.0   335.7
Current Account/QDP                        -19.231S  -18.513  -31.2t  -2. 6    -15.711$  -17.031S  -18.331S  -16.83S  -14.8S   -12. 6S
(a) Excludine China and the USSR; including estimates for interest on nee disbursements.
(b) An per (a), plus debt service arrears to be settled in l968-90.
(c) Fixed capitel formtion, i.e.. excluding chances in stocks.
(d) DatA for 1983-4 provide partial coverage of foreign-financed investment and are not cemparable with datea for subsequent y-as.
(e) Excluding cecrals importe. which consiat largely of food aid and tend to vary inversely with GOP.
02-Hay-89



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 3
Table 2. Balance of Payments (US$ millions)
1963    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992
Fat.   Proj.   Prcj.   Proj.   Proj.
A. Exports of Cowds A NFS                 206.3   232.6   220.1   2S7.1   320.0   318.1   358.8   379.4   410.9   444.9
1. Nerchandi;e (F08)                     165.1   191.9   176.1   20S.?   256.0   254.6   287.1   303.6   328.7   356.9
2. Non-Factor Services                    41.2    40.7    44.0    51.4    64.0    63.6    71.8    75.9    82.2    89.0
S. Imports of CGods & NFS                -410.3  -4S0.6  -577.6  -625.6  -669.6  -679.4  -729.5  -760.4  -776.5  -792.7
1. Merchandise (PMB)                    -247.3  -254.8  -328.6  -388.8  -3S5.4   -71. 1  -384.3  -403.8  -411.3  -418.3
2. Non-Factor Services                  -163.0  -173.8  -249.1  -286.7  -304.2  -308.2  -345.2  -356.7  -365.2  -374.3
C. Resource Balance                      -2c4.0  -197.9  -357.5   -S68.5  -319.6  -361.3  -870.7  -381.1  -365.6  -347.8
0. Net Factor Income                      -26.5   -19.5   -18.7   -24.8   -27.9   -28.9   -35.9   -33.2   -36.3   -39.3
E. Not Current Tran-fers                   25.4    20.9    46.7    48.5    49.9    60.4    52.0    47.0    49.9    61.4
P. Current Acount Balance                -207.2  -196.5  -329.S  -346.8  -297.7  -329.7  -854.5  -367.3  -352.0  -335.7
C. Long-Term Capitol Inflow               192.5   195.5   294.9   311.3   292.1   373.4   324.1   346.5   356.2   351.2
2. Official Capital Cranta               108.9   130.4   197.0   135.7   202.3   232.3   208.0   212.2   222.8   230.7
3. Net LT Los  (ORt data)                149.0   110.9    81.3   145.3    95.6   100.3   6S.1   -11.7   -49.4   -72.4
a. Diaburassmte                       156.7   122.6   106.9   167.9   117.3   146.8   116.4    8l.7    57.2    38.7
b. Repayments                          -7.7   -11.7   -2S.6   -22.6   -18.8   -48.5   -S1.3   -U9.4  -106.6  -111.1
4. Other LT Inf lowo (Net)               -6.S   -45.9    16.6   -19.6    -8.7    40.8    51.0   146.0   183.4   192.9
M. Total Other Item (Net)                   0.0     0.0   -14.8   -15.6    -1.8        5.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0
I. Change in Net Resrves                   14.7     0.9    49.8    51.1       7.3   -48.8    3O.S    20.8    -4.2   -1S.4
1 Net Credit fras the IMP                16.6    19.5      S.0    -9.8   -26.8    -6.8       3.0      9.1    -9.1    -4.0
2. Other Reserve Changes                  -1.8   -18.5    44.4    60.9    34.1   -41.9    27.4    11.7          4.9   -11.4
t- indicates increas]
Shares of GDP
___________
1. Resource Balance                      -18.9S  -18.78  -33.85  -24.2n  -16.911S  -18.6S  -17.05  -16.8%  -15.0Q  -13.28
2. Total Interest Payments                -2.58   -1.88   -1.8S   -1.68         -1.5    -1.6S    -1.6S    -I6S    -I.   -1..5
3. Current Account Balance               -19.2S   -18.5S  -81.121  -22.71t  -t5.7S   -r7.0o  -16.3S  -16.2S   -14.5S   -12.88
4. LT Capital Inflow (line 0)             17.88   18.45   27.98   20.48    15.4S    19.2S   14.9S    15.32   14.68    13.4%
5. Net Credit from tho I1P                 1.S      1.88    0.58   -0.6S   -1.48   -0.4S    0.111    0.48   -0.48   -0.2S
Meeorandum Itee:
CDP                                     1079.4  1060.7  1057.3  1525.2  1892.6  1941.2  2178.2  2265.0  2436.1  2628.5
Nominal Off. X-Rate (IMS rf)             381.1   467.0   449.8  394.3   30O.S   297.9   297.9   297.9   297.9   297.9
(a) SOP coverage was improvad in 198. hence data for 1983-84 are not comparable with subsequent yesrs.
02-May-89



-44-                                                   ANNEX I
Page 3 of 3
Table 3.  External Vi ancing Requirements, 1987-92 (US$ millions)
1987     1988     1989      1990     1991      1992
FINANCINO REQUIREMENT
Current Account (excluding grants)                                              297.7    329.7   354.5    367.3    352.0    335.7
of which: intereet payments                                                  (27.9)   (28.9)   (35.9)   (33.2)   (36.3)   (39.3)
Amortization                                                                     33.3      37.9     41.3     36.6      41.3     38.9
IMF Repurchsae                                                                   26.8     24.1      24.3     18.2       9.1      4.0
Change in arrears (incrase -),                                                  -13.6      65.S     42.6       0.0      0.0      0.0
Change in remerve (decrease -) (a)                                                0.7      62.0     83.6     20.4      13.2      11.3
Other (b)                                                                        -b. 1     -4.1     ...       ...      ...       0.1
TOTAL                                                                           339.7    515.0    54S.4    442.5    420.6    390.1
DISos8l'S
Existing Coeitments
Grunt. (c)                                                                   202.3   232.8                 ...      ...       ...
Loans
Bilateral creditors                                                         88.6     b8.8      36.9     17.1      17.1     17.1
of which: adjustment lending                                               (7.0)    (0.0)    (0.0)    (0.0)    (0.0)    (0.0)
Multi lateral creditors                                                     75.5      73.1     67.8     50.0      50.0     50.0
of which: IDA                                                             (42.9)   (45.0)   (33.2)   (22.8)   (22.8)   (22.8)
adjustent lending                                                (0.0)    ...       ...      ...       ...      ...
Private (net)                                                               -6.0      ...      ...       ...      ...
IM  Resources                                                                  0.0      ...      ...      ...       ...      ...
of which: SAF                                                              (0.0)    ...       ...       ...      ...      ...
Expected Nw Coei tmentr
Crantr (c)                                                                              ...     208.0   212.2    222.3    230.7
Loans
Bilateral creditors                                                                  19.?    38.8       86.6      5d.1     51.0
of which: adjustment lending (d)                                                     (9.0)   (15.8)   (13.5)   (13.5)   (13.5)
Multi lateral creditors                                                              26.7      22.2     43.8      45.7     36.6
of which: IDA/SFA                                                                   (11.6)   (20.2)   (18.8)   (18.6)   (18.6)
adjustment lending (i)                                                   (17.0)   (29.7)   (25.5)   (25.5)   (25.5)
Private (not)                                                                         O.7      -3.4      3.4       4.4      4.7
IMP Resources                                                                          17.1      27.3     27.3      0.0       0.0
of which: SAF                                                                       (13.7)   (21.8)   (21.8)
TOTAL                                                                           325.4    42S.3    392.7    410.4    397.5    390.1
FINANCING CAP 3EFIM  RESROJ..N                                                      14.3      86.6    183.7     32.1      23.1      0.0
Debt Relief                                                                      14.3      86.7     64.5       0.0      0.0      0.0
RESIDUAL FINANCING CAP                                                               0.0       0.0     69.2     32.1      23.1      0.0
-------------------_------------------------------------------------__-------__--------------------_-------------------------------
Memorandum item
Exchange rate (CFAF/l.68)                                                       300.5    297.9    297.9    297.9    297.9    297 9
(a) Excluding the change in the net position vis-a-vie the IMF
(b) Including errors and omissions
(c) No data are available on existing grant comitments beyond 1988
(d) SJF for PE sector adjustment
(e) IDA and Af PFE sector adjustment credits
02-May-89



-45-                           ANMyh  II
Page 1 of 4
REPUBLIC OF MALI
EDUCATION SECTOR CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
Basic Data
General a/
GNP per capita                                   US$200
Lsad area                                        1.2 million km2
Population                                       7.8 million
of which urban                                 19S
Population density                                6 per km2
Population growth rate                           2 72
Crude birth rate                                 47.6 per thousand
Crude death rate                                 18.6 per thousand
Infant mortality rate                            150 per thousand
Life expectancy at birth                         46 years
School Enrollment            Enrollment                        Pupil/Teacher
(1986-1987)                Ratio (2)         Stemale           Ratio
'-Basic Education
I     cycle I                    24                 37              38
cycle II                   8                 32               14
Secondary Education               3                25                8
IlHither Education                1                 13              10 (1986)1
Breakdown PubliclCatholic/Medersas
Primary Enrollments:                             74Z/321232
Education Expenditures (FY88)
Public recurrent expenditures on education as 2 of total Government
recurrent budget: 25.52
Distribution of recurrent public expenditures by level of education:
Basic Education   Cycle I        352
Cycle II      192
Secondary Education              192
Higher Education                 192
Central Administration            42
Subsidies to private education   42
100X
Public Recurrent Expenditures per Student (1987):  bI
2 of GDP     Francophone
Basic Education                USSc                    Africa (1983)
- Cycle 1                     60          26Z             232
- Cycle II                   195          85Z
Secondary Education
- General                    857         3702             862
- Technical                  257         111X
- Teacher training         1,818         7852
Grandes Ecoles                 1,020        4402           10002
at Data are for 1987, unless otherwise indicated.
b/ Cost estimates include expenditures on central administration.
asANII(mali4)



-46-                                                   ANNEX It
Table 1. Total and Female Enrollment by Level of Education Page 2 of 4
I         --------
To"   I                                    uEt
I      awO  est:,Er           ".~   Srn  14b        e. me,ferSO.           eri.   Oeb    SItd                 stSi
1160/6:   66.660   :  .                         .    5.0                         .        .                      0
11M :  US.5                                     :                * .         5.621        .                  4.166
Ism9/ml:                      .                      .              .        6,*          .                  4cn
..-  sitvns.    .   :                                     .        .        4.0           .                  4.0111
517JW 1.M6                   66.1                            Sim4       5.26         is                 9.466
5105/1:  666,1:St                54.1*2         .         .        .          ON         14 t
51161/62.                         86.442        *        .W  b'              4.9                                         I
It1 U:   6.On1           :        W.071         -      .1    .I       *,                 to      1L.0        1.00t
I1466/64:  2.05"         St       SC.=         so    ".8l1         so        6.05        IS        so        1.04
111164/:    4114."       07       4,162        an    1.45          Z         7.S         31t,#l   1.64       S" *
III"/66 :23*4J7           7,      80.6                160.0        to3        .1        s11t   1.63          SAN
MOOMjS7   21111,0311     07       47.316              16.640       SIM        639        1A      11.2143     1.M3     
7W/IS:  61w.67          VA        ".66         l4     U,E01$      14%        4.*73       VA 2i*4             7.U.14
el          w _p _re. morel loot i  bi a   C-.;. el-   i          is   a. C     a  _te  *r *m  11.05. 1l
mi"erne. 66.0.
b/ Pies.*e do 7ee i..a.i. ...rIima1 IC Lib,iwr  W. t   14m.
el lb. sea# ;m It sribmt4  is 1e6  Is _n   4d _  b                           t      e o d _
sg..me, *aS.6,g of amt1nmbe VW3 eS" olool msblosk.
Table 2. Urban/Rural Breakdown Data (Cycle I)
liP4...Botde I-t2 ,t  04/            0                            6.0                .0         5
I ft...1s  7-12 *_e                                                                               I
lb.. Itel_ Ibel. d*ele.e                      14366 1e.6                                3411      5  t
liobeer of ..n. 
;                                                                                                 I
i;_         de sasiteo,                                                                  6.410
5doe/of 46abk 
5 ag.B, tsm.i.                                  3.                   4.0                 1.467    1
- ermde do n..
I  *-rno B.sl) * 
I   Xtmbm  I.e  9ec..m                          J  O*107*                                         I 
I  dmt,/e..re 4. stve 6.                                                 l                        I
ISf t_" *f_ us                                                                                    I
lp".6ry. oftrol atet vetio/Te... doe
I  me.Bsetleft p,aet  (S                          me                  1 4.1
I                        .S
I .s.oe t 'e t.. eaae orn/ et.?                                       so's  b/            J,    I
I  Ole, do mitt" for elm "  s                    1.32                 0.03                1.14    I
I  ibebo eleeme/shitre               1~~5.3              8.                    60e 
ISp.e r*-Iele       i esesee                                          5X l,  
r Isme ~se  ted.leete                         10.1                 80.7                60.4    5
34. so egpto 460  Clesse                         g7,                  fi1. diiif Pon mm1te  l
i                                                                                                 I
ofI11 re, v      t_ , _ets howIe                              I* I          s
I  Take re, 4% %M  e.mI.                        12.0 f401WoeI        21.1*16.9    I
IW                                  Si  _ *  4
IPrsoim totsdl evte 5f               1 tt            _ i         sW        
I  T.. owe do pinti                             67.9 ;_,                                 93. It_ ;
_I                                                                                                S 1     w    .
*,46B5 0bB4)



1  2  3   4               76 6  9              10 11  12   13                  14  15   1    17     1    19 20
CM      Cofed'sl  I A.th
eV      bsI.tb*uiIsmV.sdndro
aPm     Cumd. Fogm"Oe I dsuIh_ L
EPT    so"bN. "apome Tum                                                  INA
amiP                                                  {4loss NormlftTed..PSr  IO- ENETF                                    CPS
NA  koMMI'mon  ~~~U-inWU4 1M
mmA   boW Ce,al.d hpC. a   i
boo. Seomd._ .e Ia Sum
PEOP    lsmLd__  _E.Pm.  led.sgav
CM  Cat*. edas. 8u6.Wur                                              as
iNS  Isis Normals SapirIamwCAAPTC"OSU
CICA   boSs Cwdsmb VA Co AirUs  A o
asO     Boleft Ndrsdmih
IF-     hdS Poby fa   -     )
VMW    baSs Nabsuals P. o     pTwo .a141
5 @   _ _ _                   - -
CPS     CW" P_.seSi w-u                                                                             -V| I 
a"      lol Hooa 4Awfvtn
Wm  &'L *._ 3-to okm                                          GP                             EH P
_eA  _d$P. Pit ftd1-p*
6WG    mO*NfttM*_*WMdw                         **                                      Pl,_, imidca    pl
sm* GoNWldolo"as                       13  EFM  Pi d(*w__W"                        N    oads



MIN1STERE DE L'EDUCATIN NATIONALE
-Bureau dee Projete Education|
M imiTR                                Division Etudes Techniques |
INSTITUT PEDAGOIIQUE NATIONAL           I            I                T      T
_OHC!IONE   DRENTA  SUPERIR     DR LA  _ECO IRE C 1NERA.i ?pn de I Q ComptabIEltl
CENTRE DOCUCENI. ET ARCHSVESC_
r  CAP        _DV. Personnel et Documentat.
I  _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _         _   _   _   _  _          _   _   _   _   _         _   _  _   _  _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ . ..  
Ig                                I                                                           - -
DIRECTION1 RATIONCLE       DIVICSION NADIONALA    I DIRVCSION NATIOULE         DIRECSION NATDONALI      DIRECSION NATIONALE
DE LIALPHABETISATION        0E L?NS EDICNt   DE DZ LHIENS OCN3ET                DE LIENSEIOI EK ENT     DE LE  PLANIFICATION
FONC"IONNELLE ET DE            PONDAM2NTAL           SUPERIEVR ET DE L         SECONDAIRE GENERAL.      ET DE LJEQUIPEMEtlT
1L  LXi.-ABSTIC APPLIQ.                             RECEERCNE SCIENTIP.        TECHNIQUE ST PROT ES.          SCOIAIRE
DIV1I10H RECLERCHA          DIVISION DE LA           DIVISION  DRES L            DIVISION DE             DIVISION DE IATI
1- 4GUISTIQUE EITU            PEDAOGIZE              PORMHAION-SOURCES      - LENSEICNCT SE-            D PLANIFICATION
I  LLo^G0SIQUE                                                            CONQAIRE  SECRAI                         O
I F DIVISION DE              DIVISION DES    I         IV. DE -A TUT1LL         DIVISION DE LCONRI-         DIVISION DR LA
L*ALPIHABETISATION ;-EXAMEN$ ET CONCOURSI   -4TALLISSEMNTS PU- I-SEICNHENOT TECHNI- I-STAtISTIQUe ET Del
IPNCTIONDELLE              I TLICS ET ENS. AUP. I    |QUE DS rosAO                            NzL        LEINPO EANIQU?
I I[DIV, ION DE  LA           DIVISION DE SA            DICISION DRE ILAS           DIVISION DES           DIVISION DES 
- Ol*@TION rEINrI          q    SCOLARITP.                 RECHERCHE            EXAMS ET CONCOURS| -EDES DDOROEINTATIOND
uI L 1 |VALU ONSPDACOCSLEQUC O                                     RE SRATPIR_A
DIVIDSIO510  DE LA PRO-|    |DIVISION DU CONtRO-|                             |DVISION DU CONTRO-|      DtVISIOil DZ
l_DUCTION DES MATE-  I-LE Et ANIMATION DU                                    -LE PEDAGOIQUE           -    W LEQUIPWENT 1
RrItrLeS DIDACTIQUESI      SYSTEKE MEDERSAHS  III                                                        | SCOLAIRE 
I IvIISION DE LA PLA-|         DIVISION DES   |  DIRECTEURS REIONULESI 
*-+IFICATTON ET DE   I   4      INNOVATIONS    IIDEI                                                                              1
|L EVALUATION       I         PEDACOCIQUES   |   LIEDUCATtON NATIONALZ                   



-49-                                  ANNEX III
INSTIEaE DE LaOUCAN^ WAION                                                     1 of 6
Wf POOS - .lhs a- Ur. Pc
No.  0955-/   M                                  28 avrtl 1989
44fnt4w/                              o          =-a
#   19/  \t\      ~~,, Iz.1ur__lo Pr4sident de l'Association
Washington, D.C. 20433
Etats-Unis d'Am6rique
Obiet: Lettre de Politique Educative
Monsieur le Pr4sident,
La presente lettre de Politique Educative indique LSe intentions
du Gouvernemnt du Mali pour la mise on osuvre d'un programm d'ajustement
du secteur do leducation afin de r6aliser la strategie de dEveloppement
d6finie pour co iecteur. L'objectif du programm est de rentabiliser les
investissements sectoriels, notamment ceux pr6vus dans le cadre d'un
Projet de Consolidation de l'Education soumis au fzan cement de
l'Association Internationale de Dveloppomnt. Le Projet de Consolidation
comprend un programe d'ajustement sectoriel et uf projet de typo
classique. Le programs Etablit le cadre de politique sectorielle et le
contexte   institutionnel   indispensables   pour   rentabiliser   les
investissements du sectour tandis quo le projet finance uno proportion
4leveo desdits investissoments.  La consolidatlt%  du systbmo educatif
constitue l'etape initiale d'un processus & long term visant les
objectifs suivantss
-    le rdtablissement  do l'equilibre du  systimo  iducatif par
l'*largissement de sa base et par un developpement des niveaux
secondaire general, technique, professionnel et superiour
compatibles avec les ressources de l'Etat et les perspectives
de developpement de 1'Economie nationals;
-    1'amelioration  de  la  qualite  et  de  la  pertinence  de
l'enseipiment dispensE & tous lee niveauz; et
-    l'smelioration  de  la  gestion  des  ressources  humaines,
financiIres et matErielles de l'ensemble du secteur.
Les difficultes roncontrEes ces dernires aundes dont la
stagnation des effectife dane le fondamental, le chOmage des diplCmes, la
baisse des indicateurs de qualit# dans l'eneoignement ozigent que nos



ANNEX III
- 50 -                              Page 2 of 6
efforts soient concentres sur l'essentiel, et que les problemes soient
abordes de facon nouvelle & travers un ensemble de mesures de
restructuration et de reamenagement du secteur qui concernent autant la
gestion du systame educatif que son contenu.  Ces mesures s'inscrivent
dans le contexte plus large d'un ajustement macro-Economique et
structurel. En effet le Gouvernement du Mali a rEcemment ndgocie avec le
Fonds Mon4taire International (FMI) et la Banque Mondiale (B.M.) un accord
sur un programme a moyen terme visant & atteindre un taux de croissance
Economique soutenable dans des conditions de stabilitE financiere,
intErieure et extErieure.  Ce programme vise en particulier a creer un
environnement favorable a lactivitE du secteur privE et A rOduire les
distorsions Economiques notamment en amdliorant la gestion des ressources
publiques y compris la programmation des investissements. Un Projet de
Riforme des Entreprises Publiques a EtE Egalement conclu en juin 1988
entre la Banque Mondiale et le Gouvernement du Mali.
Pour contribuer a cet effort et le renforcer au niveau
sectoriel, le Gouvernement du Mali propose & travers le present programe
des incitations au dEveloppement des services prives dteducation et une
adaptation progressive des prograsmes scolaires afin d'am4liorer
l'aptitude des sortants a s'ins4rer dans un marchE du travail en mutation
ou & poursuivre leurs Etudes sur la base de crit6res selectifs et
qualitatifs.  Par ailleurs une restructuration des d4penses publiques est
prevue afin de nous permettre d'Elargir la base de l'enseignement
fondamental notamment en faveur des catEgories les plus pauvres et de
rendre celui-ci plus performant.
En offet, une augmentation du taux de scolarisation & 50 S d'ici
l'an  2000  est  indispensable  au  decollage  economique  ainsi  qu'&
l'amdlioration de la productivite de la main d'oeuvre, l'dtat sanitaire
et nutritionnel de la population, en particulier des groupes vulnerables
que sont les feumes et les enfants.   Des actions seront notamment
entreprises pour renforcer la scolarisation fEminine.
Mesures dEi& vrisest
En 1983, dans le but de reduire le coftt de lVdducation, le
Gouvernement du Mali a fermE les internats des etablissements secondaires
et transforme les bourses a ce niveau en dotation de materiel et de
fonctionnement.
Le montant total des bourses a Ete ramene de 3,8 milliards de
FCFA en 1985 a 3 milliards en 1988. Toutefois, en raison des procedures
budgdtaires, le benefice de ces economies n'a pas pu etre ricupEre par le
Ministare  de  l'Education  Rationale  pour  financer  ses  objectife
prioritaires.
Afin de limiter les dEpenses  du personnel de  l'Etat,  le
Gouvernement du Mali a mis fin au recrutement automatique des diplmEms
dans la Fonction Publique et a instaur6 le recrutement sur conconkrs et
ceci depuis 1983. Dans le cadre t'un programme do departs volontaires,
environ 350 enseignants ont quitte la fonction publique en 1987-88. Do



ANNEX III
-51-                                 Page 3 of 6
meme, pour ajuster le nombre d'eleves des Instituts Pedagogiques
d'Enseignement GEnhral (IPEG) aux perspectives de l'emploi, il a 6t0
institu4 un concours pour ladmission dans ces etablissements.  Enfin,
conscient de la n6cessite de r6aliser des gains d'efficacite, pour
optimiser lVutilisation des ressources limities de l'Etat Malien, le
D4partement de l'Education Nationale a entrepris au cours des derniers
mois un certain nombre d6'tudes portant en particulier sur la
rationalisation du regime des bourses et de l'utilisation des IPEG et des
Ecoles Normales Secondaires (ENSEC). Le regroupement des dlIves-maltres
de ces 6tablissements est d4j& amorc6 (de 6 a 3 IPEGs).
Mesures envisai4es gour la Bdriode 1989-1994
Pendant la p6riode 1989-1994, le Gouvernement du Mali se propose
de mettre en place les mesures ci-aprist
Mesure 1 - R44quilibrage de la pyramide educative par lV4largissement de
l'acc6s au ler cycle de l'enseignement fondamental et le plafonnement du
nombre de nouveaux admis autour d'une moyenne mobile des trois annees
pr6c4dentes, soits
-    pour le secondaire general, a l'int4rieur d'une fourchette de
2200-2500 par an;
-    pour le superieur, I un niveau tel que la some des recrutements
des trois annexes consdcutives (Grandes Ecoles + boursiers
maliens & l'etranger) ne depasse pas 4500;
tandis qu'une proportion croissante d'l4&ves seront orientes vers les
filibres professionnelles et techniques.
Hesure 2 - A travers le mdcanisme financier decrit au point 9, incitations
au developpement du secteur priv4 de 16ducation, qu'il s'agisse des
6coles catholiques, des medersas accr6ditees ou de la crEation d'une
trentaine d'dcoles de base et d'une trentaine d'ecoles de village
enti&rement auto-financees.
Hesure 3 - Adoption de dispositions visant & encourager la scolaritd
fEminine, a savoirz
-    realisation d'une  etude  analysant les facteurs  familisux,
scolaires et sociologiques influant sur la frequentation
scolaire fEminine et proposant des solutions rdalistes pour
amdliorer la situation et pour renforcer la participation des
femmes dans le corps enseignant.
-    introduction, dans le cadre de la revision des program.s du
Cycle I de l'enseignement fondamental, de notions de
santElhygi&ne, de nutrition et de soins de l'enfant;
Mesure 4 - Recrutemeat au niveau du Baccalaureat (BAC) pour I'entrde danm
lee IPEG avec uns fonmation pedagogique de 2 ans et une rEform doe



ANNEX III
- 52-                                  Page 4 of 6
prograwmes.  Cette mosure vise & mieux adapter la formation des maltres
du fondamental aux situations rEelles d'exercice de leur profession
(n6cessit# d'une p4dagogie plus active, surcharge des classes en milieu
urbain et faiblesse des effectifs en milieu rural, d'ot la decision du
Ddpartement d'experimenter avec la double vacation et d'etendre la classe
a divisions multiples) et d'en reduire le coUt.
Mosure 5 - Revision des programmes du Cycle I fondamental de facon &
rdduire la charge hebdomadaire totale, a consacrer plus de temps aux
disciplines f-ndamentales (calcul, lecture et ecriture du fran9ais, de
l'arabe etlo  :e la langue nationale), et & mieux lier les activites
pratiques ausx objectifs cognitif. des programmes a chaque niveau.
Mesure  6  -  Elaboration  d'une  stratEgie  de  restructuration  de
l'Enseignement Secondaire GEnEral, Technique et Professionnel et superieur
y compris la mise en place de l'universite en accord avec les autres
mesures prevues par la presente lettre.
H4esure 7 - Pour accroltre les ressources disponibles, pour developper le
Cycle I de l'Enseignement Fondamental et ameliorer la qualitd a tous les
niveaux, le budget de fonctionnement du Ministere de l'Education Nationale
sera progressivement reamenage sur les cinq annees du projet de la facon
suivantet
-    la part du budget de fonctionnement de l'Etat consacrd au
Hinist&re de I'Education Nationale sera au moins maintenue a son
niveau actuel de 252 environ;
-    les  Economies  realisees  par  le Ninistire  de  ltEducation
Nationale sur un poste donne seront conservees pour affectation
& un autre poste prioritaire au sein du mQme departement;
-    a l'interieur du budget de fonctionnement du Hinistire de
1 Educations
-    la part affectEe au ler cycle de VEnseignement Fondamental
passera graduellement de son niveau actuel de 33? au niveau
moyen africain de 45? en 1993, lea budgets affect&s au
second cycle de l'Enseignement Fondamental seront gelde en
tomes nominaux & leur niveau de 1988 soit environ 3,1
milliards de FCFA tandis que ceux affectes au secondaire
general et I l'enseignement normal seront respectivement
geles aux niveaux de 1,7 et 0,83 milliards de FCFA environ;
-    la part affectEe & l'Enseignement Supdrieur no devra pas
depasser son niveau actuel de 19S;
-    les bourses de l'Enseignement Superieur seront rdduites de
10? pendant chacune des 2 promi&res annhes du projet et de
5? pendant chacune des 2 annees suivantes; et
-    la part du materiel passers de 4 A 12? en y inclunt I1
transformation des bourses du secondaire en  matEriels



ANNEX III
- 53 -                                 Page 5 of 6
p6dagogiquos. A Vlint6rieur de l'enveloppe affect6e au
materiel, un accent particulier sera port6 sur le mat6riel
pedagogique par rapport su fonctionnement des inspections
qui pour 6tre efficaces doivent Stre mobiles.
Mesure 8 - La maitrise des coets du personnel etant un de nos objectif.,
il a ete retenu de tendre d'un ratio de 38 dleves par maStre en 1989 & 42
4l&ves par mattre au ler cycle fondamental, de 14 6lveslmaitre & 25
61vesIma1tre au 2&me cycle fondamental, de 8 eleves/maltre a 15
el4veslmaitre au secondaire et de red4ployer vers les salles de classes
chaque ann6e environ 10 des maltres suppleants et d6charges de cours dont
les effectife sont respectivement estimis & 700 et 923.   La double
vacation sera introduite & titre experimental & raison de S classes par
region et par an et les classes & plusiours divisions seront etendues 4
au moins 250 Ocoles. Enfin, une campagne de sensibilisation des maltres
du second cycle de l'Enseignement Fondamental sera entreprise en vue de
leur redtploiement vers le Cycle I pendant quo les professours
d'Enseignement Secondaire General seront encourag6s & so porter candidate
au programme de dEparts volontaires a la retraite.
Hesure 9 - Mobilisation de financements prives afin d'elargir la base de
ressources affectees au Cycle I de Ilenseignwment fondamental. Un Fonds
d'Appui & l'Enseignement Fondamental (PAEP) sera cr66 avec le soutien de
bailleurs de fonds pour accorder une moyenne de 502 des contreparties aux
contributions des Parents d'dlhves, des ONGs et des Comit6s de
Developpement pour la realisation de constructions, rEnovations et
ameliorations de l'environnement scolairs.
Mesure 10 - Elaboration d'un programme triennal d'investilsomsnt glissant
en accord avec l'Association Internationale de Dveloppement (IDA)
conformfment aus objectifs du plan quinquennal et auz objectifs
prioritaires d'expansion et d'amilioration du lar cycle de l'Enseignem_nt
Fondamental.
M4esure 11 - Dans le cadre des procedures existantes de passation des
marches, regroupement et planification des achats du DEpartement de
l'Etucation Nationals qui, pendant toute la duree du projet, se feronts
(i) & hauteur maximale de 251 des montants, on achat direct apres
consultation de trois fournisseurs (pour lee marches inferieurs a 3
millions de FCFA)  (ii) a hauteur maximale de 502, en appel d'offres local
ouvert non seulement aux fournissours nationaux et locaux mais aussi aui
figmes non representdes au Mali (pour lea marchEs compris *ntre S et 100
millions de FCFA); et (iii) & hauteur minimale de 252 en appal d'offres
international (pour les marchEs de plus de 100 millions de FCA).
En outre LI  est prevu la realisation d'6tudes perettants
d'Evaluer lee programmes d'enseignement aux differents niveaux du syst&a_
Oducatif; de proposer un systeme de gestion du personnel offrant aui
onseignants des perspectives de carri&re plus attrayantes; et d'elaborer
une politique du livre assurant la miss & disposition & chaque enfant dun
jeu minlmum de manuels de qualite pedagogique acceptable.



-54 -                             ANNEX III
Page 6 of 6
Le Gouvernement du HalW est convaincu que l'eneemble de coo
mesures conjugufes aux iAvestissements envisages dans le cadre du projet
aidera & faire evoluer l'ecole malienne dana le sens d'une vEritable
revitalisation, d'une plus grande equite et d'un coOt par dipleiE reduit.
Veuillez agreer, Monsieur le PrEsident, l'expression de ma haute
consideration.
S.E. Madame Diallo La   Sy
Hinistre de l'Emploi et de la
Fonction Publique
pour S.S. General Sekou Ly
MHnistre de l'Education Rationale
chevalier de l'Ordre National



lRC a Troache relee. eonition
DC a Sated coveant                                             RPIlIUC O MLI
C a Covenant
EucTION SECTOR CiNS      TION PROJECT
--------------                         ~~~~~~~NOTE:Tltbebpi    g   e}e
eezditleiltty onal Other parter-
ADJUSn   PFUR    Mce targts .cti..  mad etudise,
arm d-tal  d t    ea  view Criteria
In the 1otte pert ot this Annex.
TiSTO SE TANPI
ACTIONS ALMAY  TAKE Olt TO 0    KEY CTW  TO K T             PRII |  PWRI  TOR 1HX TIIE           TARGET Y "H  END
KASUK  TlKOI PRIOR To FIRST TANC TO    OS TRAMCNE R SE T      I          RELEASE          I          TIlE PrOJECT
RELEASE/EFFECTIVENESS               I9W UIIDE.I I)|                       )
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(OER15)                                                                        I__________________-__.__
A. ACCESS AND EQUITT
1. To restor. the shape of      Reritmet  lsr ciil _Ice    For school ymr 19-0 and    Maintin the _er of No    Ceilngs t  be reviewed
the *dwatlon                subjeft tler strict  z, I*1,10ve    lo61  mlntain the number    entrants within the eas        Jolntly la content of
btood n eccees to pr_ry   ox*   uWNr IW  proro _             o am cetrente (Q) InCe           Imsits for school yer        i_ tbr Plo" for rentrc-
ed tlon ad dswelop the    (236 p.e. for *1 * eeers).            _ cory gonerl educmt)e        1m1-92. (C)                  turoln  eecoedry *nd
bigb r bov le In line with  Ad lo oeF lrE toebw tr t lng  bolIe 2,62110 *tudeU wtillt)         ...t... lm   _ dwmtloe                                    VI
trendo In labor market      ct elf _  oubject to _ompetifive   lInto higher edcatleo, *to a
d _sd end tfeeCl coe-     I exem  which rede d student        level uch that t  tetal
strelrtJ.                   numbers by 2t8 eIlm  196.        n e of am entra    oer
three pre dy s   o"t  _eed
4,60 (QE  and inbreed) or
1,60 p.e. on averge.
Other eudse to be oriented
t_rdm sorter technical end
vocatioen streems.
S. Provide Incontiv  to the   Logl text govmn,lg Pretry        Malntain policy.                maintain policy.              Total Primary enreollmet
dev le     of private       Eduction Support Fund (to te b                                                                 ratlo lreed froe 51
educational e rvicee to     etablihed *   ffctivenwe        I Government to lprov  reg"ul-                                to *53; abou to
expd aeem  within            condition) to provide that       tins governino private,                                      dletrict echoole aNd 
projected budgetary         catholic, slale  and nne-      I dietlet and villae  choole                                   villeo *echoolo reated.
coetrlt.                  I dmominatloal schools  etIn  I WAd propoe  dditional Inc._-
opecif i criterl are ellgiblo   tives to the develop  e  of 
for matchlog fud. (tRC)         private schools by Nov. 15g.
S. Preom  female enrol lmnto   First benIclory a_ee ment        Conduct *n dis s with DA    Ioplement oreed uon               Primer femal enroll-   I        3
and p rtlelprtlen I, the   I  _I td.                         Study ld dtitylas tw             re on tlens  QC)             m_  Pablo Iorweso             go b 
teachl _ corpe at all     I                                   I _          education *w- tre  t2 to it nc   _                                      esoe 
leovels of the rytem.     I                                  t       n  proposing correctlve 
I                       I  ~~~~~~~comroe. (DC) 
Revision of Cycle I currl-
culm to inelude notions
In halth, nutrition nd W
chi Id care.
__*________________._____________ ____________.__________^_.__c..__c...__________..e.4_...-______________



ANNEX IV
-56-                    Page 2 of 7
310s       i         'II-iEi                'l-
ill    Ii 1           eli 1t              ii
n il .'i          4 g aiE      iiI
U'     I;           I 
-~~~~~~~ii



I  I                                                                KEY ACTIONS TO SE TAKEN
l                       ~~~~~~~~ACTIONIS MJt    TAE ON TO SE    KE ACTIONS TO BE TAKE PRIOR  PRIOR TO TOM  nRAMM          TARETBY TM 80
MEAM 5E              TAKEN PRIOR TO FIRST TRANIE      TO SECOND TRANCHE RELEASE              RELEASE                   OF THE PROJECr
RELEE/EFFECTUVESS                  QU        1993)               (NOVEMR 19M)
Ic. SECLMRESOURCE                                                                               ll
7.t (1) To expand reca  to   Seholoih1ps roww  frm CFAF   SntltSoery proron towards   Conttnuw pror *e towards   Meet fanel targets: 
primary education ad      1.8 to a.9 billion bt  n           *reed target.s  (I) MEN'         aprowd target.s (i) MEI's    () MN' sh re rn          I
1 provo quoltty at oil      l98C-89; criteria preppred in    *hrs of CorAwnt _       'o r ur-    *hnro In Cbter _ to I's   "vrnm_ t"s nrr nt I
level, protect *nd          Z866 for furtbhr reductions.     rent budget to be               r current budget to be        budget mintained at atI
retrcure lENII  b t   I                                      at at least 25; (11) within   I mntained at at least          lst 261 througbout the
to reaIloca   resources     craft 1989 recurrent budget:     MIEN  budget, (a) by level of   251; (7t) within MIEN'         roject; (1) oithin      I
towarde Cycle I Nd mat-           i) protects MENs sherar at      education, to inrease the       bdet (a) by leel of           WI' budgt, (a) the 
rarls allocations; sod a; (1i) wlthin MENl' budt    *shre of primay f rm as5 In                   ton, to incree the   share of primary educ-
(ii) To Incres budgt        redues the hamre of peo r so     1686 to at lest 405 In 1990,   share of primry education I  ieOn to reach at lteat
transparency.               by 91; (iii) introduc            and to maintin tho share of    to at least 42S n 1991,        453, that for hi7r
substantial presentationl        highter eduaton below 191,      to maintain the share of     education maintaimnd
Improvements.                    and (b) by typ of *xpedi-       hlber edueation below        below 195, nd (b) by
taro, to 7ncru  the share, of 1 .S, ndW (b) by type of       t ypo of xKp nditur, tehI
*&terirlr tre 4X la 1S88 to    oxpodteuro to 7nero           w here of outor7010 tOe
As ottectt-  _Jirvttatben        at least oX In 19, NW to        the shrrope} o mtertolo to    rba  l  2a, nd high er  1
r l _  eoondlOion, n ect *       redue htoh r due tton sebol -  at lo st OX In IMS, and       *due t70n scholor bip    l
109p1 text ro irg tth eho budgat :r9hip by 10S In 190 and        to reduce highor education   fromen In curront
nouonelotro   oS toe di ttin-    *noth r tUX In I990 (current    scholarships by SX In IM9    t r   through thel
gutoh b tro   Cyclo I and Cycl-eI term*) -D p rd tOe an Initial   (ex-post) ond another 6#     VW at theh proJ Oct.
II and serate materials          mowunt of CFPF 2.4 billIon tin            and  n ( x-ont ). tTRh)       p             I
locatIons fron scholarships.   1988. (TRC)                                                                            I
0                     ~~~~~         ~~I(TRC)            I                                              I                           I 
8. To contain the groeth of    About t40 tachers left the       Yerly agren nt on a *tffin* Agreet                            Re ion of unit con et
tho salary elemet of unit  Icivil ser1c  in 199? and        I plan involving: (I) redeploy-   plan ibd on th  _am    
6  To contain  ratiIo fromIn19  -andPI* -                                  an     o-       :*b=       t;sw
costa, increoo the         1198 under a USAID-funded          sent of 19-151 of  rIemry       principles.               I
4vieudne/towbor ratio *ron  ea*rly 4oeprtur, progro . This   I uppl ms  ry Os-or ch    n      Il
1 M8sl to 42s5 1or Cycl  ,I p                                techer rleae  f trom duty
f ree 18:1 tO 26:1 for       Iudr tbo proJoct.                  (to" I1ln 1,60|; (ti) tntro-II|
Cycl- 11, *re 8:911  d1roublo-shift p                                                 n r te
I for secondary education                                     leaslot S ela nroo r per rooton  I I                                                  I
" owr tho 1689-94 period.                                        W I      nnu ; 1ttt) IntroductionIII
I  I  Iof *lt d  In about 2SO|                                                        I
|             |                                 i I&s ~~~~~~~~~~laroo    (S P.*.); (IV)                                                I
!r ductton In tbh n ; r of                          
Cycle It ond secondary        I
|~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~t I                        bro (t^hro    redeloymenT 
|~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~t C v Cel- I *nd early diper-                                                     II
= ~~~_ __              _  _  __   _  _    ____ __ _               ____    _  _          I
______________________________________________________________________________________  _____________e____ 
o c



I               I                                 UT~~~~~~~~~ ACTIII TO UK TAM 
ACTIS  ALIM         TM   UOt U K   t     A11  TO K TM          tI UlT TTo   N  ITmIOS   *    TWIT IN 1W as
EASE                 TAM  PRIE  To ru2st TOUIOS       TO mmS lUASO  ISREl                   IMRAM             I           VW PROUC
in.nsjwPu_ _m omom u_ *                                            I~ 61
leeeee  .a  lemat Ubi          l1_s. he ot leS           1
14     . ,, loss for eO        46,1 for C9e. U, 6st1 for
us aed oil for eeeeuor         Cjp.I U, aid 18,1 forj
~~~~~~~~~~~avte. (1".                                            _t   lt-
8J.1l  _i discus with IDA      l 1aptee a  a     ce nced-
eted  a.p.eea   (staff   leg    d ti. eseerdim,t.
rat, reel             tlee/  areed e(ted. ()             I
esspeeStIm pel tep.  DC)                        (
0. To  Naas the reemere       As effelve      /ftrt Tren_he   ebltl. policy.                   bltl. policy.                x         U  f   to
b_e for pr1.ery edmee-      mine eoeditlo.. $lea 1    b- I_                                                                _    o
ties, 1era  esrhe-    I t'S  oovf     iermet to em-I that, as                                                               ist. ofothe
tISo  froem P*rome          Ilapp.rt POe prvidleg           of Jour7 le "WI St lent                                          M dem.
*eaeoi        0   NW aduhlol 6ee6l6Atb.e to the              m  ef reeovee trei the
_e,ai.pmaat &mlo_ Ce.   _1om of th  osetrestee              Se_1_wemwt Taxrei 1I _d
prgrm. (no                      to edgeatiesl estivte.oC) ,
10. To e_m. cool temep        166641          owlt ired S      Ag  e  em 16666   awt-    A__at 1 eN the 186                          e ew
betwe        _te-  a                le.                     _et rgr     o t  1as           R       tt rm. (C)           tr_  1.
tonrl ebjeStive. mad                                       AMeI am --!, s-d em 1614
1es       eie       ee                                          e     str   eSt the
yelp  g       t e a                                        1_Am          view. (C)
the   er ellte
It. to Wacie 1evlg em         t_tter of S evoleosI Folto    IblOftte potlc.                      IeAtal polley.             11e1t* p.911  aid
'e    e.1 , 1   prewe   a          that    epuraheeeO   lo  as m   I'
o  Planning se11e bon   (S                    ) lter_.
loll of tm vIsol_         blotl _1*1"iv bldiw
' prno"  .itht.   for St lent o(Voln" teno,
emetlmgUeII"               contrac ateeha    CPAP U
pro.mduree. ,             dil#ll)  (11) loOl bidding
Is 1ai I, for  _hee on
*r_ae abof o     8 elIIiee)I
(ill) direst I-rMMese folios-
smte lee, ore    r th eePric
etreor hso mm 8b S
tilleis).
_                                                                                                                    _ ---- 5-
6$tl/=~m 
0 



CA.IC il tMAL
UCATION  SlT0R  CINSDIMATIM  iRtOJECr
RM   CRrTERZ
Thls Annex summrizs  the criteria to be used for the review
Of proress tourd s achieving obJectives of tte Soctor l
Ad4utmn1t Progra outlined in perso 41-SU and of the
Investmnt Elemt described In pars. o 7-8.
MEAE  ARIM   %N                                                             REVIN   grEIA                                     KA7M           RESPNiA8XIEt
A. NCASLE   TO DRVE  ACCf M  EQJT
1.  prove the supply of primary eduetion In urban areas of the         (a) - Create FAE' ao effectivenee  condition
three proj et regi ons to reach a 361 primary enrolloent ratio by          At ech annul review, exmine performance in levying
1994                                                                       mathing fund.
(a) Introduce double shift in five claeoo  per annum/per region         (b) - Durtn Pi. senItiatton casifn and proram developmnt                       TMC             DETuDEFIFPN
(total lSO cilasrom, for three regions by the end of the project)       - Testing In f;ve cIs   er reeli  in PY2 (SY90-91)
- Begin extension in P13 (B-Y 9
- At each annual review  vorif tnt agreed targeto  have been
mat. discus  issues and confrm targets for next review
(b) Renovate or rehabilitate  ome 1.200 classreom                       (c) - At each Annual Review, veritfy that greed yearly tagets                  WP             OET.8NF#iP
have been  et, agree on prorm  nd  udget for the next year
(c) Construct about M  i lesroom                                        (d) - as for Cc) *bove                                                         VP                  Deu
- For 1969 Annual Rev is,, produce conetrucbion/maintenance
guidel ines
2. Monitoring the cause behind the decline in social demand for         2. - At each Anual Revies. exvaine report of the participant-                   VP               1P N $0
education in rural area   nd introduce corrective measures                observer teas covering preavoue school year - special attention
tot ruralization fe_le participation, private cost, netional
languagas, impcs of religion, eploycent proepecta
- Discus and agree on corrective mesures
S. Provide incentives to the developmnt of private education            8  - During each Annual Review, verify thae rly targets et for                  VP               VET F
opening district chols and vi l ege       Ia have been _t
dscuss poibl  ditffcultles and eolutilos and
- Ding P1Ic ue  pedagogic  phyical, financial safety, and                   VP                 ONPES
-     9l       t Revie  submit nd dlecues *dditionnal                       VP              OI ST.A
so for promoting private educational services (tea
~~~repsea ~ ~     ~      ~      cnrew
incentives, mangsnt contracts. Ii cening contracts)
4. Promote fewle partcipation                                           4. - Include In revleed cycle I curricula btnlc principles                      VP               IPlNhWE
In MM0 health nutrition, hmom economise
t For rI4& Annual Rieview  submit study including specific propoale nP                         CHEF
to incree  female enrollments at a I levels ot the education
system, nd femle participation in the teaching corPe;                                        FW
agree on an iplesentetion echsdule for the proposed
recommndations* as part of Paster Plan for roetructuriny
secondary and higher education, revise femle participation In
enrollment and teacher corps and propose corrective ecmureo
- Include femle partiecpation as criterion In lechool of the years         1RC            a(MMMNEM
contest
- For 1990 Annal Review, conduct sector cum-re-investeent study to
transfer, existin  underutiliIzed IPM  or B    Into technical
secondary schol for girls (or to rehabilitate SeIM)
S. Adjust the growth of non-technical secondary and hiSe.r              6  - At each joint Annual Reviews verify that agreed ceilIng has been          TRC        I)I b
education in line with fiscal cnstrainte lbor ma et prospects            set
limit number of new entrants to average for te pat three previous       - For 1990 nd subsequent Annual Reviews, collect and update data            iP      i     b      P
"re     i e  below 2600 for secondary general *nd 1I00                    bass on private technical and vocational schools                                                                   O
for higher education (tml +  broad)
0 4
tJ n



MEASl     AUtE     UPON                                                      REVWI  CROT t A                                                   Rm6RESPA!ITIdT
U, MUMS   TO IMPROVE QUALMh  AND RELEVANCE
1. Tea sudent. In buei c dIeipl IIee (three Re. French and Arabic)       1. - With aesietance of Twin inetltution, s,pt international test*               VP                  2P
nWd cnduct reular urey, on working editions  t the claeroe                 eh yeor, strting at the baegiting of achel year 1990/91
lel n a aemple of 100 chol                                               -  dually increaee the number of eho.le covered (70 by 1990
Annual Review, 100 by 1901 Arual Review)
2. Improve teachr training
(t) Revise VW  recruitent level (BAC+2) *nd program                      (a) - During PYI1 develop and conduct intensive couree fr pedagogic             TC  IIP
advieera
- Olelum at 1968 Annual Review
- Fln li  aresmant en utiliIation of  PIC end  NSEIC at 1989
AnnualI Rev OD
- DurIng PY2 develop new VE2 program. submit to IDA for comente
-Introduce In echool year 1990/91 on experimental boasi
By 1990 Annual Review, taiydleDocision  0946 (MNrch 28, 1966)
nd Arrete ff2  (Jun. tt, 196)
(b) Reactivate In-service training                                       (b) - At eaeh Annual Review  verify numbere trained (total-1000                  VP                  IPN
principale, 8000 teachers) agaitnt previcu  yeare targete Nd
aonfire next year'e terget. Review content of program.
(c)                                                                      (a e) - FKr 1990 Annual Review conduct etudy and sake recommendatione for        WP                  IPM
lmprovtin iNSC (recruitmet and placement cndition. and
curriculum)
8. Increase the relevance of curricula
(a) In eycle I  (I) reduce number of hours/week. from preent 800         (a) - In PYl, conduct evaluatioen  of national In   ges exp eriaet and          mC                 T.A
(ii  Increase I*struct.moal time devoted to tho 3 Re            ruralizaton proarat  Discu   f*indinge at 199 Annual Review
(iii  better relate practical activities (ruralization)        - During 1990,91  IdOv   year. form tam, to develop new  eurricula.         TRC                I2P
to currickilu= cognitivo ebjectiveoe  espocially in        Agree with DA on work program by 1991  bAl ReIw.
sciontif;c discipines
(b) Other levels: in the franework af preparine Restruceturing iteter    (b) - During Pm2 (School Yer 1990-19911) conduct in-depth curriculum            TC                  T.A
evaluation,
Plan for seeondary  nd h gher education, evelwute on goin                - Diecus the rs ults at the 1991 Annul IRevIew and uso thee In
curricula In general, technical education, vocational traning              ttter Plan
4. Increes  the supply of affvrdable, pedaogical ly relevant materials  4. 
(a) In Cycle I of basic educatln                                        (a) - Provwlsin of about 1.1 milIion text booke and teacher guides               WP                  IPM
eccording to the production schedule premeated in Annex 8-8 of
the Implemntation Book; to be monitored at each Annual Review
on basis of agreed textbok policy.
(b) In the other levels                                                  (b) - Increase wsteriale allocations to 1i  of 1Ni Budget over the              T1C                 DAF
Project Life; Preogres  to be monitored each year
S. Improve the linkage with  mployent for secondary and higher           S. Governmnt to agree with IDA a Master Plan for restructuring                  TRC                Cabinoet
education                                                                secondary and higher education. IO9  Review:  Pointe to be
covered: onrollments; priority etreasa; locatione; structure and
organ ixation; investment requirements (hardware, eofteareo
renovation, new investment); recurrent comte eel f-financing.
oe0t-recovory. echolarship policy- selection and examination.;
staffing norms; interface with prvarte  oplyers.    ster Plan
should be compatible with other parameters in the program,
C. WEA6L     TO IMVROVE SlCrRA1L RESORICE  iAACS04V
1. Budget restructuring                                                  1.
(a) Through 194, maintain the share of MM4 in the Government             (a) - Verify during Annual Review meetng that, respectively  ACTUAL             TRC         Finance MinistryAF
recurrent budget at least at Its 1988 level (255) and allow MEN to         expenditure. for the preceding fieatl year and PROPtl  spendine
retain the savings achieved through efficiency gains for                   for the nest fiescl year are in  ccordance with target
reallocation in favor of privary education and mteriale
af locations
Ob) Over 1969-1994 MN4's budget by level of education s follows         (b) - Am for (a) above                                                          TRC         Finance Ministry/WOF
- incres  the share of cycle  from 38h to 4S1
- freeze in nominal terme, and if possible, reduce the budgets
for Cycle U1 (CFAF 8.1 billion). secondary  meneral (CFAF 1.7
billion)$ and teacher training (CFAF .88 billion)
- lImit the share for higher education at Its 1988 level (191)
nd if poesible reduce it
(e) Over 19994,restructure M -l'. budget, by type of expenditure, am   (e) - As for (a) above                                                            TRC         Finance MinistryAF           O
follos I0<
- reduce hgfher education escholarships by 10  p.s. In 1991.90 and
81 p.o in 1991 and 192 and freeze them in nominal terms In the
rewaining project years (target at project end: about CFAF 1.78
bill ion)



MEASBS  AO-       i                            REYIw  ORItIA                                                                  MATUM     FNtESP SO       =U
- revise the budget nme_nclture to eeper te,Cyc~le I from  Cycle It     - First tranche relase condition
toeeo  the actual brdeakldow  o  secnayt  Larehi
end to proehct mterials sgx,nditur e tro cuta which woeuld
-         .bla.4de e ,heeSbl. rX lkc,ti.n. fro* 4 to 105 (minilm) by 1994,  - AS for (a) Sbeve
2. Contain the growth of the salary element of unit cost throwh a    2. Aree each year on a  taftfing plun
mor intesive use of Staff and focilities until the pupil/teacher
ratio reche 42:1 In Cycle I, 25:1 in Cycle 1I 15:1 in secendary
(a) Redeploy each yoer during 1989-94 at leat 10-1A of                  (r) - Verify during Annual Review meting that, reeaectivel  ACUAL              TRC               OAFilNW
upplementary and free-from-clasrooe duty peimary teachre                  r      deploynt effort for the pnding School year and WOWU5W
(respectively 900 and 700 in 198B)                                       redeployment p lns for the next fiscal year are In accordance
with target
(b) Introduce double-ehift teEchin  in at least S clasroom        in   (b) - ee A.1. (a).                                                               RC               DEF*P.
the urban areas of three project regls (total: 10 by 144*j
(c) Introduce multigrade teaching In at least 250 rural schools         (c) - Am for (e) above                                                         TRC               OAFi E
cutrywide by 1994
(d) Redeploy teachers from Cyclo It to Cycle I                          (d) - se (f) below                                                             TMC               0APsFd
(s) Encouraga Cycle It and secondery teacers early departues under    (e) - oee (f) below                                                              TRC               Cabinet
the ISAID or other sim2ilar program
(f) Conduct In-depth study on staffing protIles and ratiom by level of  (f) - At 190O Annuel Review  submit independant personnel Study, and           TKC                 T.A
education and between teaching/nn-teaching staff, recruitment             begin Jhplementing year agroed upon plan Immediately, for Review
and promotion policy  training   opensetion and other incentives         each year
a basis for rationliing pereonnel policy
3. tbbillie additional resources for tho sector:                        a.
(a) Improve cot recovery                                                (a) - At each Annual Retiew, aree on FAEF subsidy level                         bP            DAPFcencernsd0
- At 1990 Annual Review. ae part of Iaster Plan for restructuring          VP             Oirectoratet
Secondary and higher eduation, agree on  oPe and modalities
for introducing cost recovery at these levels
(b)  bbMilie additional donor financing                                 (b) - Overnnent to hold S aectoral donor ceeting in 1990 (tentative             WP               Cabinet
date).
4. Rduce unit cost of materials purchsee to achieve a 2S5 saving        4.
(a) During 1989-94, bse NM's purchaese on following procureament        Cs) - Vcrify throughout year that agree-upo  procurement Structure is          TMC               b*sPOJ
structure:                                                                follIowed.
- 255 (v lue tear) on ICb (for contract in sxcs. of CFAF
100 millIion)
- 50  on LC  atllowing firm  not represented In Somai to Bid
(for contracts in excess of CFA3 Si mIllIon)
- no sore than 25 uneder direct purchaee fol So at le at three
price quotations (for contracts below CFAF 8 miIl ion)
S. REsure thet the investoant proram is coherent with the egreed-upn  S. At each Annual Review through 1994, agree on three-year Roiling               TMRC        NPSfineitry of Plan
priorities                                                              Inveotment Proram based on tretpotre Psented in Annex V
e. Improve internal and *xternal efficiency                             S.
(a) Batter control of student flows                                     (a) - By 190 Anual  Rview, discuss study on repeater nd drop-out               VP                 NEP4N
rat"e awd wree on repeater policy for basic education
(b) Iprove knwlede of labor market operation                            (b) - extend traer study proger  and discus findings at each Annual            VP            VNEP       S
Rtview                                                                                Ministry of Labor
(UNDP/-ILt munt)           Nl
(c) Support employment creation for young Sraduates                     (c) - At eac  Annual Review, examine experience with line of credit            VP                                      0Q  Z
- Hold in-depth Review after three years                                                                         IDt
T*Cs related to Tranche release criteria                                                                                                                                                           4
VP: ork prog ra
asewlkl (miS)



ANNEX V
- 62 -                 Page 1 of 4
REPUBLIC OF MALI
EDUCATION SECTOR CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
Investment Element
1.          Investment Program.  Table 1 shows the breakdown proposed for the
national investment budget during the life of the project. These proposals are
based on the assumption agreed with Government at the 1986 Public Expenditure
Review, that about 6.52 of the total Investment Budget would be allocated to
Education. The resulting amount of CFAF 5 billion p.a. represents a 150 percent
increase over MEN's actual investment in 1987-89, which suggests the need for
a major resource mobilization effort. The investment requirements for primary
education were projected during project preparation and for the other levels,
were allocated on the basis of enrollments and stated priorities. The cost of
projects in the pipeline was then compared to the total investment proposed.
The results showed that: (i) 'firm projects represent about 352 of proposed
investment for the next eight years; (ii) the proposed operation accounts for
75? of all firm investments in the pipe-line; (iii) by level of education.
commitments represent 46Z of the allocation for Cycle I, 0? for Cycle II, 7S for
secondary geenral, 342 for higher education and 73t for the other levels. The
1989-91 investment program was agreed at negotiations.
Table 1. Proiected Education Investment Budget 1990-96
(billion CFAF)
Level of education          amount 2 of total    Projects in       to be
pipeline      allocated
(i) Total Investment         600
budget a/
(ii) MEN Investment           40                                      25.9
budget (6.5? of (i))
(iii) Basic Education
- Cycle I                 18       45            8.3               9.7
-Cycle II                  2        5                              2
- Subtotal                20       50            8.3              11.7
(iv)  Secondary General        3        7.5          0.2               2.8
Education
(v) Technical and              8       20            1.0               0.7
Vocational Education
(vi) Higher Education          5       12.5          1.7               3.3
(vii) Other                    4       10            2.9               1.1
Total (iii) through (vii)    40       100?           14.1             25.9
ajIMF Document 'Mali-Memorandum on Economic and Financial Policies-1988-89", May
1988. Table 1 (p.26) Extrapolated for 93-96 on the basis of a 0.6 yearly
increase.



ANNEX V
- 63 -                 Page 2 of 4
2.          Investment element of the proposed project.  In order to guide the
Ministry of Education in the implementation of this project, which is more
complex than what they have been used to, a detailed Implementation Book (I.B.)
was prepared.   For each element of the project, especially the investment
element, the I.B. provides background analysis, objectives, strategy, expected
outcomes, administration responsibilities, implementation schedules, means and
cost. The I.B. is available on request. In addition, the following sections
provide detailed information on what each of the investment components of the
proposed project would finance.
I.    Increasing the SupplY of. and Demand for. Primary Education
3.          Increasing the suppll of primary education in urban areas. (Para.
63 of the President's Report).   The vroject would finance:   (i) matching
contributions for the rehabilitation, repair and construction of about 1,500
classrooms; (ii) civil works contracts for the improvement of about 375
classrooms for double-shift; (iii) school furniture; (iv) a kit of basic
classroom supplies for the new classrooms; (v) 5.5 man-months to establish
guidelines for school construction and rehabilitation and to assist DET in
program monitoring and evaluation; (vi) 144 man-months of volunteers, 180 man-
months of local construction specialists (regional coordinator), and 180 man-
months of community organizers; (vii) three regional workshops for start-up and
village-level sensitization; (viii) equipment and vehicles; (ix) housing for
national specialists and volunteers; (x) overtime compensation equivalent to 12.5
percent of average teacher salaries, to be paid for 9 months p.a. (the duration
of the school year) to teachers selected for the double-shift experiment, up to
a maximum of 375 teachers in PY 5; and (xi) operating costs. Total: US$9.4
million.
4.          Stimulating social demand in the rural areas and providing incentives
to the development of private educational services. (Paras. 64 and 65). The
proiect would finance: (i) FAEF funds (US$0.8 million) to match contributions
from rural APEs for self-help construction, groups of IPEG graduates (district
schools), and village associations (village schools); (ii) about US$0.5 million
for promotional activities and qualitative improvements at the school level;
(iii) about 3 man-months of local and foreign specialist services to analyze
specific issues and design special programs. Totals US$ 2.1 million.
5.          Promoting female participation.  (Para. 66).   The proiect would
finance:    (i)  minor  renovations  for either  rehabilitating  the  ENTF  or
transforming one of the regional IPEGs (Sikasso or Segou) into a female
vocational center; (ii) furniture and equipment for this Center; and (iii) 6
man-months of specialist services for the necessary (pre-investment and gender
issues) studies. Total US$0.1 million.
II.   Improvinx the Performance and Relevance of Primary Education
6.          Qualitative monitoring and evaluation.   (Para. 69).  The proiect
would finance: (i) 24 man-months of training abroad in the area of achievement
tests adaptation, administration and analysis; (ii) 10 man-months of short term
specialist services in the same disciplines; (iii) seminars to initially
sensitize the staff of inspectorates and schools included in the sample on the
importance and use aethodology for quality control, and subsequently, (one
seminar every other year for each of the three) to analyze and interpret the
results; and (iv) selected incremental operating costs. Total: US$ 0.4 million.



ANNEX V
- 64 -                  Page 3 of 4
7.          Teacher pre- and in-service training.  (Paras. 70 and 71).  The
proiect would finance: (i) civil works, light printing and library equipment
to transform the existing Bamako IPEG into a Center for continuous upgrading;
(ii) 24 man-months of training abroad in teacher training program development,
management and evaluation; (iii) about 12 man-months of specialists in pedagogy,
psychology, training to assist with revision of the IPEG program and to develop
the pedagogic advisor intensive course; and (iv) the cost of per diem,
transportation and documentation required for completing the 1987-88 in-service
program, interrupted for lack of resources, and for carrying out the three-tiered
in-service training program (all inspectors and pedagogic advisors, 1,000 school
principals, 3,000 teachers). Total: US$1.3 million.
8.          Primary curriculum adaptation.  (Para. 72).    The proiect would
finance: (i) 24 man-months of training abroad in applied pedagogy, curriculum
development and evaluation; (ii) 27 man-months of international specialists to
assist the task force on curriculum adaptation (including evaluation of the
ruralization and national language experiment); (iii) the operating costs of the
Task Force, including sensitization seminars for pilot teachers, a workshop on
distance teaching the printing of experimental material, pilot schools field
supervision, teacher training. Total: US$0.5 million.
9.          Pedagogic materials.   (Para. 73).   The proiect would finance:
(i) renovation of storage facilities at the central levels; (ii) printing or
purchase of about 1,100,000 textbooks in French and Arabic, as well as about
40,000 teachers'guides, about 1,300 sets or basic documentation and 7,300
classroom kits; (iii) furniture and equipment for IPN; (iv) 51 man-months of
training abroad in textbook development, adaptation, publishing, purchase and
evaluation techniques; and (v) 9 man-months of specialist services in publishing,
procurement, and printing equipment maintenance. Total: US$ 4.1 million.
10.         Pedagotic support and control.   (Para. 74).   The vroiect would
finance: (i) yearly seminars on decentralized management for all inspectors and
pedagogic advisors; (ii) minor furniture and equipment for the 31 inspectorates;
(iii) 31 small 4x4 vehicles; (iv) 3 man-months of specialist services to provide
organization and programming assistance; (v) travel and per diem for local
training; and (vi) selected incremental operating costs. Total: US$ 1.6 million.
III.  Develovint and Initiating a Restructuring Strateey for Secondary and Hither
Education (Paras. 75-77)
11.         The project would finance:  (i) civil works for the renovation of
existing facilities for the Higher Education Directorate and for the EHEP, ENI
and ENSUP libraries; (ii) furniture and specialized office equipment for the two
Directorates (including three microcomputers, of which one for the scholarship
unit) and for the Libraries; (iii) a total of six man-months of study tours for
the staff of DESGT and DESRS; (iv) 30 man-months (24 foreign, 6 local) of
training in the management of technical and higher education systems, and 10 man-
months of overseas librarian training; (v) 18 man-months of specialists services
for studies on secondary higher education, for developing and operating a
computerized scholarship system, and 36 man-months of SME financinglbanking
technique specialist; 24 man-months of local specialist services to assist with
preparation of sub-project proposals for funding under the line of credit, and
for auditing services; (vi) US$0.5 million for the line of credit; and (vii)
selected related incremental operating costs. Total: US$ 3.5 million.



ANNEX V
- 65 -                  Page 4 of 4
IV.   Strengthenint MEN's Plannina and Management Capacity
12.         Planning.  (Para. 79).   The Proiect would finances   (i) one 4x4
vehicle for DNPES;  ($i) 30 man-months of short-term specialist services in
educational planning and education economics; 10 man-months for a study on the
labor market project and demand; 24 man-months of long computer specialist to
assist computerization of DNPES and the other Directorates; (iv) about 72 man-
months of training abroad in educational planning, economics, statistics and
school mapping for the staff of the DREs and the inspectorates; (vi) about 10
man-months of study visits abroad; and (vi) selected operating costs.  Total:
US$0.8 million.
13.         Financial and personnel management.  (Para. 80). The proiect would
finance: (i) civil works to relocate DAF in renovated facilities, furniture and
equipment (including three microcomputers); (ii) 20 man-months of specialists
services in computerized budgetary procedures, cost and expenditure control
systems, procurement , personnel management, training program design, and 12 man-
months for the personnel study; (iii) 16 man-months of training abroad in
education budgeting/costs/financing, school systems administration/management,
procurement and 70 man-months of local training in the same disciplines and in
computer management techniques; and (iv) selected incremental operating costs.
Total: US$0.7 million.
14.         Decentralized management of basic education. (Para. 81). The nroiect
would finance: (i) a total of 11 4x4 vehicles, office equipment and furniture
(including micro computers), for DNEF and one for each of the eight DREs; (ii) a
total of 3 man-months of short-term specialist services to help design and
initiate the training program for DREs and IEFs; (iii) the costs associated with
the yearly local seminar in education sector administration and management,
educational planning and financing for DRE staff and IEF; and (iv) selected
operating costs. Total: US$0.6 million.
15.         Physical resource management.   (Para. 82).   The proiect would
finance: Mi) extension and renovation of existing facilities for the DET; (ii)
2 vehicles and 6 motorcycles, furniture and equipment for the DET; (iii) 12 man-
months of training abroad for DET's chief, procurement specialist and section
chiefs, as well as the costs of local project launch seminars; (iv) 36 man-months
of a school construction/maintenance specialist and 8.5 man-months of specialist
services for the preparation of school construction/maintenance guides and system
project (both provided by the twin institution); (v) 180 man-months of locally
recruited architect and draftsman services; (vi) 2 man-months of observatory
visits in neighboring countries; (vii) 180 man-months of volunteer services;
(viii) the cost of producing and disseminating the guidelines on construction
/maintenance techniques, and the cost of seminars on physical resource management
at IPEGs and DREs; and (ix) selected operating costs. Total: US$1.2 million.
16.         Proiect coordination.   (Para. 83).   The proiect would finance:
(i) the renovation and extension of the PCU facilities to make it more
functional; (ii) office furniture and equipment, including microcomputers;
(iii) 96 man-months of long-term specialists for the administrator (5 years) and
the accountant (3 years); (iv) salaries for support staff (financed by the
Government); (v) 63 man-months of short-term specialist services in accountinp,
auditing, preparation of annual review and future project preparation; (vi) '
man-months of study tours to visit other project units and attend professional
seminars; and (vii) selected incremental operating costs. Total: US$2.3 million.
a: an5 (mali 9)



- 66 -
ANNEX VI
Page 1 of 11
REPUBLIC OF MALI
EDUCATION SECTOR CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
Education Budiet. Unit Costs. and Financing
1.         The tables below are extracted from the detailed statistical Annex
2-3 of the I.B. and illustrate the analysis presented in paras. 27-31 of this
report. More specifically, Table 1 shows that by level of education, the share
of MEN's recurrent budget allocated to primary education (Cycle 1), although
growing in recent years, remains too low, both by comparison with other Sub-
saharan countries (10 percentage points), and in absolute terms because of the
high level of cost recovery In Cycle I education.  The share for Cycle II,
secondary education, and teacher training, on the contrary, is about 10 points
above the regional average; that for higher education, at 192, is similar,
although considered too high, given graduate unemployment and the higher priority
that should be assigned to expanding primary enrollments.
Table 1. MEN's Budget, by Tevel of Education (CFAF 000)
3             1     I s.  I   116  3      195  3    i    I     19W   I    317 3     19   3
I   C611*  I OSS    s I *awT   x  _U "Du"    I _ UW.t  s I  Om  W" 'my s  NAUT  s 
_   _ _  _,;1"Ma  (a cau)   3  _,_8.   14.1   6I  1,.______  11.$I 1.4 71l     0 .11,1   6.03 _ ,667,0     ".0I
30*irnAL (IcCL) 3        I         I                               I          t     
. 1.    .0      I 8. .4    20.63  6 , s a 7 .11  64.666   16e.61   3.63  4.1   i1.s3 6, 6  1.73   ,3,77     83.1
j2:. SU 33M  a   1 .14.4     SU.41  *.,6   1.61   ,8, 17   8..4    .,       16.13 8,1,  10.4;
,e  _^ Dem    1 ,,14ya9 U.tlX41P  8.s1  U4..  8.21 1,,0  U.l1 9,U,M U.2l  M,_  UJI a,,an  *J4
I    _-_--- --------  _                                        3          I
1ouIs. ca                                                                                1 *." U.  1   *,,40  *n  is.4 1,_,An u
3 (37100 SC)  3   766,476   6.61   619.8 7      010e6U    $. 08 0.I S.1.666   0.13    63,63    6.8   t3,63    8*3
S    n Sm30I  3          I  n.s    j  n.u    t  n.ff  t."           I  ff.    I.3        I
Imwseyzg.                                          I ~~~~~~II3
=t D'fl;^t 0 U V
2.         BY types of expenditures (table 2), the structure of the budget is
substantially the same as on the rest of the continent: personnel and
scholarships, despite the latter's decline in recent years, absorb almost all



- 67 -
ANM  VI
Page 2 of 11
of HEN's budget, resulting in inadequate (and declining) allocations for
materials, especially at the primary and higher levels. Mali, in the past years,
has elected to recruit more teachers at very low salaries, rather than providing
them with sufficient materials. This partly explains the deteriorating quality
and performance indicators.
Table 2. MEN's Budget, by tv1le of Expenditure (CFAF 000)
RMINNf                  Af    I   *          S   *ow    S    Now    S         W    s
doom v sw umC?
_,,Ue,eas as., v,aw,m G' p,m,.w  .1. 0 ,61,46. a   *,#11S.N  63.  *,m,4 a  a.? 0,65,18  0.l
Wawa"U           wo7  4.41  MAS  4.el  W,M   4.6   83.0          *.0   ",o   4.9   4W  4.6   U$,9W   S.#
_oU            S.W,70 t           .*W.$  &t,  .M l,    n.S *.$".    0.4 8.4,,W   S.4Wj   29.4 2. t SI,W   U
14 11.)  _.e .  _   _  .,  1.0  UAN,m  i.e   ,    i 4.0   ,14   11  108.00  1.4
,s"  14.  Us,    0   1,s          10  1"_   iS 11,651,10  I.$  O1,"10T   -a:   ,    s.
m~  -u                                                                          I
IR I     2~,114,eUO6.$ 1,5.M50 us.1 21,50,08  06.01 1.*,Mams we 0.15,1  10.8 Sa,nOS. ,1.1  *Sim,s
_1IM            6,185Z  4.1         00,185  .01  0,010 $ .41  0,18,1:   8.0  s,18?  .1.   *,lt   1.1  449U   1.4
__     _3,1,t                   .914.418  MO  ',81.54  M2IJ  I   8-00*M    MO   $,M,= m .2  81.M
uCt  335 8'TA -,z, _*3 1_-54-3,1"1"t _                                                  _  *l
,m _Tp OWMT M so0 VWl
MM  FS 11  1O &M  10U a TAL f_8  IN MTU MM HAS M  UISUW TO F.UC.
3.           Table 3 below breakdowns MEN's recurrent expenditures by level of
education and types of expenditures.



- 68 -
ANNEX VI
Page 3 of 11
Table 3.  MEW'S Recurrent Budget, by Level of Education  and Type of Expenditure  (CFAF 000)
------1----- 
Adalalstaleo. Pereonntl            69,9       4.113       24, 314               on at    1.11           M ,    2 11
MaterIals            1*1,61     S.S   1177,65    1.79S            27,69m6    1.595,      277,2      1.6
Subtotl                            ",6u    6S.u          54,6        3859,6    8693                    M          a. -   m
p*imlt       Persot_l            6,942,30    J          4,790,048   a.g11    5,54,58    82 *31    5,748,198   $1
Mat@erila     I      104,114    1.          104,214    1.66       164U,2      .94%1       as,6 16
5,,0,u    8.9U.       4,99,6      32*51      5,769,362   33.911    5,620,196   84.95g
So Cycle     Fer     I           2,n1,        0t.       2,62,06    U813       8,91,442   17.21 3       ,,489   18.40
Natell,,              0,4423    *.UII       0,428      .5X         67,97      .16I        46,640    *.2m3
Subtotal                         *,M,4e    1.  1    a,911,su    17.141    8,12,349   17.113          3,169,329   19.GI1
S"e. a       P       Irel        1,2,04      7.7        1,26,042    9.8       1,574,461    9.I'5  1,392,68        6.2
harem         1      465,24     2.4        #2,U56    2.0S1         62u,m     2.m1        261,68      1 6631
11~16                 U ",64    S.A         58,604    9.           5,604      .Uij        87,7M 9     .
1,727,796   19.6951   1,764,914   11nJ       1,06,717   11.4131    1,112,157   19.191
Person" l               6 77    2.4M31      876,743    2.4831     89,424    2.2W         896,765    2.
ure                                        g o1  1  s.o 266  1.7  2m7,8    1a.9           168,5      .9.
ter1il               49,669    9.1          40,669    &SIN         64,609    8. 89,                 9.24
Subtotal                           744,16    4.6j        82,07    4.471 m7,7               4.11           6,91    8.
7.1.         PO"O                 so         8.          6 d ,6    8.W          7,9        4.Sax       042,8       .51
aree                 624,125   $Mix        468,901    8.1         466,981    2*91        159,698    *.G'3
Mterials              88,019    *.21        888"      :2!          88,.s6    9.191        82,12      .11
Subtotal                         1,16,632    7.263      1,119,96    7.171    1,25,678       7.21 34,579    4.
~~~~~~~~~~~7          13       _ ,                     _ ______ _ --i_
ra.  ae  Personl                   646,n S1.19           sn6,       6.1       1,979,89    0.19J1       96,6       6.4
sure"              1,86,619    6.91       1,160,21    7.61      1,616,045    9.261    1,67,7    6.41
at.irlala              7,       .8S6        57,8      C             7,516 9.8 511          6,124    a.
Subtotal                   !    2,n2,246  1S.61    1,"7,169   18.54           2,7,919       s.oj    2,04,625   12.117S
DOwt          Ptrso_l      1        16,657    9.41S       12,917 o   .4 13      60,         .463         66,0o6    0.463
IIIWJU)      IbtNrlSO      !749    0.11; 74                974S    CM             9,746    :Z            8,748    CM
JSubtotal     B                       ,       9.651        8166      9.58X1       92,M      O      ____ 89,4JJ1   &.Us
-'               I:_        i    1,67,1       7.7131    1,182,044    7.1X1       678,911    C.        1,62,98      7.9131
I;            Suatis               no219, M   1.,1        S16,9      8.aiij      5,465    S.101         616,249    8.661
IITotl                      I   16,899,666  104.951    16,498,12n   1.95M    17,446,56   1046.11 616,698,6S9   166.91
11A a S etvt. Rurrt    I                           I                      I                                             I
godob                                                 MIX 1 29.95  J   -.  J    27.5 g              2663             1
S:IUAL2.Utl   P02)
Source: Mission Estimates, based on Government's Budget d'Etat.
4.               Regarding  the  private  financint of  education,  Table  4  shows  the
higher revenues collected from parents, whenever APE contributions are directly
related to a well-identified project ( e.g. school- based fund-raising for
improvements at the school level, as was the case hitherto in the urban areas).
By contrast, they tend to be limited to a minimum when collected through coercive



- 69 -
ANNEX VI
Page 4 of 11
methods and for ill-defined purposes, e.g. through the APE tax levied until
recently in the rural areas or the forthcoming Development tax. This explainss
(i) the hypotheses made at appraisal as to the high potential for voluntary urban
community matching contributions under the projectt and (ii) now that the GAO
decisions concerning the establishment of the Development Tax are about to be
extended to urban areas, the need to ensure a higher level of contributions by
mandating the earmarking of an adequate proportion (at least 302) of the revenues
from the Development Tax to education activities so as to maintain the level of
primary education investment in the sector.
Table 4. Private Financing cf Basic Education. 1984-86
~~~~~~~~_ .___. ,.   .   
EDWLEW Du        SORE  COnTSATIOS KS A(PEs)                                 (b)        T                    MOTANT   U AitTS
PAYS             SIEVES RECETTES EN 'ON FCFA         30Y4   POTT. POTENTL   RESSOC S                         UTILIS    UTILES
SCOLAR- ----------------- sIR                  RCECETT    CUECT!  IMILISABILES AMCIt AU  POM             VA
-IS(S   04-t5     05-16   66-6      0 AN$S     APIE    ADD1.         CWTEES   VATERIEL MATERIL   5 At3 
ALT             202,5"S  e65,0  5l9,637  024,422  784,25    564,79         64,708       1,169,50        so 1,65,"00 5,629,194
SAMAJCS Ge,l   117,664   W,863  111,6W  130,841    122,101    121,162                    24,324         an   216,11. 1,60,69
KAYIS            36,489   166,660   42,05    70,847   76,20?     72,097     7,976        145,06 9       6     121,622   027,611
KOULIKt          51,911    31,6"9   87,7   109,369    8,68t   108,6         1,822        27,044          62   17,74   8260
SIUSS0           45,747   28       17,740   2,662  24,01         01,404     91,494       162,088    se   157,37    7,46
sCSlO            42,11#   U12,794  61,947  143,752  180,224      U,208      84,208       168,"          662   144,027   724,0
Moen1            28,047   906,0 l580,9   6,903    3,510          57,604     57,604       11,38          e        ,24   416,108
,OuIIIou         11,766     4,655   ?0,63             27,665     20,410     23,416        46*,32        an    46,276   26,37
0*0              14,462    10,241        0        a   0,60       20,964     ",064         57,926        SU    40,818   249,06
- -          -          -        -     ~~~~~~~~~-----    -------
OtAL            292,390  8650,60  519,37  624,422  734,28       584,70       4,706     1,160,W5         6   1,06,639 5,2,104
t 2.S66 FCFA d'inycc1pt1a pte Mel*1 pe  _a
Mt 2.m00 FCfA de cotrlbutle. eCppl.ownta)re per *1ev pre _m
REGIONS DU       NOME COTISATOS OES APK                          (a)        (b)        TOTAL                TUANTS  MONTANTS
PROJET           ELEVES RECETlES EN'6eo  fCfA        bOYE   POTNTIEL  POTENTIEL   RESSOURCES         I       UTIEES   UTILES
SCOuR- ----                            SU      RECEnTE   COLLECTE   NOSILISAIES MATERIEL   POUR          SUR
-ISES   04-6      65-6    66-7        ANIS     APE      AD0tT.    ESCWTEUS                MATERIEL  t ANNEER
TOTAL R1 it8    146,056   587,55   841,656  504,218  47,70   207,916    207,910          505,698         66   5l2,410 2,662,670
oAVA1            6l,eel  117,064   0,3    111,60I   13,042    122,162    122,162         244,824        0ox  216,19 1,,t503
100U1 COU.4       7,478    25,666   25S000   25,00  U  RN        14,966    14,058         2:,12         on    25,724  120:,22
SEC=U  .COM      14,652  1i7,074    0,0947  110,152  13,224    609,64        09,30       180,6          oe6   110       596, 14
SIKASSO COMM.    6,666    21,eU     27,a0   28,e66   25,880      12,012     12,6e1        24,024        662    20,661   108,38
StKASSO H.CM     * 39,741   210,515  166,740 633,662  222,736    79,442     70,462       16,9064         6$6   13,7O9   6 3,545
- -  -    -        - ~~          ~~         ~~ ~ -   = __ -_               -                    -
TOTAL COMW S   74,605   163,364  151,308  164,590  15W,670    149,136    149,186         290,266        sox  25,4 1,282,610
I CR.SECOU           162
S C/M.S ISO          18t                                                 UIUsATIO  DES RELURCS   DES APt
C.u.e_n.    H.sC.Ulre aieene e@Otpi4o                                                            6
*.tntl.  bet1_st:       142       )s
23-0ct4-30                                                         .ob4lte                  7         )
t0451nlt4we  pdegeolqu.:7
t4e           1362
5.                Table 5 on Unit costs illustrates para. 33 of the Report.  It shows
the rising and exceptionally high unit costs in secondary general education and
teacher training, and the comparativelv low costs in higher education. A look
at the more detailed Tables 6 and 7, respectively on unit costs in secondary and



- 70 -
ANNE VI
Page 5 of 11
higher education, indicates the need for greater transparencys for instance,
materials  allocations  in  secondary  education  are  still  budgeted  ac
'scholarships'; the share of personnel in higher education is not excessive, but
overtime represents half of it and is not entirely delivered. Unit costs in the
larger secondary schools are lower, suggesting economies of scale, but they are,
surprisingly, as high for private as for public sector schools. All of these
issues, which are discussed in detail in I.B. Annex 3-5, but require detailed
further analysis, will be addressed in the strategy for restructuring secondary
and higher education.
Table 5. Unit Costs, by Level of Education. 1985-87
Unit Costs per Student
I  ssquu         T ~ ~~~~~ IUUUJU         I_____1i.?
-    -- -                            ~1-         -      _
LnEL      TOTAL aS  uWT COST   T CVsT TOTAL COST  mm COS  ET CTn TOTAL COS  UST CO   UT C O
( CPA)   (M)  S O W P I   CPA)  (CA)  S X U P  OM CPA)   (PA)  S OF Up P
1           (5~~~~~~4,261  CPA)I  I"1111 CFAP099 CFAP
FOMWl (Cycle I basic  4,06,413   is,  5.6  4,755,6   1I,S,  ".I  S,l2968    N,9J   1.40
CYI U SIuc 0C.   2,?,S    66,56    76.6  S,I1,240    U,6l   70.t 2,174,641   69,m   t4.6
-                                              I,4 t,"7,  nI,  4 .0 ,*4   t"n,s4 1#.
I' Ws44|" ,      44olan"  WO,t$n. Z,ZS"  75.E
WsAIli OUs       t.'4.0 i  40,09    M.*  l,41*1914 Wi s    an.$  t,4",MJ   =,is    440.6
Unit Costs per Graduate. 1988
UNIT COSTS PER GRADUATE, CFAF   I
ICYCLE     I       327,908    1
I (CFEPCEF)     I           I
I CYCLE II      I 1,699,986   I
I(DEF)                     I
I SECONDARY     I           I
I(BAC)
- GENERAL      5 ,400, an
- TEOHNICAL    Il,aee,m
Source: Mission estimates BT5AN (MALU 6)



- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -    
a                                      r  - r      IirrI    r r
*-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ,r,.3 I trF.,l                         1 ro1,  9 9{f  6 ff    I   iI i   J 
, _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  . _ _ _ __.*        O
I                                           I'                         i | g js | X | tS ji ,i i gt g g ig S; | t if | | | 3} 3! 3! | ! | | l;; 2 A I 
-             -  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -             0  --  
-~~~~~0-
|s      S                                                                         4 .e        !g1  : SS wg8S8 &tt 1  ;5  S  1- -  |g|   
-  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  - ~    ~     ~    ~                  0            -
its itt         0asB              2s          EZ8          .tt         $.8t                             f
12~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
Hb    t  H"*absO""   mpH          .IOeOs     .posw         SP"P            i0.
,, '' ',,       h3"~~                                                   88tg8.l IE1 l |l l l   ElS| 
*         t 7   ;  ei {|      tX    4''               s3|                                    1              
I    in Ii                                           I 6                                                       O h i  i 6 |  g 
-., __________        ____________          ___________         ____________          __________-
&4.                                                        ii  S|Sa        |gtgS@}qW                                     t
'- '                                                                                       i 4 t||;l 13                     
* 50*   53                            2O



- 72 -
ANNEX VI
Page 7 of 11
Table  7. Breakdown of Unit Costs in Higher Education
*        a         iPart des soxosmtes (a)n
EOMES  t ANNEES   _        __
IPlterswelI Baurses It Oatrlelt
IERA   t1985   1  23    I  76    I   1
t1986    t  28    171       1   1 1
11987  1  24    1  76    10,5
1  ENI  1 1985   t  37          59    1   3
I     t ~193B      39    t   8   t 3         t
t1987        40    157    1 31
I ENSUP  1 1985   1  42    1  58    t   2    1
11988    49    1  51    10,51
19          42   1  57 1       0.5    t
I E)WP   I 1985   1  50    1  48    1   2    1
1         1 198       52        45     1  21
t        1 1987       40    158    1   2    1
O IPR    1 1985   1  38         61    1   3    1
11986  142    155    1 31
11987 38  180  12 1
I ENPT   1 1985   1  88    t  28    1   6    1
|~~~I              723S            22    5   t
W1987   1   42   151    1   3
EP   1 1985   1  32    1  67   1   2    1
I 198I39              83    12
1  1987119    180    1   1    1
ENSBLE I 1985   1  38    1  80            2    1
11988       43   1  551    2
I        a 1987   1  3S         e 63    1  1,5   1
b:tbl4.*1A/caIb
Source: MEN, Direction administrative et financiere.
* Les cycles Oing4nieurs' et 'techniciens" n'ont pu Otre s6par4s.



- 73 -
ANNEX VI
Page 8 of 11
6.               With reference to para.  34 of the Report, Tables 8 and 9 on
scholarships show the wide range of Government-financed total and unit costs
across host countries, as well as the nature of these expenses.  Table 10 shows
the number of scholarship recipients in the GEs and abroad.
Table 8. Breakdown of Scholarship Budget, 1986-88 (CFAF 000)
I    Cm1               UBELU  MAiRK-                                           t                1in-i
240-8      6. SWOAnn ET W        ITAE                                      1               82,882
241-_      S. SCOLAIRES ET ENS. SECO.                         I   26,91       66,82       856,41
242-_      S. ECO.ES NORIALES E1916                           I  46,981       466,961      162,5"9
24:::      S. EN. SUPERtE                                        1,U9,2     1,61,49    1,6,6
244-1      S. E4J    INFRH                                        259,15       M,415      g,437
244-02    S. ElIUDS 6 1LI                                          66,868      12,6s        74,686
244-8      S. ETUES AU SEkUL                                       86s,8       22,462      74,60
244-4      S. ETUDEN COWIE                                          4,21   9    2,86        1,71
244-8      S. EUDES SALhJER                                         1,268       1,175  I    1,658
244-u      BE. E      4tDEN ETMOPE D L'EST                         61,211      6,61u       78,28
2444U      6. ElUDES EN  P. POP. 1 OWE                              8,226       3,166       2,68U
244-_      B. ETUES PAYS ARAES                                     24,#36      24,358      21,416
244-8   B . ElUtES A CUA                                            0,619       0,          8,60
2441       BOUSES IWEUES (EXt. A INT.)                            496,66      816,7       ?02,287
244-41     FRAIS SCLARITE El.OE DIPOLMAES                          64,746      64,740     W6,71
2454       BOURS EIS o. PAIII                                 IIn,=                        84,et8
245-08    IuES  AU  III1                                      1   22,167                   64,662
__ _  _ __ _  _ _ __  _ _ __  _ _ _  __ _  _ __ _  _ _ __  _ _ _   I  8,4 86,01  8,48 6 ,i   9  8,636,24 1
I
SCIMS:          1906 60  O'ETAT IM, PP. 91-92
1917 PSUT   DETAT 1S80, RECAPMTION OENUALE, P. 268
1966 PSET O'tTAT 198, RECAPIAULAIO   1      1UOI U, P. 4
Table 9. Government-Borne Costs Associated with Scholarshilp Abroad (1987 CYAP)
_cwsmspcur                                                            __ ____  I-__ |_ ____  _  
I PAYS D'AC CUEL JifL.IT'           n   w     i           IIAT
ItS D*^CtitB      EtteeO. lqTOTAL OES4AESI CI               6  I    IOYAES    IARES
I____   ____    IEUXNS ___          RSE    I _ _ R__A____ I _-      _I -     __I ____ ___I
AERlIE             9        I    1 i7,707m    I 856,916 I  27,2    1   eo,2    1  o,o
ItIUNSlE           I     65 I    240,?76,262 I        17965    2S,C    I   72,    'I 1|,7
IVAROC             I    185 I      so,607s,6so     824,655 1  28,4    1   76,1    I  o,5
#SENEGIL          I      6 1       2,820,0866     470,6000    ?9,8    I   17s,    I  2,6
IEQYTE             I     551     25,584,686 1   464,276 1  28,s           781          6.6
IllYM                     ? 7 1     0,67,0  I   648,27m 1   1,l1 I   8,6              0,
IseawAl           I      n 1         ,943,90 1   ses,eos 1  J2,I   1   es,           o,s
luRs5              |  1,274       46t,647,t0O I    67,7680 1  20,2    I   72n,    I1,6
9POLOGONE          I     26 I       9,12,426      206,16 I  88,4    1   63,4    t1:,        I
ITOIECOSLOVAqUIE    9    28 9       7,46,6OO      81,610 I  85,5    I   e4,6    1  6,o    I
ISUUUARlE        I      19        7,786,666      40,66e m   25,6    I   7,2 U1s,6    I
HONGRIE 0                24        6,641,220 1   271,60 1  36,1           6 OS,1    I  0,8
FRANCE            I    116        21,120,180      176,988;   2J,0    9 7,6    IJ            I
IBEL0IlpE          1     46        11,469,466     249,84      28,8        ?S 7,4      1,     I
IPORUWUL                 2t 1      2,0U4,       1,O82,8    29,1           70,8    1  o,6
ItFA               I     so        10,486,6e      274,685 9   1,2         96,06,      2,6
IRDA               I     29 1      10,845,666e     67,606o    14,7        64,0        1,8    I
DIE                I     SO I      64,0s,56eO     5860,4t6   1,s     1 e,7    I  o,c    I
tUBm                               I      MI  r  1  o   I 1,7.hsj0 1  12,: 6   1     o,o    I
IOUGOSLAVIE        I     81 I       9, ,6 I   816,675    82,S    1   e,    1  2,0
IENSEMULE          9  2,440 I    921,6685,   1   876,685 1  24,6    1   74,6    1  1,4
A:T6ANK6
Source: MEN's Higher Education Directorate.



- 74 -
ANNEX VI
Page 9 of 11
Table 10. Scholarshia Recipients in Higher Education
-------------------------------- ------------------------------
l         l      Mali        |    Abroad   I       Total
I         | (Grandes Ecoles) |              |                  l
1982-83       4738               1540            6278        l
1983-84  j    6445          I     ND              ND
1984-85  j    7345               1645            8990
1985-86       6311          I    1813     j      8124        l
1986-87  I    5461          I    2243     I      7704
1987-88  j    5314          I    2434     j      7748        l
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Source: Mission estimates.
7.         In light of (i) the need to free up resources to expand primary
education and restore excellence in the GEs. and (ii) the oversupply of graduates
documented in Annex 8. Table 3, the following criteria for scholarship reductions
are proposed:
(a)  with respect to scholarships abroad, negotiate with host countries,
vithin a given budgetary envelope, an increase in the level of
individual scholarships so as to reduce or even eliminate the costs
presently borne by the malian budget (travel and 'trousseau'
averaging US$1,250 per student against US$5,000 borne by the host
country), in exchange for a corresponding decrease in the number of
students abroad; this could result in a saving of up to 1.3 billion
CFAP; should this approach fail, the number of new scholarships
should be limited to about 200 p.a. (down from an average of 417
during the past six years) concentrated in the countries which entail
the lowest unit costs for the Maliau Government (Table 9);
alternately, a combination of the two systems yielding about CFAP
100-120 million of savings in each of the first three years would
be proposed;
(b)  with respect to scholarships in Mali, the level of individual
scholarships should be maintained, but they should be offered only
to about half the BAC graduates; the award and renewal criteria could
be meritocratic --the first-ranking 500 graduates, split as 300 for
scientific streams and 200 for lVterary streams to compensate for
the greater difficulty of the fcrmer, suspension for second time
repeaters -- ; they could acccunt for economic differences --
awarding half the amount of the scholarship for students living in
Bamako; they could favor disciplines which are in short supply in
Mali, e.g. quotas in favor of engineering or management schools; or
they could be limited to third and fourth year students.



- 75 -
ANNEX VI
Page 10 of 11
8.          Einancial and Enrollment implications of the nrotram.   Table 11
illustrates the impact of the budgetary and efficiency measures included in the
program on the primary education budget, primary enrollments, the number of Cycle
I graduates and Primary teacher requirements.   The assumptions used in the
modelling exercise are detailed in Annex 2-7 of the Implementation Book. The
budgetary reallocations and efficiency measures could increase the primary
enrollment ratio to as much as about 40 percent. However, the target retained
for the proposed operation - a 36 percent total primary enrollment ratio - has
been adjusted downward to reflect two factors: (i) physical implementation
capacity constraints, and the fact that the project's institution - building
effort would be focused or three of Mali's seven regions; and (ii) the fact that
the decline in the primary enrollment ratio is mostly due to a demand problem,
which is more difficult to address than supply constraints.
b:unicost.wplmali6



i-~    ~ ~~I t!'-"lll'iill  Ellli,l I'It!'l,---'-t-'i-''-''--
---------------------------                                                               --------------
8i                     g          1gj~q                                                                                                                  
_________________________________--____________________________.--------
-- -- -- --  --     --      --     --      --      ------------------------                                      ---       ----         ---
*                   a         St1                                                        2a8                                                               
S                   3  4  Z                                  ;                                                                                                      j eSi tIii
I                                                                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i |a1
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -_-- -_ _ _ _ _
- - -   - -    -    -    -  -    -    -    -  -    -    -    - -    -    -    -  -    -    -    -  -    -    -    - -    -    -    -  -    -    -    -  -    -    -        -t
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  -    - -  -    - -  - -    -  - -    -  - -      -  -    I--
- - -   - -    -    -  -    -    - -    -     - -    -    -  -    -    - -    -    -  -    -    -  -    -    - -    -    -  -    -    - -    -    -  -    -    -  - 
*1                     1                           '3                                                         I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r
----------------------------------------------------------------~                                                 ~     ~     ~      ~      ~    ~ ~~~~~0
- - - - -    - -    -    -  -    -    - -     -    - -    -    -  -    -    - -    -    -  -    -    -  -    -    - -    -    -  -    -    - -    -    -  -    -
- - - - - -  -    - -    -  -    - -  -    -  -    - -    -  -    - -    -  -        --    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -     -    -    -
- - -   - -    -    -    -  -    -    -    - -     -    -    - -    -    -    -  -    -    -  -    -    -    - -    -    -    -  -    -    -    - -     -    -    - -    -    -



- 77 -
ANNEX VII
Page 1 of 5
REPUBLIC OF MALI
EDUCATION SECTOR CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
Educational Internal and External Efficiency
1.           The Tables below  are extracted from Annexes 2-3 (Statistical
Profile of the Education Sector) and 3-3 (Quality Component) of the
Implementation Book for the proposed project. Table 1 shows that the
proportion of repeaters in Basic and in secondary education is high and has
tended to increase since the beginning of the decade.
Table 1. Inte7rnal Efficiency in Basic and Secondary Education
C l* t                             Coael* U
soinCea                        Grade/Clem
All                      All
1    2   a   4   8    6  Cycle I        7   a   9  CcleI/
*    S   5   s   *    1  Cycle I        2   S    S  Cclett
o en.ellmnt
"1710       23   30  so  81  88    as  29              M   27  49  an
1980/81      so   29   U   32  38    42  3ON          82  a1  51  so
1812         so   30  32  31 2   81 S                  8D  89  a   40
18U2/2 8 29   2   3           29 229     29            23   S        S
ISO"         1    29  32  30  82    42  81U So   1 So 43 
"11,/3"      24   27  38  27  81    30  81s           8   52  48  8
19/          29  23  30  28  20    38  249            27  21  41  313
1.87/8?      so   2?  32  29  82   3a   sn             go  24  sO  a2
1987/.. 15                                           .              ..43
khboel lenver.
enrol lon"
1979/'0      tS   U2  12  13 15U  21    143           S2  18  252
195/81       12    9   11  12  14  1U       1          12   *  21  141
,S8/2        12    6  1U  11  15  25    135           14   8  28  17m
191112/      12    a   14   4   1A  2t9   141          14  10  29  191
198/84       14   10  10  12  18  2S    1              18  12 U      228
1984/8       t2    9   11       1t  n.is1s             to   i        198
198/36       10    e   14  13  17          1to        17  1s        284
"8/F7        10    9   13  12  18           9          16  12        in
Source: MEN, DNPES
YEARS/ I   REPEATER RAMES/   I  REPEATER RATES/
I   SAEMIE   I TAUX DE REDOIULEMITI TAUX DE
SEC. CEN.       I      SEC. TECH.
1  _8, 811 
~19S?4             88.5         I          8,4 
I- --   --I                     I-
Soce                                      29,8 1 Es
198keu             24,6                   21,2
19#F8T ~     ~~~~ as,                29,4
Source: M,N DNPES



- 78 -
ANNEX VII
Page 2 of 5
2.            Table  2 gives  the  flow of graduates out of basic, secondary,  and
higher education. It shows for basic education, the low internal
efficiency of the system, vith about one pupil'out of four completing Cycle
I, and pass rates which are both low and erratic at the Cycle II graduation
exams. For secondary education, there has been a tendency for the bac pass
rates to increase, which has somewhat compensated for the sharply declining
student numbers. In higher education, by contrast, the number of graduates
rose markedly in 1987, reflecting the peak intake of the early eighties.
Table 2. Graduates from Basic. Secondary and Higfher Education
--:                                                              ---                                                            :
:                iS*ar of aiatg:                  :W     of aracte;
Year          N O 6di      :     1iotlSu ratew  1   B 1d       tradattm raWt  Er2 olmts   6rataja       eIoll_w   sresiwt 2
:     32685      2 UW   diwri :         6rals  al   Orf d68rWf8        I damis   v/: In Iff6 /   0iplDO     ilC   0/    hItlS
:               :             -     :                              .              ..   - _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _   _ _ ____  I
:               I                :                :                                 I                                             :
1979-60          14.5612 : 52.8, 5.2, : 2.2                                          1.4                   1.251
19810-1               12.338           44.3      :     5.216             26.6            1.316                  1.24     .
1981-2         :      13.336           45.4             3.817            18.3      1     1.98      768          2.329    3
!2M43            18.450            W02             4.85              22.1      :     1.721      6          2.444   44       :
is"144           10.215            36.2      1     4.254             20.1      2     1.32     4r           2.405   379
:      1"              16.354    :      54.2      :     4.*33             20.6      :      .102     413          1.973   344      2
t196       2     12.283            48.1      2     4.738             25.1      ,       OCl                 1.35   348
2    184        :      13.33     :      49.4            2.413             13.      32                 .          1.362   169      2
196248     :       80       :       -        2     6.0        :       -        :        9       .          1.335    I       2
tsirQs   W*Cl, I et CyCIg II): LIires sUttIstl el4 Ia (IfES
(Teadw tralanri): OrIvel  CaSni. 1810
63:     ti dlSonIble
WCEF: CrtifIcat do finr dErIilt idi Premier Ie W d rEMOIVuwt FtaliPrlmry
esdamtltm gr3aftlmortIrf Icat.
WR    0O0lonb 4ct1  Vui0itas'  uw68y g'aiat  cwtIf left.
t Phm rats 1  btn estlm   sdi an I sw   of sumtu  sitti rg at tts am ratbw awl Icatlos.
St InstatLt v6ilt m  dsms iuet g*al. o IP, train VrIy
t_lrs (DCU dls 2 yms dstil 19. ER Dlts 4 yS  sinc ton).
./ the at dal fin In oval Its  Is de to UsM atsIEnt of a
atiti   e  f-   t_ials0ln.
--------      -       ------
Secondarv                  I                                           Ljucation
fler,/   :11ccoloureste/fccolouuesti  year/                                   :              * I            :    IPVA       :V?
Arne: 8B                 1      I Asoi :, SI t   Oa  z U"  . W          El _ SEP  (_ 1u               ): (toottllaite)      T Ye I
__   ________----------------__________---_--_ - s- - I
I1 07      -::    72   :MD          42s        12              188    : In
1191:17:   n   tI0:*                  :      : 1             Ut           17
1981182:  2.277            72.6     1012:   -:           6   :7:  6t  s           118'              167    :    1                    7210
1 1962/83    2,844          48.3     I106s2-88 : 21      a 5        I               0                198    :    1          :         18 
ISS/84    2,205           44.2      1l9S-4S    * a    I 11U    I:       *   t    149        :       66           27        *        1  4
1t664/66;  1,624           46.3    I104-6S: SW  s  @4   :42:   i65   :    177                         2     *   135         :              I8
1980/86    1,157          48.6     I6-as  : gm  s   0   :8        :  to   :    207         :       198    :                        lift 11    I
gIg/8?:  1,2)8             69.9    &1      47:   : n :61  :  7n :1      i7   :               : U     47           77       :-        16"
-----------------------------------                                                                                             -
Source: *.aauir.*  *"tiesiquee 4     * SI)NM



79                  ANNEX VII
Page 3 of S
3.        Table 3 illustrates the impact of the simultaneous increase in
the number of graduates and the decline in public/para-public sector
recruitment. ILO estimates (July 1988) that there are about 8.000-10,000
unemployed graduates countrywide; of this total, about 2,600 are graduates
from higher education, and the rest from secondary education. As shown by
the Table, about 7,400 are concentrated in Bamako. Their frustration
juxtaposed with the demotivation of teachers and students when salary or
scholarship payments are delayed (2-3 months on average in recent years) is
a serious concern for the Government.
Table 3. Graduate Unemployment in Bamako
F first Jt_: 180 or
olws cudlat   before/   1881   1982    1988    184   1985    1        198?    MD    Total 
premier mloI  :   aMat
: lrgaates/        938     335    384            7 5    1,143   484    549   5.0,5   9.919
:  (2   :   9        3      4       3      8      12      5       6      50     10D
GrauatseiDpImi   26       161    159    431    644   1,248   1,859   2.428   268   7,413
(2)          4       2      2       6      9      17      25     33       4     180
: Total  l'is     1.205    496    543     83   1,48    2.392   2,343   2.971   5,M   17.332
: i     :   7        3      3       4      8      14      14      17     3      1Xi
Source: ILO, 1988.
4.        Table 4 shove the private and social rates of return on
education. The private rates are systematically higher than the social
rates because of the strong degree of public financing; this is especially
true at the post-bac level, where the scholarship policy reduces the
opportunity cost of students particularly in a low-employment situation.
Only at the primary level are both rates close, reflecting an appropriate
level of public subsidization. By level of education, both social and
private rates are high for post-bac graduates, lowest for basic education
graduates, and highest for primary (Cycle I) graduates, indicating that:
(i) continuation beyond primary education is economically justified only
for those completing higher education; and (ii) there is a need for
rigorous selection of students beyond that level. Again, primary education
is the only level which shows attractive rates even with repeaters and
unemployment. Unemployment has a much more negative impact than repeater
rates (because of the highly unequitable income structure). With two years
of post-graduation unemployment, all social rates of return are halved,
hence the recoumendation not to orient students towards streams leading to
a high probability of unemployment. When repeater rates are taken into



- 80 -
ANNEX VII
Page 4 of 5
account, the decline in the rate of return remains acceptable, except for
the Cycle II level. When repeater rates and unemployment are combined,
both social and private rates of return fall below 102, except for primary
education. Although it should be treated with caution, this type of
analysis nna Ibguously justifies the emphasis on primary education
underlying the proposed operation. Details are in Annex 2-7 of the
Implementation Book.
Table 4. Social and Private Returns to Education
Social Rates of Return
,JX   SANS (CHU1AGE Hi    I  VEC 2 o DE      I AVEC 2 ANS DE REDWGULEIM T 
I    REDOWLEMENT/     I   CAGE/ WITH 2       j ET 2 ANS DE CHOMAOEjITH 2
I   WITHOUT REPETES      YEARS  SWELOYMENT   I YERS REPEATERS*A 2YER
i    OR WELCOYMENT    I  PRIOR TO FIRST JO1  I   UNE YMENT PRIOR TO
I             I~~                        ~ ~~~~ I  P1357.50
Oraudes Ecoles (ec  4)         17,9                   9,2                       0,1
1Se *2                1         22,C                   9,2          !65
131eie te                      18,S          I         0,2          j           6, 6
Bee  I                                                               S'S~~~~~II 
IB**IC educatico                12,5         I6,2                   I5,7I
_                                                .
Cycle I (6 aiw)                1%8          I         18,7
Private Rates of Return
No routw .    are ps   I  To ev   I, emr reyat"d : OrI yw relatd  to WS raM.t,  to )WS rqated.
:aloyt/  5 leinIt/avc  2 ul*emAc   *rd 901e0I1rweiVu S   etdlaushWn  rM eftiarsNave : M uno I_Ulec:
:s  r_eebst   A an a     e           Id3 Se ueags S rel refebtse t SWreeblte  rsbhIinft  2 em raftlats 
:  nl          r_ e_______________________________________________________t e__ WS*  am w_ : WS :
:  -:  ::  -S                                     -,
:Gr twi2es    41.0         19.8 l       12.9          27,3     2   24.4     :   l.4      :     9.1
:                      .4)  :      :            :              :
Mic8a2        72.0    :   21.8          12.6          36.2     :   27.9          17.3           8 9.2
: * 1    2    23.1     2   1t       2   11.8    :   m   iI[cable  2  1.5    :    15.4     :     0.3
,lslc OIatC",   18.4       1O0O          7.1    -  rn awl fcable   11.0           8.2           4.9
:C0cle I      37.2         23.2     2   14.6    :  wllnDle  :   31.9        :   27.9      :    13.2     2
Source: Mission estimates



81                   ANNEXR VIU
Page 5 of 5
5.        While repeater rates do not affect markedly the economic rates
of return on education, their impact on the unit cost per araduate can be
substantial.  Table 5 below sut-aries a sensitivity analysis of the unit
cost per basic education graduate to the level of quality inputs envisaged
under the proposed operation. The detailed analysis is available In the
Implementation Book (Annex 3-4). The results indicate that with a ICFA
2,000 per student and per annum pedagogic materials injection, (equivalent
respectively to about 11 percent and 3 percent of Cycle I and Cycle II unit
costs per student), the cost per graduate could decrease between 9 and 36
percent for Cycle I and 11 and 412 for Cycle II, depending on the repeater
rate and graduation rates achieved. These savings are based on the
hypotheses that teachers would be redeployed.
Table 5. Sensitivity of Unit CostslBasic Education Graduate
to Increases in Quality Inputs
I                                CYCLE  I
----------------------------------------------------------------------
REPEATER RATES I GRADUATION RATESI UNIT COST PER I SAVINGS COMPARED
I       (2)      | CFEPCEF  (1)   |  GRADUATE    I TO VITHOUT PROJECTI
I                                   I |    (FCFA)    I   SITUATION        |
I      SO        1   326.800 a/ I                      I
30      l----------------- --------------- -------------------l
55        j   336.000
50        1    296.100    I          91
25      ----------------- ----------------------------------
55        1    277.200    1         151
SO           254.100    I         222
20       ----------------- --------------- -------------------
55        I    239.400              272
50        j   226.800    I          312
15      ---------------------------------------------------
SS             207.900    I         362
_ .        _ 2  .ar .as ..I& P
i eLeW Zs         U T Tn Po IMV  cm
1      1~~~----- -- ------18^SIC ex"TIOIZ I TO WV  I
I ~IATV RUAtaS ;,A"TION PATMIMASTF (CFCFA) IPR0J4T SSTATUWeI
I   CS)   I  D    C(O)  I      I           I
20        2s3   I   1. 87.000  /      I
I- _______.________ I-________________ I----------------_ I-_________________I
I         I    23 s     1.413,000  I  II%  I
i    s    I----- I-I    - - -_--___ I ----------_____I
i          I   30 I      in.122.00  I  293
I        ~~~~------- 
I         1    23      1.811,000  I  17    i
I    s    I- --- I----_.------___ I------------ I
I         i    30    1   1.036,000  I  S   I
i         I          I         I           i
I   10    I    30    I  943.000  I  4U     1
I ___________.. .I  I      I-          I
at t_t ,iti
Source: Mission estimates.
b:anvii(mali9)



- 82 -                    ANNEX VIII
Page l of 7
REPUBLIC OF MALI
EDUCATION SECTOR CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
Education personnel
1.   MEN personnel.  The Implementation Book contains detailed statistical
tables about MEN personnel level and structure (Annex 2-3). which are
summarized in Table 1 below. This information should be treated with caution,
because of gaps and discrepancies between various internal sources.  MEN
personnel includes about 900 MPC and 460 MSC "stagiaires n, bringing the
total number of employees to about 18,000. For the levels other than primary
education, the most striking characterictic of the system is overstaffing,
which is due mostly to the decline in student numbers in recent years . Table
2 shows the resulting decrease in the students/teacher ratio, which are very
low by world standards.
Table 1. Education Personnel
(1986-87)
Cycle I
.PC                                                   5,508
MSC                                                   3,039
Inspectors and pedagogic advisors                        93
Sub-total         8,640
Cycle II
MPC                                                     275
mSC                                                   3,669
Sub-total         3,949
Secondary Education
Teachers                                              1,303
Non Teachers
o Civil Servants                                      301
o Contractual                                         402
Sub-total         2,024
Grandes Ecoles
Teachers
o Civil Servants                                      440
o Contractual                                         275
Non-Teaching Staff                                     N.A.
Sub-total           715
Ministry of Education
Sub-total           550
Source - Ministry of Education.



ANNEX VIII
- 83-                       Page 2 of 7
Table 2. Students/Teacher Ratio
g 1|ncsuca,rn         ucua uunoCA72       jluae uhmuiU mo   nui
~~~~~~~ 1286CU.X IX t0*1 1SOj~  MOt IJC IC      I~jV   ^ W1-18 (lm.)IWI (.t')  tet 
tUN  I Z  i                   I ---I-I-Cy  I                  S I-  I- 1 -I, - t
Ism41   42-1       I l                         I-    -                                        I
hu-  I so                                    I-'I-                                           I is
IM-02 1 40 I as    to        Is                             a,                  to       <l     
low.  42    1  *a    I   _ -       *-             Ss               sZsZ    ...... 
RM-04               -          1 t o                14    C 4                   *
te- . s  I 16                                         u:CS  4     II   Xe           s       2 
ijWt_  U.   t:    t.I    '                    I.t   $     1181 6$jI N     w I  9  I i*4  * j       t l
so 14    -     ---      ------ ---. .                --- -  -   - 5~.S
Source  M4inistry of Education. DNPZS
2.   Primary education personnel.  The following tables come from Annex 2-6
of the I.8., which discusses primary teacher assignments. salaries , supply
and demand.     Table 3 shows that about 19 percent of primary teachers are
either replacements" or teachers released from teaching duties ; they
represent a pool from which to staff the new classrooms to be built or the
urban classes to be put under a double - shift regime under the proposed
operation (measure # 8 of the adjustment program).
Table 3. - Primary Education Personnel
I                      inagimJi                      x n r
I~~ ~ I                   .1       I      1 
I Wuamer of classroca.  J 2.679 I 4.681  J      5      7.360     5
ffi  (Cycle   O                 5        J      I                I
I- Number of school             |        |      |     1.100
principal.
.Number of primary     I        1       (
IispectorsIped aogic  I     I        1                93
advisert           !        1               I                 1
I                      !        I        I      I                I
j- Number of prl ry    I        I       9       I                I
t*achere              4.070  I 4.S31 j      4      $8410
wePC             I        I           .6'8S Z    5,467     1
5   .85                1        1$M 2S3.2             2.943
N- Nhmbr of Ostasialre  I      I        1      1       913 
I                I~ ~ ~ ~ ~ I      I      Ii
1. Number of teacher.    I 3.380 1 4.107  1     I     7.487
sesigned to teachinS  I                1       1                |
I  dutles( inel:       I
replaemfent toechers) I (701)  5   (0)    8.32 1    (701)
I          .I                   I       I       I                I
- Number of teachers    699   I  224    10.91           923
released from      I        5                                 I
|  teachlng duties     I        I       ;       I
1 M                             1 istr  of Education,D_    I
Source: Kinistry of Education, DAF



ANNEX VIII
Page 3 of 7
3.   Teacher Salaries.  Table 4 illustrates the findings of a recent IDA
cross-country study of primary teachers in Sub-Sahara Africa. It shows that
in Mali, overstaffing is compensated by a low level of salaries. Although
as a multiple of p.c. GDP, teacher average salaries (CFAF 44,000) are
relatively high (12.6 times, against a continental range of 1.5 in Equatorial
Guinea to 14.7 in Ethiopia), this is because Mali, even within the Sahel
zone, has one of the lowest p.c. GDPs.   of all the countries surveyed
(samples of up to 25 countries), Mali is the one where: (i) the range from
the entering salary in the lower category to the maximum salary in the higher
category is the flattest -- from 1 to  1.71 --; (ii) the number of years it
has taken on average for a teacher to get from the minimum to the maximum
salary level exceeds by far that for the other countries (29 years for MPCs,
against averages of 6 to 25 years for the corresponding category elsewhere);
(iii) the yearly percentage salary change has been by far the lowest (1.47
percent for MPCs); (iv) supplements to teacher salaries, in the form of
housing, family and hardship allowances are high (equivalent to 22 percent
of teacher average salaries) but substantially lower than those in
neighboring countries (45 percent in Burkina, where salary levels are
comparable, in monetary terms, or 32 percent in Senegal, were salaries are
3.3 times higher than in Mali); (v) average teacher salaries are lower than
those of both automechanics and typists (out of an ILO sample of 9
countries). Overall, teacher salaries have fallen by lOZ in real terms since
the beginning of the decade; like all civil service salaries, they will be
frozen until 1990 under the IMF program.
4.   This  analysis  shows  that  (i)  reducing  teacher  compensation  for
controlling unit costs is not a desirable option in the Malian context, where
teacher quality and motivation will be critical to reverse the recent decline
in enrollments; (ii), the solution should, on the contrary, be in the
direction of improving incentives (salary and non-salary) to attract and
retain capable teachers while increasing the demands on teachers (increased
weekly contact hours through double-shift, or increased number of students
through multigrade, greater accountability, performance related rewards);
(iv), precise recommendations in this area can only be made on the basis of
a comprehensive study of personnel policy, recruitment and promotion,
staffing   ratios,   qualifications,   compensation,   workload,   career
opportunities) for all levels of the sector and 4n the context of a broader
administrative reform. Such a study would be submitted and discussed with
IDA by November 1990 (condition of second tranche release) and its
recommendations would be implemented according to the schedule agreed upon
at the time.



- 85 -                              ANNEX VIII
?able 4. Structure of Sala"  Scalef. j  Country           Page 4 ot 7
CEto"   MUlts tX id WltrM &IMA
Will~~~                    ji                   li
C,A.R.                                                   is.g it     
CCII SIVO IR             112    12          IP        U:N
TOGO           j          .      jf 1                   ii
I        11 J      :         212
UAtA0ASM       I         i-i     Il         11        1.4I
^     i         {.jN3   !.ng       9         1*S
NIGEIA                   1.0               15pi I     41
m"S      i        i~~:f    ill       ' i
^^NtI                LI      i ii        l   
eJIow 1 1 2  lI                            I t
.s,,,,5e. It             1:s    1:1 90                1: 
I         lit    1.                      4 O2S
NIGER                    1:1?1 12          1           :l
3    t-"    }-4.7      21-.
I .1         3.94       0         451
ZAIK                      'U's       PI1.12    1.12
GKAfIA                     00 I. .         0
SNItA                            iii!      is
SWllKFueASO yn4 a  e             2                             2    198
1:23    12             :         }Lm
U in         4.#1      Is         1:81
SEKEAL         1          .00    1.14      2S         0.44
ZAMBIA                   1 .12o   -.12     1      
4gu:ce:  Zymelaun  ankd "seao          rty c          oe  Salariesi S*u*b*-*S'aohar;Ji*fizlco",  1988



- 86 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 5 of 7
S.  Teacher training caoacity. Since the auspension, In 1983, of automatic
recruitment of IPEO graduates Into the civil service, the supply of primary
teschers has been well in excess of demand. To *djust to that situation , In
1985 admission into the 1PEG was made subject to a competitive exam and
Intake was drastically reduced. As a result, total enrollments have fallen
by about 802 In the 1PEG (1982-1987). In the ENSECa, they have fallen by 431
(1983-88).  This leaves ample unused capacity for other uses, mostly ln-
service training, until renewed growth makoes It necessary to increase again
the output of teachers.Under an on-going Utilization Plan for IPEGs, and a
forthcoming one for ENSECs (to be agreed upon at the 1989 Annual Roview), a
merging and restructuring process would be pursued under the proposed
operation. Table 5 Illustrates the output and recruitment of teachers In
1985-87.
Table 5. Output and Recruitment of Teachers (MPC and MSC)
I -l_ _ _             j-            _             |                   '~--------;
j@radu.t.eI ICoru~t.ddS st./  1Ibc.at.    I*    JIOdAt.*I Rpp d"w t  Rectint.d S I pII,ut./#
I|Sort.n.t  *Crete*  bSer      lopWeb.  R..ftS    IS5-tawAe  01"bIe *echtuw     Dlsjo1tbIo.l
!--~ ~------------ - -- -1 --                                    ! -------
I5(           414 *u A      Il u  n         4i1    14? * 1      4       on       La 1    'U
j 0   GJ  8    2!! .2!2!94 __ 2!                                       0. 7
IPALI    78n   414    so                07 s    '   n  I            1ifl    si  12: 1m
I'        I                __________            __   I__ __________
_-                     - -                              - j-
Smams: VPU daman.
6.   Demand for Primarv teachers. Table 6 projects new teacher requirements
under six different hypothesis, with a 2 percent wastage and drop-out rate.
Three enrollment growth assumptions have been mades (1) 2.5 percent, which
would be below the projected school population growth rate,and would
therefore result In a further decline of the primary enrollment ratio; (ii)
A 5.5 percent rate, which would result in a 34 percent enrollment ratio by
1994; and (III) a 9.0 percent rate, which ould lead to a 40 percent
enrollment ratio by 1994.
Table 6. Demand for New PrimarY School Teachers. 1990-1994
Annual        Pupil/Teacher  I                  New teachers required in
JEnrollmentj        Ratio
Growth   I _                      PY         PY2       PY3       PY4       PYS        PY6
2.52   I Constant at38: 1   I  398         315       290       256       327       352
5.52                         I  906        914       710       622       525       483 I
I  II                               .I
g 9.02                         1.188      1,281     1,099     1.018      922       885 I
2.52   I Gradually          I  378         307       261       223       313       273
increasing to 42:1
5.52                           S  881     900       674       579       508       387
I          I      -I                                                                     .   I
I  9.02                            1.160  - 1,264    1l057         967       898       767 I
I          I        .



87 -                 ANNEX VIII
Page 6 of 7
7.   Balance between supplv and demand.  Table 7 shows that:
(i)  in terms of teachers availabilit,, the large existing stock of
unemployed IPEG graduates and of underutilized staff at all levels
of the system and the capacity of the 2 IPEGs kept operating
(total: 720) would go a long way towards meeting the new teachers
requirements (totality of the needs under the 5.5 percent
enrollment growth assumption, or over 314 under the 9.0 percent
growth  assumption).    Additional  needs  could be met  through
providing accelerated training to higher education unemployed
graduates (7,500 in Bamako alone), possibly employing them under
a scheme that would substitute community service (fer two years)
for military service; these options would be reviewed with
Government as the need arises;
(ii) in terms of teachers recruitment ceilings, as for teachers
availability, all possible efficiency measures (redeployment of
underutilized staff or teachers from other levels except for maths
and science teachers, quasi-freeze in recruitment at the Cycle II
and secondary levels, multigrade, double-shift) should be
exhausted, and every effort should be made to stimulate the
development of private education before a renegociation of the
civil service recruitment ceiling under the IMF program could be
justified.



ANNEX VIII
^ b8 -                                 Page 7 of 7
Table 7. Balance 0otuwes ProJoct  Demand for, and Supply of Primary Teachers (10944)
gNUMBERS
ISURCESOF ADDOM AL TEACHERS SOCK                                      COST AND FINANCING            I
!-------t---!--  -----------  --  ~ ~-!
l1/ rplont of supploants  116   of               l69 p.a   - zero cost, preent MEN salary btil
and     har8m   do cours (IIPC Iwh=ch so0 to
and mSC) to the clasroom         rdeployed
lb/ redeployment of teachers        750          159 p.o n - zero cost, present MEN salary bill l
I   (UPC) following the         I                         I                                         I
I  extension of multigrade in
259 rural choole
Ic/ extension of double-shift       65          n acreasing |- 265 salary supplement, to be
teaching In urban are                      from 1S In   compensated by other cost-savings
PY2           MSur"
Id/ rdeployont of Cyclo II to ltheoretcal             80  p  n - In the framework of Governmentea *1-1
i  Cycl- I cla sroom duty   12.eoo (an                | out strategy to develop primary         I
bIs1 of a                    education (CycleI), on a volontary
I                                1S:I astudsnt/              basis and until a new balane I. foundi
teacher ratio)              between supply of, and dmand for
I                                                           teatcher. at all levels, retrain and   I
redploy about 890 teacher. (MSC) p.*,o
with a Ioevl of compensation and
I                               l                         | benefits to be doter med
11- I~~~~~~~-                                                              -I
Io/ recruitment of existing     11,159        immedlitely I- recruitment within existing I9
I  unemployed IPEO/or ENSEC                   eveilable      ceilings through attrition and a
graduates                                               frerz. In recruitment at all the otheri
ltvels, plus encourgagment to early   I
departure (e.g 340 teachers under thel
f irt USAID progrm)
- mr crtmx nt by the prvate s*ctOr
(cathollc schools mderas, wole de
ba, * coles de village)
l ___   -    ______    _ __    ____                                                     dej
ItJ comxity servce- In ltiu  Ithoratic l  to be            - zero additional cost for MEN,
of military servie for       0,600n trm d    subeistance cost borne by the
hlehr education graduates,                with the      by the Ministry of D f nI
f ollovtag acolor t d        IMinistry I
jtraininguO Defense j-.
I rlaa                       I              ot DI  
19/ recruitment of future                      a about    a- as for */ above
I  IPES graduates (2 IPEGS                     825 p.a as *-  lnrea    I n the recrultment ceiling   1
with a capacity of 8e each,                of PY4     I to be negotiated only once al the 
operating under the revised                              above effiielncy mesur s hav  b  n
two year regime)                                         exhausted
Footnote:
* The project will equip about 659 classrooms (875 existing classrooms, 276 now classrooms)
double-shift.
BALPROJ   (MALI 12)



- 89 -                 ANNEX IX
Page I of 6
REPUBLIC OF MALI
rDUCATION SECTOR CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
Proiect Costs, Recurrent Cost Implications and Capital Cost Savings
1.        Basis of Costs Estimates.  Project coste are based on July 1988
prices at appraisal. Cost estimates for primary school
construction/rehabilitation are based on a Government survey of the quality
of existing classrooms and unit prices reconstructed from prices obtained
for each individual construction component; cost estimates for school
construction program are based on unit prices applied to quantities of a
low-cost prototype using local materials and labor. Other cost estimates
for works and goods are based on recent tenders in Mali or in the region
for similar types of construction and goods completed recently, with
adjustment, where necessary, for regional cost differences. The average
cost per month of internationally recruited services (US$11,000-US$12,000),
including salary, overhead and subsistence, locally recruited specialists
and consultants (US$2,250). scholarships abroad (US$2,000), and
internationally recruited volunteer specialists (US$1,700) are financed by
UNDP and other United Nations sources.
2.        Foreign Exchange Component. The estimated foreign exchange
component of the project is US$35.5 million (64Z of the total project
cost), and is the result of the following estimated foreign exchange
percentage for the individual categories of expenditurest
Civil works (general contracts)                        60S
Civil works (school construction contracts)            5OS
csnmunity inputs                                        0x
Furniture                                              5O0
Non Pedagogical and Pedagogical Equipment             0OOZ
International Specialists/Volunteers                 1002
Local Specialists                                      o0
Training Abroad                                       1002
Local Training                                          02
Operating Costs                                        80S
Imports                                              1OOS
3.        Customs, Duties and Taxes.  Cost estimates do not include duties
or taxes. During negotiations, the Government has confirmed that the
project would be exempt from taxes and duties.
4.        Contingencies Allowances.  Cost estimates include physical
contingencies of s (i) lOZ for hardware components such as civil works,
furniture and equipment; and (ii) 52 for specialist services, training and
operating costs. Allowances for annual price escalations are as follows:



_ 90 _                 ANNEX IX
Page 2 of 6
Pro1ected Annual Price Escalation Rates
1989      1990      1991       1992      1993       1994
Foreign Costs        3.0S      3.02       4.0?      4.0?       4.0?      4.0?
Local Costs          6.01      6.0X       4.0?      4.02       4.0?      4.0?
At these rates, total physical and price contingencies are
estimated at US$6.26 million (13? of total base costs).
5.        Cost and Financing Plan.  An IDA credit of US$25.9 million and
additional funds from: FAC (US$2.7 million), UNDP (US$0.5 million), USAID
(US$3.3 million) and the Special Program for Africa (SPA) (US$9.0 million)
would be provided towards financing the project. Parallel cofinancing
plans were agreed before negotiations. Table 1 below summarizes project
costs. In addition, Annex 3-6 of the Implementation Book contains the
following detailed Tables:
Table #t by category of expenditures and project components;
Table #2: by component;
Table #3: by category of expenditures;
Table #4: financing plan by category;
Table #5s financing plan by component;
Table #6: by category of expenditures and by years; and
Table #7: by component and by years.



-91-    ~ ~~~~~~RA-=-
Page S of 6
Table 1. Proiect Costs Su_warv
Local     Foresin   Total
---- (USS million) ----
1. Sectoral Adiustment Proaram (quick-disbursing element)         8.7       12.0       20.7
2. Increasina the Surely of. and Demand for. Primarv Education
(a) Intensive Use of Existing Facilities                      0.6         0.8       1.4
(b) Rehabilitation of About 1,225 Classrooms                  2.0         2.1       4.1
(c) Construction of About 274 Classrooms                      1.          2.0       3.9
(d) Stimulatiug Social Demand and Support to Private          0.9         1.2       2.1
Education
(d) Increasing Female Participation                           0.0         0.1       0.1
Sub-total                                                 5.4         6.2      11.6
3. Improving Performance and Relevance of Primary Education
(a) Monitoring and Evaluation                                 0.3         0.1       0.4
(b) Teacher Pre- and ln-service Training                      1.1         0.3       1.4
Sc) Curriculum Adaptation                                     0.0         0.5       0.5
'd) Pedagogic Materials                                       0.1         4.1       4.2
'e) Pedagogic Support and Control                             0.2         1.5       1.7
sub-total                                                 1.7         6.5       8.2
4. Develoting and Initiating a Secondary and Higher Education
Ca) University Library                                        0.4         1.0       1.4
Cb) Strengthening Two Relevant Directorates (including the
scholarship service)                                      0.1         0.3       0.4
(c) Pre-investment Studies                                    0.0         0.1       0.1
Cd) Line of Credit for Young Graduates                        1.1         0.5       1.6
Sub-total                                                 1.6         1.9       3.5
S. Strengthenins MEN's Planning and Management Canacity
(a) Educational Planning                                      0.1         0.7       0.8
(b) Financial and Personnel Management                        0.1         0.6       0.7
(c) Physical Resource Management                              0.3         0.9       1.2
(d) Management of Basic Education                             0.1         0.5       0.6
(e) Management and Coordination                               0.3         2.0       2.3
Sub-total                                                 0.9         4.7       5.6
Total (investment element)                                9.6        19.3      28.9
Total Base Costs (project costs)                         18.6 41               49.6
Physical Contingencies                                           0.7         1.6        2.3
Price Contingencies                                              1.8         2.5        4.3
Sub-total                                                 2.5         4.1       6.6
rOTAL PROJECT COSTS                                             20.8        35.4       56.2
1_ K-



- 92 -             ANNEX IX
Page 4 of 6
6.        Recurrent Exgenditures and Cost Savinas Generated by the Operation.
Tables 2 and 3 umsarise estimates of the cost savings and incremental recurrent
expenditures generated by the project. The detailed analysis Is in Annex 3-7 of
the Implementation Book. It should be noted that this exercise probably reflects
accurately the likely expenditure ipact of the prcject on the Government's
recurrent budget, but tends to underestimate its cost-savings effects. This
underestimate is due to a number of reasons. First, some significant benefits
have not been included beeause they are less easily quantifiable; this is the case
for the expected Increase in APE and private sector educational activit'es due to
project's incentives (FAEP), in teacher motivation due to regular salary payments,
in student achievement due to improved study conditions (pedagogic materials,
teacher in-service training, curriculum revision: nd for the more cost-effective
use of sectoral resources. Also, these Improvements will have most impact after
the project period (1994). Second, the beneficiaries will not always be the
Government; for instance, the savings resulting from the development of low-cost
primary school construction will accrue mainly to the APEs. Third, efficiency
measures (double-shift and multigrade teaching, redeployment) and the promotion oZ
private educational services will allow the enrollment of a higher number of
children for a given budget. Fourth, the reform in teacher training and the
master plan to be developed for secondary and higher education will result in
substantial savings In capital costs, as schools will be merged and streams
restructured.
7.        Disregarding the above types of benefits, the analysis shows that the
core adjustment program budgetary reallocations, savings from Improved procurement
procedures and efficiency measures would generate savings that would increase from
CFAF, 630 million In 1989 to 2,659 million in 1994 (equivalent respectively to 3.7
percent and 17.3 percent of MEN's 1988 recurrent budget); however, due mostly to
the 8.5 percent p. a projected growth (versus about 4 percent growth in previous
years) of the primary education budget and the proposed tripling of materials
allocations, the net effect would be negligible until 1992. As of 1993, unless
further budget reallocations are undertakenn, there would be net incremental costs
of 209 and 563 million CFAF, equivalent to 1.2 and 2.9 percent of MEN's 1988
recurrent budget. Sensitivity analysis have shown that these costs could be
offset by the usavings" that eould be achlved through faster introduction of
double shifts. This zero net effect is the logical consequence of the main
objective of the operation which is to divert to primary education most of the
savings realized.
Table 2. Cost Savings and Incremental Recurrent Costs Generated by the Proiect
(CFAF 000)
I  icm aVs ums                        1IL am
I                19198991 1990H11 991 1 192 I 1 99s 1 1994 1 1989 1 1991 1991  192 1 9J.1s I l9o
I  I-9.____ i-__ -_ -_-__i__II _--I--I_-- I-- -------- 9-------------I----_- _- -------I _
t                I                    I I  I9                  I 1  
IA)    pt ,g1y r.aI  leent.    I    .311 I T",m   11.249,6  11.2.434 91.79.40 91.921So 11 9 1.0 0 i1.024.0*0  91,379090 12.16,000 12.767.000 9,.90.80 I
jl s,,nu t. e  9,t t  I     I     I      I     I      I9 I    I    I     I9           I
~   XII               I            I I 9        I      I     i9  9        I      I     I     I
lb)  f iloley *sawar  I  I 314.214 1  856866  9 c9r,s88 1 843.245 I c90.449  I  9I   8.0  9    7,200   10.00 9 1 14400 1   1880  I
9~~~              I      I     I      I     I      11    1      1     9      I     i      I
,I*) Project Iec,inset.l c.et.9  9  I  9  9      9     II     9     9      99II  210,890 I
It6m"M.l  ICt.        I 8.s811.105.891 91.972   1.94.6    191.29.1212.65.485 9 I01.000 91.7.60  191.88.200  2,179.610012.7.40 19.429,80  1
I                I    I      I     I      I      1     11     9     9      I     I      I     I
14) Pgrem"to" of MN   1 s    I9    8.451  7.6X9  10.711  18.291    15.91  17.819  2.a9N  6.159  9.411  12.91  16.81  0.419
61O._4   )            9 I  i  I                 I      II    I      I     I      I     I 
I                I    I      I      I     I      1     11     1     1      I     I     I      I
I                I    I      I     I      I      I     99     9     9      I     I      I9
lI    ~   -~--*--*.-I----9~-*^----------1-9- ----~~~~-1-*---1I----1-----199~-~~~~~1 ~-
b:46.U qU.



-_93 -                    Page 5 of 6
TablQ 3. S umEar Table
1989        1990         1991        1992        1993          1994
- Net effect of     84,311    - 56,223*   - 330,696   - 640,566    -1,037,520   - 1,468,910
budgetary
reallocations
- Net effect of       ---      310,614      549,368     687,188       828,845       972,449
efficiency
measures
- Total net effect  84,311     254,391      218,672      46,622     - 208,675     - 496,461
- As a S of MEN's
1988 recurrent    0.5S         1.52         1.32         2S          1.11           2.91
budget
- Minus sign denotes an incremental cost
8.      Capital Cost Savints.  In addition to the above recurrent cost
savings, the operation would generate substantial additional savings on
investment costs due to the rehabilitation of existing schools, the
introduction of low amortisation cost construction techniques, and a more
intensive use of existing facilities. These savings have been estimated in
Table 4 below.
Table 4. Capital Cost Savinas Generated by the Investmnt glement of the
Proeosed Proiect
(CFAI 000)
1   1989   !   1990   !   1991   !   1992   !   1993   I
| - Rehabilitation/repair of     j  58,150  j  972,268 j  862,946 I  725,712 I              I
about 1,225 classrooms  ael   I          |                       I           t           I
- Development of low
amortization cost            I  62,500  I   92,500 I  292,500 I  237,500 1
construction techniques      I           I           I           I           |           I
(275 classrooms)  b/         I           I           I           I           I           I
|- Improvement of about 375
I  urban classrooms for double- 5  12,225  I   53,790 I  117,360 I  183,864 I          ,
shift teaching  c/           5        _              |           | _
TOTAL     j 132,875  1 1,118,558 j 1,155,446 I 1,147,077
I                          .                 I           I           I           I          I
-Total as a I of the total    I            I           I           |           |
1988 education investment    1   122    1   981    I   101           1012 lO
budget (Gov.+APEs+ext.fin.)
al      Savings estimated as the cost differential between, on one hand, the
2-aes of capital that would have occurred without rehabilitation and,
i the other hand, the cost of rehabilitating the 1,225 classrooms.
(Cost of rehabilitation: CFAF 1.26 million/classroom; major repair:



ANNEX IX
Page 6 of 6
CFAP 0.66 million/classroom; minor repairs CFAF 0.18
millionlclassroom).
bI      Savings estimated as differential between the unit costs of
construction under Government standards and those proposed under the
project (respectively CFAF 4 and 3 million).
c/      Savings estimated as the investment cost differential between the
civil works required in 375 existing schools to improve thermal and
lighting conditions so as to permit an afternoon shift (costed at
CFAF 480,000/classroom) and the cost of constructing 375 additional
classrooms. In addition to improvement of these 375 existing
schools, all new primary schools constructed under the project (about
275) would be based on standards allowing double-shift teaching.
dt      No amount is shown for 1993 because all the civil works to be
financed under the investment element of the proposed operation are
expected to be completed. However, the flow of savings should
continue, as the construction/rehabilitationlimprovement program
continues and expands.
a:anix (mali 9)



- 95 -
ANMX X
Page 1 of 8
REPUBLIC OF MALI
EDUCATION SECTOR CONSOLIDATIOP PROJECT
Procurement and Disbursement
I.    PROCUREMENT PROCEDURES FOR THE INVESTMENT PROGRAM
Part A.     Procurement of Goods and Works
1.          Except as provided for in Part C hereof, works and goods
(furniture, non-pedagogical equipment and pedagogical materials) shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with
those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement Under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1986 (the
guidelines).
Part B.     Preference for Domestic Contractors and Manufacturers
2.          In the procurement of works and goods in accordance with the
procedures described in Part A.1 hereof, the borrower may grant a margin of
preference of 7.52 to domestic contractors and 15X to domestic manufacturers
in accordance with, and subject to the provisions of paragraph 2.55 and 2.56
of the guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereof. During the appraisal
mission local authorities have been informed that procurement under local
procedures does not qualify for preference.
Part C.     Other Procurement Procedures
3.          Civil works and goods contracts estimated to cost between
US$10,000 and US$100,000 equivalent per contract, which are small in size,
involve widely dispersed sites, apply labor intensive techniques and
correspond to goods available locally at prices below the international
market, would be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding advertised locally (LCB), in accordance with procedures satisfactory
to the Bank. During negotiations, the Malian delegation indicated MEN's
agreement to apply the following principlest (i) the aggregate amount of such
procurement shall not exceed the equivalent of US$3.07 million equivalent;
(ii) all bids shall be opened in public with bidder's representatives allowed
to be present; (iii) evaluation criteria shall be clearly specified and
communicated to all bidders --e.g. price performance capability, adequacy of
equipment and personnel, and financial capacity--; (iv) no preference margin
shall be granted to domestic manufacturers or contractors; (v) eligible
foreign firms shall not be precluded from participation in the bidding; and
(vi) copy of draft standard bidding documents shall be submitted to the Bank
prior to the first contract.
4.          Incremental operating costs and items (office supply, spare parts,
gasoline ...) which cannot be grouped into bid packages of at lest US$10,000



- 96 -
ANNEX X
Page 2 of 8
equivalent, provided the aggregate amount of such procurement shall not exceed
US$1.93 million equivalent, would be procured through international and/or
local shopping on the basis of quotations obtained from at least three foreign
and/or local reliable suppliers in accordance with procedures acceptable tG
the Bank.
5.          Matching Funds (totalling US$9.99 million) provided to the Primary
Edcation Fund (FAEP) acting as financial intermediary, represent subsidies to
-atch the financial efforts of communities to construcOrehabilitate and equip
primary schools. It is to the communities, with technical supports provided by
technicians from the Project coordination Unit, to undertake the procurement
with established commercial practices. Matching funds would be equivalent to
subsidies paid to established APE committees on a tranche basis, provided
work and/or equipment have been delivered and prefinanced in accordance with
quantity and quality agreed with the FAEP institution. Given the number and
the small size of contracts, local shopping would be the appropriate
commerical packages utilized by APE committees to procure small simple works,
provided the contracts awards would be made based on comparing price
quotations obtained from at least three contractors/suppliers. The Project
Coordinating Unit would be responsible for verifying aud certifying to IDA
that this procedure is followed.
Part D.     Review of Procurement Decision by the Bank
6.          Prior Review.  Between 180 and 200 bidding packages/contracts are
expected to make up the estimated US$21.14 million in the works and equipment
categories. With a threshold of US$100S000 for prior Bank review of
procurement documentation, about 1Z and 701 of the total number of the
respective packages for works and goods would cover about 51 of the value
contracted for works and about 992 for goods. On that basis between 17 and 22
contracts amounting to about US$8.6 million over the five year procurement
period would be subject to prior review, which represents a reasonable
workload for Bank staff as they would be relatively simple supply contracts.
For all contracts or bid packages of at least US$100,000 equivalent, each of
the following stages in the procurement process would be subject to the Bank's
prior review and comment upon by Bank staff before they are implemented and
finalizeds
-Scope and cost of contract;
-proposal for bidding or selection process;
-yreaualification documents (for works and goods) or preparation
of short list (for consulting services);
-advertisement (procurement notice);
-bidding documents and addenda;
-bid evaluation and proposal for award of contract'
-contract documents and subsequent major modifications;
7.          Post Review.  For all contracts or bid packages estimated at
between US$10.000 and USS100.000 equivalent, two copies of the final
contracts, together with the bidding documents, the bid evaluation report and
the award decision, would be furnished to the Bank for post review before the



- 97 -
ANNUI X
Page 3 of 8
first application for withdrawal of credit fund against these contracts. These
documents should be reviewed, as a minimum, on a sample basis to determine
that contracts have been awarded fol.lowing procedures prescribed in the credit
agreement.
8.          Random Review.  The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs of
Part D. (5) and (6) shall not apply to contracts valued at under US$l0.O0O
equivalent on account of which the Bank has authorized withdrawals from the
Credit Account on the basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall
be retained at the Project Coordination Unit for random review by Bank
supervision missions and for regular ann'ial audits.
9.          Initial Review.  In order to reduce the number of formal reviews,
an initial review would accelerate the procurement process resulting in
reducing the workload for Bank staff. A copy of draft standard bidding
documents which are common to a number of operatiovs would be submitted to the
Bank for initial review before the first contract.
Part E.    S_ecialist Services and Fellowshivs or Local Trainin_
10.         Specialist services and training abroad, including audit services,
totalling US$3.44 million equivalent, would be contracted in accordance with
Bank'guideline. While the Bank recommends inviting proposals from a short list
of firms, it does not object to the borrower's requesting a proposal from a
single firm or individual specialist of its choice, provided that the Bank
approves the firm invited and, subsequently the contract. Where a number of
consultants are to be invited to submit proposals, the selection procedure and
evaluation criteria to be adopted should be determined prior to inviting
proposals and should be included in the letter of invitation. The short list
should normally comprise a wide geographic spread of firms with a lower limit
of three and a upper limit of six.
Part F.     Modification or waiver of the terms and conditions of contracts.
11.         The figure of lOZ would be specified for the purpose of paragraph
4 of Appendix 1 to the guideline. Before agreeing to any material modification
or waiver of the terms and conditions of contract which would increase the
cost of the contract by more than 10% of the original price, the borrower
shall inform the Bank of the proposed modification and the reasons therefor.



- 98 -
AEX 
Page 4 of 8
Procurement Profile of ValuelNumber of Contracts
Estimated         Estimated Number  Cumulative Value  X Total
Contract Sizes    of Contracts      (Ndmber)above     Value (Number)
(incl.continx.)                     Threshold         above Threshold
(US$000)                             (US$ million)
(1)                 (2)          (3)       (4)      (5)     (6)
WORKS
Above    7,500          -             _       C-)       _        (_
1,000 to 7,500          -                     (-)       -       (.)
300 to 1,000          -             -       (-)       -       (-)
100 to   300          2            503      (2)      4.6      (1)
10 to   100          4            742      (6)      6.8     (3.6)
0 to    10        160         12,950     (166)   100.0     (100)
GOODS
Above    7,500          -             -       C-)       _       ()
1,000 to 7,500          -             -       (-)       -       (-)
300 to 1,000          7           5,510     (7)      67.2     (29)
100 to   300         10           8,119    (17)      99.0     (70)
10 to   100          1           8,139    (18)      99.3     (75)
0 to    10          6           8,199    (24)     100.0    (100)
-----------------------------------------------------------------___---------
Selected Thresholds: US$100,000, resulting in 4.6Z and 99Z of total value of
respective contracts for works and goods, subject to prior review.



- 99 -
ANNEX X
Page 5 of 8
II.         PROCUREMENT PROCEDURES FOR THE QUICK-DISBURSING ELEMENT
Part G.     Positive List of Categories of Goods
12.         Purchase of equipment--at all levels of the education sector--will
consist of a positive list expenditures comprising: textbooks, pedagogical
materials, science/laboratories equipment, office supplies, equipment/
furniture, computers, vehicles, spare parts and consumables, limited to direct
imports.
Part H.     Goods Financed by the IDA Credit. (totalling US$3.0 million)
13.         The IDA Credit would finance only direct imports.  It would cover
the CIF price of goods. Goods wvuld be grouped into bid packages of at lest
US$100,000 and would be procured through ICB, in accordance with IDA
Guidelines.
14.         Where ICB is applied, the Credit Agreement will modify the
standard procurement procedures set out for the investment element by
including simplification of the bid invitation procedures and the elimination
of domestic and regional preferences. Bid invitation procedures would require
only a General Procurement Notice to be published in the United Nation's
Developm--t Business.
Part I.     Goods Financed by Other Donors Under the Special Proaram of
Assistance (SPA). (totalling USS9.0 million)
15.         Procurement of goods financed by other donors under the SPA would
be carried out in accordance with the procurement procedures agreed for donor
financed contracts.
atANX/Mali7



- 100-
REPEULIC Or IALX               AM    X
Page 6 of 8
EOUCATION SECTOR CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
Procurement and Disbursement
Table 1. Amounts and Methods of Procurement
(US$ Million including contingencies)
TOTAL
CATEo_RY OF EXPENDITURE             ICB       LCB     OTHER      Na        CoST
1. Civil Works contracts           1.00       0.78 a/   -         -        1.78
(Part* A, B, C, D)             (1.00)     (0.50)     _        _        (1.50)
2. Matching Funds for School
Construction (Part A only)                           9.99      -        9.99
S- (5.40)    -                        (5.40)
3. Furniture and Equipment         2.37 b/    2.5?      0.08      -        5.02
(Parts A, 8, C, D)             (2.30)     (2.S7)    (0.08)    -        (4.95)
4. Pedagogical Materials
a. Textbooks                    3.26 c/    -         -         -        3.26
(Parts 8, D)               (3.10)       -         -        -        (3.10)
b. Pedagocial supply            1.84 d/    -         -         -        1.84
(Parts A, 8)               (1.60)       -         -        -        (1.60)
s. 3pecialist Services
a. International
5 local specialists         -           -         6.99 e/  -         6.99
(Parts A, B, C, D)          -           -        (2.83)    -        (2.83)
b. Volunteers                              -         -         0.28 f/  0.28
(Part A only)               _-                    -       (0.00)   (0.00)
6. Training                        -          -         2.67 g/  -         2.67
(Parts A, B, C, D)             -           -        (0.61)    -        (0.61)
7. Operating costs                 -          -         1.95      0.67     2.62
(Parts A, B, C, D)             -           -        (1.40)   (0.53)   (1.93)
8. Line of Credit                                                 0.97     0.97
(0-97)   (0.97)
9. Quick-Disbursing                3.00      12.00 h/   5.74 i/           20.74
(Part 1 only)                  (3.00)     (0.00)    (0.00)             (3.00)
Total Operation Costs             11.47      15.35     27.42       1.)2   56.17
Total Financed by IDA            (11.01)     (3.07)   (10.32)    (1.50) (25.90)
NOTEs - Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the IDA
credit.
- The following capital letters show the project components:
Part It Sectoral Adjustment Program
Part As Increasing the Supply, and Demand for Primary Education
Part B: Improving Performance of Primary Education
Part C: Higher and Secondary Education
Part Ds Planning and Management Capacity
- Footnotes with small letters indicate amounts financed by other
donors and procured under their procedures:
(a) US$0.28 by USAID                (b) US$0.7 by FAC and USAID
(c) US$0.16 by FAC                  (d) US$0.24 by USAID
(e) US$4.16 by FAC and USAID        (f) US$0.28 by FAC
(g) US$2.06 by FAC and USAID        (h) US$6.0 by SPA
(i) US$3.0 by SPA
Figures may not add up to total due to rounding.



sunIIw SEcrTO  cUUJ.AnT           POJBC/
pEr D  CNsLIDATI  w  SECTEIM EDUCATIN
TAIL 2.  DDoI_f P3OIL/pR               DE DE"  -.onS
Profl 1s/ PrlII
blursomsate/ D.bor _emst               Roste l
IDA Fiscal yrareceu 
eW  uartrer/      By Qaarter/  C_       lale       PrJ/    I
AAnses budgetl ro Per triGetnw   Cm cwfati        Pisist   qisnle                                            ________
IDA btruostroe  (M SmUhillon)   (UNSt MIo             (I)      (U)
-                        a    
19W        1               1.6            1.6         7%       exg.,
2              6.1            1.0         71       11
a              9S             2.1         9        is
4              1.5            3.         1CS       4S                  e7
191       1               1.6           65.2        go        e
1061            1.0           N.0        al       1                                      /
a 1.e                         6.4        575      141
4              1.6           10.9        441      171                                          p                                        
106        I               1.6           11.0        six      213 
2         8     .4            a.a    |    so      as 
4  ~~~10                 Is.1        9F       6                                ,,,,,,,,,,,    _v
10~~~~~~~
a  1.2       19.9        us      4ass                      I             1                    1
4          1~~~.6        10.2        785      am
4              *.*           21.                  si 13  571                          -       .I     .....u*. .. .. ..---r
iss    IMs   Om,   $10A   IS"m   las    Oma
994        1.8                           n.2         use      Cso                                      Fiscal Weara/ArAe.s budgoetaires
2              0.2           tf.1        971      971
8              *.2           22.8        as -                                       Assung low .Ufectiveoes; dnring the tirst
4              0.2           22-.        Oa       711                               quatter of 1990Mvet Vbypatbese quo It credit
12ttr.ra &a vt_r mu cours du pre4er tr,M05ra
iou        1               9.2           i*.@        to       6gx                               de I asau.o budgoteir. 90.
2                 .1         22.9       1061      sea
4                                                 9SX                               X   II0114I Sectr Pre/
9m         a                                                 97O                                    Prof I dv Wt*6 a I .pbsll to nol.oa 1 $
2                                                                                   Co E9tiest dPro.jct O t_eis     atPr.ie lo/
8:dbt _r                                     ef d umeletl)  4r                                                         to d  roj
itEll (-it4



- 102 -
ANNEX X
Page 8 of 8
Table 3. Allocation and disbursement of the IDA Credit
(US$ million)
Proposed IDA       I of Expenditure
Category of expenditure             Allocation          Financed by IDA
1.  Civil works contracts               1.44                  1002
2.  Matching Funds (for school
construction/rehabilitation)        4.93                   502
3.  Furniture and equipment             4.52                  0OOZ
4.  Pedagogical materials               4.24                  1002
5.  Specialist services                 2.47                  100Z
6.  Training                            0.60                  1002
7.  Incremental Operating Costs
(a)  For PCU                      0.41                 1002
(b)  Other                        1.40                  802
8.  Line of Credit                      1.00                  1002
9.  Imports for MEN (comprising
textbooks, pedagogical materials,
sciencellaboratories equipment,
computers, vehicles and spare       3.00                  100X (directly
parts)                                                          imported)
10. PPF                                  .85
11. Unallocated                         1.04
TOTAL                              25.90
bsproc/MaliB



- 103-                     ANNEX XI
Page I of 14
REPUBLIC OF MALI
EDUCATION SECTOR CONSOLIDATION OPEMATION
Implementation
I.        Implementation Schedule
Table 1. Imolementation Schedule
C    FY8 *   9Ff01        Ff02 0*   FY0         a  F4           FY
1. SlPY O,&D         Q PRX. EroomAnr
*r;maun. d E *hlt               P1801! II olII      lo3ilililll ffliilIjI
m              I                            M     il   4lehOMw    il gOilli                     XOO
.1 .g S -- --- --                 -----
-d3 MonTtor a"        on                               lyt-"9   1   BY    J it- 0ii_    ___i_   _____ti__    _
d I tner  STp In"E. Pr   E 1 Ep         F'
I-Fer lgnT9ta9 IS               xxx Y Y                    X
i,) pP n   Icppast s   Centrol       X-Y-O- H-X---X--X--X---O-  --X---X--O--X--X--
IfucatIonat Plnn)n9                X-WfYYYYX-0- -X--44-X----X-X-4---0  -X-X--X-0 --X---X---0  -X---
(d  -i"vtlo pofX x.x1~teln icItaeu  PPUSOI IIIIIIIII
)      nnI    et                    X-Y     --X---   -X-X  ---Xo-             -X-X ---- X---  -X--
td M iaoam   otLa. EdcaIon
-Ea~l..fi4~Ral on II6 t'.                                - PPUO! UIXUX0-0-X--XI-----X-
(d)~~~~~~~ Ib   7ge1*tE   7    trel    PP"OI IItttIIIIV   - t
(  P*lt7   eg toxyXtt1g taslllt1..      P P@O}Xi
Io Tor prlcl                        -I- -I-x---X-MX=--_ z__         --t t  -_ __  I--I--I-- I-X-I
t oe       I--I- I--I--I-- I--I--t--t          -- I--    YYY Yt!Y t   t-0-
4. Stratar . fort; Suyndru/HIgher Eduction iem 
W L~o1~t$ or Yeun,g Oraduatus            I:tw IjjV                                     ii-i i_ I
I. SactoraI AdJustment Prowgras        tttttt tttttItttIU tIItttIttt tttttt
*BdIn                         P s   raprtion
OA/BeX rerz         *urtten n



- 104 -                ANNEX XI
Page 2 of 14
II.       Government and Local Contributions
1.        The Government's financial contribution to the project is
estimated at CFAF 3.1 billion, equivalent to US$10.2 million or 18 percent
of the total project cost. The Government contribution represents 20
percent of the incremental operating costs and 50 percent of goods locally
procured and financed by the SPA.
2.        The contributions provided by local communities, generated from
the parents' associations (APEs) and local taxes for the school
construction/rehabilitation program are estimated at about CFAF 1.4
billion, equivalent ot US$4.5 million or 8 percent of total project cost.
In the three project areas, local communities would finance shcool
constructionlrehabilitation program; as incentives to teh further
development of private initiatives, an IDA-financed basic education fund
(FAEP) would match the financial efforts of communities, which should
represent an annual average of 50 percent (ranging between 40-60 percent)
of the school construction and rehabilitation costs.
3         The table below shows the breakdown of the Government and local
communities contributions by calendar year.
Table 2. Government and Local Contributions
(by Expenditure category and Calendar year, in CFPA 000 including contingencies)
11989    119i0    11901    11992    11993    11994    I
I ------ I--i-- 2                      a        4        5 6              TOTAL
11- Government   1 979,510 I 990,649 11,912,.6f I  93,380 I  55,619 I  21,915 13,143,635 J
_____I - - -_ _ I -___-______  ___ __I  ----_  _--__I----       I-
12. Loeal Coumunties 1 69,845  388,740 1 606,899 1 435,649 !  0,6  I  9 11,428,926 1
l------l- I--   I ----I----- I------ ----l---I-I------                      I 
SI. TotaI for MeaII   It1,99985 11,888.896 11,518,969 I 528,870 1  88,910   21,645 14,571,569 I
A:M2ANX (MALI 18)
b:anxi/mali9



REPUDLC DU MALI
EDUCATION SECTOR CONSOLIDATION OPERATION
S_mmry @t Local end Foreign Specilist Serces
I----                         ----1 *--f----I-i---------~-71- eto  U[-                         AR JB -  Imo
I    PROJECT COMPONEIT            SPECIALIST SE0VICES    i      j-E LOCAL   TOTAL     BPRIOD    jUMMRY JOB D                  IPTtON                ASE
I        .                                 OF      0    ~     ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~R                                                  ICOST
PERSONSIFOREIGNIIH-NHSI FROM    TO  I                                                  CFAF
t1. SNtDI THE SUPPL OF,I
IAND DEMAND FOR PRt
I   WCATION                  ,                                                    I I                                                                      I
|A  Classroom Construction    1 Deputy regional              J   I  F   |144                  6/gsProvide technical guidance to school          1  78,208  1
coordinators            I               j          I              construction
I~~~~~~                                                                                                                                 I7/9  o
2. Regional coordintora   |   8        L       S1O    j        6/94 jReponstble for the rlonal  chool                49,608
I  I    I       I          I             Iconstruction program
18. Comunity development   |           L   j             7/69    a/94|1orks  a o tem with regional deputy             49,589 |
speciatists             I   8      L        1                    Icoordinatort 
I            I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
14. Mid-course reviw            I   I  F       _15     112/39    0/91ITake stock of implowentation performanc ,        6,764
I. Inter_etton/Sensitzatosl  Comunity dlo,               I  1   I TF         45    1 8/9   12/9lIRegionsl start-up/mid-term  misanr                 19,706
I                            I  spectalist e                     j(T.I)s I          I                                                           f          f
12. Construction technicians1   2   1  F   |   4       1 8/0   12/s89Propere guldes on construction/maintenance       17,298
|           I                           I       I (T t) t          I             le chntquez~~~~~~~(. 1
C. Stimulating Social Demnd1. Qualitative asoeeent          3      L/F      2/1      6/89    /92 Orgl  besfticlsry-asosmment end eaist  1  11,629
for Educetion                specialilot                                                       IPN with annlysis/interpretation of          I
l         l                          l ~~~~~~~~~~~~~teb  r"ult. 
D  Pro..ting Female         11. Construction and        1  2        F   I   8       I /W9  12/W9 Conduct study on feasibility transtoriang *nl  11,629
j  Participation             I  technical ecation        I       I       I          I              existing ounused IPEO into a girls teochnical I         T
*pecialIst                      ischool or ronovating ENTF
12. ome  in d1ooot              I       F        8       6/90   6/92lCovct studies on ways to stimulate fewle     11,529
specialist                                                          r =  - =| I |-n
IX
o 



MI. IZOV  TH  QMUTY II                                           I       III
I     RELEVANCE OF PRIMRI                 ! !
I   EDUCATION                                           I                                                                                     J
I A Teting, MM               |1. Trainers, researchr      everal|  F         4     t 9/89   6/90IAs1ist with the establishment of * data b        20,60
l                       *~~~~~~~~nd compuiter *p cinillt4   (T t) !                      lt. t ) 
2I Testin/evalution                    F                                                                         I
1      p. T t wtlo   I I        I 6  9/69    9/01 Assist with tho adaptation and lnitial  1  1,00
sp etol t .(Tvladiiis I)                                                 aton of t*ts and *n ly ts of
their results
1B. Toecher pre- and In-     1. Oenior *duCatlon *pe-       8       F      i 12      9/89   12/90ASelat with the development of an intensive      55,6W
Service Training         I  cialist, psychologist,             (T.!)                          tr pnig Program for inspectors/pedagogic   1
training specialist     !-__d_l_or_a nd of the o tPEG curriculu                                               
IC. Currlculum Revision and  1. Curriculum *p           Iswral   F           s 8/93   9/92IProvide punct4nl aseistance to IPN team               122,901 1
I  Development               I  textbooks specialists           I(T.1) 1           1 /             cholarship reciplents (returning from  A   IM
I            lprora  nd experienced teachers, Inspectoro
l *nd ~pedbSsgc *dtl or )
2 Pedpgoeri coowlot           a       F       O       9/89   6/90 Evoluo the *perienc, with  ruliz tlon            18.60
I                      ~~~~~~~specialist            8 1         1 *          *        /1vlaeterrlgto                                       85 
|~~~~~~ *1                                                   1 ll       I IIlc
S. Evniustlon *p einit  t   |I1       F f             19/89   6/91 Evaluate the experience with notional            18 6e
sialist~~~~~~~~~~Ingr s                                                                1S,15
D. Pedagogic Support        1. Decentr l zed school         2       F               9/89   9/92 Assist with actual delegation ot a number   I  11,0
|                   I ~~~~~~~monargent specilislt   I     (T I)P                          of rospotisbilitles to DREu and 1F*c and
I  I  I  I                      I organlsation and programming ot activities
i  and design of training program
E Textbook Production        1. Textbook editing/       ja          F                             Traning  Ind dvieo to DPN staff on *diting      20 e 1
I  publiahing specialist,  I                                        Ind preparatlon of layoutu, on procuremet
procurement  p cll  tI                                          I tor printing services, on mintenance ot
I  printing equipment               I                                    a 11Gu printing equ_pmnt                I
mI intenanco spectilist
kV
I. .
Ixs



- 107 -
-----  -   -----------  -  -----  --  ANNEX XI
I   u  'It |                             I |  |   t  |  |  Page 5 of 14
_ _ _ _ __       _    ______        _  __
i    t   t  _ 1,5    t   t ,l   s       g M.  al  _ I
3- -----'   - --   -~--e-.- -.
S             1-              3-  t S        
|~~~~~~~ 1 2j2           ,     .I
IL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
0    J3. Tl i,2l.   it }0.   .550 'T t.J
ar   "                " ",^ "    
3EB          z *i i^Yt  Ca
iIt
igE-E~~  ;'2 1                                   1
__   __     _L                          L _



D. Projoet Coordin tlon     11 project Administratortoe     1     F        so    | S/B9   6/81Advisor to Project Dir ctor; prporos annual  244,
CPCU)                    I  P        A                                               I        work progranm, budgets, handles procurMent 1 
lot goode and seryic e, maintains project
l co ntI   preper withdrawal opplications,
ovorsoJ FAEP operations
12. Computerized *ccountlng    1   j  F        8s      8/SD    a/92 Estabiloh/comput.rized accounting system       22,273
13. Support sff                    I  L       48       6/66 S/4jTyp1it. drivers, orderly, office helper.  |
1 14- Short reZ CO""e Ineat   Iabout  1 i7            | 11/2 I 6/8 6/94Ame    In conducting studies, evaluation andl 126,819 1
I                                  I       I                               i l   f   Ipr perFtlon ot bidin  document 
S. Con  lt nt for pro-   oieverai  L/PF    12/12    6/91    6/O4lAsist In preparing futu:r projoet.                92,232
IInvestmnt studics
41. Auditor                  1       F               0/99   0/841IAnnuibi Indpedot audit of proj et *ccounta   2308,
I~~       ~ ______-________    _    __ _ _ _ _ _    -             _     _    _     _ I    __ _ __ _ _ --- I   .  _ _ _ __-_ _-- -         - _
E Secondary/ligher          1. Short-trn consultants  seeral    F   I 12    16/89 9         /4Act tn conducing setoral naly l                  58,92 ~
Education Restructurng      (education *peciallst,            (T.I)                          survys evaluations and preinvesnt          :o
I                   I ~~~~~~~planners, ottltetnn) c on                                  1ndiu 
12. Computerisod acholarship|  2   |  F        6 0     9/8    6/91Assist in settin-up aomputeried              5  28,s68 |
menagamont *ystem      I       I                  I             scholarship system
F. Lin  of Credit for Young  1. Banking/SUE financing    1 1      F        B8    I 6/96   0/91 Train local banks Investment officer           19S,20
Entrepreneurs           5  spelist                  I              I          I             I technical and financial analysis of
lnvetm_nt propocs I
12. Sbort tern consultant.  lomevral   L       9 24    | 9/899646         t with preparstion of sub-project        15,8W
proposls, audit line of credit                        i
TOTAL -SE COTS SPECIALIST SERVICES  1,992,814
Sumary of Specialist Services             Man-month.         of Total
Foreign                           U6T             86X
Local                            1074             "1
Total                            1641
o:sum (maI1 2)
OIH



REPUBLIC OF MALI
EDUCATION SECTOR CONSOLIDATION OPERATION
Table 4. Summary of Local and Foreign Training
IBIER  I LOCAL               TIMIN    I
PROJECT COMPONENT      FIELD O STUDY/TYPE   SEO  IPEMI OF  I  IM       TOTAL                SUMFROMI  TF RES BILr
PESONS OINMN4OTH FRO  I TOI 
I. INCREASI M HESUPPLY OF,
AND EMAND FOR, PRIMARY
EOUCTION
A. More Interslve Use of    1. Sonsitisatlon  minre on    120     L   I   30          7/S9 12/91ITo nup rteh pilot
Physteil Resoure.       I  double shift and multigrade                                       clssns
(inspectors, principal*,
teahers)                     
12. SensitizatIon sminars on  I N.A      L       N .A     7/091 */94 To support, and cooperate
double-shift and multlgraeol      I                              w  ith, tht experiment
(APE. and local           I       I       I         I    I
authorities)              I       I       I          I    I
S. Wormhops on doubl"htft    226         L      12t      t/09 6/94 To teach the 225  el &ao
and multigrad tzehing        260                                   =  x   imnting with double |
(Po fo 9ic adviors,                                               hift and the 760 cloas
prncipals, teachers)      I                          I           put In  ultigrd  regime;
IRegional  I    I-- i;i1  -Ito provide superision and
I IjI ! I I I lsupport o  e                        ho2- 
S. CLASSROM  CCNTRCTION   1. Regional lounchtn semnars   120         L        s 80         12/91lR ion    sta   Inmolz   In
I  PROORAM              1.                 n        r                 I          I           school construction      A
jC. Incentives to the Privatl l. Sensitlzation campaign    j7N.A      L      N.A      7/89 6/94 To respond to Government's
I  Seetor               I  ( edtn)                    |       I       I          I    I    lofforts to *ncourao
IIrIVaIe educational
I                      -  | I     | l"se -iI



NUMBER ILOCAL ITAL ITIMU IMN                  FREPNSB
PROJECT COMPONENT      1FIELD OF STUDY/TYPE OF SEMINAR  OF      OR      TOTAL        I TNG           W            LITZ
PERSONS FOREIGNIMAN-MONTNS FROM   TO  I
WIII  IbPROVtNG 1HE qUALITY                                I       I       I                f
111. IMAR IH RU                                            I       I       IAI  II
.PRIMRY EDUCATION
A. Reinforcing IPN          11. Curriculum and textbook       4       F        40      9/89 */91To                    thr
Cepabiliti.s             I  development                I       I                               with inspectors *nd
.                             Iexp I          I          I                                  fenchort tn
primary curr culuo and
ttextbook revision
2. Test dev lopment,             a       PF   I    9      9/8/011To daspt, admlnister test.,
administration and                                l lllntorpret tholr results ond
analy is                                                         Ifed thm back Into the
ceurrlculux revision  
I                school                                  I           Iproessous
13. Docontr lized nehool          a       F Po             9J8 9 6/9110A,E  and ORE personnol
(personnel, ftnanco,
I                   I ~~~~~physical rzou"r",
t                   I ~~~~~~podaole support)                   
4. Ltbrary slene                  1       P   j   1O    19/69  6/11To establish IPN library   I
I   _ _   _ __ _   _ _---  I__ __     _   _-              -     -_- I-_ _-___ _I  _-   - _   I_ -        ___     _     Io
jB. Monitoring and Evnu t i. Senoitlatlon seminars       18891   L   j   8/6  9/899To porticipate effectively j
on quality monitoring                                 I  in the procses
I                   I ~~~~~~(insp ctors, principal  I      I       II                    
and ttch ro tro 10                                  
pilot schools)                                                                               f
i i2 Seminer to draw                                          69 j     L    |  18  j7/91 9J91jTo *t    ram I to j
lesson frm the test                                              I I    Ithe curriculum revison
reult. (key pilot chooI                                          IproeI
I                   I ~~~~~~tff, curriculum r"TntonI       I       II              I     I 
IC. In-Service Training     i1. Tralnlng of all inspectors         I  L   1     6      i/B9j 8/90 To run/ov  rs   the in-
*nd pedaeosTc advisors to  |              I|               I      srvico training pmro9m 
prop  rthem to run the
I  gInrvlco training progr -I                  1 i
2 Intenlc ln-servic          1 70pI  L   1840    19/91  f/92To essist primary toachers
I  training for podagoglc             I       I          I          Imore efficiently,
advisors only              I      Ispeclally thoe who ar
young nd unexperienced"
13 Completion of 1997-88 In-   850 +    L         82683    7/891 /94To moanag teacher teams                l
service program for diroc-  4900  1           1                    and school resources; to   I          o3
tors and teachers and                     1 |                 I  teach In primary schools                 X
I  organization of a new one                             I                                       I
I-_____________   _       ------- - - I_    I                              I____-I_ __---    --- _                                      0 _   _



I                   ~~~~~~~I {NIMBER I LOCAL I                                I TIMNG   I                            I
PROJECT COMPONENT      FIELD OF STUJD/TYPE OF SEMP  R  Of      OR      TOTAL StNU   OF RIWO   IIUTIES
I                              1PERS10jSfO CN  RANBONE SSSFROT I TOEI
___________    -e -___   __ _                                       -                           I___  __  _---_    _ _    
ID. Curriculum Revision     1i. Workshops for staff of               L       22                  To Introduce, on on
pilot schools (3 schools) 1cperimental belis, the 
I    I irevised primary currlcula  I
|_- -__ _ ________ _ _____ _ _I _                                             ___   ___  __I_I___I_ iW- --_____
IE. Textbook Revision       l. Workshos for inspecors,   1I6          L       87.5    9/891 *01To train los senior 
pedagogIc advisors *nd                                    I      prioary porsonnel In the   2
selected principals and                                         tues of projieal-snenred
t ehoeru on tho use oft eh                                      IpeJ4o901 materials
raw prI fct-    ed III 
12. Publiehing/Editing /      |  a   |  P         24    1 6/891 0/91 To evaluate finalize
Procurement                                                      manuscripts prepared by
l                                                                        T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PN too" *nd procuro
i  1jlprinting serviTce
III. PROMOTING A MORE      I                              I 
COST EFFECTVE USE
W OFSECTORAL RESO S                                      I 
A' Strengthen MEN            1. Educational planning,     I  4        F F      72     9/89 8/92 To conduct at the central I
Capbilltie  in planning/i  economlcs, Statistics and       I      I         I       I        level studies and          I
Statistic, Personnel    1   chool mapping (DNPES)      I       i      I          I           levaluations to propose
and Flance,Doecentrellzedl                                     I      I I                    Icost-edffctiv solutons   I
I  management           1                              1      1       I          I           lproblems and evaluate     I
1                  18 t     9I89 Inthe  Implementation
12. Seminars on educatlonal       o      L j  178    j           8I/41To pro*ld ME withI
I  plonning,  tatistiecs,     I       I      I             I    I  occurte  nd timely          I
I  school mapping (DREs and   I              I          I    I    ostatistics, assist It in   I
I                   I  1EF )                      I       I       I          I    IEF*)designing andI
I  ILP                    I       I       T         I    I       Impl;menutnon appropriate I
!   !                             |       2       t         I    #    2"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~sctral policlos  
IB Stnoongeb  Por onnol and 11 P*r nn*l "*n SnAent (OAF)     2       F   1 8          9 8891 B/911DAF personnel (Pqrsonnol 
|FinancMng  anngomnt    Ia m                              2           I               I    1 ision)         P
12. Costs/budgeting (DAF)         1      F        4       9/09 6/90PAF eorsonnel (BOdget
DiF persoon)   (
j  Procuremnt (DAF)    a         4      F    1   4/   8/90|DAF ponol (Procurem en
I                                              I BudgeI Xbnngecont   1  1  1         1    1    1                            1
I  techniques, Including
computerzoed systems
to 
00-
0~



PROJECT COONENT         FlD                             I II NJMRLOCAL I               TIMIN    I 
PRWECT C      Wrmf      IFMO  OF  mTUYTYE  OF SEMDMR    OF        ON        M I AL              Isnf OF RESNStAIIMSI
____________I                  IPERSONSIFAIFiMA-SI FROM ITO I                                        I
C. Strengmhen fe2e*zr9lizd  1.  e ariy maminee o               40        L       2      I/8N 6/94 OIF, ORE and IEF staff
mbn somct                    cb^>"tr IIs zd **nagennt,
including mnagemernt of
Mpname  roerl e gtteml and
fnn11r owe n,
7np iton visitsJ|
pr"orn"in                  l        I       lI                    
0. Creatlon of a Phyel        1. Physical r orce                 1       F        4       9DET Division Chief
R             ur M bnagement    mangement (DivisIo.  chief)
Capcit                      I e    
2. Study tours for DET chief       1       f        12      9/89112/92 DET Division Chle 
8 Procuremet  computerlaed        2        F   I        8/891 9/90 DET Swtion Chtof
physical reource                    I              S
Imenaeont systems                      
4j. Po:Ject launch and                            1  Tl          I     I f
torting sm,.ars           2     I  L        1.8   9, 99 12/91 PCU and Regional Canter    I
|                     T6~~~~~~. rP   a*nd roglon l    T466        L   j118     9/091 8/93jDRE *nd XPEC man  _                    tt
J                    }  *e ~~~~~mlnors, on phyalsic la   I                             !       nd staff 
r oureo "Rsem1 nt         I                              I        l                             I
E. Project Coordinatlon       1. Study toutrs  n  e             4        f                9/891 0/92fPCU Dir etor  nd Depuent
regIon and abroad                                            I      ibletor and oer
1-I1=1I                    J  I  groletaff
I 0



I                                                          INUMVER  LJCAL I          I TIMING   I
PROJECT COMPONENT      FIELD OF STUDY/TYPE OF SEMINAR   OF OSPW     OF RESPONSABIRITOS
ERStONS fOOREItN MAUN'-LM0NTHS fROM  TO
N . DEVELOPING ANI
I NITIATING A STRATEGY
fOR RESnTUJCTURING
SECONDARYAND HIGHERP
EDUCATION                                                                                                              I
A. Strengthening the        1. Training In secondry          aI      F   |   24    | 9/89 0/9aIStaff from sondary and   |
Relevant Diroetorelos    1*and high.r oducation                                               high  educationn
Relvn Daigratra  * systems        I                             IDrodoralo
I ncluding computerizod    
sebolarship mnagment 
2. LoeFl *oFftre In             28       L   I 6        |9/881 1F/91301ro dtore of secondary
secondary and blj  r                                              W j  1end tertiary Institutions
education xury nnmt                           
18. Study tours                  4       F   T            9/a  8O/9311rectors and Deputies of
l            l       l      l          l           Ic~~~~~~~~~~~~lono rned Dir ectworaes 1
_ _ _ _xeImna   _ne _        1 _ I                        I __ sb_ng___125_L____1_ _.ee _/SDretr __o_da _
B. Rational 1zing the       1  Lfbrrfn training              1       F        20    1       9/B9  e/m1Reponsible for overoo09g
Uhlt rs7ty Library                                                                             MO |     ||    thhi r education   
Syste                                                                                          I I l         1brory systmn
IC. Experimental ine of     il Loct seminars for selected1  40        L   1 40    1/901 1/93ICr,t m zcro- ntr prts         I
C       for Young           aspiring ntrpr noure       I       I      IT               I    Ivith project *a  sam
Entroprnneuro               In beole meaonX            1                  
IaIounting/bs  _                                  I               
|                   |  ~~~~~~principal (ENU or VIO) |     |       ||              I     II
Sum_ry of Training            oan-monthe               X of total
Forelgn                          9 SX
Local                           012248 04X
Total                           $4488
wa:l (Mbli 14)



Table 5
REPUSLIOJ Du MALI
uJe DK CO LDATION DU SECTEJJ EDCATION                               A       Fe .   FCFA           N
a      21 .0W FCAM            ROSS REPARATION
SURY OF CIVIL WORKs/        VENAIRE 018 LOCAtA                      C s    11 .     C            REPARATION
---  ---  8--  .6    CF2     PET1TE REPARATION
21- -                                                       7 s                 AEFCFAjt2 E ATON DOULE VAC
19:42489 AM
Surhee rette        Suort"
eeqts,e               Brute Coet Corts en FCFA a_            Cowl
Cape- No d' -                      ----
-cite   Unitt  Piece Unit.  Total   Total per Mt ceof.ot        Total      To.t.      Total
Acocodatloe Unit/Locax           u    U    M2   Y2        Y2       Y2 FCfA/M2      S   fCFAx        FCFAx_  =SxI
_l  _               f   -     - -- _ _--
1. COMMUNE  K BAMAKO                                                                                   1usb        us
Cwrntrtiion clse..              54  200    1.1   66  12,W98   14,40          A   1.9     698,W  0s8,40             so,?
amelieratio /doublo vac.        54 VK5    1.1   Of 1,8,    21,0W             E  1.91    122,90       ?22,        12,7
orose rpe6rtlon  osee"          54  167   1.1   Of 10,620  12,024            a   1.9     208,750    U6O,766    U,m2
ropratton close"                64  796    1.1   6f 47,706  57,812          C  1."       517,400  1,448,166    84.748
petite rpeatiton                64   88   1.1   60   2,280   2,786          0   1.8        7,609   1,465,760      4,778
--------  1,465,760    34,7
totel 1  31,824 1,616              90,890  109,482                   1,455,760  1,455,75       4,778
u _   S=wNm  ,_ m-   i *  n wf .  |  r  1,455,766    64,778
2. COMMUNE DK SEGOU                                                                                1,466,76       4,773
________------------    -                                                                          1,46,766      84, 778
construction ei....             54   44   1.1   SO  2,640   8,482            A   1.15    1l,8J0  1,07,56         15,271
melioration /doubt* etc.        64   80   1.1   00  2,840   8,e42           E  1.5s    17,00   1,621,490    11,829
fro". reperation clsese         54   86   1.1   6o  2,285   2,894           a   1.15      64,625   1,680,116      5,S09
reparation clasns               54   77   1.1   66  4,626  86,              C  1.16       67,568  1,787,678    6,097
petit. rearatton                54   18   1.1   6b  1,8    1,404            0   1.16       4,149   1,741,618     n,11
_______ -              -                         _   _ --   1,741,818    16,711
total 2  11,664  216                12,988   16,68                    285,988  1,741,18    1711
1,741,618     5,711
8. COMMUNE DE SIKASSO                                                                              1,741,018    n65,7
_______ _                                    _                                     _X1,741,918    1,711
conetructon classe              54   80   1.1   60  1,800   2,840           A  1.20    198,986   1,8496,18U    6,65
*olloration /double vye.        64   82   1.1   66  1,92    2,406           E  1.20       15,866  1,865,178      5,115
groe  rearatieon class"         54   86   1.1   CO   1,9800   2,848             1.20      45,00   1,016,118    #,20J
reprtOtion deel m               54 U  0   1.1   eo  8,90    8,98            C  1.20       89,998  1,949,178    66,851
petite rperation                54   12   1.1   66    720         o8n       D   1.29       2,66   1,952,068       6,409
-------- --         ~--  -------  ---- ------ --   1,-62,968    #6,490
totel S   6,816   164               9,240  12,012                     210,240  1,952,095      66,49"
-        ainin             n      -   - -        - ._   1,952,095  36,46
4. PUIlS ET FORAGES                                                                               1,05258          40
1.00    262,666   2,244,606     7,806
-_ --             -  ------"  ------"-   ---------------------------   --- 2,244,600  7,8600
tote1 4       0                         0        0                    292,6e6   2,244,806     67,866
.. : = " _ -          --------- -----'                        -     ------------ 2,244,800    67,800  q 
5. AMENACI3MNTS-WD (165)                                                                           2,244,666    6,369o
cloturr/abord /eniti re                                                                  224,406  2,469,846     #,090                 x
" __ ,_ ..... ------                                   _________em                2,460,846    86,696 o
COUT DE 6UU8E TOTAL GENR3AL 11,894 1,076             112,660 187,202                   2,469,846   2,460,840     6 .               o 
cour OE 1 SANS ISlEl PYSIS ET 3AS IFAFUATION 



eue-   -1t o slm  -P "l aotm  9 :(a)
PSOOL 1011a9 airot  mb's MISi lb          irS  Gala    mg                      to    1vAOM 1VWIL
O0OO  an's ncast                                                                              G'6 'P  dIq"3     t
sO'tn  stg  MITI  MO' $0'9 es            sirs  ea's   no's                   ta    r.os6; IVIaL
S0Il*  ow'  0         SU  95    0         9 U    SOU     an                    So    *O0t 1
anr    es'  0         as   uP   o    v  so    to         ORs  as   Ole  I    P                   *A1041ine0 .e0jg
"O'    MIS  o         o m W            vm        son     a an   o    Olut  g1ap*a    i  a i
at's    m as  a   O        sm    0    9     s    -       on   as      t 9L                   "t *1
ot's  zag'  o         tOt  tot  0    a  ot   an          s*          O               *Pt it*P  
as*    ass's o        tn   so;  o    aso;   so           so   so   o*op                   1
ate    u     a        ot si   o    a,;           ot     oI   ft    ogo  e t              -o 9**!Jew!a
optW CP90             a          0    a  Ol    PC        as   a    OOt t   a 5!Mld
an' s    sOlt On't  9W       s  te        an    S, " OK                        sat   I*x 1a
on      e    0            ew   o    v  ow        p      O P   OP   Wit t t                      ve ! 5-1
0n      W    a        U 0A   0    V  it U         t      Ot   OD   9-t  t   o                          *tJ1S1
on's  Oo'             U    U    Ot    e   U ss           Ot 0s   0    t-t  t   a.p
oar;n o      so'n   so   o    so    3  o         s       c aspas   os s        s     0      f  09 C   *Jtewof~  019
oosg't ocat O         ass  Oas  O     9 a ss   a9 s      Co1   s    O'   o   it       (a) (-I1emg Jed it) .'ta"!
'9 11'to  OT @        o'; too'M   0         OtO't aiot   0co                   us    'C;t 1i
oia  an's 0 ll  O                0    a   a U    U       0s   co   Ot  a   0
9to    Ot    o        a    U    0    v  U        U       aS   de   O-t  I   it           !1p's   "t1*
sof   sW     O        Pt   P    o    a   n       ff      8t   it   Olt  t   Ct                   vetwood *.,gm
O      no   O         VT   VT   0    a  Io    lt          gt   p     oitt I t ;-t t
=l'8   aIs O               as   0    a  e        fA      as   sO  o'as I   I                      -eI _eft*-W
$M't   sOat O         Os   to   0    a   8    Oa         so   to   all,  t   9                 WJ.SHMad *A"     I
m'S  am'  o           U    i    0         t U   U       09   as   a'   t    S                        "1  *ell
Ott    gtt   0        n      t   0    V   t n     It     at    t   0T t t t            -!" G *I-pad  a
a t  wa't 0           P8   OB   0    a  P8    P8         on   at   OCt a   t                  di UIOUJUd.J *11ew
on      W    a        U     s   0    V  &t U      s      as   as   Ol9  t It                   stW'#Pl * le
=3H19 O'  0 o          9 t  "O  a    a  st   "I          cat  as   o,  a   it  .tato         0   -t- Cs    Ct * 
COOP   m'l  0         2t;  ntt  0    a  ntt   itt        so   at   OCs  s    C8           .SMI-olpaw ;uuOta
O"It  UP'e 0          a"   Sp   0    V O         3 OsS    Os ii               to      SWIMIeo e' p vIaew
Ma'S   19S'  0                   0 " 8                    t VWt 1 n
9t     9     0        tS   nt   0    V  tt    ;t         O    0    0 0  t   t                          *  !'e~u
sn     n     a        Pt   Pt   o    V I         P t     Zt   Ct   a'it t          t                     ^!bJ
Ott    Ott   0        Pt   Pt   0    v  Pt    Pt          at   at   O'tt   t I
sit     Ot   0        Ot   Ot   0    V l O        t      at   a    o0ot I                 _
sit   vst O           ot   Ot   0    V  Ot  *t    9t           St   o's  t   a        b!.  o           -n .d
e    st   a           it   It   0   8 ie          t      as   S      t t       t              guasj*du mom
in     W  05          P8    P80       VOS         8      P 51. as a 05t        i t            %wfJ   D%A
011    oB    o        an   ec   O    v  as    os         99         O'   I t    t                    10tWW oil"
Ut    Sit    0        P    P 80       V  Os              a P C    O   Ot t   C 5!p   Wt~42t
Ps    CDt   0         tC    P80       Vt  pa             as   (a    OB t   t                      t *     t
Oa     05   o   e 8   a    0    V                Oa      Oa   56   055t   I   ecpf Co MP t  t "*!fp w Ja
otS   an  O           ea    C   0    V  as    ea         P8    8   os  C   t                       "S1tP -   ftu
NUVSICHWrtIt
O  V.                 of 5   a )    i  &  Do     IN S                a    n   n             etS  -4   ut     -
l0110                *_ t^  lZone  _ *qA                  ~IS1W1 %!WA **aid 041!  ots-
30 )'ad   5NOm  WUYA   30
___ _9 _ _  _ ---__,-_--____- ---,                             30 a    t.i so  Jouw4w
V.    '        wvm' V                      iwwxnsm P9anAne I*a/smo  tAl AosWAM
zt________ 
IX1 Jo  XS UoU
IX xauuj
_ft



- 116 -
Annex XI
53100111W  V CIVI VWSIVWAM  m0 %DEA                    AM                          2 ,---*    .FM ~      Page  14  of  14
S :l59Ww        40 .410 FM
um,zi,an  wNAAAVuM                         Surfamces e..tta   Suaep., Loome
roquSoo           6.gto"  ou *Ut.t  surf...   92 to   Cat   FM ~  '@00
Cap.-  lb Id  --------
-cite  Ulmit. Pie". Ihit Total   Toa  hwt.p  Ea t. asmov.TotlEa. Roe,    o
hagmdetI.m lMt/L.sman     ~~U   U   "a   to   MO        to    I  (AM0  IQ   92   92          MA AP        PWA
1. SIlIh.eu   do 1,14.8.. (600
wito do loot.,.                  12    a  1.7  2MD  20          240    4    A       0  24  2t0          0 4.680  4.60
esepol to 48.48*6.            20.000   1           so   so       71    SO  A        4   so   72   2.640  21.00   8.840
botoos. bibilowtecalre             I   I 13.0   is   to          go      0   a     a0    0   40   2.602        0  2.892
amtaeps"ifbl.r                    6   I  8.8   go   so          24      a   6    so    0   24   2.680        0  S.=6
mamltess                           4   1  8.0   la   12          14      0  S    14    0   14   1.7211        0   1.72
u%At.  a.    is                    8102    87    290          so  30   8       9.640 8.4010  18.640
1. SbSIth.ss d  l1..A.(1.320)
salle, do lost.r.                140   1  1.8  80   810         872   160  I   2W   180   WU2  26.60  6.00082.640
GROWle do stm*00g             20.000   I           so   so       72      0   a    72    0   72   0.640        0  8.660
bursow b1bolotk...r.              12   1 1.8    is   16          40      06 a      11    040a.SAN             02.86
ostlog../fI48lor          8~~~~~~ 1  2.8   so   20      as      0   a    so    0   24   2.11660      0  2.68
umltape                  ~~~~~~~ ~~~~4 183.0    12   12  14      OSa    14    0   14   1.726         0  1.72
ftut$ 2.     240                   420      306   in0        84  180  804  42.480 6.000 46.440
S. S"iblotaswo do 1S'E.N. (2.120)
"Ilt, do peatsy.                 400   1  1.8  60M  600         720)  480  6   20  480  720  64.600 17,200 S2.000
mgomea do etetopa            100.000   1          400  400,    460       0   3   400    0  460  57.400        0 87.60
be*"* biblltho.al,.                1   140.0   so   so           72      @8a    72    0  72    6.040          06S.w4
coatlgeefici.r                    so   1  2.8   so   s0          so      0   a    so    0   00   7.200        0  7.m0
Atellor deuoaremntlc               I   180.0   so   so           86      0 9  06   8a@         s   4.6201     0 4.311
sieI. plmetminles                 2   1 10.0   26   20          24      0   a    26    0   24   2.660        0  2.68
,.ge.tloalgumt,al.       ~~~~~12   1  8.8   40   40     46      0   S    48    0   46   8.740        0  8.740
mItaIPO.                  8~~~~~~~~~~     12.8    2020o  24     06a    26    0  241.68               012.6811
8.4.1 S.     400                 1.211   1.464   480        1.086  440 1.464 124.08017.2100 141.280
4. tesomeosot looms 0.14.11.11 58
Morss om                           8   1 10.0   so   so          so    so       0    00   00s          0  2.400   2,400
dMowia .ta./frteJbu.              I    1 13.8  139  in9         19    1et  a       0  191  191         0  7.662  7.862
dli.tm tat.Isbobt .b an USW       19   I  6.1  160l  no8        IO   Os4  S        0   1    184         0 7.844   7.84
roohod. ogioatflo                 9   1 17.0  1in   16         184  1S4   a       0   I84  18         0 7.344  ?.8"
*d.Ietvatlef de poromeol           a   I 86.0   so   82          47    47   3       *   47   47        *  1.472  1.672
coutabllMko                        a   1 11.0   80   60          40      0   a    d0    0   40   4.762        0  4.762
ooovol.aa                          8   1 11.0   60   68          40    40   a      0   40   d0         0  1.64   1.884
*96rourist               l10   1  7.2   72   72         68    68   0       0   as   68         0 8.4 86  .466
semfetritw                         4   1  8.0   40   OR          as    19   S    19   19   as   1.5          76    .000
goatee doagmeetatlg               it    1  8.6  106  10N        la6      0   a   16n     0  12   IS.=2        0  MM12
t.t.i4.  ~70'                   we9    "9S   810o         1    SW0  968  22.200 62.861  S4.861
TWTDL 1*2.304     66n                 2.779   8.865  1.640      1.4411 1.6008.336 196.600 61.892 269.96
MIVAW     SE 1.0AU5 8911.111                                                    ?...ma ao.oool moe
PM3 zSurfaces v-sttee   Surf.-e  Lacaus                                                           .      
reois"       Srutse ooIoteate  Surfce. .   la    CooGt an FCA .000
Cwop- MoD'4
-.140  Uibte Pie"o Whi Tou tOtal    .1.1oSf. tppo Ent. R..v.Ttoul Eat.   flue.  Total
Asomaiationk 400ultAasu            u   WI  in   92   92          92    9  (MOC    I 92   92          FM 6 PA  iA   MA
1. 6114r A11-1 a PDW4 GU.18
Wlrestla                           6   1 26.8  146  140    1as   US   a            0   no6  18         0 8.720   6.72
divitem do persomoal              17   1  9.4  18   159         191   1  91        0   19   19         0  7.612  ?,U1
divioelga do fbooe.oe             so   1  0.0  207  20          246   246   a      0  248  248         0 9.466   9.46
diviiel a terilS a o..ips         12   I  6.8  1am  3102,    an         22  a      0  140  16          0 4.6906  4.6816
`0l.. asuioibooieom et .ogia       3   1 87.7  178  178         20    S0"   6      0  me6  an          0 0s8am   8.004
8.6.1 1      84                   761      967  9O7           0  9    9"7         0 W7.469 87.486
S. sMi0. 0a Comm=IS  GU vv.tz-
60owota                           4   1 26.0  112  112         184   14  S        0  3U   184         0  8.876  8.876
diwilom. otudo.s tovmloso         13  11 12.   13   18          44       0   6    04    0  gm4  2116.111      0 211.1111
4101stom iaoevtoaolo leW11/poda    2   1 16.8    U    Sit        40    40  a       0   40   40         0  1.884   1.84
divieOR eoiml.& f1mmse.oo        10   1  12.8   US   US9    146   16  3           0   146  148        0 8.94  8.984
0Miles oweltalooe .8 divoro        2   I  86.0   72   72         68    68   a      0    a    68         0 8.486   8.486
toutl 2      0                    off      GM    408        404  408  on   26.92616.59  48.166
10141 1.5      97                  1.800   1.510  1.848        4041.848 1.870  26.591 $11.6011 40.786
at-.Im-60



- 117 -                    ANNEX XII
Page I of 4
REPUBLIC OF MALI
EDUCATION SECTOR CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
upplementary Credit Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Processing Events
(a) Time taken by country to prepare credit: About 18 months
(b) Credit prepared by:                       Government with assistance
from UNESCOICP,
consultants & IDA
(c) First IDA mission:                        March 1987 (ident.)
(d) Departure of appraisal mission:           July 1988
Ce) Negotiations completeds                   End April 1989
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:            August 1989
Cg) List of relevant PCRs and PPARss          - First Education Project
(Cr.420-MLI)
PCR: Jan.11, 1982
Second Education Project
(Cr.733-MLI)
PCR: June 1985
PPAR: Oct. 8, 1986
Section II - Key Documents orovided at nesotiations
Ci) 1989 budget; (ii) draft legal text revising the budget nomenclature;
Ciii) draft legal text reorganizing the PCU.
Section III - Points covered at negotiations
Mi) Status of rationalization of IPEGs and ENSECs (para. 48);
(ii) criteria for higher education scholarships award and renewal
(para. 51); (iii) 1989 budget and proposed nomenclature revision
(para. 51); (iv) preparation of the 1990 Staffing Plan (para. 52);
(v) investment program (para. 55); (vi) experience with NGO-
cofinanced prototype construction and FAEF operating rules (para.
54); (vii) Government proposed textbook policy (para. 73); (viii) new
organization of the PCU (para. 83); (ix) implementation and
monitoring arrangements (para. 93); (x) TORs for the twinning
institutions (para. 95); (xi) first year program of activities and
budget (para. 105); (xii) arrangements for the quick disbursements
from various cofinancing sources; and (xiii) schedule of negotiations
with other cofinanciers.



- 118 -                    ANNEX XII
Page 2 of 4
Section IV - Special IDA Implementation Actions
(a) Disbursement of US$1.5 million in a Special Account as credit
effectiveness and related disbursement conditions are fulfilled
(para. 104);
(b) Joint Annual Review of Program and Project implementation, to be held
no later than November 30. each year starting in 1989 through the
life of the Project. (para. 105);
Section V - Conditions of Board Presentation
(a) Signature of the Letter of Education Policy by the Minister of Labor
on behalf of the Minister of Education (para. 44);
Section VI - Conditions of Effectiveness. Disbursement and Tranche
Release
(a) Conditions of Effectiveness and First Tranche Releaset
Mi)      Modification of MEN's budget nomenclature to separate Cycle
I from Cycle II budgets, and reclassify as such the
,materials* element of secondary education scholarships
(para. 51);
(ii)      Legal establishment of the FAEF (para. 54);
(iii)     Reorganization of the PCU (para. 83);
(iv)      Fulfillment of the conditions precedent to effectiveness of
the cofinancing by USAID (para. 86); and
(v)       Signature of the contract for the Technical Advisor to the
Project Director (para. 86);
(b) Conditions of disbursement:
(i)       For the primary school construction/rehabilitation
components signature of the contract with a Volunteers
Association (para. 63);
(ii)      For the experimental Line of Creditz reinforcement of
UNDP/ILO Unit to IDA's satisfaction (para. 77);
(iii)     For the sector management component: signature of the
twinning contract with an Institute for Educational
Economics Research, acceptable to IDA (para. 79 and 80);
(c) Conditions of Second Tranche Release:
(i)       Measure 14:  (a) agreement on a utilization plan for ENSEC
facilities; (b) issuance of decree modifying the
recruitment level and duration of studies at IPEG; (c)



- 119 -                    AMflE XII
Page 3 of 4
introduction of agreed-upon revised IPEG curriculum by the
beginning of school year 1990191 (para. 48);
(ii)      Measure #6:  Agreement on a detailed Master Plan for
restructuring secondary and higher education in line with
the parameters defined in the Letter of Education Policy
(para. 50);
(iii)     Measure 17:  Satisfactory progress toward the budgetary
targets: budget laws for 1989 (ex-post) and 1990 (ex-ante)
(a) maintaining the share of MEN in the Government
recurrent budget at least at 252; (b) increasing the share
of primary education to about 40? of MEN's recurrent
budget; (c) increasing the share of materials to about 8?
of MEN's budget; (d) reducing higher education scholarships
(Mali and abroad) by 10? in 1989 and 1O? in 1990 (current
terms); and (e) maintaining the share of higher education
below 192 of MEN's recurrent budget (para. 51);
(iv)      Measure #8S:  (a) Studentsiteacher ratio increased from 38:1
to at least 39s1 in Cycle I, from 14:1 to at least 18:1 for
Cycle II and from 8:1 to at least 10:1 for secondary
education; (b) personnel study reviewed with IDA, including
proposals to reduce the number of Cycle II and secondary
teachers and appropriate levels of civil service
recruitment for IPEG and ENSEC graduates (para. 53);
Cd) Conditions for Third Tranche Releaset
i)        Measure #5: Agreement with IDA on a work program for the
Task Force on curriculum adaptation, taking into account
the findings of an evaluation of ruralization and national
languages experiments discussed with IDA (para. 49);
(ii)      Measure #6:  Satisfactory progress in implementing the
agreed-upon Master Plan for restructuring secondary and
higher education (para. 50);
(iii)     Measure #7:  Continued satisfactory progress toward the
budgetary targets; budget laws for 1990 (ex-post) and 1991
(ex-ante) (a) maintaining the share of MEN in the
Government recurrent budget at least at 25?; (b) increasing
the share of primary education to at least 42? of MEN's
budget; (c) increasing the share of materials to at least
9? of MEN's budget; (d) reducing higher education
scholarships by 10? in 1990, and 5? in 1991; and (e)
maintaining the share of higher education below 19? of
MEN's recurrent budget (para. 51);
(iv)      Measure #8t  (a) Students/teacher ratio increased to at
least 40:1 in Cycle I, 20:1 in Cycle II and 12:1 in
secondary education; (b) implementation of agreed-upon



ANNEX XII
Page 4 of 4
recommendations of the personnel study along an agreed-upon
schedule (para. 53);
Section VII- Assurances to be received from Government:
(a) Measure #1: During school years 1989190 through 1991/92, the number
of new entrants would be maintained, for secondary general education,
below an average of 2,500, and for higher education, below a total of
4,500 over the three-year period, or an average of 1,500 p.a.
(students in Mali and abroad) (para. 45);
(b) By the 1989 Joint Annual Review, Government would issue norms and
regulations for the private educational sector (para. 46);
(c) By March 31, 1990, Government would submit to IDA for discussion, a
study on gender issues making recommendations for improving female
enrollments and women's participation in the teaching corps (para.
47);
(d) Any new sectoral investment in excess of CFAF 300 million would be
reviewed and agreed upon with IDA on the basis of an economic and
financial study (para. 51)
(e) Government would ensure that, starting on January 1, 1990, at least
302 of the revenues from the Development Tax would be earmarked for
the financing of educational activities (para. 54);
(f) Government would, starting in 1989, (i) by November 30 each year,
exchange views with IDA on Implementation of the Project, including
the sectoral adjustment Program; (ii) by September 30 each year, send
in a form and substance satisfactory to IDA a progress report on the
Project and the Program, its revised three-year rolling Program of
Investments and Public expenditures and its draft budget for the
following fiscal year (para. 105);
(g)  (i) All project accounts, including disbursements against SOEs, would
be audited annually by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA; (ii)
Government would submit such reports to IDA by March 31 of each year,
starting in 1990; (iii) the audit reports would certify that the
funds were used for the purposes for which they were provided; (iv)
the PCU would submits (a) semi-annual reports on project
implementation and expenditures by June 30 and December 31 of each
year, beginning in 1989; (b) a completion report within six months of
the IDA Credit closing date (para. 106).
The conditions for second and third Tranche release are expected to be met
respectively by end-November 1990 and 1991.
b:anlZ (mali 3)



ANNEX XIII
- 121 -                  Page I of 2
REPUBLIC OF MALI
EDUCATION SECTOR CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
Status of Bank Group Onerations
A. Summary Statement of IDA Credits
(as of March 31, 1989)
Credit    IDA Fiscal                                      Amount less
Number       Year         Purpose                         Cancellations   Undisbursed
U------  US$ million-----
Twenty three credits fully disbursed                         195.23
986-MLI       1980   Industrial Sector Development            8.00        0.03
1200-MLI        1982   Second Telecommunications              13.50 1/2/   0.00
1282-MLI        1983   Water/Power                            24.00         0.95
1307-MLI        1983   Economic Management & Training         10.40         1.39
1403-14LI      1984   Biomass Alcohol & Energy Efficiency   7.60            3.95
1415-14LI       1984   2nd Mali-Sud Rural Development         25.90         1.41
1422-MLI        1984   Health Development                     16.70         5.49
1431-MLI       1984   Rural Water Supply                       4.60         0.60
1442-MLI       1984   Third Education                          4.60         0.51
1597-MLI       1985   Mopti Area Development                  19.50        16.24
1629-MLI       1986   Fifth Highway                           48.60        40.25
1654-MLI       1986   Second Forestry                          6.30         2.18
1677-MLI       1986   Second Urban                            28.00        17.14
F007-MLI        1984   Rural Water Supply                      6.30         2.14
P010-MLI        1984   Third Education                         4.90         0.97
A035-MLI        1988   Office du Niger Consolidation           9.00         9.17
1906-1MLI      1988   Office du Niger Consolidation           39.80        31.26
1937-MLI       1988   Public Enterprise Sector Adjust.        40.00        22.73
1938-14LI      1988   Public Enterprise Institutional Dev.  9.50           6.72
1998-MLI        1989   Second Power                           33.00 3/    31.26
Total      585.43       202.29
of which has been repaid         6.73
578.70
Total now held by IDA       578.70
Total Undisbursed                   202.29
11 Beginning with Credit 1200-14LI, credits have been denominated in
Special Drawing Rights. The dollar amounts in theses columns represent
the dollar equivalents at the time of credit negotiations for the IDA
amounts and the dollar equivalents as of March 31, 1989, for the
undisbursed amounts.
21 Closing date: 6130188.
3/ Approval date: 3/30/89; not yet effective.



ANNEX XIII
- 12  -                   Page 2 of 2
B.   Statement of IFC Investments
(as of March 31, 1989)
Original
Commitment
Loan
Number     Year       Borrower             PurPose             Loan        Eauity      Total
---------US$ million-
403-MLI    1978       Societd Mamadou      Bleach and          0.63          0.00      0.63
Sada Diallo          Plastic
et file              Products
612-MLI    1982       Societe Indus-       Sheanut             1.84           0.45     2.29
trielle de           butter
Karite du Mali,      for export
S.A.
Total Gross Commitments:                2.47           0.45     2.92
Less cancellations,
repayments, and
write-offst                             0.47           0.45      0.92
Total Commitment now
Held by IFCt                            2.00           0.00     2.00
Total Undisbursed:                                               0.00
b:anl3 (mali 3)



- 123-
ANNEX XIV
Pcge 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF MALI
EDUCATION SECTOR CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
Selected Documents Available in the Prolect File
1.    "Educational Finance and Reform in Mali", Jonathan Haughton, University
of Maryland, July 30, 1986.
2.    Basic Education in Mali, some current problems, UNESCO, Educational
Financing Division, Paris, June 1987.
3.    "Adequation entre la formation et l'emploi au Mali:   Situation de
l'Education Formelle et Besoin de Formation. N'Dri Therase Assie-Lumumba,
Ph.D, Spicialiste Formation-Emploi, ECOS International, Bamako, decembre
1985.
4.    "Scenarios de Developpement de l'Education au Mali, lire Partie:
Expansion du lr Cycle de l'Enseignement Fondamentala. Juillet 1987.
5.    "Perspectives d'am'lioration de la gestion du systeme educatif Malien".
Claude Cournot, 16 Septembre 1987.
6.    'Etude sur le Financement Regional et local de l'enseignement primaire
au Mali". Jean-Louis Fouilland, Novembre 1987.
7.    'Etudes de la Direction des Affaires administratives et financieress
(1) Processus de prise de decision concernant les differents types de
depenses educatives; (ii) Procedures, priorites et criteres d'affectation
et d'utilisation du produit des impots et taxes regionaux et locaux,
repartition de ces fonds entre differents types de depenses educatives;
(iii) Pour les trois derni4res annees: ventilation par origine des fonds
des budgets centrals, regionaux et locaux, repartition de ces fonds entre
diffirente secteurs et par type de dtvenses.
8.    Rapport final du seminaire national sur la planification decentralisae
GAO, 23-26 fevrier 1987.
9.    Quelques reflexions methodologiques sur le mechanisme de programmation
triennale glissante des projets de developpement, DNPES Septembre 1986.
10.   "Amilioration de la qualite de l'Enseignement Fondamental du ler Cycle",
rapport de mission d'evaluation dans le cadre du 3ieme projet
d'education de la Banque Mondiale au Mali (12-30 octobre 1987), A.
Chiappano, L. Vandevelde.
11.   "Mali, 4eme Projet d'Education, Education Fondamental ler Cycle". Version
praliminaire, UNESCO, )ivision du financement de l'aducation, janvier
1988.



- 124 -
ANNEX XIV
Page 2 of 2
12.   'Composante amelioration de la gestion, du systeme educatif", mission
de priparation, novembre 1987.
13.   "Politique de l'enceignement superieur au Mali:  Situation actuelle et
perspectives". M1nistere de l'Education Nationale, mai 1987.
14.   Elements pour une politique nationale de bourses pour l'enseignement
sup;rieur", Ministere de l'Education Nationale, Bamako,
mai 1988.
15.   "Propositions pour une relance de l'orientation scolaire et profession-
nelle en Republique du Mali", Andre Coqblin, Consultant pour UNESCO,
docembre 1987.
16. 'Projet de Programme de Formation des Inspecteurs de l'Enseignement
Fondamental en Republique de Mali", Ministere de l'Education Nationale.
17.   'Evaluation des classes experimentales en Bambara dans la Region de Segou
Louis-Jean Calvet, mai 1988.
18.   'Le fonds d'aide a I'enseignement primaire", FAEP, et "Statuts du FAEP",
PCU et Leboucq, juin et novembre 1988.
19.   Composante manuels scolaires, rapport HoisanlAuclair, juillet 1988.
20.   Couts,  financement  et  efficacite  des  enseignements  secondaires  et
superieur, Cuenin et Orivel, IREDU, Novembre 1988.
21.   Propositions pour une reorganisation des ecoles de Formation.  IPN,
juin 1988.
22.   'Donnees sur l'emploi au Hali," Ministere de l'Emploi et de la Fonction
Publique, July 1988.
23.   Enquete sur Ilemploi et le ch8nage dans le District de Bamako, Ministere
de lemploi et de la Fonction Publique, July 1988.
24.  Economic Reform Program, USAID/Mali, Agency for International Development.
a:al4 (Mali3)



MAP SECTION



MALI
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT                                                                                                                                                                     A L G E R I A
QUATRIEME PROJET D'EDUCATION
ARRAS OF PROJECT CONCENTRATION FOR SCHOOL CONSTRUfCIION
ZONES OF CONCEN7TRATION LIE LA COAMPOSAAtJE CONSTRUCTION SCOcAIRE
*    EDUCATION REGIONAL DIRECTORATES    D                                           |
20T          DIRECTIONS REGIONALES DE 4EDUCA PON (ORE)
g  NPRIMARY TACHER TRAINING COLLEGES                                                                            /
INSIIIVSPEDAGOGIGUES DENSEIGNEMENT OENERAL(IPEG)
ECOLES NOCRMALES SECONDAIRES (ENSEC)
*    AGRICULTURAL SECONDARY SCHOOL                                                                                                                                                                             /
LYCEE AGRICOSE    ' T,
*   RURAL POLYTRCHN'C IiUTE                                                           i%
INSI2TI ;9'LIT'CNNIGUlE RURA (I.,)
A    BASIC SCHOOL INSPECTORATES                                                                                       S -&
INSPECTIONS ELENSEIONEMENTFONDAMENrTA
RAiVERE  VrGBE (JUILLErTDECE&ARE)             ZONE OINONDATION                                                      II         \
PAVED ROADS                                   CECLE CAPITAL 
ROUTES REVETIJES                              CI--IUD  Ea
____PAVED ROADS UNDER CONSTRUCTIGN                 RtEGION CAPITALS
-   ROUTES REVPFtOES EN CONSTRUCTION              CIIRPIJEUl DE REGION 
EARTN ROD rmr                                     ATIOEIAL CAPITAL
ROADS ETR                                     CAFiTALE DU PAYS                                                                                                     REM
_____ TRACKS                                  -   -  REGION BOUNDARIES                      I   !                                     " !
PISTES                                        LStWTE DE REGION
RAILROAD                                      INTERNATIONAL rOUNDARIES                                      ,       '
CNErWN DE FEE                                 PRONTIERES INYERNAIOELALES                                      '$                                                                                        RtR                         I
1A~~~~~~~~~~~~~ IRE
'' ------  4
Sr,,    JR- S                                                                                       ---I                      - 7'-                            <       .rA       p_>    C
K14 .< ; ,\pG' ... ,, _ _ g L /;t x, ...................... XN I G E R 
Ji  RSsb [i$;ATULARE              I*w*k0                t                    __s&fl   ,         h MN                        /                                                 I~                           NI       E
SENEGAL        4151%
a--'-  AU.   -'4                      ALA         '~~~~r-~~~A    ,   YERCIIO ~BURKINA  PASO                                                                             .                         
-S.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U
r      20   IE  Ip    200   25                                                    ALGER
KILOMETERS                                                       N
MAURtITANIAI
*g                         ---. t kG  "  t  \  \   _A.t   r                -r                                        MALI   i                 W
G          U I N E A                                                                                                                                                                                                        NIGER
. /<                   \ .r *8 AGHANA                                                               J                     0                      r t;*')s4
C6TE D'IV                                                                                                                 GUINEA                           HIJ  NI A
RE                                                                               lIT    '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'~~~~-0



