Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15720
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MALI
EDUCATION SECTOR CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
(CR. 2054-MLI)
June 10, 1996
Population and Human Development Division
West Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(April 1989)
US$1= FCFA 314
CFAF I million = US$3.185
MEASURES
Im   =   1.09vd
Im2   =   1.96 sq yds
Ikm2        0.38 sq mi
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AGETIPE       Agence des 1ravaux d Interet Publique et pour I 'Emploi
(an IDA-financed NGO specializing in public sector civil works)
CFAF           French West African Franc
CIDA           Canadian International Development Agency
CPS            Cellule de Planification et Statistiques - Planning and Statistics Unit
DAF            Department of Administration and Finance
ESCP           Education Sector Consolidation Project (Credit 2054-MLI)
FAC           Fonds d Aide et de Cooperation (French Development Assistance)
GOM            Government of Mali
ICR            Implementation Completion Report
IDA            International Development Association
ILO           International Labour Organization
IMF            International Monetary Fund
KfW           Kreditanstaltffur Wiederaujbau (German Development Assistance)
MEN           Ministere d 'Education Nationale
MEB           Ministere de I 'Education de Base
MESSRS        Ministere des Enseignements Secondaire et Superieur, et de la Recherche
Scientifique
NGO            Non-Governmental Organization
OPEP           Organisation des Pays Exportateurs de Petrole
PE             Public Enterprise
PCU            Project Coordination Unit
Bureau des Projets Education. BPE
SECAL          Sector Adjustment Loan
SIP            Sector Investment Progran
SPA            Special Program of Assistance
UNDP           United Nations Development Progranune
USAID          United States Agency for International Development
VET            Vocational Education and Training
Fiscal Year                                                                        Academic Year
January 1- December 3 1                                                               October-June



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF MALI
EDUCATION SECTOR CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
(CR. 2054-ML)
Page no.
Table of Contents
Preface .............                                                                              iv
Evaluation Summary ..............v
Part I.         Project Implementation Assessment
A.      Introduction ...........................................1
B.      Project Objectives ...........................................1
C.      Implementation Experience and Achievement of Objectives ................... 3
D.      Major Factors Affecting Project Implementation ................................... 6
E.      Project Sustainability ...........................................7
F.      Bank Performance ...........................................8
G.      Borrower Performance ...........................................8
H       Summary of Findings and Future Operations .......................................  9
I.      Key Lessons Leamed ...........................................9
Part II. Statistical Annexes
Table 1:  Summary of Assessment
Table 2:  Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:  Project Timetable
Table 4:  Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:  Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:  Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:  Studies Included in Project
Table 8A: Project Costs
Table 8B: Project Financing
Table 9:  Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Appendices:    A.       Mission's aide-memoire
B.      Borrower contribution to the ICR
C.      Map
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MALI
EDUCATION SECTOR CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
(CR. 2054-ML)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Mali Education Sector Consolidation
Project (ESCP), for which Credit 2054-ML (SDR 20.2 million) was approved on June 29, 1989, and made
effective on January 12, 1990. The credit was closed on December 31, 1995, following a one-year
extension of the original closing date of December 31, 1994. Cofinancing for the project was provided by
USAID, FAC, UNDP, CIDA, and the Government of Norway.
Tihe ESCP was a hybrid project, with an investment component of US$ 22.9 million equivalent and
an adjustment component of US$ 3 million equivalent. The investment component was entirely disbursed.
As for the adjustment component, the first tranche (US$ 1 million) was released upon effectiveness and
fully disbursed by February 28, 1990. The second and third tranches (each of US$1 million) were canceled
on June 30, 1994 (three years after the intended disbursement), after discussions between the Government
of Mali (GOM) and IDA indicated that the conditions for the release of these tranches were not going to be
satisfied any time in the near future.
The ICR was prepared by Sam Carlson (Task Manager, AF5PH) of the Africa Region, with the
assistance of Myrina McCullough (Operations Assistant, AF5PH) and Djamalddine Rouag (former Task
Manager, AF5PH), and reviewed by Ok Pannenborg (Chief, AF5PH), Birger Fredriksen (Chief, AF5CO),
and Emmerich Schebeck (Projects Adviser, AF5DR).
Preparation of this ICR was begun during IDA's final formal supervision mission held in April
1995 and was discussed during the ICR mission of April 1996. With the task manager located in the Mali
Resident Mission, project supervision and ICR preparation assistance continued between April and
December 1995. The report is based on material in the project files, information provided by Project
Directors Messrs. Barthelemy Togo and Daoudou Coulibaly, field visits, and discussions with officials
representing the Ministry of Basic Education (MEB), the Ministry of Secondary and Higher Education, and
of Scientific Research (MESSRS), NGOs, and Student-Parent Associations. The borrower contributed to
preparation of the ICR by providing views reflected in the mission's aide-memoire and preparing its own
evaluation of the project's preparation and implementation (see appendices); it declined to comment on the
draft ICR. Some cofinanciers contributed with comments which were incorporated into the ICR mission's
aide-m6moire, and with comments regarding the draft ICR.






MALI
EDUCATION SECTOR CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
(CR. 2054-ML)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    The Mali Education Sector Consolidation Project (ESCP), IDA Credit 2054-ML for SDR 20.2
million, was signed on July 19, 1989 and made effective on January 12, 1990. It was the fourth education
project financed by IDA since 1973. Earlier IDA-financed projects in the Malian education sector
addressed agricultural training, secondary science education, adult literacy and teacher training, with only
limited support for developing primary education. A hybrid project with both investment (US$ 22.9
million) and adjustment (US$ 3.0 million) components, the project's design was consistent with IDA's
Country Assistance Strategy and other IDA-financed macroeconomic and sectoral adjustment programs
being pursued at that time.
Project Objectives
2.    The adjustment and investment components were designed to complement each other. The
education adjustment component aimed to establish the global policy, financial and institutional framework
for (i) expanding primary education access and equity, (ii) improving quality and relevance at all levels of
the education system, and (iii) increasing allocative efficiency of education resources, in favor or primary
education. The investment component also focused on primary education and aimed at increasing primary
level enrollment (particularly for girls) in three of Mali's seven regions, and improving the quality of
primary education nationwide. For secondary and higher education, the investment component aimed to
develop and initiate a strategy for the restructuring of these levels, adapting output of the education system
to labor market demand. The fourth investment objective was institutional strengthening of the Ministry
of National Education (MEN) in the management of its human, financial and physical resources.
Evaluation of Project Objectives
3.    Overall, the adjustment objectives of this project were appropriate, clear and firm, albeit risky.
They sought to establish a policy environment to promote the long term development of the education sector
and improve education indicators, both quantitatively and qualitatively. However, the objectives could not
foresee the political changes on the horizon. In March 1991, the regime of Moussa Traore was overthrown
and replaced with a transition government, which was followed by a democratically-elected government in
June 1992. Education and finance ministers changed numerous times, and education ministries were
reorganized. Student groups defended their interests with such force that the Government submitted to their
demands on several occasions, directly contradicting the adjustment program. Eventually the second and
third tranches of the adjustment component were canceled. Nonetheless, the adjustment objectives of this
project remained those of subsequent IDA-financed operations, and their validity has been demonstrated
over the course of the last two years (1994-96). As for the investment objectives, they were clear, realistic
and important for the development of the education sector and IDA's Country Assistance Strategy. They
reflected the Government of Mali's (GOM) development priorities and were appropriate given the GOM's
implementation capacity, although their inter-relationships were complex and sometimes difficult to
manage.



Implementation Experience and Results
4.     The overall project outcome is satisfactory. The "bottom line" objective of achieving a primary
level gross enrollment rate of 36 percent (including Arabic schools) by 1994 was achieved. The secondary
objective of reaching 28 percent gross enrollment for girls by 1994 was also achieved.
5.     The reform objectives of the adjustment component were not achieved (although they were
subsequently re-packaged into a free-standing education sector adjustment program, supported by IDA
Credit 2673-MLI, and satisfactorily achieved). In particular, the central issue of training and financing
sufficient numbers of primary school teachers, with resources mobilized through controls on student flows
at post-primary levels and on scholarship expenditures, was not resolved. Objectives of the investment
component were substantially achieved. New classroom construction under the civil works program far
exceeded expectations (250 percent of estimates), while rehabilitation activities were less successful, but
acceptable. Efforts to improve girls' access to primary education had only a marginal impact at best.
Qualitative objectives involving curricula reform, in-service teacher training, and monitoring and evaluation
were substantially achieved, although IDA's efforts to help the Government develop and implement a
national Textbook Policy were not successful. Attempts to restructure secondary and higher education
were partially successful - by the end of the project restructuring plans had been agreed to with IDA, but
actual trends during the project's execution were contrary to project objectives (e.g. expansion of higher
education rather than control, and increased scholarship expenditures rather than fewer). Institutional
development objectives were not achieved: frequent changes in ministers and in the sector's institutional
organization resulted in a lack of leadership and confusion in the roles of ministerial departments.
Project Sustainability
6.     Overall sustainability of project outcomes is likely, given the GOM's commitment demonstrated
over the last two years to developing primary education, the improved policy environment (linked to the
successful completion of the follow-on education sector adjustment program), the strong social demand for
education, and the Education Sector Investment Program (SIP) under preparation, which will continue and
expand activities of the project under review.
7.     To ensure that civil works executed under the project are maintained, the GOM has tripled its
budgeted resources for classroom maintenance and rehabilitation. With respect to qualitative aspects of
the project, the National Pedagogic Institute's institutional capacity has been sufficiently strengthened in
curriculum development, teacher training, and monitoring and evaluation to sustain project activities (if not
project outcomes), and the supply of textbooks should now be assured by the use of per student educational
material financing norms for each level. For secondary vocational education and training (VET), the
restructuring plan was incorporated into the VET Consolidation Project (IDA Credit 2828-MLI), and the
higher education restructuring plan will be incorporated into the Education SIP, so these project outcomes
should be sustained. Sustainability appears least likely for the institutional strengthening component.
Actual Costs
8.    IDA financing totaled US$ 24.8 million equivalent (US$ 1 million quick-disbursing and US$ 23.8
million investment). Cofinancing for the project was provided by USAID (US$ 20.8 million), FAC (US$ 3
million), UNDP (US$ 0.5 million), CIDA (US$ 1.1 million), and the Government of Norway (US$ 3
million). This corresponds closely to initial estimates, with the exception of USAID, which significantly
increased its financing above original estimates of US$ 7.6 million. Financing arrangements and
implementation timetables roughly followed initial estimates, although with about a year's delay.



iW 
IDA and Borrower Performance
9.     IDA performance was satisfactory. Project identification, preparation. and appraisal were
thorough and explicit, involving extensive dialogue with Government. The weakness at this stage was the
complexity of project design and IDA's lack of insistence on a wider public debate regarding the proposed
education reforms. IDA supervision can be evaluated as globally satisfactorN, although beset by frequent
changes in task managers. Furthermore, IDA supervision missions might have benefited from greater
open-mindedness and willingness to listen attentively and responsively to borrower concerns - this might
have enhanced the education ministry's readiness to address resoumcc maniagement issues and deficiencies
with IDA's assistance, and facilitated an agreement regarding a national Textbook Policy.
10.    Borrower performance was satisfactory concerning thc inJestni,int component but deficient with
respect to the adjustment component. During preparation of the acliustment component, the borrower
insufficiently prepared key interest groups and the population at large fOr thc reforms, and during
implementation deficient borrower performance led to the cancellat!on oi thu second and third tranches. It
is debatable whether this was within or beyond the Govemnmcnt's euitrol. given the delicate political
situation after the change in regime in 1991. Clearly, this was bcyond thc inmplementing agency's control.
Summary of Findings and Key Lessons Learned
11.    The key lessons learned from this project revolve primarii\ around political and project design
issues, and might be of value particularly in preparing ncw, project, in the education sector.
-  So-called "hybrid projects" are difficult to implemcnt. Rcather thani attempting adjustment and
investment simultaneously, a sequential approach (adjustmunt i;rst, imvestment second) may be more
effective.
-  Politically difficult education reform programs whichi are ,lot tupporlcd by sufficient financing are
unlikely to succeed, as the short-term costs of refonn appear greatei thani the short-term benefits.
Adequate financing (and ensuring this financing is not availabl-. through other channels) is important to
make the short-term benefits of reform greater than the costs iLeverage is sometimes required.
*  Given the sensitive political nature of education sector refomrs. a limiited number of strategic reform
measures should be defined and phased in over time. rather thla! introducing numerous controversial
measures at one time. This may require more time durinig preparation to ensure that the borrower leads
the way, demonstrating commitment and developing owncrship of thu reforms.
*  In situations of budgetary austerity it is difficult, if not imnossi-L.  diev elop primary education access
and quality without effective controls on student flows to pubh. secOndary and higher education,
especially in countries with low primary education enroiiment i atuos Siuch controls require increased
attention to alternatives, such as private education and dernand-oriven skills upgrading.
*  The primary constraint on developing primary education is recurrtnt finanicing of teacher salaries.
Therefore, the policy of recruiting and financing public school teachers solely through the civil service
should be reconsidered. New solutions should be explored whOlJi increasingly involve communities in
school management and financing. Furthermore, social demand for education tends to increase when
communities are empowered to manage schools themselves






REPUBLIC OF MALI
EDUCATION SECTOR CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
(CR. 2054-ML)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.    Introduction
1.    The Education Sector Consolidation Project (ESCP), Credit 2054-ML for SDR 20.2 million, was
signed on July 19, 1989 and made effective on January 12, 1990. It was the fourth education project
financed by IDA since 1973. Earlier IDA-financed projects in the Malian education sector addressed
agricultural training, secondary science education, adult literacy and teacher training, with only limited
support for developing primary education. A hybrid project with both investment (US$ 22.9 million) and
adjustment (US$ 3.0 million) components, the project's design was consistent with IDA's Country
Assistance Strategy and other IDA-financed macroeconomic and sectoral adjustment programs being
pursued at that time. Cofinancing for the project was provided by USAID, FAC, UNDP, CIDA, and the
Government of Norway (see Table 8B).
2.    The ESCP was conceived and designed in the context of tight fiscal austerity and a severely
underdeveloped education sector. In 1988 the per capita income in Mali was estimated at just US$ 200,
and government spending was strictly controlled under a structural adjustment program. Only 24 percent
of primary school-aged youth were enrolled in school (16 percent for girls); secondary enrollments at the
lower and upper levels were just 8 percent (4 percent for girls); and higher education enrollment was about
I percent. The quality of teaching was deteriorating, repetition rates remained extremely high, and
enrollment levels were actually falling. The mandate for the project was clear but complex.
B.    Project Objectives
1.    The Adjustment Component
3.    Under the adjustment component, three sectoral reform objectives were identified: (a) improving
primary education access and equity, by promoting community and private education, providing
incentives for increased girls' enrollment, and limiting the number of new students for upper secondary and
higher education; (b) improving educational quality and relevance, by reforning pre-service teacher
training, revising the primary education curriculum, and developing a strategy for restructuring upper
secondary and higher education (adapted to labor market demand); and (c) improving allocative efficiency
of education resources, by reallocating resources to primary education and qualitative expenditures (and
away from scholarships and secondary/higher education), increasing efficiency in the use of teaching
personnel, creating the Fonds d Appui a I 'Enseignement Fondamental (FAEF) for primary classroom
construction, developing three-year rolling education sector investment programs acceptable to IDA, and
reforming the Ministry of National Education's (MEN) procurement procedures.
4.    In general, these objectives were well-founded, given the stagnation of primary education,
increasing unemployment among higher education graduates, and the decline in educational quality system-



2
wide. With a primary level enrollment rate among the lowest in the world, it was appropriate to expect the
Government of Mali (GOM) to take all possible measures to increase the impact of its own domestic
resources on increasing the primary enrollment rate. In 1989 recurrent education expenditures were five
times greater than external education financing - it was logical to argue that externally-financed
investments would not produce the outcomes desired unless domestic recurrent education expenditures were
targeted on the same outcomes. The adjustment measures addressed the most fundamental resource
allocation distortions in the education sector and targeted the development of primary education and the
improvement of educational qualiht.
5.     However, it is clear that these objectives were very ambitious and more than a little risky. More
fundamentally, they lacked the understanding and support of MEN personnel and the population at large.
There was insufficient "ownership" of the reforms, and an absence of public dialogue to generate this
ownership. With the transition from a military to democratic government in 1991, and given the role which
students and teachers played in this change, the adjustment component was doomed. The day after the
downfall of Moussa Traore in March 1991, the new authorities signed an agreement with the students'
union which directly contradicted several of the principal reform objectives of the adjustment program,
ultimately leading to cancellation of the second and third tranches. Nonetheless, these objectives remained
those of subsequent IDA-financed operations. and their validity has been demonstrated over the course of
the last two years (1994-96)
6.     Certain adjustment measures now appear to have been poorly conceived from a technical
standpoint. For example, encouraging teachers to participate in the civil service volontary departure
program was ill-advised, when Mali needed (and still needs) all the trained teachers it can finance. Almost
1,000 teachers left the civil service between 1991 and 1993 (instead of the 340 initally foreseen), most of
them primary-level, even though a subsequent Policy Framework Paper (1991-93) specifically excluded
primary teachers from the departurc program. Secondly, the condition specifying the recruitment of teacher
trainees after upper secondary education, instead of after lower secondary, appears to have been
inappropriate - it virtually wipcd out pre-sen;xice teacher training for primary education. Faced with the
option of continuing their studies at the Grandes E'coles or enrolling in teacher training, almost all upper
secondary graduates chose the former, perfectly understandable given that the GOM was not recruiting
teachers. Those that did choose teacher training were typically not high-performers and have shown less
commitment to teaching than trainees recruited from lower secondary education.
7.     A third adjustment measure, limiting new entrants into secondary general education, was
insufficiently prepared. As a consequencec secondary technical and vocational education (VET) admissions
skyrocketed and quickly ovenvhelmed VET enrollment capacity, leading to a rapid decline in VET training
quality and purpose. Furthermore. given the increased unit cost of VET relative to general secondary
education, this policy increased total secondary education spending, contrary to the project's objective of
decreasing these expenditures.
2.     The Investment Component
8.     The investment component was organized into four program objectives: (a) increasing the supply
of, and demand for, primary education, which included (i) expanding access through classroom
construction, (ii) stimulating social demand for education, (iii) supporting private education, and (iv)
promoting female participation; (b) improving the quality and relevance of primary education, which
included (i) emphasizing basic academic disciplines through curriculum revision, (ii) improving teacher
effectiveness, (iii) improving the supply of educational materials, (iv) strengthening pedagogic supervision,
and (v) evaluating learning achievements, (c) developing and initiating a strategy for the restructuring



3
of secondary and higher education, in order to adapt the output of the education system to labor market
demand and help young graduates create their own employment opportunities; and (d) promoting a more
cost-effective use of sectoral resources, which included (i) improving statistics collection and analysis, (ii)
strengthening personnel, financial and physical resource management, and (iii) increasing efficiency and
transparency of project coordination.
9.    In general, these objectives were clear, coherent, realistic, important for the development of the
education sector and consistent with IDA's Country Assistance Strategy. They reflected the GOM's
development priorities and were appropriate given the GOM's implementation capacity, although they were
ambitious and their inter-relationships were complex and sometimes difficult to manage.
C.    Implementation Experience and Achievement of Project Objectives
10.    The overall project outcome is satisfactory. The "bottom line" objective of achieving a primary
level gross enrollment rate of 36 percent (including Arabic schools) by 1994 was achieved. The secondary
objective of reaching 28 percent gross enrollment for girls by 1994 was also achieved. Furthermore, the
project represented the expected least-cost solution to attain identified and measurable benefits.
1.     The Adjustment Component
11.    All reforms required for credit effectiveness and the release of the first tranche were satisfied in
January 1990. These included: the creation of the Fonds d Appui a I 'Enseignement Fondamental (FAEF)
for primary classroom construction; the recruitment of teacher trainers at the upper secondary level; the
closure of three teacher training institutes; a beneficiary assessment for basic education; the reduction of
scholarship expenditures; the maintenance of recurrent education spending at 25 percent of total GOM
recurrent spending; a reduction in personnel expenditures; the separation of budgetary line items for
primary education (Cycle 1) from lower secondary education (Cycle 2); and teacher participation in the
GOM's voluntary civil servant departure program. Unfortunately, only the first reform measure (creation
of the FAEF) had a positive, lasting impact, in that it unleashed a massive and successful primary
classroom and rehabilitation program (see para. 16).
12.    Some of the reforms required for the disbursement of the second and third tranches of the program
were executed, including: revision of the primary level curriculum; redeployment of teaching personnel;
rationalization of the pre-service teacher training system; development of a three-year rolling investment
program; and improvement in MEN procurement procedures. Thus, the qualitative objectives of the
adjustment program were partially achieved.
13.   Three reform measures posed particular problems:
a.    limiting the number of new students in upper secondary and higher education;
b.    reducing scholarship expenditures; and
c.    increasing primary level expenditures to 45 percent of total education spending.
14.    These three measures were closely linked. Following the change in regime in 1991, the GOM
allowed enrollment into secondary and higher education to double, re-introduced scholarships at the
secondary level, and increased the value of higher education scholarships by 75 percent. (That is, the
generous scholarship program created very strong social demand for secondary and higher education,
despite the high probability of unemployment following graduation.) The increased number of students and
increased value of scholarships caused secondary and higher education spending (particularly for



4
scholarships) to increase dramatically, so that the share of education spending for primary education
actually declined (to 34 percent in 1993). After three years of delays and extensive discussions with the
GOM, IDA decided to cancel the second and third tranches of the adjustment program. Thus, the most
important adjustment objectives for improved access and equity, and improved resource
management, were not achieved.'
2.     The Investment Program
15.    Overall, the investment component achieved most of its quantitative objectives and some of its
qualitative objectives, while falling short on its institutional development objectives.
Sub-Objective A: Improving the Supply and Demand for Primary Education
16.    This objective was substantially achieved, with the physical objectives largely surpassed. New
classroom construction was at least 250 percent of project estimates, with the construction of 516 public
and 441 community/private primary classrooms relative to the project's initial objective of 275 new public
classrooms and 60 new community/private schools. Classroom rehabilitation was below project objectives
but acceptable, with 914 classrooms rehabilitated (75 percent of estimates). Improvement of classroom
facilities to penmit double-shift teaching was just 33 percent of project estimates, although the practice of
double-shifting was expanded to more than 1,400 primary classrooms before the end of the project.
Finally, more than 40,000 tables-bancs were distributed to classrooms under the project, compared to
slightly more than 10,000 tables-bancs projected during appraisal.
17.    Institutional objectives linked to the civil works program were largely achieved, with the creation
and successful institutionalization of the FAEF for primary classroom construction and rehabilitation. The
FAEF is now used by numerous other donors, such as USAID, FAC, OPEP, the Islamic Development
Bank, and KfW (although not all donors adhere to the principle of community financial participation), and
additional regional FAEF offices have been established. An objective not achieved was improved
community maintenance of schools, linked to insufficient distribution of maintenance guides developed
under the project and inadequate training provded to the school management committees. This is
particularly important given that actual class sizes at the primary level (often more than 100 students)
largely surpass the project's architectural norms (55 students per class), such that classrooms require more
maintenance than initially foreseen.
18.    Although overall trends are positive, it is not entirely clear whether the social demand for primary
education increased as a result of this project, or whether equity in terms of girls' access to education
improved either. On the one hand, the fact that more than 400 community and private classrooms were
built and equipped (requiring community commitment to pay 100 percent of all operating costs, including
teacher salaries), suggests that the project stimulated social demand and significantly contributed to the
development of private education. On the other hand, the fact that the FAEF had to reduce the required
financial contribution from communities suggests social demand did not increase (although experience in
other Sahelian countries suggests that the requested contribution was probably unrealistically high to begin
with). What can be said is that apparent social demand for education is elastic in relation to costs to
l Cofinanciers of the adjustment component reacted differently. USAID changed its disbursement conditionality
to legislative reforms which facilitate the development of private and community education - this legislation was
passed in 1994 and USAID subsequently disbursed US$ 2.0 million. The Government of Norway, upon IDA's
recommendation, agreed to convert its US$ 2.0 million in adjustment financing to investment financing for the
construction and equipment of 139 classrooms in the underserved regions of Mopti and Kayes, completed in 1995.



5
communities and parents. As for girls' education, while girls' primary enrollment increased during project
implementation, it increased as much in regions not targeted by the project as in those included.
Furthermore, boys' enrollment increased almost as fast as girls', so that the gap between boys' and girls'
enrollment changed only slightly (whereas in 1990, 64 percent of primary enrollment was made up of boys,
in 1995 this figure was 61 percent).
Sub-Objective B: Improving the Performance and Relevance of Primary
Education
19.    Project activities were successfully implemented for the most part, but it is difficult to measure
whether the objective of improving quality was achieved. The primary level curriculum was revised based
on "operational pedagogic objectives", increasing the focus on basic disciplines while reducing the number
of class-time hours per week. 3,000 teachers were re-trained to apply this revised curriculum (90 percent
of project objectives), although the "cascade system" of training from the center to the region to the schools
did not always function effectively. The revised curriculum was distributed to every school, but not to
every teacher (as had been foreseen). Pedagogical supervisors were trained and an important monitoring
and evaluation capacity was strengthened. Unfortunately, dissemination of the results of evaluation
activities is very slow, so it is impossible at this time to demonstrate an improvement in learning outcomes.
In addition, evaluation information is only supplied at the national level, not at regional or school levels. At
this time it is not clear whether these project outcomes will be maintained, as the GOM recently proposed a
major reform of primary education (la Nouvelle Ecole Fondamentale) which, if implemented, will require
a complete overhaul of the curriculum (introducing national language instruction), re-training of all
teachers, development of new textbooks and educational materials, and reforms in pedagogical supervision.
20.    Although a nearly complete set of primary level textbooks for language, math and science were
developed by the National Pedagogic Insititute under the project, the supply and distribution of textbooks
was not improved in a sustainable way, and the project's objective of one textbook in each subject for every
three students was not achieved. About 450,000 textbooks were distributed, along with over 2,500
pedagogical kits, through ad hoc project financing. Despite repeated efforts by the MEN and IDA to define
a textbook policy acceptable to both parties, no such policy was officially adopted and implemented
(although a draft textbook policy was recently submitted by the Ministry of Basic Education for the
Government's approval). This was a significant failure of the project, which prevented greater IDA-
financing of textbooks and improvements in educational quality.
Sub-Objective C: Developing and Lnitiating a Strategy for the Restructuring of
Secondarv and Higher Education
21.   This objective was partially achieved. Strategies for the restructuring of secondary VET and
higher education were developed by the GOM, and accepted by IDA (no such strategy was developed for
secondary general education). While no strategy for either educational level was initiated under the
project, the VET Consolidation Project (IDA Credit 2828-MLI) was recently approved to implement the
agreed-upon VET strategy, and the higher education restructuring plan is being incorporated into the
Education Sector Investment Program (SIP). Unfortunately, the institutional objectives regarding the
management of secondary and higher education, particularly of scholarships, were not achieved. In part,
this was due to poor communication and coordination between the Project Coordination Unit (PCI)) and the
Ministry of Secondary and Higher Education and of Scientific Research (MESSRS).
22.    As for altematives to higher education, a line of credit for US$ 1 million equivalent for young
graduates was set up at a private bank with technical support from the ILO and UNDP. More than 1,000



6
projects were evaluated, leading to 103 loans and the creation of approximately 400 jobs (for an average of
US$ 2,500 per job created). As of March 1996 (three years after the last loans were issued) the
reimbursement rate in terms of value of loans extended stood at 73 percent, with 37 percent of loans
experiencing payment delays or in default. Compared to other small enterprise and employment creation
credit programs in Mali, this program has actually been quite successful.
Sub-Objective D: Strengthening of the MEN's institutional capacity to program and
2
manage resources
23.    Achievement of this sub-objective was minimal. In general, management remains highly centralized
and unresponsive to field-level needs. Relationships between central departments and regional education
authorities remain unclear regarding resource management decision-making and execution. As for
resource programming, the production of school mapping and basic education statistics by the Planning and
Statistics Unit (CPS) was considerably improved, but remains highly dependent on foreign technical
assistance financed by USAID. Unfortunately, there appears to be insufficient dissemination and use of
this information for planning purposes, and continued confusion in the role of the CPS relative to the PCU,
the Department for Basic Education, and the Departments for Administration and Finance (DAF) of the
MEB and the MESSRS. Personnel management improved somewhat, with the CPS identifying 687
teachers in 1994 and 1995 assigned to administrative posts who could be (and were) redeployed to
classrooms (an important reform measure under subsequent IDA Credit 2673-MLI). However, overall
personnel management improved little under the project - there remain alarming differences in personnel
information between the DAF of the MEB, the Ministry of the Civil Service, and the Ministry of Finance
and Commerce. In addition, an important study on the MEB's personnel and financial management,
financed under the project, never elicited any official response from the ministry. With respect to physical
resource management, the PCU now has an important database covering all basic education school
infrastructure (classroom type, physical condition, projected needs, etc.), but it does not appear to be used
for resource programming. Finally, at the PCU important improvements were made in procurement, but
accounting procedures remain slow and insufficiently transparent, despite considerable efforts under the
project to improve this essential activity.
D.    Major Factors Affecting the Project
24.    The assessment of major factors affecting the project must be broken down into the project's
adjustment and investment components. Regarding the adjustment component, political events in the
country played the greatest role. Reforms in the adjustment program (particularly those concerning
scholarships and admissions to secondary and higher education) were forcefully opposed by student groups
and teachers who had been instrumental in the 1991 overthrow of the military regime and who had,
subsequently, become key participants in the transition government and in the democratically-elected
government which assumed power in mid-1992. Secondly, the Government's unwillingness to implement
the hard choices required suggests a possible lack of commitment to primary education. A third factor was
the absence of clear alternatives to public secondary and higher education, which compounded the
difficulties of controlling student flows at these levels. Finally, the relatively insignificant adjustment
financing at stake in this "hybrid" project (after the first tranche disbursement in 1990 only US$ 2.0 million
in IDA financiny remained) may have led the Government to conclude that the short-term costs of reform
were greater than the projected benefits.
2 Note that in 1993 the Ministry of National Education (MEN) was partitioned into the Ministry of Basic Education
(MEB) and the Ministry of Secondary and Higher Education, and of Scientific Research (MESSRS).



7
25.   As for the investment component, a major factor in project implementation was the fact that over
the course of the project there were five project directors, five World Bank task managers, and seven
ministers of education. This meant people in key positions were constantly learning about the project,
defining their priorities and work programs, and building trust and productive working relations with their
counterparts. Another problem was the lack of follow-up at the Cabinet-level to ensure that project
activities were prepared and executed by the technical departments concemed. For many project activities,
the PCU became the implementation agency by default, which created confusion and delays between the
PCU and the technical departments.
26.   The success of the quantitative objectives under the project can be linked to flexibility in the
operation of the FAEF, the 50 percent devaluation of the French West African Franc (CFAF) in January
1994, lower than estimated construction costs, and the use of AGETIPE (an IDA-financed NGO
spccializing in contract management of public sector civil works) during the last two years of project
execution for new classroom construction. The FAEF demonstrated a capacity to adapt to changing
circumstances, reducing the financial contribution from communities from 50 percent of construction costs
to 25 percent in 1992, and to 10 percent in 1994 (following the CFAF devaluation), when it became clear
that these costs surpassed community financing capabilities. In addition, the presence of a World Bank
staff member in the Mali Resident Mission to supervise the project on a continual basis from October 1992
until the project's completion contributed to meeting the project's objectives.
27.   The failure of the project's institutional objectives can be linked to repeated ministerial re-shuffling
and restructuring. The MEN was broken up into three education ministries in 1993, and then restructured
into two education ministries later that same year. With each change came new ministers, so the sustained
leadership required to strengthen the institutional capacity in resource management was not forthcoming.
Furthermore, there was a lack of initiative within the Departments of Administration and Finance of the
MEB and MESSRS to modernize and apply the extensive training financed under the project, reflecting the
general working environment of daily ad hoc crisis management rather than systemic and strategic resource
management. The dissolution of the central planning and school equipment department in 1990, and
confusion in departmental responsibilities when the Planning and Statistics Unit was created at the MEB in
1993, made the task more difficult.
E.    Project Sustainability
28.    Overall sustainability of project outcomes is likely, given the GOM's commitment to developing
primary education demonstrated in 1994 and 1995, the improved policy environment, the strong social
demand for education, and the Education Sector Investment Program (SIP) now under preparation, which
will continue and expand activities of the project.
29.    Quite obviously, the adjustment component of this project was not sustainable - it did not survive
the project itself. However, following the cancellation of the adjustment component in 1994, IDA agreed
with the Government on a two-step strategy for developing the education sector, the first step being a sector
adjustment program, supported by IDA Credit 2673-MLI. This program included almost all of the reforms
not implemented under the ESCP, and was successfully completed in April 1996. Its sustainability will be
ensured through preparation of the second step of IDA's strategy, the Education SIP. Thus, while the
adjustment reforms under the ESCP were not sustainable, they have since become so through follow-on
operations which have helped develop and strengthen Government commitment to the reform program.
30.   As for the investment component, the prospects for sustainability overall appear good. The GOM
has tripled its budgeted resources for classroom maintenance and rehabilitation to ensure that physical



8
investments under the project are sustained, although efforts to strengthen community maintenance of
classrooms must be renewed. With respect to qualitative aspects of the project, the National Pedagogical
Institute's capacity has been sufficiently strengthened in curriculum development, teacher training and
monitoring and evaluation to sustain project activities (if not project outcomes), particularly in light of the
fact that the Education SIP should further reinforce this capacity. The supply of textbooks should now be
assured (at least from a financial standpoint) by the GOM's adoption of per student financing norms for
each educational level - for each primary student the GOM now budgets the equivalent to US$ 5 per year,
more than enough to provide textbooks for all students. For secondary VET, the restructuring plan has
already been incorporated into the Vocational Education and Training Consolidation Project (IDA Credit
2828-MLI), and the higher education restructuring plan will be incorporated into the Education SIP, so
project outcomes for these two sub-sectors should be sustained. Sustainability appears least likely for the
institutional strengthening component of the project.
F.    IDA Performance
31.   IDA's performance was satisfactory. Project identification, preparation and appraisal were
thorough and explicit, consistent with the GOM's development priorities. Many of the risks were foreseen
and planned for. There was extensive dialogue with Government regarding both the adjustment and
investment components. The weakness at this stage was the complexity of the project, and IDA's lack of
insistence on a wider public debate regarding the education reform program proposed.
32.   IDA supervision can be evaluated as globally satisfactory, although beset by frequent changes in
task managers. More specifically, supervision was adequate between 1990-91, deficient in 1992, and
highly satisfactory between 1993-95. This last period corresponded to a decision by IDA to change the
task manager in Washington and place an education specialist in the Mali Resident Mission to supervise
this project on a continual basis. IDA supervision was negatively affected by the fact that Mali was in a
state of flux from the very start of project implementation, which included the coup d 'etat, the transitional
government, elections, an inexperienced democratic government, and frequent ministerial re-shufflings.
Throughout these events IDA tried to maintain continuity, keeping each new government informed and
abreast of project activities (for example, the Journees de Reflxion held in early 1993 between the new
democratic government and senior IDA managers from AF5), while exercising firmness with respect to
execution of the adjustment program. That said, IDA supervision missions might have benefited from
greater open-mindedness and willingness to listen attentively and responsively to borrower concerns - this
might have enhanced the Government's readiness to address resource management issues and deficiencies
with IDA's assistance, and might have facilitated an agreement regarding a National Textbook Policy.
G.    Borrower Performance
33.    The borrower's performance was deficient with respect to the adjustment component and
satisfactory in regards to the investment component. During preparation of the adjustment component, the
borrower insufficiently prepared key stakeholders and the population at large for the reforms. As for
implementation, borrower performance was clearly deficient, leading to cancellation of the second and third
tranches. Whether this was within or beyond the Government's control is debatable, given the delicate
political situation after the change in regime in 1991. This ICR argues that the Government could have
done more to encourage a public debate of the education reforms included in the adjustment program,
laying out the options and consequences of implementing the program versus abandoning it. This might
have helped the Government to go beyond direct negotiations with student and teacher groups, allowing the
democratic process to build support for reforms designed to benefit the majority of Malian youth and



9
parents. Apparently, the Government felt that the reforms threatened the democratic process itself, and
that this process must take precedence over developing primary education.
34.    On the other hand, the investment component was satisfactorily implemented, although supervision
by the borrower was weak. Almost all planned civil works were completed (with the construction of three
times the initially planned number of classrooms). Unfortunately, the borrower never established the
Comite de Suivi (composed of all technical departments in charge of project execution and the PCU) nor
the Comission Interministerielle, which were supposed to monitor the project, identify and resolve
implementation bottlenecks. Given all the changes in project directors and ministers of education, such
monitoring structures could have overcome delays and confusion in project implementation. This was
particularly apparent following the creation of three, and then two, ministries of education in 1993, after
which the PCU experienced difficulty pursuing project objectives concerning secondary and higher
education, given that it was located at the Ministry of Basic Education.
H.    Summary of Findings and Future Operations
Assessment of Outcome
35.    For the project overall, the project outcome is satisfactory. The outcome for the investment
component of the project is satisfactory, and all funds were disbursed. For reasons discussed in the
previous sections, the outcome for the adjustment component is unsatisfactory.
Future Operations
36.    To ensure the project's future operation, the Government has made firm commitments with respect
to financing of teaching personnel, educational materials, classroom maintenance and double-shift teaching,
so fundamental project outcomes should be maintained. Key indicators for monitoring and evaluating
future operations should be the primary enrollment rate (overall, and specifically for girls), the completion
rate for each educational level, the share of the education budget allocated to primary education, the
number of new primary teachers trained and hired, the extent of community participation, and the success
of graduates entering the labor market. Following this project, IDA supported additional reforms under the
Education Sector Adjustment Program (IDA Credit 2673-MLI, for US$ 50 million, with Japanese, Dutch
and Belgian co-financing for an additional US$ 1 10 million), approved in January 1995. Implementation
of the first series of reforms led to the first tranche release in March 1995, with the second tranche released
in April 1996, behind schedule but executed nonetheless. Secondly, the Vocational Education and Training
Consolidation Project (IDA Credit 2828-MLI, for US$ 13.4 million) was approved in March 1996, and
preparation has begun for the Education SIP, scheduled for presentation to IDA in early 1997. The
Education SIP will consolidate and build upon both the project and the Education Sector Adjustment
Program.
I.     Key Lessons Learned
37.    The following lessons, which might be of value particularly in preparing new projects in the Mali
education sector, can be drawn from the experience of the Education Sector Consolidation Project:
*  So-called "hybrid projects" are difficult to implement. Rather than attempting adjustment and
investment simultaneously, a sequential approach (adjustment first, investment second) may be more
effective.



10
*  Politically difficult education reform programs which are not supported by sufficient financing are
unlikely to succeed as the short-term costs appear greater than the short-term benefits. This is an
argument in favor of leverage and sector adjustment operations. Because education reforms typically
have long-term benefits, significant quick-disbursing financing (and ensuring this financing is not
available elsewhere) may be essential to make the short-term benefits greater than the costs.
*  Political survival will take precedence over education sector reforms, especially when these reforms
appear to threaten political stability. Therefore, a limited number of strategic objectives should be
defined and phased in over time, rather than introducing numerous controversial measures at one time.
Opposition to sector reforms from minority, but politically powerful, interest groups should be
minimized through information campaigns designed to mobilize popular opinion behind reforms (which
benefit the majority), during preparation and execution of reform programs. This may mean taking
more time during the preparation of reform programs so that the borrower leads the way,
demonstrating commitment and developing ownership.
*  To be an effective partner, IDA staff should increase their understanding of the socio-political
consequences of education reform, and be more attentive to borrower efforts to explain and prepare for
these consequences. Furthermore, IDA needs to improve its ability to explain and present the rationale
behind education reform programs in terms which are understandable by key actors in the education
sector (teachers, students, journalists, etc.), and by civil society at large.
*  Without effective controls on student flows to public secondary and higher education, and on
scholarship expenditures, it is difficult, if not impossible, to sufficiently develop primary education in
situations of budgetary austerity, particularly in countries with low primary education enrollment
levels. Such controls require increased attention to alternatives, such as private education, demand-
driven skills upgrading, and credit programs for school-leavers.
*  The primary constraint on developing primary education is recurrent financing for teacher salaries, not
investment financing for classroom construction and educational materials Therefore, the policy of
recruiting and financing public school teachers solely through the civil service should be reconsidered.
New methods of pre-service teacher training and financing should be explored, which take into account
the potential for increased community involvement in school management and financing. This could
reduce the government's fiscal burden, improve practical training activities, and increase teacher
accountability to parents and students.
* Social demand for education is linked to multiple economic, social, cultural and pedagogical factors
which are difficult to understand. However, social demand tends to increase when communities are
empowered to manage schools themselves. In particular, increasing social demand for girls' education
requires more than IEC campaigns. In view of the high social returns to girls' education, juxtaposed
by the relatively higher opportunity costs and lower perceived returns at the household level,
affirmative action for girls' education is justified and required.
* To succeed, institutional strengthening in education resource management requires a sustained
commitment from the institution itself, particularly from its managers. Efficiency, transparency, and
accountability are developed when managers insist on this. Extemally-financed efforts to address
resource management weaknesses are likely to fail without this leadership.



11
APPENDICES:
(A) Mission's Aide-Memoire
(B) Translation and Summary of Borrower's Evaluation
and Contribution to the ICR
(C) Map (IBRD 27987)



(NMl-2054)
PART IL STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives        Substantial       Partial        Negligible      Not applicable
Macro Policies                                      El              Elx                El
Sector Policies                      l             [3                Q                f
Financial Objectives                El              lxi              E                 E
Institutional Development           El              ml               El                El
Physical Objectives                                 El               El                El
Poverty Reduction                                   [        El               El
Gender Issues                                      (El               El               E
Other Social Objectives             El              IX]              E                 El
Environmental Objectives            El              El               El               El
Public Sector Management            El                               El                El
Private Sector Development                          El               0                 El
Other (specify)                     E               E                E                 E
B. Proiect Sustainabilitv              Likely                 Unlikely                  Uncertain
(,/)                     (%/)                      (5/)
lx]                      El0
Highly
C. Bank Performance                    satisfactory          Satisfactory               Deficient
(/)                     (8/)                      (1/)
Identification                      n                       lx                         E
Preparation Assistance             [El                       El                        El
Appraisal                           0                        X                         E
Supervision                         El                       X                         E
D. Borrower Performance                   Highly satisfactory  Satisfactory   Deficient
Preparation                                  El              El              El
Implementation-adjustment                    EEl                             x
Implementation-investment                     El             IX              0
Covenant Compliance                            l             x              E
Operation (if applicable)                    El
Highly                                            Highly
E. Assessmenit o OulcomC              satisfactory   Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory    unsatisfactor
1



TABLE 2:   RELATED BANK CREDITS
Credit title                       Purpose                     Year of    Status
Approval
Previous Operations:
1. Education I         (a) technical assistance to improve the        1973      Closed:
(Cr.4240-MLI)        planning capabilities of the Ministry of
US$5.5 million       Education; (b) construct and equip science                8/80
laboratories; (c) provide teacher upgrading for
science/technology blocks; (d) convert and
equip a technical training institute and a
women's technical teacher training college;
and (e) technical assistance. (OED Rep. 3848).
2. Education 11        (a) improve science instruction at secondary   1977       Closed
(Cr.733-MLI)         level; (b) improve primary education by                   6/83
renovating a Primary Teacher Training
US$10 million        College; (c) construct or renovate three
agricultural technician centers; (d) construct a
National Management Institute; (e) provide
facilities for functional literacy staff ; (f)
develop, implement, and evaluate new
educational programs. (OED Rep. 6481)
3. Education III        (a) Strengthen the institutional capacity of the  1984   Closed
(Cr. 1442-MLI)       Ministry of Education in the areas of                     6/89
educational planning and cost analysis as well
US$9.5 million       as in administration of technical and vocational
education; (b) improve the quality of basic
education; (c) improve access to basic
education for children and adults (particularly
womeni and young farmers); and (d) improve
the skills of agricultural extension workers and
livestock technicians. (MIS, Form 590)
Foliowing Operations:
1. Education Sector    Provide critical balance of payment support in  1995    Tranche 1
Adjustment Project   conjunction with the promotion of the structural          disb.
(Cr. 2673-MLI)       reforms urgently needed to improve the                    3/95;
SDR 34.3 million     rcssourcc allocation, performance and                   Tranche 2
organization of the education system.                     disb.
4/2/96
2. Vocational and Ed-   Restructure and consolidate vocational training  1996    Signed
ucational Traininig   and techniiical education, both formal and non-      3/26/96;
Consolidation      formal                                                  Cond. of
effec. in
process
3. Educ. Sec. Inv.      Expand access to primary education and        1997    IEPS
Program (EDSIP)    improve quality of all educational levels.               11/95
Source: Bank SARs, MIS Form 590s and Lending TT
2



TABLE 3. PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in Project Cycle             Date Planned               Date Actual/
Latest Estimate
Identification                     December 10, 1986          December 10, 1986
(Executive Project Summary)
Preparation                                                   March 1987- Jan. 1989
Appraisal                          July 1988                  July 1988
Negotiations                       April 1989                 April 24-28, 1989
Letter of Education Policy         April 28, 1989             April 28, 1989
Board Presentation                 June 29, 1989              June 29, 1989
Signing                            July 19, 1989              July 19, 1989
Effectiveness                      October 17, 1989           January 12, 1990
First Tranche Release              January 12, 1990           January 12, 1990
(if applicable)
Mid-term Review
(if applicable)
Second Tranche Release             end November 1990          canceled 6/30/94
Third Tranche Release              end November 1991          canceled 6/30/94
Project Completioni                December 31, 1994          December 31, 1995
Loan Closiig                       June 1995                  June 7, 1996
Sources: Bank IEPS, FEPS. SAR, Supervision reports.
3



TABLE 4: CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS:
CUMULATIVE ESTIMA1ED AND ACTUAL
(IN US$ THOUSAND) *
Calendar Year        1990         1991        1992        1993        1994        1995
Appraisal Estinate         3.600      10.000      16.800      21.100      22.600      22.900
Actual                     2.530       4.870      10.100      14.650      17.360      22.000
Actual as %  of             70%         49%         60%         69%         77%         96%
estimate
Date of
rmal disbursement                                                                   05/30/96
Source: MIS Portfolio Report PFDBR22 / QUERY-disbursements
4



TABLE 5:   KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Key Implementation Indicators           Estimated*               Actual**
1. Supply and demand for Primary Education
a) Extension of double shift system
Commune of Bamako                         07/89-06/92  12/95: 25% of all 1st and 2nd
Commune of S6gou                          07/90-06/93  grades nationwide; 18% of all 3rd
Commune of Sikasso                        07/91-06/94  grades nationwide, for a total of
b) Construction of classr-oomis                           1,407 double-shifting classrooms.
Commune of Bamako                         07/89-06/92  1/95: 298
Conmmunie of Se,,ou                       07/90-06/93  1/95: 182
Commune of Sikasso                        07/91-06/94  1/95: 189
Rehabilitation of classrooms                           1/95: 75% of estimated number
Volunteers                                02/89-12/92
Twinning arrangements                     07/89-12/92  no mention
c) Social demand and private educ.         through 08/94  12/95: 288 private classes built
using AGETIPE
d) Female participation                          ongoing
National Girl's Education Seminar                      USAID and IDA
Ministerial decree of awards to girls                  10/94
since 7/93 and ongoing
2. Quality and Relevance of Primary Education
a) National Pedagogical Institute                 ongoing  ongoing
b) Monitorinig and Evaluation                     ongoing  1993/94, but results
insufficiently disseminated and
c) Teacher [raining                                        used for decision-making
Remodeliing of IPEG. Bamako                     09/90  not done.
In-service Lraininig                     9/90 ongoing  91/92: 3000 teachers trained
d) Curriculiiii adaptation                     Dec. 1990  Done, but to be revised under
new Govt proposal to integrate
national languages into the
curriculum
e) Textbooks and Pedagogical Material
Storage rehabilitation                          09/90  9/95: completed
Renovation of Printing Equip.                   09/90  12/95: completed
Book purcihase                              by Dec 91  12/95: 450,000 manuals
purchased.
Printing of Guides                           5/90-7/91  2/93and 12/93
Pedagogical Materials                           06/92  12/94: done
Publishing & copyrights spec.                   12/91  93/94: done
Foreign Training
f) Pedagogical Support & Control            through 06/90  12/95: failed procurement of
mobylettes
5



TABLE 5:  KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION (CONTINUED)
3. Cost effective use of resources.
a) Educational planning                          ongoing  1993:Stat. & Plan.Unit created,
but still weak, with confusion
of mandate with BPE, DAF,
and DNEF.
b) Finanicial & personnel management
Renovation of existing facilities               08/90  12/91:done
Twinning arrangements                         ongoing  Ineffective; never fully
operationalized
c) Physical Resource management
Renovationi o( existing f;acilities             08/90  12/91:done
Trainiiin                                       12/89  12/94: done
T.A.                                            12/92  12/94: done
Twinnin iig aLrrangements (IREDU)             ongoing  Not sustained, ineffective
d) Managemiienit of basic education
Equipment at Regional/Central                   12/91  12/93: computers redeployed
by MEB for other uses
e) Project Coordination
Renovation of existing facilities          12/89-12/90  12/95: done
Equipment/Vehicles                            ongoing  done
Administrator                                 ongoing  ongoing
Short-term'11 specialists                     ongoing  done
Foreign traininig                           9/93-6/94  6/94 :done
Incremental operatiing costs                  ongoing  12/31/95:Terminated:
4.  Strategy for Secondary/Higher Education
a) University Library                           ongoing  6/93: Architectural design for 3
libraries completed but IDA
refused financing pending
higher ed. restructuring plan
b) Strengthening Directorates                   ongoing  Linked to agreement on higher
education restructuring plan
c) Pre-investinent studies                      ongoing  Completed for Higher Ed. and
VET. Partially completed for
General Secondary.
d) Line of clredit for young graduates          ongoing  2/93: total amout allocated for
68 loans
5. Sectoral adjustment program.               Thru June 1992  6/94: Tranches 2-3 canceled
* SAR , Annex Xl; page 1 of 14; ** ICR Mission
6



TABLE 6:   KEY INDICATORS FOR ONGOING PROJECT OPERATION
Project Impact to     Actions Being Taken         Issues Remaining         Actions Planned
be Maintained
Policy and Relorn    An Education Sector Adjust  Mass communication     Preparation of Educa-
work in the         ment Credit (2673-MLI)     campaign regarding, and   tion Sector Invest
Education Sector    was approved in 1/95.      application of, access   Program which
Tranche 1 (US$30 million)   conditions to lower and    incorporates and builds
rcleased in 3/95: Tranche 2   upper secondary, and  upon sector reforms
(US$ 20 million) released    higher, education;     implemented under
in 4/96.                  Maintain acceptable       project and Credit
primary education budget;  2673-MLI.
negotiate new teacher
recruitment and financing
schemes with
communities and unions.
Educational         Govt tripled its own       Continued Govt.          Preparation of EDSIP,
investments:        expeniditures in 1996      financing and improved    including IDA
textbooks.          (relative to 1994) on      distribution of educational  financing of incremental
construction,       educational materials and  materials; classroom     recurrent costs related
teacher training,   classroom maintenance to    maintenance; training and  to new teacher
pedagogical         sustain qualitative and    recruitment of 1000s of    recruitment;
supervision         quantitative impact of     new teachers; new plan
project.                   under NEF for            Increased Gov't
pedagogical supervision    comnmitment to
through Pedagogical      financing of incremental
throupport Ceted iCAP)    recurrent costs related
Support Centers (CAP)    to new teacher
recruitment.
Double-shiftine,    For school year 1995-96,    Continued extension of    30% of all primary
expanded to 25% of 1st and  double-shifting to grades   classes by 2000 should
2nd grades. 18% of 3rd     3-6; more efficient      be functioning under
grades and 10% of 4th      payment of salary        double-shift scheme.
grades.                    supplement to teachers
working double-shifts;
limitation of cohort sizes
to 55 students max.
Female              Application of ministerial    Full implementation of  Female-training
participation       'circulaire" recommending   national action plan and    specialist hired under
50-50 recruitment of boys    use of affirmative action    VET project;
and girls into grade 1.    measures to offset higher   affirmative action
economic opportunity     measures to be financed
costs of girls' educ.    under EDSIP; increased
classroom construction
to reduce distances
between schools and
villages.
7



TABLE 6:  KEY INDICATORS FOR ONGOING PROJECT OPERATION (CONTINUED)
Private/Coiuminity  1 Govt. increasingly using  Redefinition of roles of    May 1996: Beneficiary
Education          external financing to      parents, communities,    Assessment--followed
establish community       NGOs, Government and    by development of new
schools (IDA, UNICEF,     external donors in       Govt. policy promoting
FAX, USAID)               financing of investment    comnmunity schools
and recurrent costs of  supported by Gov't
community schools.      financing.
Vocational         Meeting conditions of      Govt passage of          VET project Effective
Education           effectiveness for recently  Vocational Training Tax   in July 1996.
signed VET Consolidation   and revised texts
Project.                  concerning VET
Secondary and      Restructuring Plan now     Show commitment to       Govt/Civil Society
Higher Education    heing incorporated into new  quality through limitation   consultations to build
Education Sector Policy   of access; increased    support for high ed.
Framework as part of      provision of educ.      restructuring plan and
preparation of EDSIP.     materials; introduction of  associated reforms;
cost recovery and       inclusion of Univ. of
decrease of scholarship  Mali investments under
allocation in education  EDSIP.
budget.
8



TABLE 7:   STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT
Study          Purpose as originally        Status            Impact of the study
defined
1. FAEF: Manuel    Construction             Completed by          Very useful. Distributed
de Construction      guidelines for Parent    BPE/Synergie Intl.   to all "antennes." Should
Associations super-    in March 1990.       have been distributed more
vising the building of                      widely and in greater
new local schools.                          quantity.
2. Restructurationi   To prepare            Completed 1991        Study led to creation of
de I'enseignernenie  r estructuring plan for                      Natl. Directorate for
secondaire           general secondary                            Vocational and Technical
secondary VET.                              Education and preparation
of VET Consolidation
Project.
3. Study on Female   To review current      Strategy (rather than  Proposed strategy is
Participation in the   Londitionis for female   study) prepared with  implemented.
Education System     parlticipation and     help of USAID by
develop a timetable of   March 1992;
lactions to be taken.  strengthened by      Girls' enrollment in first
Bank-financed study   grade increased from 24%
on constraints to   in 1991 to 38% in 1994.
girls' education and
national seminar in
October 1994.
4. Restructuration    To identify the        Completed 12/92 by   The second Higher Ed.
de lenseignemnent t    objectives, strategy,  MUCIA (summary    Study led to development
superieur            costs and restructuring   of a series of smaller  of restructuring plan
leeds ol thie higiher  reports); a second  approved under ESAC and
educationl subsector.    study was completed  to be incorporated into ED
in 7/95.             SIP.
5. Etude sur la       Base study for        Completed, 1994       Little, as IDA opposed to
rehabilitation des   Component 3.                                 financing of H.E. libraries
bibliothteques des                                                so long as restructuring
grandes ecoles                                                    plan for H.E. not
acceptable.
6. Labor Market      Background Study for   Completed 4/94        Used as basis for policy
Demand Study         secondary VET                                discussions and preparation
project.                                    of VET project.
7. Analyse           Examinie budgetary      Completed 1993 by   Used in Gov't/IDA
fonctionnelle des    mneasures to suppolt    Konate (DAF)         discussions on Higher
de'penses publiques   restructuring toward                        Education and
d'education          greater primary educa-                      restructuring of scholarship
tion allocation                             expenditures
9



T ABLE 7:   Sr TUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT (CONTINUED)
8. Sector Study on    Analysis of results of   Completed 1993  Classroom construction
Low Cost            the innovative school                      costs reduced by about
Construction        constr-uction program.                     20%.
Techniques
10. ONMOE Study   Identitfy the needs for   ONMOE study was   Study led to Govt.
labor market services   partially carried out.  agreement to reallocate
anld develop a strategy                   20% of ONMOE's
for ONMOE to meet                         resources to Employment
those needs.                              and Training Observatory.
11. Study On        To be done by          Done by USAID       Used for redeployment of
Personnel           SODETEG in connec-  and IDA                687 non-teaching teachers
tion withi iitial work   (SODETEG)        back into classrooms.
done on hiigher educa-
tion by AfDB
12. Rapport de      IPrepar-ed by Coordi-    March 1994        Used in Government
Suivi de l'executiont  nlltiOnl Unit of BPE                    Project Completion Report
du IVe Projet
13. Manuel de       Guidelines for the     Completed by        Too near Project closing to
Procedures Admini.   computerization       EGCC in October    be of much use; will be
et Compt. du BPE    (KHRONOS) of the       1995                used for new VET project.
accounting system in
L-PE
14. Appui pour      Guideines for the      Completed by        Too near Project closing to
definir ull svstene    coniputerlazation   EGCC in October    be of use, may be used in
de gestion: Marnuels  (KHRONOS) of the     1995.               the future.
Scolaires           Textbooks Warehouse.
Source: Bank Supervision Reports: ICR mission.
10



TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS OF CREDIT
Appraisal DCA Estimate (SDR )    Actul/Latest Estimate(SDR)
Local   Foreign     Total     Local  Foreign     Total
Item                       Costs     Costs                Costs   Costs
I.Sectoral Adjust. Prog. Fund A                                                 522,617
2. Civil Works                                    5,000,000                    6,573,355
3. Furniture. off. supp, cquipmcnt                3,500,000                    3,446,346
4. Textbooks/pcdag. materials                     3,300,000                    1,906,668
5. Consultants                                    1,600,000                    1,772,739
6.Training                                         300,000                       440,785
7. Operating costs                                1,400,000                    1,363,677
8. Goods and sen'iccs                              800,000                      796,197
9. Textbooks, etc for sec/hicr cd.                2,400,000                     763,618
10 Refunding of PPF                                700,000                      301,578
11. Unallocatcd*                                  1,200,000                         0
(+ cont) TOTAL                                  20.200,000                    17,887,580
Estimates from DCA. Schcdulc i. coixccicd s-crsion showing unallocated at 1,200,000.
Actuals from OIS Disburscmciii Information (3-20-96), reflecting cancellation of second and third tranches of
adjustment componncit.
11



TABLE 8B:   PROJECT FINANCING
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)*        Actual/Latest Estimate
(IJS$M)
Source                            Local      Foreign   Total*    Local   Foreign    Total
Costs      Costs              Costs**    Costs
IDA Quick Disbtirsing              0.0         3.0       3.0                  1.0       1.0
Investmenit                   6.7        16.2      22.9                          22.9
USAID SPA                          (.0         3.0       3.0                 3.0        3.0
Investmiieiiu
1.8        1.5       3.3                          17.75
FAC Quicki Disbluisiig i.0                     1.0       1.0                            1.0
Iiivestimienit               0.1         2.6       2.7                           2.0
Norway Quick Disbursing             (.0        3.0       3.0                  1.0       1.0
lnvestiiei.it               ().          .         .0                            2.0
CIDA Quick disbi-s-ing             0.0         0.8       0.8                  1.1       1.1
UNDP Investimienit                 0.0        0(5        0.5                            .5
Govermiient Contribution           10.0        0.2       10.2      .40                  .40
Local Contribution                  2.2        2.3       4.5       1.48                1.48
Total                              20.8       35.4       56.2      1.88     18.75     54.13
*   From Presidentrs Report. ). iv. whichi shows a total co- or parallel-financing for quick disbursing
of $9.1 million; the estimate was later chaniged to $6.0 million.
**  The local co.w,s in dollarisi dlifficult to estimate retrospectively, due to first high inflation and then
to the devaluation ot J.anluarv 1994.
TABLE 9:   ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
No efforts were made at appraisal to estimate net present value (NPV) or economic rate of return
(ERR) of project. and therefore tilere is no baseline against which to compare current estimates.
Furthermore, no paranmeters wvere given at appraisal withi regard to cost-effectiveness.
[Include SAR estimates of ROR to primary education: do ROR using ONMOE and tracer info.]
12



TABLE 10:  STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS FOR MALI EDUCATION CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
DCA                          DESCRIPTION OF                       COVENANT    PRESENT    ORIGINAL        REVISED                COMMENTS
REFERENCE                          COVENANT*                             TYPE        STATUS     FULFILL-    FULFILL-
MENT DATE    MENT
DATE
Article III,        The Borrower declares its commitment to the         Managemelnt   C          Throughout                The Governmenit confirmed its
Section 3.01 (a)    objectives as set forth in Schedule 2 of this AcrLCment                      Project                   coimmitment repeatedly, though making
and, tihis end, shall carry out tlle project (willh [he                                                exr eptioni to ihe time-frame of the
exclusion of part c-3, through  I iEN xil due                                                          adiistnent Liceents.
diligence ani efficiency and iln Conlol iti wvidtk
appropriate .idministrative, finanicial & educai(onal
practices, and shall provide, promptlv as needed, the
funds, facilities & services & other resources recuLiired
for the project.
Article Ill,        The Borrower shall onlend to a bankin_ inistitutioni  Financial   C                        07/91       The Development Credit Agreement
Section 3.01 (b)    (the panricipating bank) acceptable to IDA uLnder a                                                    was amended on July 25. 1991 to
stibsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between                                                  create a second Special Account (B)
the borrower and the participating bank the proceeds                                                   managed by the BOA which increased
(in CFA) of the credit allocated to Category 7 of para.                                                the financing level from 80 to 100%.
I of Schedule I under terms which1 shall ha\'e been
approved by the association.
Article 11,        The Borrower shall cause the participating bank to  Flow and      C          Throughout   2/93         FCFA 343 million were disbursed for
Section 3.01 (c)    onlend the proceeds of the credit received pursuant to   utilization of                                78 micro-enterprises All funds were
para (b) above to selected micro-enterprises       Project                                             committed for 102 microenterprises
established by young graduates, meeting specific   Funds                                               created by young graduates (398 new
technical and financial criteria to be acceptable to IDA                                               jobs created).
at an interest rate of 12% per annum with a maturity
of 6 years including a grace period of one year.
Article 111,        For the purpose of carrying out part c-3 of the project,  Flow and  C        N/A           ?
Section 3.01 (d)    the Borrower shall: (1) establish a fund (guaranty  utilization of
fund) to be managed in accordance with the provision   Project
of the subsidiary loan agreement or any provision  Funds
thereof; (2) ensure that the proceeds of the fund shall
be used to cover losses incurred by participating bank.
Article 111,        The borrower shall exercise its rights under the    Management   C           N/A           N/A         The obligations of the BOA towards
Section 3.01 (e)    subsidiary loan agreement in such a manner as to                                                       the Caisse Autonome (CAA) under the
protect the interest of the Borrower and IDA and to                                                    subsidiary credit agreement were
accomplish the purposes of the credit and except as                                                    reviewed during the mission
IDA shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not                                                      particularly with regard to accrued
assign, amend, abrogate or waive the subsidiary loan                                                   interests due to CAA and deemed
13



DCA                           DESCRIPTION OF                         COVENANT    PRESENT    ORIGINAL          REVISED                 COMMENTS
REFERENCE                            COVENANT*                              TYPE         STATUS      FULFILL-     FULFILL-
MENT DATE    MENT
DATE
agreement or any provision thereof.                                                                        acceptable?.
Artricle Ill,        The Borrower shall ma-ke available the pr oceeds of the   Flow and   C           N/A           N,'A         The level of financino for this category
Sectinn 3.01 (ft)    credii allocated and w-ithdrawn unlllelr caecory (1I) (a)    utilizatoio  of                                V as increased fronm 50 to 75S/ by the
lf pai t 1 of Sched,,ie I ol tliis aareem.cri on . grart    Proect                                         inendnhrlt letter ol July 25  1991, and
basis to se]-cted APEs on terms and coi .Hon.         Fuds' 90 S7 bV amenrnIkLn letler ot March
_________________   .urLcQable to IDA.                                                     _9, 1994.
Article Ill,         kxcept as ilie Association shall oiherwiise agree.    Flnxv anti     C           Ong2oin                    Delays initially inculr-ecd becaure of
Section 3.02         procurement ol the goods. works and consultants       uttl                                                  por uiideistandiio of IDA
seirvices ancd the imports requirecd for the project and  Iroject                                          procurenmenti procedures.
during execution of the program and to be financed    Futtds
ot(t ot the proceeds of the Credit shall he governed by
the pruvisions of Schedule 3 of the agreement
Article Ill,         The Borrower and IDA shall, frorn time to time, and    Monitoriti    C           11/89         5/91         First annual review conducted in May
Section 3.03 (a)    in any case not later than November 30 of each year    and reporting                                         1991.
the project is being executed starting with Nov. 30,
1989, exchange views on the progress achieved in                                                           October 1993 (Mission Report)
carrying out the project, the program and the actions                                                      Ongoing discussions thereafter.
specified in Schedule 4 to the agreement.
Article Ill,         Prior to each such exchange as specified in para (a) of   Monitoring  C          Sept 30                    (i) Documents were not sent, but done
Section 3.03 (b)     this section, the Borrower shall furnish the following    and reporting         each year                   during the mission.
documentation satisfactory to IDA: *i) report on the
progress achieved in the program *ii) MEN's revised                                                        mission
3-7r. rolling program of investment & public
expenditures; *iii) MEN's draft budget for the next                                                        (iii) Public expenditures undertaken in
fiscal year.                                                                                               Sept. 1993.
Article III,         The Borrower shall ensure that any new investment in   Management   NC                                      Major investments were made in
section 3.03 (c)     the education sector, not included in the program of  and Review                                            secondary boarding facilities as a result
investment and public expenditures referred to in para                                                     of the March 1991 unrest
(b) of this section & having a value in excess of the
equivalent of one million dollars be previously                                                            A University of Mali was created, but
reviewed & agreed upon with IDA on the basis of a                                                          not opened.
financial and economic study of such investment.                                                           A study on restructuring of higher
educ. is underway.
Article III,         In order to carry out part A-3 of the project, the    Sectoral       C           3/31/90       1/1/94       Relevant texts were prepared and
14



DCA                            DESCRIPTION OF                          COVENANT    PRESENT    ORIGINAL            REVISED                 COMMENTS
REFERENCE                             COVENANT*                                TYPE        STATUS       FULFILL-      FULFILL-
MENT DATE       MENT
DATE
section 3.04         Borrower shall, with regard to the development of       Policy and                                              issued. Incentives for private schools
private educationi in its terrilory, (i) revise the current   Project                                          were built into project plan.
regulatory framework in a mainer satisfactory to       Implementa-
IDA; (ii) submit a plai of incenti\e. In order to carry   [ion
oLut Pik  A -4, the Borrowe: shall s,ibmit a study oti
female paiticipaiwi[ .io    d ii ,plement para taJ.
\rttcle 111.         In order to carnx OLI i aart A-4 of the project. ilhe  Imlciimeint     C'          3I 3           ?            A study 011 constraints on1 girls' access
secti,) n 3.05        Borrower shall sitbntit to IDA a srudiv on feiialc     lionl                                                  to educationi was completed. A
part icipation in ihe Borro, er s educatioC n systemii.  lIatioiiII seminai oni girls' educationi
includine- a   einietable of actions to be taken; (ii)                                                         k kus held in Sepiember 1994.
promptly therefore carry out the actions agreed upon
with IDA as specified in para (a) of this section on
terms & conditions saLisfactory to IDA.
Article Ill,         The Borrower shall ensure that: (i) at no time during   Implementa-   NC            1989-91       7             New criteria for access to higher
section 3.06         the first 3 schonl years of the project will the nitnllber   tion                                               education based on capacity and
of new studentis enrolled in secondary school will                                                             academic performance will be applied
exceed 2500; (ii) during that time the nutmber of new                                                          starting June 1995.
students enrolled in higher education programs,
including abroad, will not exceed 4500.
Article Ill,         The borrower shall ensure that an adequate percentage   Policy          C           1/1/1990                    The yield was very low after unrest,
section 3.07         of local development taxes in an amount of at least     Implemetita-                                            and the portion allocated to education
30% of the yield, be earmarked for the financing of    tion                                                    varies among regions. The project was
education.                                                                                                     amended to increase IDA financing.
Article IV,          The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained   Accounts or    C                                        Computerization of project account was
section 4.01 (a)     records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance   Audit                                                  started.
with sound accounting practices the operations,
resources & expenditures in respect to the departments
or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the project or any part thereof.
Article IV,          The Borrower shall: (i) have the records referred to in   Accounts or    C          6/91**        6/5/91***   All audits were done by Arthur
section 4.01 (b)     para (a) above audited in accordance with appropriate    Audit                     6/92           4/11/92       Andersen and were unqualified. Credit
auditing principles acceptable to IDA; (ii) furnish to                             6                           line for micro-enterprises' creation was
IDA, as soon as available, but not later than 6 months                             6/93          8/31/93       included only in the audit of 1994.
after the end of such audit year, a certified copy of the
audit report; (iii) furnish, at IDA's request such other                           6/94          8/18/94
15



DCA                           DESCRIPTION OF                         COVENANT    PRESENT    ORIGINAL          REVISED                 COMMENTS
REFERENCE                            COVENANT*                              TYPE         STATUS      FULFiLL-     FULFILL-
MENT DATE    MENT
DATE
information as it may reasonably request.                                       6/95          5/4/95
2/96          5/31/96...
A-: icle IV.         For all expenditures for Mhich withdraw:i.] from the  2o-!unnul1ts or    C       11/93          I /93       Dokoinentat ion for the replenishment
section 4.0 i ,)       e dii Account was n1.,d.L on the basis of SOEs, ihe  Au(lit                                               of the special (h) accouiint i- prtivided
borrower shall: (i) maintaia records of accounts                                                           by BOA to BPE lor transinission to
icfleciing such expenditures; (il) retain, until at leawi                                                  IDA.
one ycar after IDA has reccived the audit. all records;
(iii) ensure that such records and accounts are
included in the annual audit
*    Source: DCA and MIS Covenant Compliance Report
**   Fiscal Year of Project: Jan 1 - Dec. 31.
*** Taken from actual reports at BPE
16



T l BLE 11:  COMI'LIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS.
BORROWER COMPLIED WITH ALL OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS.
TABLE 12:  BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
Stage of project cvcle       Planned             Revised               Actual
Weeks      US$      Weeks      US$       Weeks       US$
To Appraisal                     N/A                            111.3      123.50
Appraisal to Board Ap-                                            38.6       80.10
proval                                                                               l
Board Approval to                                                NA
Effectiveness
Supervision            !08.5     325,500                        188.5      389.90
Completion                                                       32.4       73.16
Grand Total                                                     370.8      666.66
Source: Cust A. c;.iil'' N'l':nn "COSR51: lending and supervision"



TABLE 13:   BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
STAGE OF PROJECT CYCLE    MONTH/                    NO.OF          DAYS          SPECIALIZED   PERFORMANCE RATING                                     TYPES OF PROBLEMS
YEAR         PERSONS            IN          STAFF SKILLS
FIELD        REPRESENTED
IMPLE-       DEVELOP-
MENTA-    MENT
TION         IMPACT
STATUS         IPC
THROUGH APPRAISAL                05/86            1              4              EDC                  N/A           N/A             N/A
11/86           2              2              EDC
03/87           32                            EDC,ECN
10/87           4              26             ARC,PAN EDC F(CN
05/87           5              7              INA,ECN,ARC
02/88           4               18            ARC,E('N,EDC
APPRAISAL                        6/88             4              19             ARC,ECN,EDC          N A           N/A             N/A
THROUGH
BOARD                            02/89            3              4              ARC,ECN,EDC
APPROVAL
BOARD APPROVAL
THROUGH EFFECTIVENESS
SUPERVISIONS                      12/89           4              24             ARC,ECN,EDC          I             I               Initial summary. Signing and effectiveness on schedule.
05/90           3              23.2           ARC,ECN,EDC          2             2               5/90. Delays in action plans to support private education; Govt. not
able to get payment for first tranche of quick disbursing element.
07/90           2              2ECN,EDC                            2             2               Delays in bidding process.
05/91           3              11.20          ECN,EDC, IMP*    3                 3               11/91. Change of Govt in March 1991. Project objectives no longer
11/91           3              11.20          ECN,EDC, IMP*    3                 3               respected: (reopening of donmitories and granting of scholarships).
Suspension to be considered with new governiment (March 1992).
03/92           3              5.6            ECN,EDC              3             3               Investment element progressing well.
06/92           2              ?              ECN,EDC              3             3               10/92. New Government continues to disregard basic project
objectives as agreed upon in the original policy letter. The second
10/92           3              32.8           ECN,EDC, EDC         3             3               and third tranches of the PASED to be canceled.
02/93           3              18.4           ECN, EDC, EDC    2                 3               02/93. The project objectives rating will remain at 3 for the rest of
the project because the adjustment component was canceled. Good
06/93           1              15.20          EDC                  2             3               progress on investment element.
10/93           3              77.6           EDC, PRO, FNA    2                 3               10/93. Non-acceptance of double-shifting; non-acceptance of the
04/94           2              20             EDC, ECN             2             3               financing of private education.
02/95  2  6.4         EDC,ECN             s              s             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~02/95. The double-shift program is being accepted only with great
02/95           2              6.4            EDC, ECN             SS5hesitation. The budgeting and staff management studies discussed in
1993 have not been started.
COMPLETION
SPECIALIZATIONS: ARC = ARCHITECT, ECN=ECONOMIST, EDC=EDUCATOR, PA=PROGRAMS ASSISTANT; PRO=PROCUREMENT; FNA=FINANCIAL ANALYST
PERFORMANCE RATINGS:I =PROBLEM FREE OR MINOR PROBLEMS, 2=MODERATE PROBLEMS. 3=MAJOR PROBLEMS   WITH SOLUTION UNDERWAY, 4= MAJOR PROBLEMS WITHOUT SOL
UNDERWAY (NONE IN THIS PROGRAM).






10 mai 1996
REPUBLIQUE DU MALI
PROJET DE CONSOLIDATION DU SECTEUR DE L'EDUCATION
(Cr. 2054-MLI)
Mission du Rapport d'Achevement du Projet
AIDE-MEMOIRE
Une mission de la Banque mondiale, composee de Messrs. et Mmes. Sam Carlson (Economiste en
ressources humaines/Mission residente), Jacques Waechter (Architecte). Mynna McCullough (Specialiste
en operations). Jeanne Moulton (Specialiste en education) et Aminata Maiga Soumare (Specialiste en
planification de l'education), a sejourne a Bamako du I au 12 avril 1996. L'objet de la mission etait de
collecter les informations necessaires pour 1'elaboration du Rapport d'achevement du Projet de
consolidation du secteur de 1'education (Credit 2054-MLI, clos le 31 decembre 1995). Plus
specifiquement, la mission avait pour objectifs: (a) examiner les objectifs memes du projet, surtout par
rapport a leur pertinence au developpement du secteur; (b) analyser 1'execution du projet, et le r6le que
cette execution a joue. positivement et/ou negativement, sur la realisation des objectifs; (c) evaluer la
realisation effective des objectifs du projet, et leur perennite; (d) developper un plan operationnel pour
assurer la continuite des acquis du projet; et (e) tirer les lecons de l'experience vecue pendant la preparation
et 1'execution du projet pour informer les operations de la Banque mondiale dans l'avenir, surtout dans le
secteur de l'education. La mission tient a remercier S.E.M. Adama Samassekou, Ministre de l'education de
base. et S.E.M. Moustapha Dicko, Ministre des enseignements secondaire, supeieur et de la recherche
scientifique, ainsi que 1'ensemble des autres responsables et cadres rencontres, pour 1'excellent accueil et la
disponmbllite qui lui ont ete temoigne's.
Cet aide-memoire synthetise les discussions intervenues, et precise les actions recommandees par la
mission. Les conclusions seront confinn&es par une correspondance ulterieure de l'IDA. L'Aide-memoire
est organise dans la maniere suivante: la partie A traite du volet ajustement du credit et, la partie B, du
volet investissement. Pour chaque composante, les objectifs sont examines, surtout par rapport a leur degre
de realisation, et ensuite, les lecons de cette experience sont tirees pour les operations dans l'avenir.
Finalement, la mission a confirme que la Banque mondiale a foumi du conseil et de l'appui au
Gouvernement dans la preparation de sa contribution au Rapport d'achevement du projet.
A.     Programme d'Ajustement du Secteur de I'Education (PASED)
Objectifs
Comme indique dans la lettre de politique educative signee par le Gouvernement du Mali le 28 avril
1989, le programme d'ajustement du secteur de 1'education avait pour l'objectif principal de rentabiliser les
investissement sectoriels, a travers (a) le retablissement de l'equilibre du systeme educatif par
l'elargissement de sa base et le plafonnement du nombre de nouveaux admis au niveaux secondaire et
superieur, I'amdlioration de la qualite et de la pertinence de 1'enseignement dispense, et I'amelioration de la
gestion des ressources humaines, financieres et materielles de l'ensemble du secteur. Par ailleurs, le
programme visait a ameliorer I'aptitude des sortants a s'inserer plus rapidement et plus facilement dans le



- 2 -
marche de travail. Effectivement, ces objectifs s'inscrivaient dans le contexte plus large d'un ajustement
macro-economique et structurel visant la croissance economique.
Un total de onze (11) mesures ont ete envisages:
*      des limites sur le nombre de nouveaux admis au niveaux secondaire et superieur en termes
absolus;
*      des incitations au developpement du secteur prive et communautaire de l'education;
*      des encouragements a la scolarisation des filles;
*      des reformes dans la formation initiale des enseignants;
*      des revisions du programme du Premier Cycle;
*      I'elaboration d'une strategie de restructuration de l'enseignement secondaire et superieur;
*      des reformes structurelles dans le budget de fonctionnement du Minist&re de l'Education
Nationale (MEN). afin d'assurer qu'au moins 25 pour-cent du Budget d'etat serait
consacre a l'education, et que ces ressources seraient utilisees davantage pour favoriser le
developpement du Premier Cycle et la qualite de l'enseignement, limitant des depenses sur
lFenseignement superieur et sur les bourses;
*      l'utilisation plus rationnelle du personnel enseignant.
*      Ie'tablissement du Fonds d'Appui a l'Enseignement Fondamental (FAEF);
*      Il'aboration d'un programme triennal d'investissement glissant pour le secteur
d'education satisfaisant a la Banque mondiale et en accord avec les objectifs prioritaires du
Gouvemement,
-      des reformes dans les procedures de passation des marches du MEN.
Analyse des Objectifs
En general. Ia mission trouve que ces objectifs etaient bien fondes, etant donne la stagnation des
effectifs dans le fondamental, le ch6mage des dipl6mes, et la baisse des indicateurs de qualite a tous les
niveaux. Avec un taux de scolarisation au niveau du Premier Cycle parmi le plus bas du monde, le Mali
etait tenu a prendre toutes les mesures possibles pour augmenter l'impact de ses propres ressources sur
l'education de base. Les depenses de l'Etat dans le secteur de l'education representaient en 1989 au moins
cinq fois plus que les ressources venant de l'exterieur. Donc, il etait tout a fait logique d'argumenter que
les depenses d'investissements finances avec de l'aide exterieur n'auraient pas l'impact souhaite si les
depenses recurrentes ne visaient pas les memes objectifs, et qu'il etait necessaire de corriger les distorsions
d'allocation et d'utilisation des ressources domestiques au meme temps que les investissements
s'effectuaient. La mission est de l'avis que les mesures envisages dans le volet ajustement ciblaient les
distorsions les plus fondamentales du svsteme educatif et etalent conformes dans l'ensemble aux objectifs
du developpement de I'ducation de base et l'amelioration de la qualite de I'ducation a tous les niveaux.
Toutefols, il est claire que les objectifs etaient trop ambitieux et n'avaient l'adherence ni explicite
ni implicite des cadres du MEN et de la societe civile plus large. Les cadres Maliens ne semblaient pas
d'avoir compris toutes les reformes sur le plan technique, et les decideurs craignaient les reformes sur le
plan politique. Les reformes "n'appartenaient pas" aux Maliens et n'ont jamais ete l'objet de discussion et
de sensibilisation ouverte avec les populations. Avec le changement du regime politique en 1991, et vue le
r6le que les etudiants et les enseignants ont joue dans ce changement, le volet ajustement a ete destine a
l'echec. En effet, le lendemain de la chute du regime de Moussa Traore, les nouvelles autorites ont signe
un accord avec les etudiants qui contredisaient directement les reformes prevues dans le volet ajustement.



-3 -
Certaines mesures du volet ajustement s'averaient a ne pas etre les mieux indiques, meme evalues
strictement sur le plan technique, particulierement ceux concernant les enseignants. Par exemple,
1'encouragement aux enseignants de participer dans le programme de departs volontaire (un millier
d'enseignants sont partis) a eu comme consequence la diminution du taux de scolarisation du Premier
Cycle. Deuxiemement, la condition de recruter les enseignants a partir du baccalaureat (au lieu du DEF) a
eu comme consequence l'evacuation presque totale des enseignants en formation (vu le concours d'entrde
impose, vu l'arr& du recrutement des enseignants dans la fonction publique. et vu l'option des bacheliers a
poursuivre les etudes au niveau des Grandes Ecoles). En effet. la mission soumet qu'il etait peu realiste de
penser qu ll serait possible d'atteindre les objectifs par rapport au taux de scolarisation du Premier Cvcle
sans augmenter le nombre d'enseignants, et ces deux mesures allaient en sens oppose a cette necessite
Le mesure visant le plafonnement de nouveaux admis au niveau secondaire et la consequence
d'orienter les "non admis" ver l'enseignement technique et professionnel ne semble pas etre le mieux
indique non plus. Cette politique a rapidement deborde les capacites d'accueil de l'enseignement technique
et professionnel et a rendu impossible une formation de qualite, ce qui vidait cet enseignement de son sens
et de son efficacite.
Pour resumer. les objectifs et les reformes du volet ajustement etaient bien fondes techniquement
dans l'ensemble (avec quelques exceptions). mais leur mise en oeuvre s'averait impossible dans la situation
socio-politique que prevalait apres mars 1991
Realisations
Le programme d'ajustement du secteur de l'education a ete concu en trois tranches, prevues pour
decaissement en 1990, 1991, et 1992. Toutes les mesures prevues pour le decaissement de la premiere
tranche ont ete executes d'une maniere satisfaisante. a savoir:
-      le recrutement dans les ecoles normales suivant un concours d'entree;
la creation du Fonds d'Appul a l[Enseignement Fondamental (FAEF) a travers les textes
juridiques.
-      la fermeture de trois sur six ecoles normales;
*      une etude sur la gestion de la formation des enseignants;
*      une etude sur le point de vue des beneficiaires dans le secteur de I'education;
*      Ia reduction en depenses de bourses de 3,8 a 3.0 milliards de FCFA;
*      le budget de fonctionnement du MEN maintenu a 25% du Budget d'Etat, avec une
reduction de 9% de la part du budget MEN au personnel;
*      l'adoption des textes revisant la nomenclature budgetaire en vue de bien distinguer Cycle I
du Cycle 11, et de separer les allocations pour materiels de celles pour les bourses;
*      les departs d'enseignants dans le cadre du programme de depart volontaire de la fonction
publique;
*      la signature de la lettre de politique educative.
Les mesures prevus pour la deuxieme et la troisieme tranche du volet ajustement n'ont pas ete
executes entierement, ce qui a eu comme consequence l'annulation de ces deux tranches en 1994.
Toutefois, certains mesures ont et executes, a savoir:
*      Ia maitrise des flux d'etudiants entrant dans l'enseignement secondaire general (2488
elves admis) et dans l'enseignement supeieur (1496 admis) en 1990;
Ia rationalisation du svsteme de formation des maitres (partiellement satisfaite);



-4 -
*      la revision du programme du Premier Cycle du fondarnental;
*      le redeploiement du personnel (partiellement satisfait);
*      I'elaboration d'un programme d'investissement triennal glissant dans le secteur de
I'education pour 1991-1993:
*      Ia rationalisation des procedures de passation des marches du MEN.
Trois mesures posaient des difficultes particulheres: (a) la limitation du nombre de nouveaux admis
aux niveaux secondaire et superieur; (b) la limitation des depenses aux bourses; et (c) I'augmentation de
I'allocation budgetaire de 1'enseignement primaire a 45 pour-cent du budget education. Ces mesures
etaient etroitement lies. Apres le changement du regime politique en mars 1991, les admis au niveaux
secondaire et superieur (avec l'orientation de tous les candidats libres) ont depasse de loin les previsions. et
les depenses pour les bourses ont augmente d'une maniere spectaculaire (avec l'augmentation des effectifs
et I'accord entre le Gouvernement de transition et les etudiants de hausser le valeur des bourses de 75 pour-
cent et de reintroduire les bourses au niveau secondaire). Forcement, les depenses aux niveaux secondaire
et superieur se sont accrues, ce qui a rendu impossible l'augmentation de l'allocation budgetaire de
1'enseignement pnmaire. Apres trois ans d'attente, le non respect de ces trois mesures ont amend la Banque
mondiale d'annuler les deux demieres tranches du programme. Le Tableau I ci-dessous donne la situation
budgetaire des ministeres charges de I'education en 1993.
Tableau 1
Indicateurs Budgetaires
(Part dans le budget education, 1993)
Niveau                1988           Obiectif '93          Realise '93    Realise 96
Premier Cycle         35%            45%                   36%            43%
Second Cycle          19%            16%                   16%            16%
Secondaire            19%            15%                   28%            26%
Superieur             20%            15%                   17%            15%
Administration         7%             9%                    3%
Personnel             79%            81%                   69%            63%
Bourses               18%            6%                    17%            14%
Materiels             3%             12%                   13%            20%
Autres                0%              1%                   I %            3%
Ce tableau montre clairement que les objectifs fixes pour le premier cycle n'ont pas ete atteints, et
que les reductions esperees au niveau de l'enseignement secondaire et supen'eur n'ont pas eu lieu.
Deuxi&mement, la part des depenses consacrees aux bourses en 1993 etait presque trois fois plus que
l'objectif vis&. Par contre, l'objectif de tripler les depenses sur les materiels a ete realise.



-5 -
Lecons a Tirer
Sans une maitrise des flux d'eleves aux niveau post-primaire il est difficile, voire impossible,
d'elargir la base du pyramide scolaire dans une situation d'austerite budgetaire.
Sans des caps sur les depenses des bourses il est tres difficile de financer les investissements et les
depenses recurrentes pour amdliorer la qualite de l'enseignement. Sans une bonne qualite d'enseignement,
les sortants du systeme auront de grandes difficultes a s'inserer dans le marche de travail.
La politique de recrutement et de financement des enseignants des ecoles publiques uniquement a
travers la fonction publique devrait etre reconsideree. Des nouvelles methodes de recrutement, de
formation initiale, et de fmancement des enseignants nouveaux doivent etre explorees et testees. Ces
solutions repondraient aux besoins de respecter la stabilite macro-economique, de mettre I'accent sur la
formation pratique, et d'impliquer davantage les communautes dans la gestion et le financement.
La survie politique prendra preseance sur ['execution des reformes sectonelles, surtout quand ces
reformes menacent cette survie.
Pour diminuer l'impact politique negatif des reformes sensibles, les reformes devraient etre l'objet
de discussions transparentes avec tous les partenaires de l'ecole afin d'assurer leur adherence et leur
ex6cution. Des compagnes de communication qui sensibilisent les populations des reformes et de leur
raison d'etre devraient etre incluses comme conditions aux decaissements des programmes d'ajustement.
Le financement d'un programme ajustement politiquement difficile doit etre suffisant pour attirer
l'attention de toutes les autorites (y compris le Ministere des Finances) et de les convaincre que les
avantages pesent plus que les couits. Tant que plusieurs sources de financement de l'aide budgetaire existe,
I'incitation d'executer les reformes difficiles, incorporee dans un seul programme d'ajustement sectoriel,
nsque de ne pas etre suffisamment forte.
B.     Projet de Consolidation du Secteur de I'Education: Volet Investissement
Composante 1: Accroissement de l'offre et de la demande dans 1'enseignement primaire
Cette composante prevoyait la realisation, dans un nombre limite de regions, de differentes actions
visant a I 'accroissement de l'offre, a la stimulation de la demande, au soutien a l'enseignement prive et a
l'encouragement de l'education des filles. Concernant les aspects lids aux infrastructures, le projet visait a
etablir, au travers de la creation d'un Fonds d'appui a l'enseignement fondamental (FAEF), la mise en
place d'un processus visant a la mobilisation des differentes ressources en vue d'appuyer la realisation de
projets inities au niveau des Associations de parents d'eleves (APE).
Objectif 1: Accroissement de l'offre
Le projet visait a accroitre l'offre de l'enseignement primaire a travers la construction de 275 salles
de classes, la rehabilitation d'environ 1.235 salles de classes, la transformation de 375 salles de classes
pour permettre la double vacation.



-6 -
Realisations quantitatives
Les resultats, relativement au principes inities au travers du FAEF, sont largement positifs. La
plupart des bailleurs de fonds intervenant dans le secteur se sont rallies aux modeles et / ou aux principes
mis en place dans le cadre du Projet de consolidation du secteur de l'education. En addition aux antennes
de la Division des etudes techniques (DET) du Bureau des projets de l'6ducation (BPE) crees initialement
dans le cadre du projet. dans le district de Bamako et dans les Reglons de Segou et Sikasso, sur
financement USAID une antenne nouvelle a et implantee a Koulikoro en 1994, et dans le cadre du projet
finance par l'OPEP les antennes de Gao et Tombouctou ont ete implantees en 1995. Les resultats
satisfaisants obtenus dans le cadre du FAEF n'ont ete atteints que par une evolution sensible de certains
principes initiaux mais ont permis de retablir la confiance des APE quant a l'usage qui etait fait de leurs
cotisations ce qui a engendre un regain d'inter& pour l'ecole.
Concernant le parc des ecoles primaires, les realisations du projet sont globalement en accord avec
les objectifs retenus au moment de l'evaluation. On observe en outre un ddpassement sensible des
realisations concernant le nombre de nouvelles salles de classes construites. Ces resultats ont ete obtenus
malgre6 l'addition de divers elements defavorables: a) demarrage laborieux des operations lie a des
difficultes de mobilisation des fonds attendus des APE, b) contribution financiere du projet en
augmentation sensible pour les realisations entrepnses au travers du FAEF, c) devaluation de 50% du
FCFA, et d) periode de realisation plus longue d'une annee. Les realisations du projet, concernant le parc
des locaux de l'enseignement fondamental conduites selon les principes du FAEF s'etablissent conmie suit:
669 salles de classes' construites (au lieu de 275 prevues), 914 salles rehabilitees (au lieu de 1235
prevues), operations ameliorations du confort concernant 124 salles de classes (au lieu de 375 prevues).
Concernant le soutien a l'enseignement priv6, 74 ecoles, pour un total de 274 salles de classes ont beneficie
d'un appui du projet (construction de 24 ecoles de base au niveau des districts et de 50 ecoles
communautaires au niveau des villages).
Ces resultats positifs ont ete rendus possibles principalement par: a) une evolution favorable des
taux de changes: I US$ = 314 FCFA au moment de l'evaluation, et 505 FCFA au moment de l'achevement
du projet; b) des realisations economiques et une probable surestimation initiales des couits de la
construction; et c) des travaux realises plus rapidement en fin de projet et au travers de l'AGETIPE
concemant la realisation des ecoles communautaires. Le couit d'une salle de classe, qui etait estime a
environ US$ 14.000 (inclus imprevus et hausses de prix) au moment de l'evaluation, s'6tablit finalement au
moment de lFachevement du projet aux alentours de US$ 6.000-7.000 pour les realisations FAEF et aux
alentours de US$ 8.000 pour ce qui conceme les realisations confides a I'AGETIPE.
Mobilier: un total de 1678 sets de mobilier a ete fournis dans le cadre du projet, soit environ
45.000 table-bancs, (853 sets concemant les 943 nouvelles salles de classes realisees et 825 sets concernant
[es 914 salles rehabilitees). Les commandes relatives au mobilier ont connu des retards initiaux lid aux
procedures d'acquisition. Les difficultes de coordination a l'interieur des differentes divisions du BPE en
fin de projet, mais aussi l'existence de mobilier viable dans certaines rehabilitations expliquent les
decalages entre le nombre de kits livres par rapport aux locaux construits et rehabilites. La qualite du
mobilier, d'origine locale ou etrangere, est satisfaisante. Le mobilier realise localement, relativement lourd
mais avec des pietements bien etudies et peu agressifs pour les sols apparait le mieux adapte y compris
pour les aspects de maintenance.
I      sur ce total de 669 salles de classes, 130 concement des ecoles privees et 20 des ecoles
communautaires.



- 7 -
Materiel pedagogique: les ecoles visitees, a 1'exception de celles du secteur prive et des ecoles
communautaires realisees en fin de projet et confides a l'AGETIPE disposaient de manuels scolaires et de
kits pedagogiques livres dans le cadre du projet. Les quantites disponibles dans les ecoles visitees
apparaissent cependant insuffisantes. Les differentes remarques concernant le materiel pedagogiques sont
presentees dans les commentaires relatifs a la Composante 2 'Amelioration de Ia performance et de la
pertinence de l'enseignement primaire".
Resultats qualitatifs
Les salles de classes realisees dans le cadre du Projet de consolidation du secteur de l'education et
plus generalement dans le cadre du FAEF (au travers duquel sont maintenant utilises les fonds de la plupart
des bailleurs de fonds intervenant a propos de 1'expansion / rehabilitation du parc des ecoles
fondamentales) sont solides, economiques, dotees d'une bonne ventilation naturelle mais presentent
certaines faiblesses. Ces faiblesses ne semblent pas avoir toujours ete pleinement identifiees ou analysees
au fil du deroulement du projet en vue d'une amelioration des modeles de batiments proposes et/ou des
processus de realisation utilises.
Les realisations initiales et actuelles (tous bailleurs confondus) presentent peu d'evolution
concernant la conception et conduisent aux memes problemes potentiels ou averes. Ces problemes
concement notamment les exigences liees a la limitation des besoins en maintenance ou a I'amnelioration du
confort: (a) le svsteme des acroteres avec charpente et couverture metalliques occasionne, du fait des
dilatations differentes des materiaux, de nombreuses fissures sur les murs de pignon et engendre des
problemes d'etancheite a terme, et (b) les batiments ne sont reellement bien proteges (soleil et pluie) que sur
ume seule face (cote galerie); cette contrainte qui implique une orientation identique de tous les batiments
n'est pas (et ne peut pas) toujours etre respectee au niveau du plan de masse. Cette situation engendre une
exposition excessive des murs au soleil et va a l'encontre des objectifs recherches (notamment
l'amelioration du confort pour autoriser.la double vacation dans des conditions optimales).
La qualite des realisations a eu aussi a souffrir du manque de qualification de certaines entrepn'ses
et de certaines faiblesses concemant la supervision des chantiers. Ces faiblesses ont eu pour consequences:
(a) la mise en oeuvre impropre de certains materiaux (deterioration / desagregation rapide des dalles et
chapes notamment), (b) la non-realisation ou la realisation partielle des amenagements exterieurs
indispensables a la lutte contre l'erosion (non maitrise des eaux de toiture et de ruissellement), et (c) le non
respect des documents architecturaux avec pour consequence notammnent i) I'absence de seuil dans plus
d'un tiers des salles de classe visitees (penetration de l'eau) et ii) I'absence occasionnelle des plafonds ou
d'une ventilation correcte des combles (locaux inconfortables).
Concernant le r6le des APE et des beneficiaires, les principaux problmes a noter concernent: (a)
une hierarchisation des priorites parfois douteuse (projet le plus souvent orientes vers des operations de
constructions nouvelles plut6t que vers des operations de remise a niveau de batiments existant), (b) une
information / sensibilisation insuffisante concemant les procedures et contenus des requ&es et (c) une
sensibilisation insuffisante relativement aux responsabilites qui reviennent aux bdneficiaires en ce qui
concerne i) I'appui important qu'ils peuvent apporter durant la realisation des travaux et ii) la gestion
ulterieure de l'ecole (les amenagements complementaires visant a l'amelioration du confort ou a la
preservation du patrimoine sont rares et pas toujours bien compris, 1'entretien des arbres souvent defaillant,
les debuts de degradation des sols ne sont pas contr6les).
11 apparait a ce sujet que le guide de construction et d'entretien a l'usage des APE et des autres
intervenants dans le processus de realisation des ecoles (realise a 1000 exemplaires) semble avoir eu une
diffusion tres insuffisante. Une partie des destinataires (APE et directeurs d'ecoles) rencontres durant les



-8 -
visites sur le terrain n'en disposaient pas et semblaient meme ignorer 1'existence de ce guide, produit dans
le cadre du projet, tres bien fait et pouvant avoir un impact important durant la phase de realisation des
batiments sur la qualite des constructions et par suite sur les besoins en maintenance. Les techniciens des
antennes de la DET du BPE n'assurent en effet le plus souvent qu'une supervision ponctuelle des
operations sur le terrain (2 visites par mois du fait de l'eloignement des sites) et il est donc indispensable
que les beneficiaires. lorsque aucune supervision additionnelle n'est prevue, puissent disposer des moyens
(guide / formation adaptee) de faire un suivi quotidien sur des problemes particuliers de mise en oeuvre.
Lepons a tirer
Concemant les criteres d'intervention du FAEF, il conviendrait: (a) que 1'exigence d'envisager des
operations globales (qui ne delaissent pas la remise en etat des batiments existants au seul profit des
constructions nouvelles) soit maintenue et respectee, (b) qu'a propos des operations sur des sites ayant
deja beneficie d'un soutien du FAEF, toute operation de construction nouvelle soit conditionnee par la mise
en place prealable et le bon entretien par les beneficiaires, des amenagements complementaires
indispensables a la perennite et au confort des batiments et (c) que les procedures employees par les
differents bailleurs de fonds qui s'appuient sur le FAEF soient harmonisees. 11 conviendrait en outre que
les structures mises en places dans differentes regions a l'occasion des campagnes initiees par differents
bailleurs de fonds soient perennisees pour pouvoir repondre a d'eventuels gros travaux de reparations et
qu'un systeme de financement, qui pourrait etre base sur la TDRL soit mis en place a cet effet.
Concernant la conception des batiments, il conviendrait, sur la base du travail important et de
qualite qui a ete initie par le projet: (a) que les modeles qui presentent des faiblesses de conception
(toitures) ne soient plus reproduits, (b) que les modeles retenus soient ameliores, notamment concernant: i)
la realisation systematique de plafonds et ii) la realisation par l'entreprise des amenagements indispensables
aux abords immediats des batiments (et sur tous les cotes), et iii) le traitement adapte des surfaces des murs
contre les salissures.
Concemant le confort des locaux, il convient de noter que le confort des constructions reste
etroitement liees a la facon de les utiliser. II convient donc que les gestionnaires s'efforcent dans toute la
mesure du possible, de maintenir la taille des groupes a une soixantaine d'enfants au maxiumum. Au-dela
de ce chiffre, la pratique de la double vacation est recommandee.
Concemant la perennite / maintenance du patrimoine, il conviendrait de s'assurer que les
utilisateurs / gestionnaires des infrastructures sont sensibilises et responsabilises sur ces questions. La
necessaire formation a fournir pouvant par ailleurs utilement integrer d'autres aspects (amelioration du
confort en particulier). Cette remarque concerne aussi les ecoles privees et des ecoles communautaires dont
les infrastructures demeurent durant 15 ans la propriete de l'etat et pour la preservation desquelles le projet
ne semble pas avoir mis en place l'ensemble des moyens souhaitables (sensibilisation, formation, guide,
fiches techniques etc.).
Concemant la qualite des realisations, certaines ameliorations ont deja ete introduites par le BPE
(notamment la mise a la disposition des APE de listes d'entreprise prequalifiees localement). Ces
ameliorations pourraient utilement etre completees par la mis en place de moyens propres a assurer une
supervision plus soutenue des chantiers notamment par: i) une programmation adaptee des interventions, ii)
la delegation de certaines responsabilites aux APE / Comites de gestion et iii) la delocalisation, au plus pres
des operations, des activites de suivi et de supervision et le recours dans ce cadre aux services ponctuels
pouvant etre offerts par le secteur prive.



- 9 -
Objectif 2:    la stimulation de la demande pour ['enseignement primaire en
milieu rural
Le projet visait a stimuler la demande pour l'enseignement prumaire en milieu rural en s'adressant
a deux contraintes pnncipales: les couits de l'education associes avec les distances entre les ecoles et les
villages. et la perception parfois peu favorable des benefices de 1'enseignement pnmaire. Le financement
du FAEF devrait mobiliser davantage les ressources des communaut6s pour la construction d'ecoles plus
proches des villages. et le FAEF devrait collaborer avec les ONGs en assurant de l'eau potable, des
cantines scolaires et des campagnes mediatiques encourageant les parents d'inscrire leurs enfants a 1 ecole.
Par ailleurs. Ia revision du programme scolaire (voir composante 2) devrait contribuer a cet effort.
Realisations
11 n'est pas evident que le projet ait reussi a augmenter la demande pour l'enseignement primaire
dans les milieux ruraux. Le fait que le projet a du augmenter le niveau de financement du FAEF par
rapport a celui des communautes, au lieu du contraire, suggere que l'interet des paysans pour l'ecole nWa
pas augmente. A part quelques cas isolks, le FAEF nWa pas collabore avec les ONGs sur l'eau potable, les
cantines scolaires et des activites promotionnelles pour persuader les parents d'envoyer leurs enfants a
l'ecole.
D'un autre cote, la demande et la capacite des communautes (au milieu urbain et rural) d'etablir
les ecoles communautaires (dont les realisations depassent de loin les previsions du projet) demontrent que
la demande sociale pour l'education n'est pas negligeable, surtout quand la communaute joue un r6le
decisionnel ainsi que financier. L'experience de World Education et son reseau d'ONGs, soutenue par le
projet avec le financement d'environ une cinquantaine de salles de classes sous le volet AGETIPE, suggere
que la demande pourrait etre encouragee sensiblement avec l'appui necessaire. World Education inclut
dans ses activites le developpement des capacites de gestion scolaire au sein de l'Association des Parents
d'Eleves. et fait lVhypoth&se que l'enseignant est responsable d'abord devant les parents d'elves. Une telle
approche semble donner de bons resultats.
En fait, il apparait difficile d'apprecier la demande sociale pour l'enseignement primaire sans
entreprendre une enqu&te specifique, similaire a celle menee pendant la preparation du projet. Une telle
enquete est prevue dans le cadre de la preparation du Programme Decennal de Developpement de
l'Education (PDDE), et donnera des informations tres importantes par rapport a ce sujet. Pour l'instant, la
mission s'est limitee a la question des contributions des communautes au FAEF comme indicateur de la
demande sociale pour Feducation en milieu rural. Une discussion par rapport a cette question suit ci-
dessous.
Malgre la selection initiale des zones d'intervention du Projet a des regions relativement favoris6es
(acces. ressources) la contribution escomptees des communautes aux operations de geme civil a ete
probablement surestimee au moment de l'evaluation du projet, ce qui a freine la demande initiale et le
demarrage du projet. Cette situation a conduit rapidement a modifier le taux de la contribution du projet.
La contribution du projet passera en 1991 de 50% a 75% des couits du genie civil, autonsant ainsi un
demarrage significatif des requetes des communautes. Ce taux sera ensuite porte a 90% pour tenir compte
des effets sur les couits de la devaluation du Franc CFA de janvier 1994.
A la fin du projet, on constate que l'un des principes initiaux (Rapport du President de l'IDA,
paras. 32 et 55) concernant le processus de realisations des ecoles primaires (realisees a l'initiative des
communautes et en grande partie a partir de leurs ressources) se retrouve passablement modifie, la
contribution financiere des communautes etant devenue tres marginale. Il convient de constater en outre,



- 10 -
que cette &volition s'accentue. Les differents projets en cours dans le secteur et ayant un volet relatif a
l'expansion du parc des ecoles, ont introduit pour certains des variations sensibles par rapport aux
principes initiaux (dans le cas de financement Norvegien, BID et FAD, les infrastructures scolaires ne sont
plus toujours realisees a l'initiative des communautes, la contribution financiere des beneficialres n'est plus
toujours escomptee). A partir de ce constat, il convient de s'interroger sur les consequences et la viabilite
d'une telle evolution (implications budgetaires a terme) et aussi bien entendu d'analyser dans quelle
mesure, ce processus, dont le financement est en grande partie maitrise par l'Etat permet de regler ou de
limiter les faiblesses identifiees a propos des realisations communautaires (notammnent concemant la
perennite des constructions, I'amelioration du confort, la limitation des besoins en maintenance).
Lecons a Tirer
La demande sociale pour 1 education est lice a plusieurs facteurs, economiques, sociaux. culturels.
pedagogiques, etc., et il n'est pas toujours facile d'identifier les facteurs les plus importants. Toutefois. en
donnant aux communautes plus de responsabilite dans la gestion de l'dcole et en developpant le sens que
l'ecole appartient a la communaute (y compris lenseignant), la demande sociale augmente. Demander une
contribution financiere des communaute sans deleguer des pouvoirs et des responsabilites dans la gestion de
l'ecole n'augmentera pas la demande et risquerait meme d'entrainer sa diminution.
Objectif 3: Soutien au secteur prive
Cet objectif visait a encourager le developpement de l'enseignement prive au Mali en permettant les
ecoles catholiques et les medersas de beneficier de l'appui du FAEF, et en financant l'etablissement de 30
ecoles de base au milieu urbain et 30 ecoles de village au milieu rural. Par ailleurs, les ecoles catholiques
et les medersas devraient beneficier des appuis concernant les manuels scolaires, les autres matdriels
pedagogiques, la formation continue des enseignants et la supervision pedagogique.
Realisations
En addition aux operations realisees dans le cadre du FAEF et qui ont concerne la -ealisation de
153 salles de classes catholiques et arabiques, les realisations du projet ont integr& la realisation de 24
dcoles de base (urbaines) et de 50 ecoles de village, pour un total de 274 nouvelles salles de classes, dont le
financement a ete assurd a 100% par le projet et dont la realisation a etd confide a I'AGETIPE.
Les gestionnaires expriment en general leur satisfaction pour les locaux dont ils ont beneficie. Ils
se plaignent par contre de n'avoir pas toujours obtenu un soutien suffisant concemant: a) le materiel
pddagogique (livres en particulier pour lesquels le renouvellement des dotations initiales pose des problemes
financiers aux gestionnaires) et b) les caractdristiques des locaux (absence d'installation diectrique etlou de
connexion au reseau). Les &coles visitees en zone urbaine fonctionnent en general dans les memes
conditions que les ecoles publiques (70 a 80 eleves par classes). La double vacation n'est pas pratiquee
mais par contre certaines des ecoles visitees fonctionnent avec 2 maitres par salle de classe et semblent se
feliciter de ce systeme (les resultats scolaires obtenus sont superieurs a la moyenne des resultats des dcoles
publiques de 1'environnement ce qui engendre une forte demande de la part des populations. Des cours a
destination des adultes etaient proposes dans l'une des ecoles visitees et en preparation dans une autre. La
supervision pedagogique semble se faire correctement, ou au moins suivant les normes appliquees pour la
supervision des dcoles publiques.
Les frais scolaires pratiques ont et dtudies et etablis par les gestionnaires en fonction des capacites
financieres de l'environnement. Pour le District de Bamako. ils varient de 1.500 a 2.500F.CFA par mois
(en plus de frais d'inscnrption initiaux variant de 3.500 a 5.000 FCFA) dans les ecoles urbaines visitees.



- 11 -
Les salaires des enseignants vanent de 35 a 40000 FCFA par mois. En zones rurales, les frais
d'inscription et/ou de scolarite (500F.CFA par eleve et par an dans la region de Sikasso) ne couvrent pas le
simple salaire des maitres. Ceux-ci beneficient cependant d'un salaire identique fourni par les
communautes et de divers avantages en nature (logement, nourriture).
Les gestionnaires semblent plus soucieux des amenagements exterieurs que ceux du secteur public
mais aucune difference notable relativement a l'entretien/maintenance des infrastructures n'est apparente
dans les ecoles visitees par comparaison avec les ecoles publiques. Les debuts de degradations observes
(sols, plafonds) ne sont pas maitris6s et il est a craindre que ces ecoles ne se retrouvent rapidement avec de
grands besoins en rehabilitation.
Les differences relatives a la qualite des constructions (les realisations a destination du secteur
prive ont ete realisees par l'AGETIPE) ne sont pas apparentes entre cette filiere et les realisations du
FAEF. Le pnncipal interet de la filiere AGETIPE semble etre une rapidite d'ex6cution tres superieure et
une parfaite transparence concemant I'attribution des marches. Cette filiere n'autorise pas cependant de
facon simple l'integration d'une contribution eventuelle (en nature ou financiere) des beneficiaires. Un
probleme se pose egalement concemant la non-implication des beneficiaires durant la phase de realisation
qui supprime certaines opportunites de formation / sensibilisation / responsabilisation.
Lecons a Tirer
Si I'interet de cette filiere est evident (diminution des charges recurrentes pour I'Etat), le risque
majeur est de voir se degrader un patrimoine dont l'Etat n'a plus la maitrise mais dont il reste le
proprietaire pendant 15 ans et dont il peut etre amend a reprendre la gestion directe A terme. I1 apparait
donc indispensable pour ce type d'operation de limiter autant que faire se peut les risques de degradation.
Dans ce but. il conviendrait: (a) pour le futur, de substituer au modele d'ecole retenu celui qui presente le
moins de risques de degradations rapides, (b) d'assurer la formation / sensibilisation des gestionnaires aux
preoccupations d'amenagement et d'entretien, (c) d'assurer egalement la formation a ces questions des
personnels en charges de la supervision de ces ecoles (inspecteurs, conseillers pedagogiques notamment).
Concernant les ecoles de villages, le developpement probable de la demande et / ou de la couverture
scolaire conduira naturellement a la realisation d'ecoles dans des zones de plus en plus reculees aux
populations de plus en plus reduites et/ou diffuses. II est donc probable que le principe des classes A double
divisions sera amene a se developper sensiblement. Dans cette optique, il conviendrait d'entreprendre les
etudes architecturales en vue de la production d'un modele de salle de classe adapte a cette situation qui
autorise des solutions architecturales differentes et moims couiteuses (les faibles portees deviennent possibles
et donc un meilleur emploi des ressources locales).
Objectif 4: Encouragement a la participation des filles
Les actions conduites dans le cadre du projet visaient a (a) augmenter les taux d'inscnption des
filles au niveau du premier cycle de l'enseignement fondamental, (b) augmenter les taux de promotion et de
retention, (c) ameliorer la qualite de l'enseignement pour les filles et (d) ameliorer la participation feminine
du corps enseignant au niveau du I er cycle.
Realisations
Des campagnes utilisant differents medias (affiches, cassettes audio et video, radio, clip T.V.)
accompagnees de competitions scolaires et de recompenses ont ad initiees grace au projet, d'abord dans les
zones de Bamako, Sikasso, Segou et Koulikoro puis, a partir de 1995 elargies a 1'ensemble du Pays. Des



- 12 -
structures de sensibilisation ont ete etablies au niveau des Directions regionales et des IEF. L'economie
familiale a ete introduite dans le programme officiel du ler cycle. comme elle a et sollicitee par beaucoup
de parents et de filles. A partir 1993 une note de service de la DNEF invite les responsables des
inscriptions scolaires au niveau fondamental a proceder a des inscriptions equilibrees entre les garqons et
les filles. Cette demiere mesure ainsi que l'organisation de competitions scolaires sont considdr6es comme
celles avant eu le meilleur impact.
Le projet ne semble pas d'avoir eu un impact sur la participation feminine au corps enseignant au
niveau du ler cycle. En 1990-91 les femmes representaient 23 pour-cent du corps enseignant au niveau du
ter cycle; en 1994-95 elles en representaient 24 pour-cent.
Les resultats des differentes actions conduites durant le Projet restent cependant delicats a analyser.
L'accroissement de la scolarisation des filles dans les regions du projet s'est accompagne d'un
accroissement simultane de la scolarisation des garcons. A l'exception de la region de Bamako, les ecarts
entre les taux de scolarisation des filles et des garcons nront pas et reduits mais se sont legerement
amplifies. Au niveau national, le taux de redoublement des filles entre 1990-1995 n'a pas change, restant
toujours a 28 pour-cent. et les taux de redoublement des filles dans les regions pnncipales d'intervention
pour cette activite (Bamako. Segou et Sikasso) n ont pas change non plus pendant cette periode. Ces
donnees restent a comparer avec les observations pouvant etre conduites a-propos des autres regions du
pays pour pouvoir apprecier le veritable impact des operations entrepnses.
Une etude sur les contraintes a la scolarisation des filles au Mali" a ete produite en 1994, sans
possibilites de pouvoir etre reellement exploitee a lloccasion des de la definition et de la conduite des
operations de sensibilisation qui ont e  menees prealablement. Une seconde etude, financee par l'USAID
est en cours et concerne 1'evaluation des activites de sensibilisation.
Les activites prevues par le projet en vue de la rehabilitation legere d'un centre de formation
professionnel feminin dont les caracteristiques restaient a definir ont ete delaissees en cours de projet. Cette
sous composante n a connu aucun debut de mise en oeuvre
Lesons a Tirer
La politique consistant a recruter autant de filles que de garcons en premiere annee devrait etre
maintenue. voire renforcee.
Les campagnes de promotion et de sensibilisation ne seront jamais suffisantes pour equilibrer la
scolarisation des filles avec celle des garqons. Pour faire mieux comprendre aux parents la necessite qu'il y
a d'envoyer leurs filles a I'ecole, les decideurs doivent prendre conscience des couts et avantages que
represente l'education pour les parents. Par rapport aux couts, il est important de prendre en compte le fait
que les couits d'opportunite lies a l'envoi d'une fille a l'ecole sont generalement superieur a ceux lies a
1'envoi d'un garcon (a cause du travail perdu parce que l'enfant n'est plus a la maison pour aider aux
taches menageres, chercher l'eau et le bois, s'occuper des petits freres et soeurs, preparer les repas, etc.).
Quant aux avantages, les filles scolarises souvent n'apportent pas des benefices a la famille, parce que les
filles se marient et quiitte Lu mnenage. tut leurs rev, nus b6neficient plus la famille du mari. En effet, les
principaux b6neficiaires de la scolarisation des tltes seront probablement leurs futurs enfants, et donc, pour
beaucoup de parents la rentabilite de la scolarisation des filles est incertaine et eloignee. Pour resumer,
avec les coats d'opportunites plus eleves et les avantages moms certaines pour les parents, la scolarisation
des filles a besoin d'etre appuyee par des mesures de discrimmation positive. Ces mesures comprendraient
l'abaissement des coats de scolansation des filles (e.g. suppression des frais d'inscription) et des incitations
directes (telles que des bourses d'etudes. des manuels scolaires). Par exemple, un programme de promotion



- 13 -
de la scolarisation des filles pourrait prevoir la suppression des frais d'mscription pour les filles et le
transfert aux ecoles achevant une scolarisation equilibree entre les filles et les gar,ons de deux fois le
montant perdu par la suppression des frais d'inscription. Ces fonds pourraient utilis&s par 1'ecole apres
consultation avec l'APE pour les fins jugees les plus importantes.
D'autres solutions prometteuses devraient etre entreprises, telle que le recrutement davantage
d'enseignantes, les latrines separees pour les filles dans toutes les ecoles, la construction des petites ecoles
rapprochees du domicile familiale, une adaptation des rythmes scolaires aux contraintes du monde rural et
les manuels scolaires debarrasses des prejuges sexistes et presentant les femmes dans des r6les parfois non
traditionnels. De toute facon, 1'experience de ce projet demontre que des programmes beaucoup plus
ambitieux et cibles sur les filles seraient necessaires pour atteindre l'equite entre les sexes en ce qui
conceme la scolarisation au niveau primaire.
Autres Composantes: Aspects Genie civil
Les operations de rehabilitation / amenagement / constructions prevues relativement aux autres
composantes du projet ont e  partiellement realisees. Les travaux d'amenagement interessant l'IPEG de
Bamako en vue de sa conversion en centre de formation continue des enseignants n'ont pas ete realisee du
fait d'un manque de coordination entre les cofinanciers du projet. les etudes architecturales ont ete
realisees. Les travaux de renovation de l'imprimerie et d'extension des capacites centrales de stockage des
materiels pedagogiques ont ete realises. Les travaux relatifs a amenagement et a la refection des
bibliotheques des ecoles superieures (ENI, ENA, EHEP, ENSUP) n'ont pas ete realises, dans l'attente d'un
accord entre le Gouvernement et l'IDA concemant le developpement de l'enseignement superieur et de
l'existence d'options differentes concernant la solution a retenir pour le futur (bibliotheque unique ou
bibliotheques deconcentrees, reparties dans chaque Ecole superieure). Les etudes architecturales
concemant l'amrnagement des bibliotheques existantes ont ete realisees; les documents finaux n'ont pas ete
communiques a la Direction Nationale de l'Enseignement Superieur. Les bibliotheques ont beneficie d'une
assistance du FAC (dotations en livres, formations de documentalistes, informatisation et interconnexion
des differentes bibliotheques). Les travaux d'amenagement et / ou d'extension relatifs a la DAF, aux
antennes de la DET et au BPE ont ete realises.
Par rapport au BPE, le Credit 2054 a engage des fonds pour l'amelioration de l'infrastructure. En
1989 le bureau comprenait quelques pieces dans un batiment a rez-de-chaussee dans l'enceinte du
Ministere de l'Education de base. 11 a ete decide de chercher un terrain en dehors de la ville pour une
nouvelle construction. mais apres deux ans de recherche, ce projet a ete abandonne. A la suite, il a fallu
deux nouvelles annees pour la realisation des etudes et des travaux. Ces travaux sont acheves depuis
Novembre 1995, peu de temps avant la fermeture du projet.
La realisation presente de grandes faiblesses (mauvaise protection solaire, impossibilite d'assurer
une bonne ventilation naturelle, puissance electrique installee insuffisante pour faire fonctionner le systeme
de climnatisation). Les locaux sont parfois tres grands, le confort n'est pas vraiment assure. L'entretien est
rendu complique par la mise en place de chassis vitres fixe. L'equipement de bureau comprend des
ordinateurs dans la plupart des bureaux mais les imprimantes sont insuffisantes et doivent parfois etre
deplacees.
Lesons a Tirer
La faible qualite des resultats obtenus concemant les locaux de BPE apparait etre la consequence
d'un manque d'interet des differents intervenants dans le processus de realisation. Ces responsabilites
conceme bien suir en tout premier lieu le Maitre d'ouvrage qui ne peut se contenter de limiter 1'expression



- 14 -
de ses besoins a un programme de locaux mais doit presenter a son bureau d'etudes, en vue de l'analyse de
ses etudes et propositions, la liste complete des exigences architecturales liees a son projet.
Composante 2 -        L'amelioration de la Performance et de la Pertinence de I'Enseignement
Primaire
Objectifs
L'objectif principal de cette composante etait de renforcer les capacites de 1'IPN a foumir de
l'assistance pedagogique et des ressources aux ecoles au travers les Directions regionales de l'education
(DRE). En particulier. 1'IPN devait recevoir de l assistance afin de pouvoir (i) suivre et evaluer l'impact
qualitatif des activites du programme. (ii) ameliorer Fefficacite des enseignants a travers une nouvelle
methode de formation initiale et la reactivation de la formation continue, (iii) participer a I'adaptation du
curriculum du premier cycle; (iv) fournir toutes les ecoles fondamentales avec un nombre addquat de livres
bon marche et appropries et avec des foumitures pedagogiques. (v) renforcer l'appui pedagogique et la
supervision (offerts par les conseillers pedagogiques).
Evaluation des objectifs
L'une de nos taches etait de r6fl6chir sur la pertinence meme de l'objectif visant a ameliorer la
performance et l'adaptation de 1'enseignement primaire.
D'un point de vue logique et theorique, I'amelioration de la qualite de l'education (sa performance et
adaptation) doit recevoir autant d'attention--sinon plus--que les autres objectifs y compns ['acces, I'equite,
et la gestion rigoureuse. Pourquoi accroitre l'acces quand les enfants n'apprennent pas ce qui est adapte a
leur vie et leur avenir? Pourquoi se preoccuper d'une offre equitable d'une education de moindre qualite?
Comment peut on rendre un systeme d'education plus rigoureux quand les enfant apprennent si peu?
Pour la part de ce projet, l'objectif qui visait a ameliorer tout ceci est un objectif important.
D'un point de vue pratique, l'objectif etait pertinent dans la mesure ou beaucoup a ete realise. Comme
nous en avons discute, les insuffisances demeurent dans la qualite de l'instruction et il serait prematre que
de conclure que le projet a reussi en ce qui concerne la performance des eleves. Pour ce qui est de
l'amelioration de la qualite, on peut mrime dire qu'elle a ete remarquable.
Le calendrier de mise en oeuvre etait bien adapte. II correspondait aux preoccupations du
gouvernement concernant la dterioration de la scolarisation durants les annees 80. En plus--un phenomene
qui ne pouvait pas etre prevu--le nouveau gouvernement installe en 1991 a soutenu les objectifs projet.
Nous pourrons conclure de cette evaluation rapide que l'amelioration de la qualite des ecoles a attire
davantage d'eleves y compris les filles, ce qui a contribuea  la realisation des objectif d'acces et d'&quite.
Cependant, nous avons aussi remarque que l'objectif quantitatif est alle a l'encontre de l'objectif
qualitatifs dans les ecoles pratiquant la double vacation et la double division.
En resume l'objectif d'amelioration de qualite de l'education est indispensable a l'amrlioration globale
du systeme educatif. 11 ne devrait en aucun cas etre relegue au second plan.
Realisations
A quel degre ces objectifs ont-ils ete atteints et quels ont ete les resultats?



- 15 -
Impact positif
La contribution du Projet de la consolidation du secteur education a l'amelioration de la qualite de
l'education fondamentale au Mali a ete tres significative. Grace a l'assistance du projet, le systeme du
premier cycle a maintenant:
* Un curriculum base sur les objectifs pedagogiques, faciles a utiliser par les enseignants
* Un plus grand nombre d'enseignants bien formes dans les salles de classes (grace au recyclage)
* Une promulgation de methodes efficace d'enseignement (langage par le dialogue, enseignement en
grands groupes, utilisation des objectifs d'enseignement)
* Davantage de manuels scolaires et de materiels pedagogiques correspondant au curriculum et aux
methodes d'enseignement
* Davantage de conseillers pedagogiques mieux formes
* Une cellule importante ayant des capacites de suivi et de promotion des methodes ameliorees a travers le
systeme d'education.
En resume, des ameliorations ont et realisees dans presque tous les domaimes du systeme educatif.
Failles du systeme
Malgre cette reussite, il reste des failles. Certaines sont dues tout simplement aux contraintes de
ressources ou au manque de temps pour apporter tous les ressources prevues. Tous les enseignants, meme
des regions visees, ne sont pas encore formes. Le nombre de livres et le materiel pedagogique ne suffit
toujours pas, et une serie complete de manuels correspondant au nouveau curriculum n'est pas encore
disponible.
Puisque certaines etudes et certaines politiques definies au debut du projet n'ont pas ete entreprises,
le programme d'education ne fonctionne pas a pleine capacite. II y a, au sein de l'IPN, des poches de
capacites renforcees--telles que le suivi, la formation continue, et l'evaluation--mais en meme temps il y a
aussi des faiblesses importantes dans certaines fonctions cles telles que la politique des livres et la fonction
des conseillers pedagogiques. Ces lacunes auraient pu etre evitees par une etude sur la gestion et
l'organisation de l'IPN, mais cette etude prevue n'a pas ete entreprise.
La definition par l'IPN d'une politique des livres scolaires a ete l'objet de beaucoup de discussion
(souvent infructueuse) entre le MEN et la Banque Mondiale, et les delais lies a la resolution de ce probleme
ont eu comme consequence le financement reduit des manuels scolaires sous le projet. En depit de
plusieurs missions d'assistance technique envoyees par la Banque Mondiale afin de resoudre ce probleme,
les conclusions tirees par l'IPN n'ont pas donne satisfaction a la Banque Mondiale jusqu'a 1993. Pour sa
part, I'IPN a eu le sentiment qu'avec les changement frequents au mnveau du responsable du projet a la
Banque Mondiale les attentes de la Banque Mondiale etaient toujours en train de changer, ce qui rendait
tres difficile la finalisation de cette politique. Malgre tout, l'IPN a pu elaborer une politique de livre qui est
actuellement au niveau du Conseil des Ministres pour leur consideration.



- 16 -
Double vacation
Au cours des reformes du systeme de I'education, on est souvent oblige de faire un choix initial
qualitatif mettre d'importants ressources pedagogiques dans quelques ecoles choisies pour en avoir une
qualite superieure, ou mettre quelques ressources limites dans un grand nombre d'ecoles pour rendre
l'acces a un plus grand nombre d'eleves. Le cas de la double vacation est un exemple de la tension entre
ces choix. En effet. avec l'objectif d'augmenter le taux de scolarisation, la mise en oeuvre de la double
vacation sous le projet a ete conduite d'une maniere qui pourrait etre prejudiciable a la qualite de
l'enseignement. Des efforts considerables ont ete entrepns pour assurer la mise en oeuvre correcte de la
double vacation (par exemple, le seminaire national, I'organisation et la tenue de stages de formation..).
mais d'autres defaillances ont limite l' impact de ces mesures. Le non respect de la taille des cohortes
prevue pour la double vacation (55 eleves chaque cohorte), les delais constates dans le paiement du pnme
aux enseignants exerqant la double vacation (qui demoralisaient les enseignants). le peu de rehabilitation de
classes permettant un meilleur confort dans la pratique de la double vacation, les delais et la couverture
limitee de la formation des enseignants, et les faiblesses dans I'achat et la distribution de materiels
pedagogiques ont tous reris en cause la qualite de l'enseignement dans ces classes.
On aurait pense, face a toutes ces difficultes, que le rendement des eleves en double vacation serait
moindre que celui des eleves en classe normale. Cependant, selon les etudes menees par le service de suivi
et d'evaluation de I'IPN. les resultats revdels par les examens sont pratiquement egaux.2  En fin de compte,
il se peut que les mesures d'accompagnement mentionnes suffisent pour maintenir le niveau comparable
entre les deux genres de pratiques. (Ou, encore, il se pourrait que les exanens ne refltent pas l'acquisition
vraie d'un elve).
On s'accorde pour dire que les enseignants et 1'enseignement ont souffert de la double vacation
malgre les compensations (joumee raccourcie, programme adaptd, mdthodes d'enseignement appropnees,
reduction de l'effectif des classes, rehabilitation des classes, et augmentation du salaire de 25%). Par
ailleurs, les directeurs d'ecole ont vu leurs horaires de supervision augmentent avec la double vacation et ils
ne percoivent pas un prime. Les enseignants voudraient voir la fin de ce programme de double vacation,
mais il est claire que pour l'instant cette option doit etre maintenue etant donne les objectifs du
Gouvernement par rapport au taux de scolarisation au niveau primaire et les ressources disponibles pour
les realiser.
En fin de compte, la double vacation est incontoumable dans la situation actuelle. Sa reussite
dependra fortement sur les capacites du MEB de mettre en place correctement tous les mesures
d'accompagnement prevus et de mobiliser les ressources financieres necessaires pour le faire. Ces mesures
pourraient inclure l'ajustement du prime pour prendre en compte l'impact structurel du salaire moyen des
enseignants du a l'hierarchisations, et le paiement d'un prime aux directeurs pour leur travail
supplementaire lie a la double vacation.
Le renforcement de l'evaluation d'un eleve
Un systeme pedagogique solide comprend quatre volets: le curriculum, les enseignants, les
materiels pedagogiques, et I'dvaluation des elves. Ces quatre volets doivent se completer. Or, ce projet a
neglige le volet evaluation des eleves qui doit se faire dans deux sens: I'evaluation continue (I'evaluation
faite par 1'enseignant de l'eleve continuellement) et 1'evaluation du progres (mesures determinant si Il'eve
doit passer au niveau supeieur).
2 Voir le Rapport de suivi et d 'evaluahon du projet de d&veloppement de I 'education de base, 1993 et
1994 (brouillon).



- 17 -
Le projet a renforce la capacite de l'IPN dans le domaine de I'elaboration et de l'admiunistration des
examens. Cependant, les resultats de ces examens etaient utilises uniquement pour juger le progres du
projet, non pas pour evaluer le progres des eleves. Par consequence, les examens administres aux eleves
en fin de sixieme annee, marquant la fin du premier cycle, ne sont pas toujours alignes au cumculum ou a
l'enseignement requ. Ces examens sont prepares par les fonctionnaires du DNEF et des centres regionaux.
selon les propositions des enseignants. Les examens seraient beaucoup plus fonctionnels (ainsi que tout le
systeme d'education) si les ressources de l'IPN faisaient partie du systeme.
Rendre les ecoles responsables
L'ecole est l'elment essentiel d'une education efficace. La faiblesse fondamentale de ce projet
pourrait &re que l'on n'a pas tenu compte du progres fait par l ecole elle-meme. Les ressources ont ete
dingees dans les ecoles d'une facon anarchique. Une des consequences de cette strategie est que la
population considere que c'est le ministere qui est responsable du progres ou de la faillite des eleves, et non
pas leur propre ecole. Or, si la population locale ne se voit pas responsable de la qualite de son ecole, elle
ne profitera pas autant des amenagements a long termes apportes par le projet.
Une autre consequence est que jusqu'a present les communications portant sur l'ecole sont a sens-
unique: du ministere vers la population. L'annexe 3-3 du manuel d'execution du projet presente un
systeme par lequel les informnations, les idees, et les propositions proviennent de la base et passent au
niveau regional et national. Ces communications coulent de facon parallele aussi entre ecoles et entre
enseignants. Ceci ne s'est pas passe. 11 semblerait que les enseignants et les directeurs se consid6rent
comme beneficiaires d'un programme pedagogique de bonne qualite, plutot que comme partenaires dans
l'etablissement d'un programme de bonne qualite.
Peut-etre la strategie visant l'amrlioration de l'education au travers du renforcement de l'IPN
devrait-elle etre revisee. Peut-etre les communautes concemees doivent desormais prendre davantage de
responsabilite dans la qualite de l'education de leurs enfants.
Lesons a Tirer
Qu'est-ce que nous apprend ce projet sur la facon d'ameliorer la performance et l'adequation de
1'enseignement primaire au Mali'? Dans cette, section nous presentons trois conclusions qui offrent des
lecons importantes pour les futurs decideurs et executants de la politique educative au Mali.
Reexaminer la strategie du projet
Pendant que l'objectif ameliorer la qualite de l'instruction reste un objectif pertinent, la strategie
adoptee par le projet devrait etre revisee. Si l'on se refere a la reforme sectorielle qui prevalait en 1989, la
strategie du projet repond aux criteres du modele de production qui consiste a bien preparer les machines
pour bien fonctionner, et escompter les produits finis sous la forme de diplomes qualifies et employables.
Dans les cinq demieres annees les expenences en Afrique ont demontre que ce modele n'est pas bien
concu. Les Organisations Internationales pour le Developpement, y compris la Banque mondiale, ont fini
par accepter l'id&e que les ecoles ne sont pas des usines, mais qu'elles sont plut6t des "systemes organiques
autonomes, et que le changement ne peut arriver que selon les conditions individuelles de chaque ecole3"
3 Heneveld, Ward, and Helen Craig, Schools Count. Technical Paper NO 303, Africa Technical Department
(1996). Washington, DC: The World Bank, p. 4.



18 -
Les premiers indicateurs de comparaisons entre les ecoles initiees et soutenues par les communautes
sous ce projet (ecole de base) et les ecoles publiques supportent la notion qu'un modIel organique de
developpement d'ecoles offre une strategie meilleure a celle offerte sous un modele de machine. Dans le
cas du Mali, une etude recente indique que les notes des eleves en mathematiques et langues sont plus
elevees dans les ecoles de base que celles des ecoles classiques (voir l'evaluation de I'UNESCO).
Les ecoles de base m6ritent une analyse plus approfondie mais a present nous pouvons en tirer deja
deux lecons. La premiere est que les ecoles qui naissent aux niveaux des communautes ont de meilleures
chances de reussir et doivent donc etre encouragees. La deuxieme est que les ecoles de bases ont encore
besoin de temps pour faire voir leur merite. Des etudes plus approfondies de ces ecoles nous aideront a en
savoir davantage quant aux avantages du modele organique de developpement scolaire, aussi bien que du
developpement du svsteme educationnel entier.
Elargir la base de prise de decisions
Les decisions importantes requierent beaucoup d'attention dans les forums ou tous les partenaires
importants participent. Au cours de ce projet, un grand nombre de problemes politiques se sont leves qui
ont besoin de telles participation a leur resolution. Le premier lot est celui des politiques mentionnees un
peu plus haut, liees a la NEF (Nouvelle Ecole Fondamentale). La naissance de la NEF semble servir de
le,on sur le besoin de communication/discussion publiques des reformes importantes proposees dans le
systeme educatif.
Nous pensons qu'il y a d'autres problemes aussi importants qui meritent d'etre debattus par les
partenaires importants. Un de ces problemes se trouve etre celul de l'equite dans le developpement des
dcoles urbaines et rurales. Clairement, it apparait deux situations tres contrastees: la demande de
scolarisation est forte en zone urbaines et faibles en zones rurales. Les parents urbains esp&rent que leurs
enfants beneficieront de l'enseignement secondaire; les points de vue varient concernant les finalites des
6coles rurales. Les ecoles rurales presentent des contraintes que l'on ne rencontre pas en zones urbaines.
Tenant compte des faibles ressources du Mali, meme avec I'aide ext6neure. et considerant le temps
qu'il faut pour developper les capacites d'accueil, la question de savoir s'il faut choisir comme priorite la
satisfaction de la demande en milieu urbain ou la creation d'une telle demande en milieu rural semble etre
un sujet approprie pour un debat.
L'autre probleme que nous voyons partout c'est celui de la politique des livres. De nos jours, le
Ministere n'a pas mis en place un moyen durable de developpement et de distribution de livres et d'autres
materiels scolaires a toutes les ecoles. Quelle est la meilleure fa,on de concevoir et rdviser les livres et de
les distribuer aux 6coles? Une telle politique aura des retombees non seulement sur le contenus des
programmes mais aussi sur leur livraison a temps aux classes et leur usage, aussi bien que sur la rigueur
dans leur commande et livraison. Nous avons entendus des points de vus varins sur les politiques et
pratiques de livres / manuels scolaires qui montrent une certaine insatisfaction vis-a-vis de la facon dont
les livres sont faits.
Dans l'ensemble. d'autres solutions devraient etre envisagees pour structurer les procedures de la
formulation des politiques, afin que les decisions politiques puissent etre mises en oeuvre sans confusion et
sans opposition.



- 19 -
L'amelioration permanente
Finalement, la mission a identifie un probleme qui merite plus d'attention. Un indicateur clef d'un
systeme educatif est sa capacite non seulement de maintenir les benefices d'une reforme mais aussi
d'ameliorer la reforme continuellement Une methodologie prometteuse pour l'enseignement des langues
(I'alphabetisation) et des moyens innovateurs de financer les couit recurrents des ecoles ont emerge pendant
l'execution du projet. Ces nouveautes pourraient etre institutionnalisees. Est-ce que le projet a aide le
MEB a encourager ces innovations ou est-ce qu'elles sont apparues comme contradictoires au projet'?
A part les objectifs pedagogiques operationnels. le projet n a pas appuve une theorie ou une
strategle d'apprentissage particuliere. Le projet n a pas remis en question les hvpotheses fondamentales
par rapport au programme scolaire concernant comment les enfants apprennent les langues. les
mathematiques. les disciplines d'eveil. etc. Par ailleurs, le projet r'a pas introduit de nouvelles strategies
d'appui financier aux ecoles a part le FAEF. Toutefois, parmi les politiques de la NEF, les changements
substantiels dans 1'enseignement des langues et du financement des ecoles semblent d'etre acceptds.
On peut dire que le projet n'a pas introduit ces innovations et donc on qu'on ne peut pas compter
ces innovations parmi les benefices du projet. En effet, on pourrait meme dire que ces innovations sont
apparues en depit de la strategie du projet. Toutefois, il semble plus probable que le projet a encourage ces
innovations a se developper en renforcant la capacite du svsteme educationnel (ainsi que des systemes de
gestion et de prise de d6cision) de les appuyer. La methodologie convergente, par exemple. etait dans sa
phase pilote meme avant le lancement du projet. Mais avec le projet le MEB avait la capacite d'aider les
enseignants a experimenter la methodologie au travers du pays et de l'dvaluer.
Finalement. il faudra plus de temps et un certain recul pour apprecier le rapport entre l'impact du
projet et 1'emergence a l'intdrieur du systeme educatif Malien de ces innovations.
Composante 3 - Le Developpement et la Mise en Oeuvre d'une Strategie pour la
Restructuration des Enseignements Secondaire et Superieur
Une meilleure gestion des bourses, I'amelioration de la qualite de l'enseignement, et le
re-quilibrage du svsteme educatif demeurent des objectifs a poursuivre en 1996. C'est a dire que les
objectifs par rapport aux enseignements secondaire et superieur etaient bien cibles mais trop ambitieux,
etant donne les movens mis a la disposition de ces ordres d'enseignement et le temps limite pour
l'elaboration des plans directeurs.
Objectif 1:    la definition d'options viables pour les enseignements secondaire
et superieur
Le projet visait cet objectif a travers l'elaboration d'un plan directeur pour la restructuration des
enseignements secondaire et superieur (qui definirait les politiques concemant les effectifs, les filieres
porteuses a developper, le lieu d'implantation des futures dtablissements, le plan de financement des coats
d'equipements, l'information, l'orientation, la selection des eleves, etc.) et leur developpement en harmonie
avec les contraintes budgetaires, les exigences du marche de l'emploi et les pnorites du Gouvemement dans
le secteur de l'education.
Realisations
Les plans directeurs pour la consolidation de la formation professionnelle et la restructuration de
l'enseignement superieur ont ete elabores par le Ministere de l'Enseignement Secondaire et Superieur, suite



- 20 -
a une serie d'etudes financees sous le projet. Le plan pour la formation professionnelle a conduit a la
preparation et au financement par la Banque mondiale d'un nouveau projet Mali - Consolidation de la
Formation Professionnelle, signe par le Gouvernement du Mali et la Banque mondiale le 26 mars 1996. Le
plan pour l'enseignement superieur sera integre dans la preparation du Programme Decennal de
Developpement de l'Education (PDDE), actuellement en cours de preparation, qui sera finance par la
Banque mondiale et par d'autres partenaires techniques et financiers. Un plan directeur pour
1'enseignement secondaire n'a pas pu etre elabore malgre l'etude financee par le projet en 1992 visant la
restructuration de l'enseignement secondaire. 11 semblerait que ni le Gouvernement ni la Banque mondiale
n aient fait beaucoup d'effort dans ce sens; ledit plan devra etre integre dans la preparation du Programme
Decennal de Developpement de l'Education.
Le,ons a Tirer
11 faudra prevoir un processus plus participatif et plus long pour 1'elaboration des plans directeurs
de restructuration des svstemes educatifs. Les options devront etre discute--non seulement par les services
techniques mais aussi avec la societe civile et tous les partenaires de l'ecole.
Les actions de suivi des dipl6mes sortants des etablissements secondaires et superieurs devraient
etre institutionnalisees au niveau de chaque ecole et direction. Sans savoir ce que deviennent les sortants,
IFadaptation des programmes aux exigences du marche de l'emploi est impossible. Ce suivi pourrait etre
fait a travers des enquetes ainsi que par la mise en place des associations amicales des anciens eleves.
Tant que les options relatives a l'enseignement secondaire et superieur public n'existent pas, il sera
difficile politiquement de maitriser les flux d'delves. Deux options seraient l'enseignement prive et/ ou une
formation professionnelle qualifiante en dehors du svsteme d'education formel. Les incitations au
diveloppement de 1'enseignement secondaire et superieur pnves devraient etre poursuivies, suivant
1'exemple du developpement de 1'enseignement prive au niveau du premier cycle pendant le projet.
Objectif 2:    le renforcement des capacites de gestion aux niveaux secondaire et
superieur, surtout des bourses
Le projet prevoyait l'informatisation des deux directions (DNESGT et DNESRS), y compns celle
des bourses. et l'appui (formation et assistance technique) dans la gestion des sous-systemes secondaire et
superieur.
Realisations
L'appui aux capacites institutionnelles des directions de l'enseignement secondaire et superieur n'a
pas donne des resultats encourageants. Quatre ordinateurs ont ete foumis (deux pour la gestion des
bourses), quelques agents du Ministere de l'Education Nationale ont participe dans les stages de formation
a l'IREDU en France, mais tres peu reste en 1996 de ces investissements. En effet, les cadres du MESSRS
se plaignaient de ne pas etre informes par rapport aux activites prevues sous cette sous-composante. Par
ailleurs, il semblerait que le BPE dependait principalement du MEB plut6t que du MESSRS, et il etait donc
difficile parfois pour le MESSRS d'avoir les informations et d'obtemnr des services du BPE.
L'informatisation des bourses a ete achevee en 1991 mais le ministere n'a jamais profite de cette
capacite - la gestion manuelle des bourses continue a ce jour. Finalement, le logiciel et les materiel
informatiques sont devenus vetustes et peu utilises. Un deuxieme effort d'informatiser les bourses a ete
entrepris en 1995 avec la definition d'un nouveau systeme cible. L'installation de ce systeme (achat du
materiel, formation des agents, etc.) se fera pendant la preparation du PDDE.



- 21 -
Le,ons a Tirer
L'infornation par rapport aux objectifs et aux ressources des projets d'investissement devrait etre
diffusee largement. Des copies du Rapport du President relatif au Projet et du Manuel d'Execution du
Projet devralent etre distribues a chaque acteur clef afin que chacun puisse connaitre ses responsabilites
ainsi que ce qui est prevu dans le projet pour son domaine d'interet. Chaque fois que les acteurs sont
remplaces il sera necessaire de repeter cette sensibilisation.
La gestion de fonds devra etre plus transparente afin que chaque acteur clef puisse voir ce qui se
passe. Si necessaire. il faudrait envisager deux comptables, un pour chaque miristere d'Mducation, qui
aurait comme responsabilite le suivi des ressources programmees pour son minustere. Sinon, les ressources
risquent d'etre capturees par un ministere au detriment de l'autre. Au minimum, une plus claire separation
des lignes budg6taires du projet/programme entre les deux minist&res serait souhaitable.
Les svstemes de suivi au niveau des Cabinets des ministeres charges de l'education devraient etre
mis en place avant la mise en vigueur d'un projet. et les comptes-rendus des reunions de ces comites de
suivi foumis a la Banque mondiale regulierement (au moins au moment de chaque mission de supervision).
Pour sa part. Ia Banque mondiale devra mettre plus d'accent sur les svstemes de suivi inteme des
minist&es charges de l'education. afin d'assurer une clarte des responsabilites et des taches de chacun.
L'informatisation de la gestion toute seule ne resoudra rien si les procedures de gestion, le circuit
d'information et de pnse de decision ne changent pas. Ce sont les hommes et les femmes, et leur methodes
de travail, qui pourraient rendre utile l'informatisation. Tout effort d'informatisation devrait donc
commencer avec une analyse critique des procedures et des personnes impliquees dans la gestion. Des
reformes dans ces domaines permettraient a l'informatisation d'avoir l'impact souhaite.
Objectif 3: I'amelioration de la qualite de 1'enseignement superieur
Le projet prevoyait la renovation de trois bibliotheques - ENA, ENI et ENSUP - et I'achat de
20.000 livres de reference de base, ainsi que de foumitures et materiel.
Realisations
Les etudes architecturales ont et6 menees mais jamais achevees. La Banque mondiale s'est
opposee au financement des bibliotheques en 1992 jusqu'aux consultations sur la restructuration de
1'enseignement supeneur auraient permis de s'assurer que cette dernir&e n'allait pas remettre en cause le
developpement rapide du premier cycle. Etant donne que les consultations concernant l'enseignement
superieur ont continue jusqu'a la fin du projet, la Banque mondiale n'a jamals donne son accord pour
debourser des fonds pour les bibliotheques.
En s'opposant a tout iMvestissement au niveau superieur, dans l'attente d'une clarification de la
politique du Gouvernement par rapport a cet ordre d'enseignement, la Banque mondiale a donne
l'impression qu'elle etait contre le developpement de ce sous-secteur et contre l'ouverture de l'Universit6 du
Mali. Le manque d'engagement constructif et de confiance a ce niveau ont rendu plus difficiles les
discussions entre la Banque mondiale par rapport au plan de restructuration.
Par contre, la Cooperation Francaise a effectivement dote les bibliotheques de l'ENI, de I'ENA et
de I'ENSUP avec des manuels et de livre de reference de base, et elle a finance l'informatisation en reseau
de ces bibliotheques. Par ailleurs, le FAC a finance des petits travaux de renovation des bibliotheques afin
d'accueillir les livres et les ordinateurs.



- 22 -
Lesons a Tirer
Les investissements specifiques dans un sous-secteur devraient etre appuye par un cadre politique
clair. surtout concernant l'utilisation des ressources publiques et les mesures pour assurer la perennite des
investissements. Faute d'un cadre politique, il serait peut-etre plus sage d'attendre, au moins pour les gros
investissements.
De l'autre cote. meme dans les situations ou un cadre politique est difficile a definir. il serait
souhaitable de montrer de bonne volonte et d'engagement en financant les petits investissements. Une telle
approche pourrait developper la confiance entre le partenaire exterieur et le Gouvernement. ce qui aiderait
dans la definition d'un cadre global.
Objectif 4: la promotion de l'auto-emploi parmi jeunes dipl6mes
Le projet prevoyait la mise en place d'un ligne de credit a la Banque of Africa pour la creation
d'emploi pour les jeunes dipl6mes.
Realisations
Un ligne de credit a ete effectivement mis en place a la Bank of Africa (BOA) avec un appui
technique important du projet PNUD/BIT MLI/91/004. En total, FCFA 315 millions (avant la
devaluation) ont ete prete aux jeunes dipl6mes par la BOA, pour financer 68 prets et la creation initiale de
227 emplois. Ceci se traduit par une movenne de FCFA 4,64 million par pret, et a peu pres FCFA 1,4
million par emploi cre. A la date de 31 mars 1996 le taux de remboursement (en termes du valeur total
accorde) etait 73 pour-cent, avec FCFA 161 millions rembourses, FCFA 59 millions itnpayes et FCFA 94
millions encours. 37 pour-cent des prets avait des impayes, sur lesquels les inter&s et les pdnalites etaient
appliques, ce qui donnait un solde debiteur de FCFA 89 millions. Jusqu'a nos jours, l'Accord de pret
subsidiaire entre la Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement et la BAO, fixant les taux d'interet et les echeances
de remboursement des fonds a la CAA par la BOA, n'a pas encore ete mis en vigueur, de sorte que l'argent
verse par le Credit 2054-MLI a la BOA y reste. Le Fonds de Garantie qui devrait etre constitue par la
Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement (80 pour-cent) et la BOA (20 pour-cent) ne semble pas etre
operationnel non plus.
Lesons a Tirer
Des programmes d'appui a l'emploi des jeunes dipl6mes necessitent un appui technique important
et soutenu. Le milieu des entrepreneurs et promoteurs d'entreprises a besoin de conseil specialise, de
formation et d'assistance. Cet appui aide les banques privees a identifier les investissements rentables et a
les suivre efficacement, ce qui renforce la securite des engagements.
Le risque de defaut de paiement devrait etre partage equitablement entre le preteur et le
Gouvernement. Si le Gouvernement assume la majorite du risque, le preteur n'assumera pas ses
responsabilites de suivre le beneficiaire du pret et d'assurer son remboursement.
Les decideurs devraient attendre un taux d'echec relativement eleve avec ce genre de programme,
etant donne l'inexperience des beneficiaires. Ceci dit, le taux de remboursement de ce programme laisse
esperer qu'un programme encore plus large pourrait etre monte pour les jeunes sortants des ecoles
fondamentales, secondaires et supdineures. Le MESSRS profiterait d'une analyse plus poussee de ce
programme afin de mieux cerner la faisabilite de son expansion.



- 23 -
L'orientation des promoteurs devrait se faire a partir de secteurs d'activites favorables au
developpement de l'economie malienne, a la creation d'emploi et a des investissement durables. Cette
orientation necessite les informations courantes et fiables sur le marche de l'emploi et les creneaux
porteurs.
Le Gouvemement devrait suivre de plus pret ce genre d'activite afin de s'assurer que les banques
pnvees respectent leurs engagements vis-a-vis de l'Etat.
Composante 4 - Le Renforcement de la capacite institutionnelle de planification et de gestion des
ressources du Ministere de I'Education.
Evaluation des objectifs de la composante
Les objectifs du projets visant a renforcer la capacite institutionnelle de planification et de gestion
etaient des objectifs appropries pour les besoins du systeme educatif et son bon fonctionnement. Comme
n a pas manque de le signaler le Ministre de I'Education de Base lui-meme, le volet consacre a
F'amelioration de la capacite de gestion des ressources humaines et financieres du Ministeres charges de
I'Education est percu comme l'une de ses preoccupations les plus importantes. En effet. Ie Ministre a attire
I'attention sur l'importance capitale de maitriser "le savoir-faire", et de fonctionner mieux dans des
situations d'urgence avec de bonnes methodes de travail. Le besoin d'une meilleure organisation dans les
methodes de travail est egalement un des soucis exprimes par le Ministre de l'Education de Base, qui n'a
pas manque de noter que ceci s'etait fait sentir dans l'execution des programmes educatifs, et qu'il y avait
une inadequation entre les methodes du ministere et celles de la Banque mondiale.
Objectif 1:    Planification et Statistiques
L'objectif vise ici etait I'amelioration de la capacite de planification et de suivi du developpement
de I'education tout en tenant compte des besoins en matiere de developpement economique du pays et, des
ouvertures sur le marche de l'emploi et des contraintes budgetaires. Cet objectif comprend plusieurs
parties discutees ci-dessous.
Realisations
Ameliorer la collecte, I'analyse et la publication des statistiques scolaires
dans les delais raisonnables.
Cet objectif connait un certain degre de realisation reconnu de toutes les autorites, avec la
publication de l'annuaire statistique et le developpement de la carte scolaire informatisee. Les donnees sont
desormais collectees. leur saisie faite, et distribuees aux divisions dans des d6lais raisonnables. Les
autorites sont optirmstes quant a la durabilite de cet acquis etant donne qu'elles trouvent qu'il leur sera
desormais impossible de fonctionner sans donnees. Une difficulte notee cependant est que leur usage reste
limite. 11 semble meme avoir un certain desinteressement dans l'attitude de certains cadres. It nous a ete
dit maintes fois que dans la majorite des cas, ce n'est que quand la Banque mondiale ou l'USAID arrive
que certains se precipitent a chercher les donnees ou un document qui devait etre lu. Les inspecteurs
saluent la collecte et saisie au niveau regional mais deplorent devoir foumir les memes infornations
plusieurs fois dans l'annee (ex. l'information sur l'administrateur ou l'enseignant qui demeure le meme.)
La carte scolaire n'a pas ete realisee pour les niveaux superieurs comme prevu et les IEF deplorent la non



- 24 -
disponibilite des donnees recentes au niveau du plan aussi bien que le manque de communication avec les
parties lointaines des region.
LeVons a Tirer
Faire usage de ces donnees pour prendre des decisions bien fondees et pour elaborer des plans et
des projections fiables. Les cadres ont besoin de s'y habituer. ce qui n'arrivera qu'en pratiquant
davantage.
En tant que responsables du MEN, les cadres doivent se sentir responsables et montrer autant
d'interet que possible car ceci est pour eux, pas pour la Banque mondiale.
En ce qui conceme F'amelioration des statistiques scolaires, il faudrait s'efforcer a reunir les
conditions necessaires pour faire les saisies a temps afin de ne pas les perdre, ce qui contribue a une
utilisation inefficace du temps quand le ministere formule de nouvelle requ&tes aupres des IEF. La mission
a pu comprendre qu'- partir de la rentree prochaine la saisie se fera sur place dans les regions et pour ce
faire des agents des differentes DRE ont suivi recemment une formation en informatique a Bamako, ce qui
va certainement dans la bonne direction. Aussi. il est important que les methodes de calculer les
pourcentages dans les statistiques scolaires soient claires et uniformes pour tous a Bamako aussi bien que
dans les regions.
ii.    Planifier et gerer l'implantation geographique des ecoles et des flux d'eleves
(cartes scolaires)
Realisations
La carte scolaire a 6te etablie pour le premier cycle et des cadres de la Centre de planification et
statistique (CPS) formes dans ce sens. Ceci permet une meilleure capacite de projection des besoins en
ecoles par les planificateurs. II semble regner un optimisme chez tous concemant la durabilite de cet acquis
mais la missions a des reserves vu que que le manque d'utilisation de ces competences aboutit a leur perte.
Un seul des cinq cadres formes fait bon usage de ces competences pendant que deux autres cadre appeles a
assurer la releve n'ont toujours pas ete formes, et apparemment, il n'etait assigne a personne la
responsabilite d'en decider. Il y a toujours un manque de clarte entre le r6le de la CPS et du BPE en ce qui
concerne la carte scolaire. Dans l'etat actuel des choses, cette realisation ne saurait etre durable.
Actuellement. la mission a l'impression quil y a double emploi.
Lesons a Tirer
Former les autres cadres et s'assurer que l'on garde ceux qui recoivent une formation dans les
postes pour lesquels uis ont e  formes.
Appliquer les competences acquises aux situations de tous les jours afin de les maitriser. Faire
meilleur usage de la CPS en tant que cellule non uniquement de statistique mais de planification aussi afin
qu'elle joue mieux son r6le dans la conception m-me.
Etablir un calandrier de production et de dissemination de la carte scolaire aux divisions des deux
ministeres aussi bien qu'aux partenaires techniques et financiers. Dans la procedure, s'assurer que ces
travaux sont faits par la partie malienne et non l'assistance technique.



- 25 -
Clarifier les r6les des differents bureaux aussi bien que des differents cadres et cellules afin
d'assurer un meilleur fonctionnement.
iii.   Mener des etudes prioritaires afin de suivre l'evolution du secteur,
de proposer des solutions alternatives rationnelles aux problemes
identifies et d'evaluer leur realisation
Realisations
Ceci est un objectif qui nWa pas ete atteint avec satisfaction Une seule etude (celle du personnel
enseignant) a te rnenee par la CPS qui a abouti au redeplotement de 350 enselgnants pendant l'annre
scolaire 1994-95 et 337 pour Fannee 1995-96. La durabilite de cet objectif n'est pas certaine car les
inspections et les directions regionales font voir que de telles decisions sont en train d'avoir des
consequences negatives sur la qualite de ce que les enfants apprennent. Ceci est cause d'une part par le
retour non souhaite en classe. et d'autre part par le fait que certains enseignants sont "de grands ma!ades"
qui ne peuvent donc pas enseigner effectivement. La CPS a mene moins d'etudes qu'elle aurait pu du fait
d'un mauvais utilisation des services disponibles au Cabinet. Par exemple, certaines etudes qui auraient du
&tre menees par la CPS sont confiees a des ONGs par le BPE. Le r6le de la CPS n'est pas toujours clair
par rapport a celui du BPE.
Lecons a Tirer
Une plus grande concertation avec les inspections quant a l'etat physique et mental des enseignants
pourrait aider le MEB a prendre des decisions plus efficaces concemant le redeploiement du personnel
enseignant.
11 serait indispensable de chercher a connaitre les motifs pour lesquels les maitres sont detaches et
les prendre en compte.
II v a un grand besoin d'une plus profonde analyse des taches et d'une meilleure responsabilisation
des cadres, ce qui pourrait aboutir a de meilleurs resultats.
Le Second Cycle mente d'etre l'objet des etudes de rationalisation aussit6t que possible, etant
donn6 le besoin de maximiser les capacites d'accueil a ce niveau au momdre co-at. L'utilisation du
personnel et des infrastructures du Second Cycle seraient les aspects pnontaires d'une telle etude.
iv.    Informer et former les autres directions en statistiques de base et
en analyses de politiques du secteur
Realisations
Le personnel de la CPS te inities a l'usage des ordinateurs. D'autres agents ont 6te formes dans
ce sens au niveau regional, ce qui permettra bient6t le demarrage des saisies au niveau regional. Les
memes responsables ont ete formes egalement en gestion de ressources humaines et financieres
(management et EPICS). Malheureusement, ces acquis ne semblent pas etre durables a moims d'efforts
particuliers, dans la mesure ou certains des responsables formes ne font pas usage de cette nouvelle
competence, ce qui constitue une perte. Au niveau regional, pendant que les directeurs aussi bien que les
inspecteurs se rejouissent d'avoir e  inities au management, les inspecteurs souhaiteraient avoir leur
budget a gerer egalement. Par ailleurs, ces inspecteurs trouvent que ce sont des connaissances qu'ils
risquent de perdre si elles ne sont ni appliquees, ni approfondies.



- 26 -
Ce qui ne semble pas avoir ete fait c'est la formation en analyse de politiques du secteur. En plus
de la disponibilite de donnees, la presence du tableau de bord aurait contribue a la realisation de ce point.
LeVons a Tirer
S'assurer que les cadres ont la chance de faire bon usage des competences imparties acquises.
Dans les cas ou des sous-composantes prevues se trouvent rattachees a d'autres, mettre tout en
oeuvre pour qu elles se realisent toutes afin d'assurer un plus grand succes. On pourrait a cet effet.
nommer au sein de la Cellule de Planification et de Statistiques (CPS) un representant de chaque
departement ministeriel concerne.
L'analyse de politique doit se faire et a plusieurs etapes. Former les cadres de plusieurs niveaux a
ces techniques pourraient contribuer a faciliter la detection et la correction des difficultes en temps utile.
Les cadres reconnaissent que ces connaissances acquises seraient durables quand ils en auront
davantage et quand elles seront mises en application, et souhaiteraient meme des formations aboutissant a
des dipl6mes susceptibles de les avancer dans leur carrieres respectives. Toutefois, cet avancement devra
se faire en fonction d'une productivite amelioree, et non simplement a cause d'un dipl6me (qui hausse le
salaire sans forcement hausser la productivite).
v.     Preparer un tableau de bord trimestriellement mis a jour, permettant au
ministere de suivre la realisation du programme d'ajustement sectoriel et
prevoir des solutions.
Realisations
Cet objectif n'a pas ete acquis. Apres la dissolution de la DNPES, la CPS fut creee sans pour
autant se voir confier toutes les taches que la premiere assumait. C'est ainsi que le tableau de bord n'a
jamais pu voir le jour. Par ailleurs, la mission a le sentiment que les cadres administratifs qui sont arrives
au niveau du MEB apres le changement du regime en 1991 n'ont jamais pris le soin de s'informer sur cet
aspect du projet. De l'autre cote, la mission se rend compte que la Banque mondiale n'a apparemment pas
demande de tableau apres 1991.
Lesons a Tirer
La Banque mondiale devrait suivre de plus pres les indicateurs de mise en oeuvre et d'impact du
projet. L'utilisation d'un tableau de bord devrait ere exige dans les operations futures de la Banque
mondiale.
11 appartient au MEN egalement de bien etudier les objectifs fixes et de veiller a leur execution.
Apres restructuration ou mutations, il est indispensable que les passassions de services permettent
de faire le point des situations de facon transparente et de mettre le cadre rentrant au courant des faits.



- 27 -
Objectif 2: Gestion des ressources financieres et humaines
Afin d'accroitre 1'efficacite avec laquelle le MEN g&e ses ressources financieres et humames. un
svsteme d'information destine a ameliorer la gestion devrait etre mis an place. A cause des raisons qui
suivent, la mission est d'avis que cet objectif n'a pas ete atteint.
Une etude provisoire sur le personnel. I organisation et les methodes du MEN a ete menee en 1992
par une bureau d'etude. SODETEG. Cette etude a identifie des problemes importants dans la gestion des
ressources financieres et humaines, et elle a fait une serie de recornmandations. Malheureusement. cette
etude n'a.jamais fait l'objet d'une reflexion au sein du MEN (specifiquement de la DAF) et le MEN n'a
jamais repondu au bureau d'etude avec leurs commentaires. Donc, 1'etude n'a ete ni finalisee ni utilisee.
Ceci dit. Ie personnel de la DAF a re4u de la formation aussi bien que des ordinateurs qui avec
linformatisation et la disponibilite des donnee$ permettent un meilleure gestion du personnel. La DAF se
rejouis de voir que le projet ait reussi a la preparer a maitriser de fa,on globale la gestion des ressources
humaines du secteur bien que la necessite d'une plus grande capacite demeure. Par ailleurs. Ia DAF
pourrait travailler de facon plus effective avec la BPE et aimerait etre en mesure de faire des projections
avec certitude, ce qui n'est pas encore acquis. Une des difficulte per,ue par la DAF dan cc sens par
exemple, est le manque de contr6le des recrutements du personnel qui releve de son departement.
Du point de vue restructuration de budget L'IREDU a mene une etude mais ses propositions n ont
jamais ete mises en execution. 11 a ete possible de determiner les allocations par niveau d'enseignement
mais certains aspects concemant les salaires des cadres administratifs par exemple, n'ont pas ete regles.
Par rapport a la gestion effective des ressources financieres liees aux bourses, un effort a
l'informatisation a ete entrprise en 1991 mais n'a pas abouti aux resultats escomptes (voir Composante 3).
De l'avis de la mission, il nest pas evident que les Ministeres de l'Education, des Finances et de la
Fonction Publique soient arnves a combiner leurs donnees respectives en matiere de personnel et de budget
afin d'aboutir a une meilleure planification.
LeVons a Tirer
Les cadres ont besoin d'acquerir les capacites necessaires et de faire bon usage de competences
techniques permettant un meilleur fonctionnement.
11 reste toujours beaucoup a faire quant a la definition d'objectifs clairs, la missions a confides a
chaque division, la responsabilisation des cadres, et les suivis et autres mesures d'accompagnement.
Sans une volonte politique soutenue visant la transparence et la gestion efficace des ressources
humaines et financieres, I'aide de l'extenieur (financant les etudes, les ordinateurs, etc.) ne peut pas
ameliorer grandes choses.
Objectif 3: Gestion Decentralisee
Afin de permettre aux principaux niveaux de l'admmistration de l'6ducation de base de mieux
jouer leur r6le respectif de facon harmonieuse, il etait prevu de renforcer la DNEF, les DREs aussi bien que
les IEF.



- 28 -
Tout indique que cet objectif a ete atteint en bonne partie. Ici la capacite d'encadrement de la
Direction Nationale de l'Enseignement Fondamental a et renforcee par l'equipement en vehicules qui
permettent le deplacement, aussi bien que la formation et 1'equipement des directions regionales. Cet
encadrement a et renforce egalement par l'appui pedagogique qui a ete foumi aux ecoles. Ceci comprend
l'armoire, le bureau du ma^itre; le "kit pedagogique". des livres et des tables-bancs pour amelioration les
conditions de travail des elves, et d'equipements de bureau. A cela s'ajoute la formation d'enseignants.
d'inspecteurs, et de conseillers pedagogiques qui permet une meilleure gestion et activite de ces differentes
entites.
Les inspecteurs et les conseillers pedagogiques deplorent que les mobvlettes prevues pour les
conseillers pedagogiques n'aient pu etre fournies. Ces inspecteurs souhaiteraient toujours voir se realiser
l'achat des mobvlettes qui faciliteront les deplacements des conseillers. En plus. les inspecteurs se trouvent
souvent handicapes par la qualite de leurs vehicules qui ne leur permettent pas d'aborder certains terrains
pour voir leurs enseignants qui ont cependant besoin de leur impressions afin d ameliorer leurs methodes
d'enseignement, et du manque de ravitaillement en carburant comme pr6vu. Le ratios livres/elves vises
n'ont pas ete atteints dans la plus part des cas. En partie du au surpeuplement des classes et a
l'immigration des eleves, il est souvent difficile de satisfaire les besoins de tous. Les directions regionales
aussi bien que les inspections regrettent egalement la lourdeur administrative qui affecte la realisation de
certaines choses et souhaiteraient voir une meilleure decentralisation, surtout dans la gestion du personnel
et du budget d'entretien.
Lesons a Tirer
Fournir des vehicules mieux adaptes aux besoins et conditions environnementales des inspecteurs.
Doter les conseillers pedagogiques des movens necessaires pour assister les enseignants dans leurs
taches, surtout quand de nouvelles methodes d'enseignement on ete introduites.
Chercher les marches les plus rentables afin d'etre a mesure d'offrir suffisamment de livres a tous
les enfants.
Donner aux Directions Regionales aussi bien qu'aux IEF une plus grande autonomie qui leur
permettrait de mieux gerer leurs budgets de fonctionnement et activites tout en evitant les lourdeurs
administratives.
11 faudra amrliorer la communication dans la procedure, qui a eu un impact negatif sur la
realisation de certains objectifs du projet. La decentralisation partielle (ex. responsabilite de fournir
l'information sans la responsabilite de prendre des decisions) peut en certains cas peser sur les lenteurs
administratives au lieu de les alleger.
Une meilleur participation dans les prises de decision dont 1'execution les conceme directement par
l'enseignement secondaire et superieur (le sommet), aussi bien que par les inspecteurs d'Enseignement
Fondamental (la base), serait souhaitable.
Objectif 4: Gestion des ressources physiques
Sous ce projet, il etait prevu de mettre en place une capacite de gestion de ressources physiques.



- 29 -
Realisations
La DET (Division d'Etudes Techniques) chargee de la programmation, la planification, 1'execution
et le suivi de toutes les activites relatives a la gestion des ressources physiques. 11 a ete realise et distribue
un guide de construction et de maintenance qui a ete distribue a tous les niveaux afin d'aider les APE dans
la construction et la maintenance des locaux. Ceci indique un souci de bien gerer et conserver ces
batiments mais il faut regfretter cependement que la diffusion n'ai pas toujours atteint les ecoles. Depuis
trois ans. un bon nombre d ecoles pratiquent la double vacation les classes multigrades qui permettent un
plus grand usage des locaux. Toutefois. les responsables deplorent que les mesures d'accompagnement
prexues ne solent pas executees. par ex. certaines classes a double vacation manquent de lumrires alors
qu il fait sombre l apres-midi midi.
Le$ons a Tirer
S'assurer que le guide soit diffuse et utilise de facon appropriee dans la construction des classes et
serifier regulierement s'il permet la bonne maintenance des locaux.
Le Bureau des Projets Education (BPE) et I'Execution du Projet
La raison d'etre initiale du BPE etait d&etre l'instrument de coordination/liaison entre les
departements techniques du Mmistere de l'Education Nationale d'une part et tous les projets d'education
(aussi bien ceux de la Banque mondiale que ceux d'autres bailleurs de fonds) d'autre part et aussi entre les
differents projets. En fin de compte. Ie BPE n'a pas connu de succes en tant que bureau de coordination
entre les directeurs nationaux ou en tant que secretanat de la commission interrninisterielle. Par contre, il
scest developpe comme un instrument utile de gestion de projets, utilise par tous les bailleurs de fond dans
le secteur education. A l'avenir. le r6le gestionnaire d'un tel bureau doit etre defini clairement depuis la
conception du projet de sorte que les dispositions, fournitures, et systemes de gestion puissent etre prevus
depuis le debut.
Quant a la passation des marches, la gestion et les procedures des marches ont ete respectes, et les
relev6s de bord ont ete maintenu de maniere satisfaisante. Cependant, certaines difficultes dans la bonne
demarche des passatlons de marches ont pu etre constate par la mission. Certains contrats, par exemple,
ont du etre resilies a cause des delais tres prolonges de signature au niveau du Gouvemement (achat de
materiel pour l'informatisation des bourses), d'autres ont du etre retires du circuit de signature faute de
fonds disponibles (manuels scolaires); d'autres etaient freines par une manque de connaissance ou de
volonte en ce qui conceme la foumiture de documentation au niveau des directions (exemple: les directives
requises de par I'IPN pour I'acquisition des motos pour les conseillers pedagogiques); encore d'autres
contrats etaient rdsilies dui aux consequences negatives des reglements qui exige I'appel d'offre
intemational (tout contrat au dessus de US$100.000). L'exemple donne porte sur le contrat d'une
compagnie senegalaise pour la fabrication, livraison, et montage des tables-bancs dans les zones du projet.
La compagnie senegalaise s'est engage a un tres bon prix, mais sans se rendre compte des difficultes de
livraison et du montage des bancs dans les villages de la brousse. En fin de compte, seule la moitie des
tables-bancs etait livre (avec beaucoup de difficulte) et la compagnie a rompu le contrat. Les memes bancs
auraient pu etre fabriques sur place avec les materiaux locaux, par les menuisiers locaux; le montage aurait
ete plus approprie; les modifications/reparation des bancs auraient ete beaucoup plus faisables, et le contrat
aurait ete amene au bout.
Concemant la comptabilite, pendant la vie du projet, la section a fait son travail relativement
correctement en utilisant le logiciel "Framework," un logiciel principalement du traitement des textes.
Toutefois, la mission a not 1 que tous les "clients"de la section de comptabilite (les bailleurs de fonds, les



- 30 -
opdrateurs dconomiques avec les contrats avec le BPE, les cadres des deux ministeres charges de
l'ducation, y compris du BPE) se plaignaient de la difficulte d'obtenir les informations fiables rapidement
concernant les ressources financieres du projet (disponibles et depensees). Vers la fin du projet, il a ete
reconnu que l'informatisation des comptes ferait plus transparents tous les d6marches du projet. Une firme
de comptabilitd a etd engage a faire l'installation et formation du logiciel Khronos. Le projet n'a pas ete
amene aux fins voulus. Vu la complexite des actions historiques du projet, il a ete impossible
d'informatiser toutes les informations.
Lesons a tirer
Par rapport aux passation des marches finances:
*      Le circuit de signature pour la passation aux marches est long et lourd. 11 serait souhaitable de
reduire ce circuit ou au moins de fixer des delais de reponse (par exemple 15 jours ouvrables) faute
de quoi le marche est considere approuve automatiquement.
*      11 serait bon qu'il v ait un svsteme quelconque (contacts courrier electronique) par lequel le
cadre local pourrait se renseigner aupres des specialistes d'implementation de la Banque pour
mieux connaitre le genre document attendu dans ces cas (se referer au svsteme recemment monte en
ce qui conceme les formes requises pour le deboursement).
-      II serait bon que les appels d'offre majeurs solent prevus, planifies, et prepares en avance de la
mise-en-vigueur d'un projet autant que possible. Une recherche des marches majeures doit etre
effectuee pendant la periode d'identification pour que la moquette du projet et ses previsions soient
faits selon les marches reels et disponibles. Sinon, un temps important est perdu pendant le projet
a courir apres des produits inexactes ou inexistants.
*       vPour certains marches difficilement realisables au niveau international (6tant donne le poids du
materiel, la difficulte de transport et/ou du montage, etc.), le reglement precisant l'appel d'offre
international devrait etre applique d'une maniere flexible, ou alternativement, ces marches doivent
ctre faits au niveau regional de sorte que le somme total ne depasse pas le seuil maximum, et
I'appel d'offre resterait local.
Par rapport a la comptabilite:
*  11 faudrait assurer qu'un systeme de comptabilite informatisd repondant aux exigences d'IDA soit
monte avant la m.ise-en-vigueur du projet;
*  La Banque mondiale pourrait aider beaucoup dans ce sens en identifiant un logiciel standard de
comptabilite en franqais adequat a ses besoins.
*  La comptabilite devra etre liee a un systeme transparent et maitrise par plusieurs personnes au
niveau du BPE; elle ne doit pas etre lie a un seul individu.



- 31 -
Impact du Projet de Consolidation du Secteur de I'Education
Suivant la documentation du projet. un certain nombre d'indicateurs d'impact ont ete elabores. Le
tableau ci-dessous fait le point sur la realisation des objectifs fixes dans le projet.
Indicateurs d'Impact, 1994
Obiectif      Reafise
Taux de Scolarisation (TDS) du Premier Cycle
TDS public, catholique et medersas:        36%            38%
TDS public et catholique:                  27 7%          34%
TDS des filles
public. catholique et medersas:            28%            30%
public et catholique                       28%            27%
TDS des garcons
public, catholique et medersas:            43%            47%
public et catholique:                      43%            42%
Taux de Redoublement du Premier Cycle (1994): 25%         20%
Conclusion
Toute I'evaluation de ce projet se situe dans un contexte d'enorrnes difficultes et de changements
politiques, economiques aussi bien que sociaux qui ont existe avant et pendant l'execution du projet et qui
n'ont pas affecte les activites prevues. De maniere generale, la mission a trouve que beaucoup d'objectifs
cles ont ete atteints. que des changements positifs et durables en ont decoule et qu'il reste encore beaucoup
a faire.
Peut-etre la question la plus fondamentale a poser en elaborant le Rapport d'Achevement du Projet
est de savoir si le projet a atteint son objectif principal. Dans le cadre de ce projet, l'objectif primordial
etait d'atteindre un taux de scolanrsation au niveau primaire de 36 pour-cent en 1994. Cet objectif a ete
atteint grace aux efforts des enseignants, des deux ministeres charges de l'education, du Bureau des Projets
Education et des responsables de la Banque mondiale.



- 32 -
Annexe 1 - Personnes Rencontrees
S.E.M. Moustapha Dicko, Ministre des Enseignements Secondaire et Superieur, et de la Recherche
Scientifique, MESSRS
S.E.M. Adama Sammasekou, Ministre de l'Education de Base, MEB
Salikou Sanago, Secretaire General. MESSRS
Abdoulave Ky, Secretaire General, MEB
M. Coulibalv. Chef du Cabinet. MESSRS
Samba Doucoure. CT. MESSRS
Alpha Aboubacrine, CT. MESSRS
Mme. Simpara Onguiba, CT, MEB
Mohamed Kante, Directeur, DAF, MEB
M. Fofana, Directeur, DAF. MESSRS
Abou Diarra, Directeur, IPN
Fadjigui Konate, Directeur,DNEF
Daoudou Coulibaly, Directeur par interim. BPE
Barthelemy Togo, Directeur en detachment, BPE
Amadou Dao, Chef, Cellule de Planification et Statistiques
M. Naikaite, Directeur, DRE - Bamako
M. Diallo, Inspecteur, Bamako VII
Mrne Dicko, Inspectrice, Bamako VI
Mamadou Doumbia, Association des Parents d'Eleves, Inspection VI
Tahirou Kampo, Chef de division comptabilite, BPE
Danzie Malle. Chef de section passation des marches, BPE
Issaka Dione. Directeur adjoint, IPN
M. Coulibaly, Chef de division de la recherche et des innovations pedagogiques, IPN
Boubacar Gaye, Chef de la division de forrnation, CFC
M. Maiga, Directeur de la fornation continue, CFC
Idrissa Diarra, Directeur de la recherche et de l'evaluation, IPN
Cheik Boucari Kante, Directeur de curriculum, IPN
Souleymane Sangare, Responsable pour le curriculum en double vacation, IPN
Bala Keita, Directeur Technique, AGETIPE
Mme. Thera, Chef du Projet, AGETIPE
Chahine Rassekh, responsable du programme education, USAID
Nseka Vita, charge des statistiques, PDEB/USAID
Fantamady Keita, Cellule Nationale de la Scolarisation des Filles
Philippe Georgeais, Conseiller Culturel, FAC
Nancy Devine, Directrice, World Education
Souleyymane Kante, Coordinateur du Progranmme, World Education
Abdoulave Toure, Charge de Projet APE, World Education
El Hassan Diarra, Directeur Adjoint, DNETP
M. M'Bo Bah, Directeur Regional, Sikasso
Moussa Sissoko, Inspecteur, Sikasso I
Modibo Coulibaly, Inspecteur, Sikasso II
Issaka Keita, Responsable DET, Antenne FAEF, Sikasso
Fadiala Coulibaly, Conseiller Pedagogique, IEF, Sikasso I
Brehirna Ouattara, Conseiller Pedagogique, Sikasso 11
Bakary Sanogo, President de l'APE, Sikasso
Cinq directeurs d'ecole dans la circomscription de Sikasso, v compris
Directrice de l'Ecole B 1, Sikasso (Ecole double-vacation)



- 33 -
15 instituteurs des ecoles de la region de Sikasso (Bougoula Hameau, Zanton Ziasso, Natie,
Zandiakolobougou, Lofine), y compn's
M. Diarra, Instituteur premiere annee. Ecole Bl, Sikasso
Brehima Sidiki Traore, Instituteur troisieme annee, Ecole B 1, Sikasso
Oumou Coulibalv Yattara, Institutrice quatneme ann6ee Ecole BI, Sikasso
Directeur et Instituteur 1-2 de I'ecole double division, Lofine
M. Berthe, Instituteur 5-6 double division, Lofine
Zana Sanogo. Instituteur 3-4 double division. Lofine
Daouda Sanogo, Instituteur ecole villageoise. Zandiakolobougou






k4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-.
I!    ~~~~~~~~. ......
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..   .                            .3 .....:  :- ..: :.--::::
.. - ... E ....... .... i ...... . . - ..... H .........~~~~~~~~~~.........-
-i- t ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                           ,  -.-.  .   .....  ....   ...   --..:U 
.-;...-.  '   -..  H   .   .- .-  -..   ..  -  ..:...  -....-.  . --:.-....S.    ,    ..   ...:.:.;:  .-...  -..:.    -.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. ....... .......
.. ..  ..- ..-    .          @............. ..  .... .  ..   -......   .    .  -. 
.....    .     -     -.       ...             -       - . .... .          -.        -1                        '
-~~~~~~~~~~ ~~                  ~             ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .. -.C.-......j 
--   ..       -- -;.                                       -. .....  ...              a-   -     . :.        .--: -
.''.2~ ~ ~ ~~~~~.. ..'.....                    S             .:   ;.:......
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.-..                   .....   k . -:-
;;-....... ; :. ;.-. .;
k  , K,  ~~~~~~~~~~.             .                                                                                                    .... ...  0000 000    0  
|    I4i;   M 8   9 ti                                                                                                           ,        t 9,          ' A      0<                    ,   , _ ^ +, 0, ~ 9           $              0   .       $ 0  . 0 0..|






INTRODUCTION
Le IVeme Projet Education est un proDet hybride constitue
- d'un volet a "d6caissement rapide' accessible apres execution d'un programme
d'a]ustement seccoriel, et
- d'un volet "investissement" centre sur l'enseignement du premier cycle et la gestion
des ressources du secteur de l'education.
Le rapport qui suit entreprend de faire, pour chacun des volets et des composantes du
Projet, une revue et l'analyse
- des objectifs ;
- des resultats enregistres ou realisations
- des enseignements a tirer de l'execution des dispositions du proDet.
Ces analyses resument l'ex6cution du Projet et donnent de ce fait les indications
utiles sur les actions de l'IDA, du gouvernement ainsi que sur l'organisation de la
coordinatior. du IVe Projet.
La premiere partie du rapport est consacree au PASED, la d  . eme, a l'Investissement
et la troisieme aux m6canismes de renforcement et de ca.  alisation des acquis du
Projet.
G



I.PROGRAMME  D'AJUSTEMENT  DU  SECTEUR  DE  L'EDUCATION
(PASED)
1.1.OBJECTIFS
Dans le secteur de lPEducation, le gouvernement s'est fix6 deux objectifs majeurs dans
le long terme A savoir (a) le retablissement de l1equilibre du systeme educatif par
' elargissement de l'acces A 1enseignement du ler cycle tout en developpant  les
auzres niveaux en fonction des besoins du marche du travail et des disponibilites en
ressources, (b) l'amelioration de la qualite et de la pertinence de I instruction A
tous les niveaux du sysceme.
Ce facon prioritaire, le Projet a concencre ses efforts sur (a) le relevement du taux
orut d'inscription,  (b) la qualice et la pertinence de lAducation primaire,  (c)
l amelioration des pratiques de gescion du secteur et (d) 1 incitation du secteur
criv6 A investir dans leducation.
L ensemble des dispositions du PASED est formalise dans une lettre de politiaue
Aducative edictant en onze points les mesures de reforme necessaires dont certaines
constituent en meme temps les conditionnalites des decaissements prevus.
1.2.ANALYSE DES OBJECTIFS
Au regard de la situation de lAducation au Mali dans les annees 80,  situation
caraccerisee par (a) un etat de desequilibre prononce du secteur de lducation,  (b)
u-.taux de scolarisacion ,res bas, (c) la baisse des indicateurs de qualite a tous les
n:.veaux dAducation,  (d) la faiblesse de la demande du secteur moderne en diplomAs du
secondaire et du superieur,  (e)  la gestion  inefficace des ressources  limitAes,
l'ajuatement s'imposait pour 6tablir le cadre de politique sectorielle indispensable
= la reussite de route action de revitalisation du secteur de leducation.
A cet egard, les objectifs du PASED se trouvent amplement justifies, de mAme
cu'apparaissent, comme appropriees, les mesures de rAforme envisagees pour stimuler
l acces ec lqauicA,  lad6quacion et lefficacite du systeme.
Pour oertinentes et necessaires au'elies soienc, ces mesures du PASED ne seront pas
coujours d'applicacion facile- Certarnes sont mAme signalees dans le rapport  et
Recommandations du President de l' IDA comme porteuses de risques. Ainsi en est-il de
ia r6ductlon des bourses. de la cestion rigoureuse du personnel et de la conduite du
changement en genera'. On peu. se demander pourquoi I'IDA ne va pas au-dela de cette
cause de style alors qu' l convenait de prendre en compte, comme dans toute bonne
s:ra.eaie, la dimension probabilaste qui fait la part du hasard dans le deroulement
des evenements.
L'axecucion du PASED peut s'averer ardue parce que le Mali ne semble pas assurer de
:acon Avidente la paternite des rAformes en question.
Cans les phases de conception ea de prAparation du Projet, l' implication des cadres
de l'ducation n'a pas etA suffisante pour que ceux-ci s'adjugent la propriAte du
Projet et Ia conduisent comme .elle.
_'application d'une autre mesure oarast hypothAtique, celle qui prevoit de consacrer
*3% be la TDRL A des depenses deducation au ler cycle.
1.3.REALISATIONS :
Le train de mesures de reforme duI PASED a AtA entierement mis en oeuvre et son
execut:on  poursuivie,   non  sans  anicroche.   Les  rAsultats  sont  globalement
sascza:sasnts. Si, pas endroizs,   Is se situent en deca  des attentes, les contre-
cerformances relevent davantage de lacunes dans la stratAgie de preparation et de
c=onduice du Projec. I1 con-:ient de noter, avec insistance, que la volonte des
au.orites d'applizuer le PASED n'a jamais etA prise en defaut. La poussee des bourses
e: des effectifs bu secondaire et du superieur en 1991 participe d'un cmpondArablE
con cuvif a la tres  forte  propension  des acteurs du changement  (politiciens,
&-udiancs, syndicats) a la pr6servation et au renforcement de leurs privilages.
Au nombre des realisations les plus importantes, on note
- la creation et le fonctionnement effectif du FAEF ;
- Ia restructuraticon du budget de 1 education avec dissociation du ler et du 2Ame
cycle, du materiel et des bourses ;
- la revision des objectifs, contenus et horaires du ler cycle;
'l'laboration pour le secteur de lbducation, d'un programme d'investissement
triennal glissant (1991-1993) ;
- la rationalisation des procedures de passation des marches
- la pratique de la double vacation -
- lPAlvation du taux de scolarisation
- le reddploiement (partiel) du personnel
le renforcemen. institutionnel des demembrements des ministeres de lAeducation.
1.4.ENSEIGNEMNTS A TIRER DE L'EXECUTION DU PASED :
in raison de la rAputation dA6pouvantail qu'on fait genAralement aux  programmes
d'aDustement ea du caractcre novateur et complexe du IVAme Projet, la conception et
Ia preparation,  laex6cution  et  le  suivi  de  ce projet  meritaient  un  pilotage
systematique.
:1 convenait notamment de faire participer le plus grand nombre possible de cadres de
lAducation au processus dA6tablissement du IVAme Projet. Ceci aurait faciliti leur
adh6sion et reduit tout au moins leurs  veantuelles prAventions tout en permettant de
4e&ielocoer le sentiment d'appropriation des reformes. Deux avantages ma)eurs peuvent
3



en  decouler  :  (a)  la  stratt3gie  de  conditionnalic6  perdrait  son  caractere
d' intervention externe dont l'effet est de renforcer la r6sistance au changement ; (b)
l'adh6s:on par conviction garantit plus le succes que la soumission par la coercition.
A ce titre, l'organisation du seminaire de lancement du IVe Projet etait une bonne
strategie quoique imparfaitement exploitee.
La mise en oeuvre de reformes conditionnelles doit tenir davantage compte de l'l1ment
probabiliste inseparable de toute strategie de changement.
Une saine evaluation des tribulations consecutives a mars 1991 doit appeler une
appr6clation autre que la suspension pure et simple des decaissements restants.
Les difficultes financieres limitent toujours la marge de manoeuvre d'un gouvernement
qu'il soit d6mocratique ou autre. Il importe, en cons6quence, que le soutien a
accorder pour la mise en oeuvre de la politique de reforme soit substantial.
Deux axes ont ete explores pour assurer l'expansion de leducation primaire, (a) la
renovation du systeme ex:stant, (b) le controle des depenses. La promotion du non-
formel peut s'averer tout aussi prometteuse.
L'utilisation actuelle de la TDRL ne garantissant pas l'emploi A des fins dA6ducation
de la tranche prevue A cet effet, il est urgent deaviser A un autre mode de gestion
de cette taxe.
II.PROJET  DE  CONSOLIDATION  DU  SECTEUR  DE  L'EDUCATION-VOLET
INVESTISSEMENT
Composante 1 :
Accroissement de l'offre et de la demande d'education primaire.
Cette composance visait lexpansion de leducationprimaire dans les regions de Segou,
Sikasso et le District de Bamako au moyen (a) de 1laugmentation de l'offre dans les
zones urbaines, (b) de la relance de la demande sociale dA6ducation dans les zones
rurales, (c) du soutien a lenseignement priv6 et (d) de la stimulation de l'education
des filles.
Obiectif  1.1
Ac_ro;ssemens  de  l'offre  dAducation  dans  les  zones  urbaines.  L'augmentation
s'effectuera par la construction de 275 salles de classe, la rehabilitation d'environ
1.235 classes et l'am6nagement de 375 autres pour la double vacation.
Analyse de l'obiectif :
Sur le plan des  Bamako reaoit 200 classes neuves et  305
amenagees pour la double vacation
infrastructures, Segou       -      44     -       -         39
Sikasso  -       30    -        -          32
:1 s'agit de tester dans ces villes des approches originales visant a augmenter les
effectifs au niveau du ler cycle.  Pour ce faire,  les 274 classes neuves seront
equ.ipees pour repondre aux normes de la double vacation comme les 376 autres a
amenager A cet effet.
Les r6habilitations et reparations concourent autant A l'augmentation de lI'ffre qu'A
lam6lioration de la qualit6 de l'enseignement.
R6alisations :
Les resultats ont ete tres probants en deoit de loccurrence d'un certain nombre de
facteurs defavorables :
- lenteurs, au depart, dans la mobilisation des ressources des APE pour leur
pa7rtiFpation au FAEF ;
- modification du taux de contribution des bailleurs de fonds (50% jusqu'en    1991,
75% A partir de 1991 et 90% A partir de la d6valuation du Franc CFA; - devaluation
de 50% du Franc CFA.
Le  dispositif  d'op6racionnalisation  des  interventions  de  genie  civil  s'est
progressivement Atendu, A la faveur des Projets PDEB et OPEP, par la creatlon d'une
ancenne FAEF A Koulikoro en 1994, puis A Tombouctou et A Gao, l'antenne de Gao prenant
en charge la r6gion de Kidal.
En matiere   (669 classes ont ect  construites sur une prAvision de
de gAnie      (274/275 ;
civll         (914 classes ont ete rAhabilit4es sur une prevision
de 1235 ;
(124 classes ont ete amenagees sur une prevision de 375 (on notera
le developpement exponent:al des  classes A double vacation,  l'cart
devenant  de plus  en plus considerable entre le nombre  de   salles
amenagees et celui oa se pratique la double vacation).
Au total, 1678 salles de classe ont ete equipees de mobilier dont les commandes ont
sotuffert de retard imputable surtout A une procedure d'acquisition peu appropriAe. Le
mobilier de confection locale, nonobstant son apparente rusticite, s'est revele le
mieux adapte.
Au nombre des autres realisations de g6nie civil du Projet ; il faut citer
- la r6novation de l'imprimerie de l'IPN ;
- l'extension du centre de stockage ec de distribution de  materiel p6dagoglque
4



- la construction de nouveaux bureaux pour le BPE ;
- l'am6nagement et l'extension des bureaux de la DAF
- les etudes architecturales relatives A l'amenagement de bibliotheques de
l'enseignement superieur et A 1'IPEG de Bamako.
La non-execution des cravaux consecutifs aux etudes architecturales est liee soit a
un manque de coordination entre les cofinanciers (cas de lex-IPEG) , soit a l'attente
d'une entente entre Gouvernaerent et IDA (cas des bibliotheques)
Enseiqnements & tirer :
II a &te observe une forte tendance des APE A privilegier les constructions aux depens
des r6habilitations. I1 convient de continuer de mener rAsolument de pair ces deux
sortes d'intervention en ins:stant sur l'explication du rationnel qui sous-tend cette
option.
La faiblesse de la capa-cta contributive des APE averee par lexecution du Projet
appelle qu'on s'interr^ge sur la fonctionnalite des APE. Au regard du role de
partenaire du premier plan que lut reconnaissent les autoritcs de lducacion et des
responsabilites qu'elle est censee assumer dans la gestion du patrimoine scolaire, il
devient  imperieux  que  l'assoclation  des parents dA6l1ves  ait  du point  de vue
structurel et fonctionnel un mode d'organisation compatible avec les exigences du
moment.
L'appel doffre local pour la fourniture de materiel comme le mobilier scolaire est
un partipris deliberA que !'IDA doit conceder dans ce type de Projet. L'effet de
ruissellement attendu aussi bien au profit de lconomie du pays dans son ensemble que
de son secteur prive embrvonnaire milite pour une option seleccive au benefice de
l'Etat assiste. L'initiative du BPE qui a consiste A etablir, pour les interventions
du genie civil, une lste des entreprises prequalifiees se situe dans la voie du
soutien A apporter aux partenaires s6rieux du secteur prive.
L'extension brusque de la zone d'intervention du IVeme Projet ainsi que levolution
tout aussi soudaine du taux de contribution des bailleurs de fonds a l'aDoarence de
mesures prises par defaut de prAvision fiable. Une preparation plus poussee du Projet
aurait permis d'avoir unae ide plus juste de la capacite des APE et une meilleure
connaissance de la capacitA d'absorotion des zones choisies.
Obiectif  1.2:  S.imu__aicn de la demande d'education en milIeu
rurai.
Le Projet prevoit, A cea  effec
- la construction de 30 ecoles de village
- la construction ec la rAhabilitation d'installation connexes;
- la fourniture de manuels scolaires, d'equipements et de mat6riel
- Ie financement de campagnes dinformation de masse
- dautres accivit6s de cromotion.
Analyse  de  l'obiectif
U1 s'agit surtout d'agir sur la perception que les populations on: de i'ecole aui doic
d6sormais etre desirable et desirAe. En outre, on agit sur les coats d'opportunitc de
la scolarisation en matiere de facilite d'acc6s(construction d'ecoles et de puits,
multiplication de classes multigrades) et de mesures incitatives  (adaptation des
programmes  scolaires,  distribution de manuels,  amelioration  de l'environnement
scolaire)
Le Projet prevoit de proceder periodiquement A l etude de la perception de l education
par les parents et A celle de lA6volution de leurs attentes.
R6alisations :
Sans pmrler d'une tendance nettement affirmee, la demande dA6ducation traduite en
termes de requetes introduites aupras du FAEF, a cr0 d'une annee A lautre, durant le
cours du Projet. Nombre de requAtes sont restees insatisfaites.
Le nombre de classes multigrades a notablement augmente, de meme cue celui des classes
A double vacation naguere reservees uniquement aux centres urbains.
La creation de 50 ecoles communautaires constitue l'amorce dune  voie riche de
promesses eu Agard A leffet d'entrainement que la pleine responsabilisation des
populations esc supposee provoquer.
Enseiqnements a tirer :
La scimulation de la demande, en matiere dAducation, est diffic1lement envisageable
sans une etude, au prealable, des besoins de la population dans ce domaine. 11 est
tout aussi malaise d'influea  de maniere durable sur cette demande sans partir de
l1tat  de developpemen: des ressources humaines dans cette societe. La demande
dAducation  d'une  population  Atant  proportionnee A  son  propre  niveau  general
dinstruction  il convient dinscrire lalphabetisation au nombre des actions de
transformatron des conditions de vie
Obiectif 1.3 : Soutien au secteur prive.
Les mesures d'incitation au d-veloppement des services prives dA6ducation prevoient
la construction de 30 Acoles be base en zone urbaine et de 30 ecoles de village. II
est en outre pr6vu diverses fazilites dSordre administratif (octroi de terrain pour
lerection dA6coles, accommodements fiscaux, appui pedagogique. conclusion daccord
de gestion ou de l:cence:.
5



Analyse de l'objectif :
L'expansion du secteur prive de L1education est un des ob3ectifs A long terme du
Projet. C'est l'un des 6lements cles des programmes d'ajustement au Mall. Cette
expansion s'operera surtout par :
- l'encouragement de l'apport de ressources privees dans le financement de l'bducation
- la cr6ation de nouveaux types dbAcole privee
- la stimulation de lesprit d'entreprise des eieves
- la creation de micro-entreprises a travers la ligne de cr6dit ouverte aux jeunes
dipl6m6s.
Realisation
L'apport de ressources priv6es dans les interventions du FAEF a 6t6 effectif. Ainsi
ont 6t6 realisees 153 salles de classe au profit du priv6 catholique et des medersas,
24 ecoles de base urbaines et 50 ecoles communautaires. Eleves et maitres du secteur
priv4 ont eu A benEficier de divers appuis du Projet (manuels scolaires, mat4riel
didactique, formation continue, supervision p6dagogique) . La ligne de cr4dit a permis
la cr6ation de 78 micro-entreprises.
Enseignements a tirer :
Le dbveloppement du secteur priv4 de lducation est, sans conceste, une voie riche
de promesses. Pour la securisation des investissements effectues dans ce secteur, la
prudence conseille de privil4gier les 6coles communautaires A cause des effets induits
que la responsabilit4 des populations peut entrainer. En tous les cas, il convient
dbenvisager des mesures conservatoires pour pr6venir la d4gradation prema.uree des
batiments.
La sauvegarde du pacrimoine physique des ecoles (au public et au priv6) appelle un
mode de gestion approprie afin que les batiments gardent un air qui participe a la
qualite de lAbducacion.
Dans la perspective de l'Avolution ascendante de la demande d'bducation en milieu
rural,  la rAflex_.on doic s'orienter vers la conception d'un type de construction
adapte aux conditions locales. La responsabilisation des populations fait penser a des
locaux multifonct:cnnels.
Obiectif 1.4 : Encouragement de la participation des filles A
1l ducation.
Le Projez pr6voit (a) laugmentation des taux d'inscription, de promotion et de
retention des filles au ler cycle, (b) l'am6lioration de la qualite des programmes de
ce cycle par 1' introduction de principes be sant6, de nucr:tion, de soins aux enfants,
(c) le renforcemenc de la participation frmin_ne dans le corps enseignant du ler
cycle
Analyse  de  l'obiectif
Le plan d'action de la scolarisation des filles or6voit
- une etude des fac-eurs d'incitacion a la frAcueantation scolaire chez les filles
- la constructi.on, A crcre experimental, dA6coLes satellitesa  deux classes pour la
rAduction des discanccs ;
- ladaptacion des programmes aux attentes Aconomiques et sociales des parents
une campagne m6diacique de promotion de la scolarisation des filles.
R6alisation :
D'importantes actions du IVPme Pro3et ont eu trait a la scolarisation des filles
etude des facteurs dencouragement de la scolarisation des filles ;
renovation des programmes du ler cycle et de formation initiale des enseigna-ts
- campagEe mAdiatique de promotion de cette scolarisation
- seminaire national sur la scolarisation des filles
- creation d'une Cellule Nationale et de Cellules Regionales et locales de
scolarisation des filles (avec des programmes d'action a l'appui)
- ceremonies de distribution de prix ;
- volet spAcial sur la scolarisacion des filles dans le schema de suivi et evaluation
du Projet ;
note de serv-ice, A partir de 1993, prescrivant l'inscriotion, en nombre eaal, de
filles et de gar7ons en classe de lAre annbe.
En 1993-94, le taux bruc de scolarisation au Mali Atait de 36,4% et celui des filles
de 27,9D`.
En 1990-91, les femmes representaient 23% du ccrps enseignant au ler cycle. En 1994-
95, ce taux s est moncA A 24%.
Enseignements a tirer :
L'appreciation des couts d'opportunitA 11As i la scolarisation des filles est
actuellement ancachee de la perception negative que les populations rurales ont d'une
ecole quaelles jugent exogane. La rAfexion dci: donc se poursuivre sur la recherche
du t-pe d'ecole le mieux adapte a ce milieu.
Sur le chapitre des avantages escomptAs par la famille, on estime generalement, au
Mali, que  les  femmes  -les  scolarisees  plus  aue  les autres-  fournissent  plus
dbassistance a leurs parents que les hommes.
Pour Atre durables, les rAsultats obtenus doivent Atre soutenus et renforces par des
actions permanentes, sanon on court le risque de l'evanescence subsequente aux
6



interventions sporadiques. Outre l'application de la politique d' inscription des
filles ec des gargons en nombre egal, on peut envisager des mesures cornme l'octroi
d'une prime dlencouragement, chaque annee et dans chaque IEF, aux ecoles ou centres
d'alphab4tisation ayant reussi certaines performances en matiere de scolarisation,
promotion et retention des filles.
L'essor de la scolarisation des filles (et de la scolarisation en g6neral) pourrait
etre amplement favorise par lorganisation, en milieu rural, dun systeme d4ducation
pr6scolaire original, different en tous points des jardins d'enfants actuels.
Composante 2: L'am4lioration de la qualite et de la pertinence de l1enseignement
au ler cycle.
Obiectifs
Le Projec entreprend d'am6liorer significativement la qualit6 et la pertinence de
1'enseignement au ler cycle par (a) le renforcement des capacites institutionnelles
de I' IPN, (b) l'amdlioration du soutien et du contr8le pedagogiques, (c) la r6vision
des programmes du ler cycle, (d) l'6valuation de II impact des actions d'appui, (e) la
formation continue des maitres, (f) la fourniture de materiel et de manuels aux
ecoles.
Analyse  des  obiectifs
Cea objectif es: l'un des moteurs du Projet. Le niveau d'accomplissement recherche
implique la mise en oeuvre de moyens matAriels et institutionnels en proportion. II
sera ainsi cree a 1 IPN des "noyaux de competence" en elaboration et 6valuation de
programmes, en docimologie et en formation continue. II sera mis en place un
instrument de planification, le tableau de bord pedagogique comportant un volet pour
6valuer le progr6s des 61eves, un volet pour effectuer des enquetes au niveau des
eco_es af_n d'observer le comportement des el6ves et des enseignants, et de v6rifier
la presence at l'utilisation du materiel pedagogique, un volet pour des sondages
z_riodiques aupres des populations.
la renovat;on du programme d'enseignement prevue s'accompagnera de l'elaboration de
ncu.eaux manuels ea de guides pour le maitre ainsi que de l introduction de nouvelles
approches et methodes p6dagogiques. En matiere de renforcement et d'am4lioration du
sous ten et du concr8le Dedagogiques, le fonctionnement et les -apacites de gestion des
DRE eat IEF seront accrus, le r6le et la formation des Conseillers Pedagogiques seront
reaie:rns.  Cet  assortiment  de  mesures  atteste  l'importance  qu'on  attache  a
1'am6lioration de la qualite et de la pertinence de l'anseignement au ler cycle.
R6alisations :
Lae ve6 Pro&e: a introduit d' importantes am6lorations dans le syst6me educatif ou a son
orofit :
-   Muelage de l'IPN avec 1'IREDU et le CIEP
- existence de noyaux de comp6tence a lIPN en elaboraticn de programmes et en
4v.aluation
- :ormation continue, a grande 6chelle, du personnel : IEF, Conseillers Peddaogiques,
enseignants ;
- enovation des programmes du ler cycle et des horaires
se~mina-re national sur la double vacation ;
:--roduction de nouvelles approches et techniques p6dagcgiques;
---resence, dans les ecoles, de mat6riel et de manuels en quantit6 appr6clable.
-_ reste que plusieurs mesures prevues sont restees inaccomrolies
- zolitioue du livre scolaire
enqnetes r6gulires au niveau des ecoles
sondages periodiques aupres des parents.
Enseiq'nements a tirer :
L ex4cution du Iv6 Projet en g6neral et des mesures d'amdlioration de la qualite, an
r.articulier, a souffert dun manque de strategie adapt4e. Les diff6rences reformes ont
d a-pli cu&es par juxtaposition et non par ineegration. On sesa  davantage pr4occup4
de 1'ex6cution  stricte des dispositions  des  diff6rentes mesures  plutt  que dae
rz-.sioerer chacune delles comme une innovation a int6grer a lacquis selon la methode
acprcoriee .4 iintroduc:ion et a la dissemination d'une innovation. II en es: de meme
ro.-  un certain nombre de projets contemporains du IVe Projet (Programme Sahelien
- _- -at4on-SPE; Programme de ForTation et d'InformationenEnvironrement-PFIE; Projet
o ar- liorazion de la qualit6 de l Education-PAQE) ainsi que le Cent e d'Education pour
te D6.eloocement-CED et la Nouvelle Ecole Fordamnentale (NEF)qui son. autant d 6lements
pc-uant enr:rhir le sch6ma d'am6licration permanente de la qualite et de la pertinence
_e Inersetgnemenr. Ce mode integrateur des innovations donne aussi une couleur locale
,:c c -ngements qui s'operent.
Lmoroductif dexecution est largement imputable a la facon dont les Directions
:a- ionales de l'Education ont assume les responsabilit6s operationnelles des
composantes du Projet. Plutot que de travailler en equipe, elles ont evolu6 chacune
zart, au mepris meme du comite de suivi cens6 les rassembler chaque mois.
E-. eu ea place du syst4me de suivi et d'6valuation adopte, au reste peu operant, :1
aurair cre pr6Efrable dopter pour un pilotage strict faisant r4guli4rement le point
ie : avancement du Projet, des r6sultacs obtenus, des difficultes constat6es ea  des
:u::res actions a entreprendre. Ce qui naexclut evidemment pas les 6valuatior.s en
7



raccort avec les exigences du tableau de bord p6dagogique prevoyanc le testing des
eieves, la situation du materiel, l'observation des eleves et des maitres, le point
de vue des parents.
La double vacation, en tant que strategie de politique education  fait l'ob3et de
ceaucouc d'attention dans le sens d'une amelioration constante de son aoplication.
essentiel a ete acquis au s6minaire nat ional d'aou2t 1993 qui a enregistrr ladh6sion
a ce-.e innovation des principaux partenaires de 1'6cole  : APE,  AEEM,  syndicats
d'enseignants. Les mesures d'acccmcagnemer.t relatives a la taille de la cohorte et A
la prime ne doLvent pas souffrir de negligence car elles peuvent fournir ! occasion
d'alibis faciles.
-.a -.se en oeuvre de la politique du livre scolaire accuse un retard considerable. Les
actzor.s de distribution de manuels ont souvenc souffert d'un manque de coordination.
,a concertation s'impose entre 1'0PN, la DNAFLA et la DNEF pour la defini-ion de
dispositions pratiques en matiere de politique du livre.
la quaiite physique de l1'cole et de son environnement: comme parametre participant a
1'am6lioration de la qualite de l'enseignement esc A prendre en compte.  D'ou la
necessit6  d'evoluer  vers  un  mode  de  aesrion  qui,  A  la  maniere  des  ecoles
communautaires, privilEgie la responsabilisation des parnenaires de 1' '6ducation.
Composante  3  : Strat6gie de restructuration des enseignements
secondatre et sup6rieur.
Oblectif  3.1  : Renforcement institutionnel des Directions de
lenseignement secondaire er sup6rieur.
Analyse de l'oblectif :
Ce cui est recherche, cest avant tout le reeauil_.brage du svsteme educatif, ur.e bcnne
cesziodn des bourses, l'ameliorat on de la qua; .e de l'enseignement A ces deux niveaux
d' Aducatlcn.
1 est aoparu, a la lumeIre des evenements de 1991, que les mesures de contingentement
des effeczt:s et de r6duction de bourses Ataien: diff:cilement real'sabies.
Realisations :
clan de structurarion de l'enseignement superieur pris en compte dans le  Pr^gramrme
dAcenn.al de C6veloppement de l'E_ucaticn ;PDCE)
- can de consolidation de la format-on prcfessionnelle ifinancement Barque Mondia'e)
etude sur la restructurarion de I'ense:gnement secondaire.
Enseiqnements  a  tirer
'e MESSRS et ses directions narconales s'6eant juges marginalis6s dans l'exec-;:on du
.Veme Pro,et, il convienr de prevoir et d'organiser la participation effective de ces
ser.,:ces a la conception et A l'executicn du Projet. L'6laboration d'un olan de
restructurratcn requiert la prise en co..pe de i'avis de tcus les partenaJres.
P?ur reussir l'adaptation des programmes au secondaire et du superieur aux exigences
ru marcht. de l'emploi, i1 es. :ndiscensable d'assurer le suivi des sortancs a ces
.eaux.
_a suite logique de l'impulsion dcnnee A 1'enseignement oriv6 au fondamental, crest
'e develocoement de ce reseau aux nivea-x secondaire et sup6rieur. Les autorites
av:seront a la politique d'inci,at;on apcropriee.
Oblectif  3.2  : Renforcement des capacit6s de gestion au
secondaire et au suc-rieur.
Analyse  de  l'obiectif
I1 s'agiz notamment (a) de li'nformatisazion des deux direccions et du ser-vice des
bourses, et (b) d'un appui en formation -. assistance technique pour la gestion du
svs-eme A ces deux niveaux.
Realisations
Quatre ordinateurs, dont 2 pour la gestizn des bourses, ont ete fournis au MESSRS
des agents ont particip6  des sessions de formation a 1' REDU, ce qui n'a cependant
pas mis, a i'abri de problermes, le syst.cme de gestion des bourses. Un nouveau sys.ame
:-.f-rma:=ue sera installe au cours de la phase preparatoire du PDDE.
Enseicnements  a  tirer
L',uti1 intormarique ne peut assurer a u1  seul lam6lioration d'une gestion. :I faut,
au prealable, une volonce aff-rmee et ur choix de'ib6re de ia part des gest:cnnaires.
D'ou la necessicr  de coucler, dans la crAearation d'un projez, l'information et la
sens:bilisation sur les obDectifs. Un daspositif rigoureux de pilorage aurcrise une
exe-cution et un suiv' dans les condirc.ns les meilleures.
Objectif  3.3  : Renovation de biblicthAques de 3 grandes ecoles.
Analyse de l'oblectif :
-1 s'agLt d'un appui aux am6lorazIons v:sant A.faciliter la 1ere phase de la refosrrne
au niveau de l'enseLgnement superieur: r4novarion et reconstitution des bibliotheques
ce l'ENA, ENI et ENSUP, de l'acquisic:or. d'un fonds documentaire de 20.000  livres de
8



reference et de la fournizure de mat6riel.
Realisations :
Les etudes d'architecture onc commence mais sont rest6es en rade en raison de reserves
6mises par la Banque Mondiale.
La Coop6ration francaise a dote Les 3 biblioth6ques de manuels er de livres de
reference  de base  ; elle  a aussi  finance  l'informatisation  en  reseau  de  ces
bibliocheques. Le FAC a assure les oetits travaux de renovation necessaires pour la
mise en place des livres ez des ordinateurs.
EnseiQnements  a  tirer
Au cours de l'execution de l'accord de credit, la Banque Mondiale semble avoir fait
opposition au financement de la renovation des bibliotheques de l'enseignement
sup6r2eur. En pareil cas, la manifestation de la volonte politique du gouvernement et
le caractere democratique de l'Etat ne sont-ils pas un gage suffisant ?
Obiectif  3.4  : Ouverture d'une ligne de credit pour financer la
creation de micro-entreprises par de jeunes dipl6mes.
Analyse  de  l'oblectif
La s; mulazlon de '-esprit d'entreprise et la creation de micro-entreprises sont au
nombre des apouis que le Projet prevoit en direction du secteur prive.
Realisations
La ligne de credit a ete effec.ivement ouverte A la Bank of Africa avec l'appui
.echnrque du projet PNUD-qBT.31S M;llions de FCFA ont ete pretes a de jeunes diplomes
pour -inanrier 68 projecs et creer 227 emplois. En 1995, 78 micro-entreprises etaient
en activize et ava:enr  cree 398 emDlois. A la date du 31 mars 2998,  _e taux de
rem!D3ursemen: etai: de 73% soit 161 Millions CFA, avec 59 Millions CFA d' impayds et
9, >1'11ons SFA d'encours. Sur ces impay6s, int6r6ts et penalites sont appliques, ce
ca: f^nne un sol4e debiteur de 39 Millions CFA. Au nombre des procedures prevues pour
assurer l'sseaure jurldiaue de la transaction, l'accord de pret subsidiaire entre la
.:sse Autonome d'Amorr:ssement et la BOA- le fonds de garantie a conscizuer oar la
C.AA  33,) et la BOA (20%) - n'esz pas encore operationnel.
Enseiqnements a tirer :
L'e.xperience a ete concluance. Elle merite d'8tre poursuivie. Un svs:arme de liaison
avec l'enseignement superieur est A imaginer afin d'assurer l'informa:1on et la
sens:billsation des 4tudaran.s en mazi4re d'entreprenariat. II va sans dire que l'appui
esz A or6voir sur 'es plans institutionnel et technique.
Le risaue etan: consubs:an:iel a la creation d'entreprise, les candidats a la ligne
-e credit do:vent etre olacAs an si.uation d'assumer totalement les charges convenues.
: es: sounalzable cue les futurs entrepreneurs du programme soient orlentes vers les
sec-eurs ou les investissemencs sont rentables a long terme.
_e programme dappui a la crearion de mi_ro-entreprises doit disposer d'Informations
-ac_-es sur  'e marche de 1'emoloi d'une part et deun systome rd goureux de suivi de
sora"ants des ecoles d'autre  rar-e.
Composant  4        Renforcement de la capacit.  de planification et de gaesion du
secteur de l'education.
Ob1effltif 4.1
Renforcer les movens de la Direction de la Planification afin d'assurer la collecte,
1' analyse et la publicat;-on des stat_stiques du secteur de l'6ducati on.
Analyse  de  l'obiectif
Objeczif strategique.  1  s'agi:, A la fois, de tenir a jour la carce scolaire, de
ma^ r:ser  les  flux  d'6l%ves  et  J'6:udiants,  deffectuer  des  enau4:es  sur  les
pr:nc:paux orobl6mes du secteur, d' informer et de former les autres directions
na;:ornales dans les domaines des stanistiques de base et de l'analvse de la politique
sectorielle, de tenir A jour un tableau de bord sur les indicateurs critiques du
secteur -e L'Lducation.
Realisations :
t an.n.uaEre s:a:_s:ique es: puz::e ae-  a carte scolaire informatisee. Ces :nszruments
gagrnera:ent A ecre utilises  De facon plus optimale.
as agents de toutes les DRE cr.: re?u a Bamako une formation en infcrmacirue. Les
*co-dtitcns son: d6sormals rerunies pour que la saisie des donnees se fasse sur place
dans !es regions.
La zarte scolaire, actuellemen: descriptive, entreprend d'&tre previs:onnrele.
Un-.e etuce mren-e par la CPS sur le personnel enseignant a permis le redeploiement
. en.'irons  600  agents  don:t   e  rendement dans  les  classes  nrest  pas  coujours
n-.'aincan;.
La CPS e- d'autres agents du MEE ont 4t6 inities A l'usage des ordinateurs et formes
ga'emne-.- ern estion des ressources humaines. Malheureusement, le reinvestissement des
9



acquis n'est pas toujcurs assure.
I1 convient de noter que la suppression de la DNPES a beaucoup contrarie
I'accomplissement des actions.
Le mandat recu par la CPS ne couvre pas tous les domaines d'intervention de la DNPES.
Enseiqcnements a tirer :
Les donnees informaiLs4es sont des informations pour aider a la prise de decision. Les
avantages aui y sonc l:es doivent etre suffisamment mis en iumiere afln que l'habitude
ce recour r a ces auxll-aares soit permanente.
La labiliit  des connaissances en informatique est d'une rapidite surprenante quand il
manque le support de la pracique. Les agents ayant requ une formation doivent etre
places en situation de reinvestissement de lacquis qu'ils viennent de maltriser.
La CPS assure avec bor.neur l'information statistique. La fonction de planification est
A reactiver.
Le rendement de la plupart des directions nationales de l'education, dans l'ex6cution
du IVe Pro3et, a pAti du mode de suivi. Le pilotage sysu6matique met a i'abri des
risques de duplication ec de gels d'actions.
_e red6plo3ement a e.e mene de facon plutot m6canique. I1 fallaic, dans ce domaine si
delicar, agir avec discernement.
Le tableau de bord esc un oucil d'aiguillage irrempi.acable. Sa mise A jour doit etre
une pr6cccupation des autcrit6s.
Oblectif 4.2 : Renforcement des moyens de la DAF.
Analyse de l'obiectif :
L'appui au profit de la DAF doit aider A mettre en oeuvre la restructuration
budg6Laire, le redep'ciement du personnel et la razionalisation de la passation des
marches.
R6alisations
tjne etude orovisoire sur le personnel, l'organisation ec les m6chodes du ME3 a ete
mnene par ie bureau d'ctude, SODEFEG, en  1992.
Le 2 ersonne7. de la DAF a requ de la formation en mact:re de gestion de ressources
:^umaines et ::nanc:eres. L'informatisation des donnees est effective.
L'ne  ctude  sur  la  restructuration  du  budget  a  ece  menee  par  l'IREDU.  La
diff6renciazion, sans ambiauit6, des diff6rents postes de daeenses, notamment budget
du ler  et du 2eme c_c-e.
L'informatisation des 'ourses a ete entreprise en 199'.
Enseiqnements a tirer :
La correcc ^n des distorst:ons et inefficacit6s du svsteme est une entreprise de longue
haleine. A la comopeence a taire acquerir par les agencs, il faut que soic associde
laur voloncd de bier, fa;re.
7'elaborar:cn d'une strat4gie sectorielle et du plan de ieveloppmemnt de la main-
d'oeuvre est encore a entreorendre.
Oblectif 4.3 : Renforcement de la gestion decencra:isee de `'6ducation.
Analyse de I'obiectif :
Les actions or6vues a cet efaec comprennent des s6m:naires de -ormacion au benefice
de la DNEF, des DRE et des IEF ainsi que l'octroi d'un  soutien  logistique et
administratif aux s.ructures decentralisees de I'4ducation.
Realisations
La caoacit6 d'encadrement de la DNEF a ete renforcze par 1'6quipement des DRE et IEF
en vehirule entretenus et dotes regulierement en carburant.  En outre,  un appui
important comportanz armoires, bureaux de maitre, k:ts p6dagogiques, tables-bancs, a
ete fourni aux eccles. Formacion en cours d'emploi des IEF, CP, enseignants.
Une large auconomle esz assuree aux DRE et IEF A travers le PDEB.
Des mobylettes prevues pour garantlr l'autonomie de deplacement des CP n'ont pu etre
livrees.
Enseignements  a  tirer
Les sessions de fcrmac:on continue des IEF, et enseignar.:s se tiennent parfois A des
:noments peu compatibles avec le travail en classe. I1 importe qu'on soit attentif au
profit pedagogique A t_rer de ces stages afin que l'appAt du lucre ne l'emporte sur
le Cesoin d'ac_cmri:ssemen: et de perfectionnemenc.
'our cerme::re l'aocro=r:ation, par les enseignants,  des diff6rences innovations
introdu:;es par le Pr=e: ea  pour faciliter l'int6gration de ces innovations dans le
schema pbdagogique des eccles, les sessions de formaticn peuvent etre mises A profit
pour organ:ser des ecf.anges sur les praciques nouvelies et sur les facons de les
ameiicrer.
Obiectif  4.4  : Gest:on des ressources physiques.
Analyse de l'obiectif :
L'or re.c.- la cc..solidacion des moyens du BPE et de la DET pour permettre A l'un de
10



gerer et de coordc*nner le Pro]et, a l autre, de orendre soin du patrimoine scolaire.
R6alisations
Uin guide de ccrstruflction et de mainzenance a ete distribue pour accompagner
1 execution et le sU'Li des acniv its relatives    a a gestion des ressources physiques.
Cet ou- ' do.L  ezre u;:lise zour assurer ur.e bonne maintenance des batiments.
Un logiciel FRAMEWORK a dte installe pour appuyer les services de comptabilit6 du
Projet. Mais i1 svagit d'un logicrel de traitement de textes essentiellement.
Enseiqrnements a tirer :
Le BPE a joue le role de gestlon du Projet plutst aue celui de coordination. Cela est
surtout duC au fa:r aue les autres directions nationales de l'Education ne sont pas
suffisamment impliaudes dans l'execution du Projet. A l'avenir, un systeme de pilotage
d6finlra les mecanismes de concertazion ez de decision A tous les niveaux.
En consid6ration de certai-es difficultes constatces dans la passation des marches
(longs delais de signature, retrait de projet de marche ou annulation de depouillement
'aute de fonds disconibles!  ii est necessaire de mettre en place un systeme fiable
d' rnformacis.o et de communication au sujet des proc6dures du Projet, de meme qu'un
systeme de comctab:llct  informatisee.
III.ANALYSE DES MECANISMES DE RENFORCEMENT ET DE CAPITALISATION
DES ACQUIS DU PROJET :
D'une maniere cenerale, cout le disnosi-tif  revu pour l'ex6cution du IVe Projet, des
organes de m:se en oeuvre kcomite de suivi,  commission interminist6rielle,  comite
annue' conroin.:) aux organes de rdgulation (r6unions annuelles d'echanges de vues
entre Emorun:eur et I3A. pr-cramme tr:ennal glissan.: revise des investissements et des
depenses puc 'c_ues d'eAducat,on), tout parzicipe peu ou prou A la consolidation des
objecs_fs at realisa-ions de ce Projet.
De faclon pl_s scpc_fiaue, deux instrumencs,  le tableau de bord pedagogiaue et le
tableau ze bzrd trimestriel, ont dtA nr6vus pour pr6carer ' :mplantation des reformes
e- ie ra`aermlssemen  ase leurs resultats.
Tableau  de bord p6dacocicrue
7nstrumen- be olanification, il es: aussi la mesure de 1' imact du Projet. II comprend
un disucs:-f e-n 3 volets
- le testing 4du rendement des eleves (tous les 2 ans)
-las conditcins de travail dans !es classes (presence d'equipements, utilisation de
ma:er1el d:iacic ue) et las attitudes des eleves et des maitres (A faire chaque
ann&ee';
- les nerceotions de l1'ducation par les parents, l'volucion de leurs atticudes (A
_aire per:oaiquemenc .
-'~'_? auJ a charge de ce tableau de bord pedagzgique, publie chaque annee, un rapport
'de su1'V: ec d'Svaluation du Projet de Develcnoement de l'Education de Base".
Ce racport couvre un eventail plus large que le tableau de bord  (formation des
enseianants, .AEF et rapcorts 6cole-communaute, materiel pedagogique, scolarisation
des f-lIes, rendement des e_eves) , ma:s il ne s'int6resse cu'au PDEB, le pendant US-
A:D du :VEme ProJer  Ii ne fait pas cas ncn plus de plusieurs reformes en rapport avec
le I'V1;e Prc-et (revision des programmes,  reduction de l'horaire hebdomadaire des
cours, double vacat,on, classe multigrace)
I1  convienz aue  le  Comit.  de  suivri  des  ac-tons  prioritaires  en  matiere  de
d-velocoemen: de l1ieducation mis en place en 1992 par le MEB voie au rajustement de
ce mode d-6valuation.
Tableau  de bord  trimestriel
s'aglz d'un cutil concu pour aider au renforcement de la capacite de planification
ec de gestion du secteur de l'education. :1 permet de suivre la realisation du
programme d'ajustement seccoriel a cravers un faisceau dindicaceurs critIques. Les
solutions de correction sont envisagees a mesure.
On nea pas fait grand usage de cet outil oue, du reste, la Banque Mondiale n'a pas
exige depuis 1991.
Sign-aions, pcur cAmoire, I' existence d'un certain nombre de structures qui concourent
auss: au renforcement et a la capitalisazton des acquis du IVeme Projet:
- la  2ommiss;on Nationale de Refondation du Svst-Te Educatif ;
- les Cellules Nationales, Regionales ea Locaies de scolarisation des filles.
Au demeurant, !es mecan:smes de renforcement et de capitalisation des acquis d'un
pro-e- se creent ou se mettent en place au cours du deroulement meme de ce projet. La
szracecie  ae mlse en ceuvre  d'une  innovation  comporte  toujours  les  modalites
d' adbpior.du changement e_ d' inrtgration de ce changement dans un corps de conduites.
Ed cter par acres une serie de mesures ou batir un corps de structures destines
precendumen- a sauveaarder des acquis ne serait pas plus utile qu'un cautere sur une
jambe de bots.
11



IBRD 27987
The boundaries, colors,
M    A    L  I                                                                                                          denominations an d  any
other infarmation shame
on this map do not
EDUCATION SECTOR                                 i\InilhSnntP patp
imply, on the port of
CONSOLIDATION PROJECT                                                              K                                                     h /d EckGop
EDUCATION   SECTOR                                                                              ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~The World  Bank  Group,
CONSOLIDATION   PROJEC'T                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~any judgment on the legal
status of any terrrtory,
PROJET CONSOLIDATION                                                                                                                  o anyKenorsement
or acceptance of such
SECTEUR EDUCATION                                                                                                                  budre
PROJECT AREAS
ZOttES DU PROJET                                                                         \
NEW BUILD NGS
CONTSTRUCTIONS NEUVES                  |
467   REHABILITATION                          i                                                            \
4- REHABILITATION                                                                                              \
CERCLE CAPITALS                         j/l
CAPITALES DES CERCLES
REG ON CAPITALS                                                                  <
CAPITALES REGIONALES
NATIONAL CAP TAL                                                                                        H D
CAPITALF D'ETAT                          j
CERCLE BOUNDARIES
LIMITES DES CERCLES                      j                                                                       K '    d1.
REGION BOUNDAR ES
LIMITES REGIONALES                        I
NTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                      ,"A k.` FGIN
FRONTIERES INTERNATIONALES                                       T OBDCTOU          t         B0-
GOURMA RHARDUS
0       50  lQ0 i50 200  250                                                     ,                                D _AD
E   _J  J--  -    ~S I                                                     D-                                                        eek
KILOMETES                                           j IN.f,
r-.~~~~.~~-*-.-*-.    *-L~~~~~~~~-<;~~~~.A-C
' remone   CHTNror\                   NORM                         0 uao                         \    
DOUENTZA                   _
)  KAYES             D,ne                                   TENENKOU MOPT
,_)                                                      P,ce                      B/_ Nondeoro3!  
B.focIcub b                                        Mrc r     JENNE            K 0,
sJ)           ~~~~ScGOL-  0K.
U, _)               ,yKoIokur  B0rlrrrull     REGION          r       mLc%
BOMBED' '  Kso                                 S 'SEGOU  L N
2O                   KBAt             JKO O           Bi.           T.          U                                    FR\  
)K_,b.         .0KATI                                          .                                                     SAHARA                    '
Koevctc      IPAtSstJ ESI    ON                                                             rocJPA E          AIO
46 7          iilodrb.  Koil                                                                       Is"       Bomo no\ S              ^       E
kAMAKO                5  - -                                                                                              '.BRKIAl 
22S fi S   K                    TGU, T- RA
22N  cI-*B  IN  GEMA
.     ,                                 .                                            _     GUl(JF_ PE '1 _ '   I HAN       ,.
APRIL 1996









IMAGING
Report No:      15720
Type: ICR



