Page  1
                                    July  25, 199_
His Excellency
Mr. Bassary Toure
Minister of Economy and Finance
Ministry of Economy and Finance
Bamako, Mali
      Re:  Credit No. 2054 MLI
           (Education Sector Consolidation Project)
           Amendment to the Development Credit Agreement
Excellency:
      We refer to the Development Credit Agreement (the "Agreement")
for the above-referenced Program between the Republic of Mali (the
"Borrower") and the International Development Association (the
"Association") dated July 19, 1989.
      We are pleased to inform you that the Association agrees with
the Borrower's amendment request dated July 3, 1991.  Consequently,
the Agreement is amended as follows:
      1.    By deleting in Section 2.02 (b) the words "Categories
(1) through (7)" and by substituting therefor the words "Categories
(1) through (6)".
      2.    By substituting in line 3 of Section 2.02 (b) the word
"account" with the words "deposit account (hereinafter referred to
as 'Special Account A')".
      3.    By inserting in line 5 of Section 2.02 (b) after the
word "the Association" the words "including appropriate protection
against set-off, seizure or attachment".
      4.    By substituting in line 6 of Section 2.02 (b) the words
"Special Account" with the words "Special Account Al".
      5.    By changing the lettering of Section 2.02 (c) in 112.02
(d)" and by inserting a new Section 2.02 (c) as follows:  "The
Borrower shall, for the purposes of Category (7) set forth in
paragraph 1 of Schedule I to this Agreement, open and maintain in
CFAF a special deposit account in the Bank of Africa (hereinafter
referred to as "Special Account Bl') on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association including appropriate protection
against set-off, seizure or attachment.  Deposits into, and payments
out of, the Special Account B shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement."
      6.    By deleting in Section 3.01 (c) the words from "at an
interest rate" in line 5 to the end of the sentence and by
substituting therefor the words It: (i) at an interest rate equal to
the taux escompte superieur of BCEAO as established from time to
time and increased by a margin set in conformity with BCEAO
regulations, satisfactory to the Association; and (ii) for a term of
six years including a grace period of two years".
      7.    By substituting the figure "50%" with "75%" in Category
1 of paragraph 1 of Schedule I to the Agreement.
      8.    By substituting the figure "80%" with 11100%" in
Category 7 of paragraph 1 of schedule 1 of the Agreement.
      9.    By substituting the amount "1,400,00011 with
"1,200,00011 in Category 10 of paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the
Agreement.
      10.   By substituting the amount "$100,000" with $10,00011 in
paragraph 3 (b) of Schedule 1 to the Agreement.
Page  2
      11.   By inserting after the words "contracts for the
procurement of goods" in paragraph 1 of Section III of Schedule 3 to
the Agreement the words "estimated to cost the equivalent of $
100,000 or more each".
      12.   By deleting paragraph 2 of Section III of Schedule 3 to
the Agreement and inserting therefor the following quote "2.
Contracts for the "procurement of goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of less than $ 100,000 "each shall be awarded:
      "(a)  by purchasers required to follow the Borrower's public
procurement "procedures for the importation of goods, on the basis
of such procedures, "provided that such procedures shall have been
found acceptable by the "Association;
      " (b)      by other purchasers, in accordance with established
commercial "practice, provided that such contracts shall be awarded
on the basis of "evaluation and comparison of quotations obtained
from suppliers from at least "two countries, except that direct
contracting procedures acceptable to the "Association may be used
where considered appropriate under paragraph 3.5 of "the Guidelines;
and
"     (C)   by any purchasers, for the supply of commodities on the
basis of "evaluation and comparison of quotations obtained from more
than one supplier.
"3.   With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph I of
this "Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prior
to the "submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of "funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract, two conformed "procedures followed and such other
information as the Association shall "reasonably request.  Where
payments under a contract are to be made out of the "proceeds of any
of the Special Accounts, such copies together with the other
"information required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to
this "paragraph shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence "required under paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.
" 4.  With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 2 of
this "Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prior
to the "submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of "funds from the Credit Account in respect thereof,
such documentation and "information as the Association may
reasonably request to support withdrawal "applications in respect of
such contract.  Where payments under a contract are "to be made out
of the proceeds of any of the Special Accounts, the "documentation
and the information to be furnished to the Association pursuant "to
the provisions of this paragraph shall be furnished to the
Association "as part of the evidence required under paragraph 4 of
Schedule 5 to this "Agreement.
"5.   The provisions of the preceding paragraph 4 of this Schedule
shall "not apply to contracts on account of which the Association
has authorized "withdrawals from the Credit Account on the basis of
statements of expenditures." unquote.
13.   By changing the title of schedule 5 to the Agreement in
"Special Accounts".
14.   By deleting paragraph 1 (a) of Schedule 5 to the Agreement and
substituting therefor the following:
      "(a) the term "Eligible Categories" means: (i) in the case of
Special Account A, Categories (1) to (6) of the table in paragraph
1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (ii) in the case of Special
Account Bl Category (7) of the table in paragraph 1 of the same
Schedule;"
15.   By deleting paragraph 1 (c) of Schedule 5 to the Agreement and
Page  3
substituting therefor the following:
      "the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount to be
withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into each of the
Special Accounts pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule,
equivalent, in the case of Special Account A, to CFAF 500,000,000,
and in the case of Special Account B, to CFAF 100,000,000.
16.   By inserting the word "relevant" before the words "Special
Account" and  "Authorized Allocation" throughout the text of
Schedule 5 to the Agreement.
      Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing by signing and
dating the confirmation form on the enclosed copy of this letter and
returning it us.  The amendment will become effective as of the date
of your confirmation.
Sincerely yours,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Katherine Marshall
Director, Sahelian Department
Africa Region
CONFIRMED
REPUBLIC OF MALI
By
   The Minister of Economy
     and Finance
