OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS1
CREDIT NUMBER 2054 MLI
Development Credit Agreement
(Education Sector Consolidation Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF MALI
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                               , 1989


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2054 ML4
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated    SA5, 1989, between REPUBLIC OF
MALI (the "Borrower") and IRERNATIONL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(the "Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter, dated
April 28, 1989, from the Borrower describing a program of actions,
objectives and policies designed to achieve structural adjustment
of the Borrower's education sector (hereinafter called the
"Program");
(B) the Borrower, having committed itself to the execution
of the Program and, as part of the Program, having undertaken to
carry out the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
has requested the Association to assist in the financing of the
Project and of urgently needed imports required during the
execution of the Program;
(C) the Borrower intends to contract from the United States
Agency for International Development ("USAID") a grant (the "USAID
Grant") in an amount of seven million six hundred thousand Dollars
($7,600,000) to assist in financing part of the Pzoject and part
of the imports required during the execution of the Program on the
terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the "USAID Grant
Agreement") to be entered into between the Borrower and USAID; and
(D) the Borrower intends to contract from the French
Republic through the 19o&d    I'Aide A I  Coop6ration ("FAC") a
grant (the "FAC Grant") in an amount equivalent to three million
seven hundred thousand Dollars ($3,700,000) to assist in financing
part of the Project and part of the imports required during the
execution of the Program on the terms and conditions set forth in
an agreement (the "FAC Grant Agreement") to be entered into
between the Borrower and FAC;
(E) the Borrower intends to contract from the United Nations
Program for Development ("UNDP") a grant (the "UNDP Grant") in an
amount equivalent to five hundred thousand Dollars ($500,000) to
assist in financing part of the Project on the terms and con-
ditions set forth in an agreement (the "UNDP Grant Agreement") to
be entered into between the Borrower and UNDP;


﻿-2-
(F) the Borrower intends to seek additional funds from other
donors to assist in financing part of the Project and part of the
imports required during the execution of the Program; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated january 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the "General Con-
ditions") constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)  "APE" means Association 4aA Parenlts d'Ey1As, any
Students' Parents Association established in the Borrower's
territory;
(b) "CFAF" means the currency of the Borrower;
(c) "Cycle I" means the first cycle of instruction in the
Borrower's education system having a duration of six years;
(d) "Cycle II" means the second cycle of instruction in the
Borrower's education system having a duration of three years;
(e) "Grandes Ecols" means the following Institutes of
Higher Education located in Bamako: (i) Ecgle Nationale
d'Administration; (ii) Egole $ationfgll d'Ingdnieurs; and
(iii) Egole Nrmalg Sup6rieure;
(f) "FAEF" means 2nds 4iAUJ A 1'Enseignement Fondamental,
the Basic Education Support Fund to be established to finance Part
A of the Project;


﻿-3-
(g) "Guaranty Fund" means the Guaranty Fund to be estab-
lished by the Borrower pursuant to Section 3.01 (d) of this
Agreement;
(h) "IEFs" means Inspection I  'Enseignement Fyndamental,
the Basic Education Inspectorates of MEN (as hereinafter defined);
(i) "IPN" means Institut Pddagogiaue National, the Bor-
rower's National Pedagogic Institute established within MEN (as
hereinafter defined);
(j) "MEN" means Minist6re At 1Education NatiQnqle, the
Borrower's Ministry of Education;
(k) "Participating Bank" means the banking institution
referred to in Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement;
(1) "PCU" means the Project Coordination Unit established
within MEN having the task, inter alia, of coordinating, moni-
toring and evaluating the execution of the Project;
(a) "Project Preparation Advance" means the project prepara-
tion advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant
to an exchange of letters, dated February 23, 1989, and April 28,
1989, between the Borrower and the Association;
(n) "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(o) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and the Participating Bank
pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(p) "UNDP/ILO Unit" means the unit established within the
Borrower's Ministry of Labor and Civil Service to assist young
graduate aspiring entrepreneurs; and
(q) "VA" means any of the non-governmental volunteer asso-
ciations providing technical assistance to MEN.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to twenty million two hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 20,200,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reason-
able cost of goods and services required: (i) for the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit; and (ii) during the execution of
the Program and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of Categories (1)
through (7) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement, open and maintain in CFAF a special account in a
banking institution satisfactory to the Association on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Assoc.ation
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal
amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstand-
ing as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The
unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the Project
Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1994, or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as
of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.


﻿-5-
(b) The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from a date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (theo"Accrual Date")
to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the Accrual Date and
at such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter
pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in
each year shall be applied as of the next payment date in that
year, specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric,
tions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Bor-
rower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the pmkposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may, from time to time,
be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in
semiannual installments payable on each March 15 and September 15
commencing September 15, 1999, and ending March 15, 2029. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on March 15,
2009, shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
(b) Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years* and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consi-
deration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each


﻿-6-
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower,
the Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu
of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such install-
ments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the
Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time, provided that, Jn the judgment of
the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c) If, at any ttme after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify
t.e terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
Section 2.09. (a) The Director of PCU is designated as repre-
sentative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action
required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section
2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
(b) Without limitation or restriction to the foregoing, the
Borrower hereby entrusts PCU with responsibility for the prepara-
tion of withdrawal applications under Category (8) of the table
set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement and for
the collection of the documents and other evidence to be furnished
to the Association in support of such applications; such with-
drawal applications shall, to the extent practicable, be consoli-
dated so as to apply for withdrawal of aggregate amounts of not
less than $500,000 equivalent.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
'objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project (with the
exclusion of Part C.3 (b)) through MEN with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,


﻿-7-
financial and educational practices, and shall provider promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall onlend to a banking institution, (the
"Participating Bank") acceptable to the Association under a Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and
the Ptrticipating Bank the equivalent in CFAF of the proceeds of
the Credit allocated to Category (7) of paragraph 1 of Schedule 1
to this Agreement under terms and conditions which shall have been
approved by the Association which shall include: (i) interest at
the rate of three percent (3%) per annum and a repayment period of
ten years including a grace period of three years; and (ii) a
requirement for the Participating Bank to pay into the Guaranty
Fund referred to in paragraph (d) of this Section an amount
equivalent to four percent (4%) of the interest collected by the
Participating Bank on each loan extended to young graduates by the
Participating Bank out of the proceeds so onlent to the Particip4-
ting Bank pursuant to this paragraph.
(c) The Borrower shall cause the Participating Bank to
onlend the proceeds of the Credit received pursuant to para-
graph (b) above to selected micro-enterprises established by young
graduates, meeting specific technical and financial criteria to be
acceptable to the Association at an interest rate of twelve
percent (12%) per annum with a maturity of aix years including a
grace period of one year.
(d) For the purposes of carrying out Part C.3 (b) of the
Project, the Borrower shall: (i) establish a fund (the "Guaranty
Fund") to be managed in accordance with terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association; and (ii) ensure that the proceeds
of the Guaranty Fund shall be used only to cover losses incurred
by the Participating Bank with regard to loans extended to young
graduates by the Participating Bank in accordance with the pro-
visions of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(e) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsi-
diary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of
the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of
the Credit and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.


﻿(f) The Borrower shall make available the proceeds of the
Credit allocated and withdrawn under Category (1) (a) of
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement on a grant basis to
selected APEs on terms and conditions to be acceptable to the
Association.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and the imports required during execution
of the Program and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall,
from time to time, and in any case not later than November 30
of each year the Project is being executed, starting with
November 30, 1989, exchange views on the progress achieved in
carrying out the Project, the Program and the actions specified in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(b) Prior to each such exchange of views as specified in
paragraph (a) of this Section and not later than September 30 of
each year, the Borrower shall furnish the following documentation
satisfactory to the Association:
(i) a report on the progress achieved in carrying out
the Program, including a review of the accompanying
studies and measures as well as of investments and
expenditures in such detail as the Association
shall reasonably request;
(ii) MEN's revised three-year rolling Program of
Investments and Public Expenditures; and
(iii) MEN's draft budget for the next following fiscal
year.
(c) The Borrower shall ensure that any new investment in the
education sector, not included in the Program of Investments and
Public Expenditures referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section,
and having a value in excess of the equivalent of one million
Dollars ($1,000,000) be previously reviewed and agreed upon with
the Association on the basis of a financial and economic study of
such investment.


﻿-9-
Section 3.04. In order to carry out Part A.3 of the Project
the Borrower shall, with regard to the development of private
education in its territory, and not later than March 31, 1990:
(a) revise the current regulatory framework in a manner
satisfactory to the Association; and
(b) submit a plan of incentives satisfactory to the
Association.
Section 3.05. In order to carry out Part A.4 of the Project
the Borrower shall:
(a) not later than March 31, 1990, submit to the Association
a study satisfactory to the Association on female participation in
the Borrower's education system, including a timetable of actions
to be taken; and
(b) promptly thereafter carry out the actions agreed upon
with the Association as specified in paragraph (a) of this
Section.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall ensure that:
(a) during any of the first three school years following the
date of this Agreement, the number of Borrower's new students
enrolled for secondary general education does not exceed 2,500;
and
(b) during the three school years following the date of this
Agreement, the number of Borrower's new students enrolled for
higher education, including those enrolled abroad, does not exceed
4,500.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall ensure that, starting with
January 1, 1990, an adequate percentage of local development
taxes, in an amount of at least 30% of the yield, be earmarked to
the financing of education.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and


﻿expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have the records and accounts referred to in para-
graph (a) of this Section, including those for the
Special Accounts for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after the
end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until at least one year after the Associa-
tion has received the audit for the fiscal year in
which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account
was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
such expenditures;
(iii) enable the Association's representatives to examine
such records; and
(iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included
in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of


﻿- 11 -
this Section and that the report of such audit
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
whether the statements of expenditure submitted
during such fiscal year, together with the proce-
dures and internal controls involved in their pre-
paration, can be relied upon to support the related
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable
that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried
out.
(b) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any grant or loan made to the
Borrower for the financing of the Project or
of the imports required during execution of
the Program shall have been suspended,
cancelled or terminated in whole or in part,
pursuant to the terms of the agreement
providing therefor, or
(B) any such loan shall have become due and pay-
able prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Association that:
(A) such suspension, cancellation, termination or
prematuring is not caused by the failure of
the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement; and
(B) adequate funds are available to the Borrower
from other sources on terms and conditions
consistent with the obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement.


﻿- 12 -
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that any event specified in paragraph (b) (i) (B) of Section 5.01
of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph
(b) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) PCU has been reorganized in a manner satisfactory to the
Association;
(b) a technical advisor to the Project Director acceptable
to the Association has been recruited;
(c) FAEF has been established in a manner satisfactory to
the Association;
(d) appropriate measures have been taken in a manner satis-
factory to the Association: (i) to modify MEN's budget nomencla-
ture so as to distinguish material from subsistence expenditures;
and (ii) to distinguish the allocations to Cycle I from those to
Cycle II in MEN's budget; and
(e) the USAID Grant Agreement has been executed on behalf of
the Borrower and USAID.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this
Agreement, the Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible
for Finance is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 13 -
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministbre des Finances et du Commerce
Bamako
Republic of Mali
Cable address:                    Telex:
MINIFINANCES                   2559 MINIFINANCES
Bamako
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.V.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INDEVAS                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
REPUBLIC CF MALI
By ISI      oN YA          Sa&wdsik
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /51        CzOti\si-      M".avo
Regional Vice President
Africa


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Civil Works:
(a) under Parts            3,800,000       50%
A.1 (b), A.2 (b)
and A.3 (b)
of the Project
(b) other                  1,200,000       100%
(2) Furniture, office           3,500,000       100%
supplies and equip-
ment under Parts A,
B.5, C and D of the
Project
(3) Textbooks and               3,300,000       100%
pedagogical
materials
for Cycle I
(4) Consultants'                1,600,000       100%
services and
studies


﻿- 15 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                SDR Eguivalent)     to be Financed
(5) Training                      300,000       100%
(6) Operating costs:
(a) for Part D.4             400,000       100%
of the Project
(b) other                  1,000,000       80%
(7) Goods and ser-                800,000       80%
vices financed
by credits under
Part C.3(b)
of the Project
(8) Textbooks, pedago-          2,400,000       100%
gical materials
and laboratory
equipment for
secondary and
higher education
required during
execution of the
Program
(9) Refunding of                  700,000       Amount due pur-
Project Prepara-                            suant to Section
tion Advance                               2.02 (c) of this
Agreement
(10) Unallocated                1,400,000
TOTAL                     20,200,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "operating costs"
means office supplies and vehicles operating costs expenses for
travel related to the Project, and salary supplement as compensa-
tion for overtime work by teachers assigned to the pilot double-
shift teaching program.


﻿- 16 -
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures:
(a) prior to the date of this Agreement;
(b) under Category (8) of paragraph 1 above for goods
procured under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent;
(c) under Category (1) (a) of paragraph 1 above until an
agreement satisfactory to the Association has been entered into
between the Borrower and VA to provide technical assistance to MEN
for the implementation of Parts A.1, A.2 and A.3 of the Project;
(d) under Category (4) of paragraph 1 above until an agree-
ment satisfactory to the Association has been entered into between
the Borrower and an institution acceptable to the Association for
the implementation of Parts C.1, D.1 and D.2 of the Project; and
(e) under Category (7) of paragraph 1 above until the
UNDP/ILO Unit has been strengthened in a manner satisfactory to
the Association.
4.   (a) No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be
entered into to pay amounts to or on the order of the Borrower in
respect of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit allocated to Category (8) of paragraph 1 above after, under
said Category, the aggregate of the proceeds of the Credit with-
drawn from the Credit Account and the total amount of such commit-
ments shall have reached the equivalent of SDR 800,000, unless the
Association shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as
described in Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement based on evidence
satisfactory to the Association: (i) with the progress achieved by
the Borrower in the carrying out of the Program; and (ii) that the
actions described in Part A of Schedule 4 to this Agreement have
been taken.
(b) No further such withdrawal or commitment shall be made
in respect of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit allocated to Category (8) of paragraph 1 above after,
under said Category, the aggregate of the proceeds of the Credit
withdrawn from the Credit Account and the total amount of such
commitments shall have reached the equivalent of SDR 1,600,000,
unless the Association shall be satisfied, after an exchange of
views as described in Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement based on
evidence satisfactory to the Association: (i) with the progress


﻿- 17 -
achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of the Program; and
(ii) that the actions described in Part B of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement have been taken.
5.   If, after any of the exchanges of views described in para-
graph 4 above, the Association shall have given notice to the
Borrower that the progress achieved and actions taken are not
satisfactory and, within 90 days after such notice, the Borrower
shall not have achieved progress and taken actions satisfactory to
the Association, then the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to
Category (8) of paragraph 1 above or any part thereof.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (i) to strengthen MEN's
institutional capabilities; (ii) to test, in the regions of
Bamako, Segou and Sikasso, innovative approaches to increase
enrollments in Cycle I; (iii) to provide, country-wide, the inputs
needed to improve the efficiency and relevance of Cycle I; and
(iv) to help develop and initiate a strategy for restructuring
secondary and higher education.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Increasing the Supply of, and Demand for,
Primary Education
1.   Augmenting the supply of Cycle I schools in urban areas
through: (a) introduction of minimum comfort conditions in about
375 classrooms to support an experimental double-shift teaching;
and (b) provision of matching funds to finance: (i) minor repairs
in about 1,000 classrooms; (ii) structure rehabilitation of about
235 classrooms; and (iii) construction of about 275 new class-
rooms.
2.   Stimulating social demand for education in rural areas
through: (a) supply of textbooks, equipment and materials;
(b) construction and rehabilitation of related facilities;
(c) financing of media campaigns; and (d) other promotional
activities.
3.   Providing incentives to the development of Cycle I private
education through: (a) provision of financial assistance; and
(b) provision of land and start-up subsidies to about 30 district
schools in urban areas and about 30 village schools in rural
areas.
4.   Encouraging female participation in the education process
through: (a) revision of curricula in Cycle I to include, inter
alia, principles of health, nutrition and child care; (b) rein-
forcing female vocational training; (c) data collection and
analysis of gender-specific issues at all levels of the education
system; and (d) formulating and implementing recommendations to
increase female school enrollment and women participation in
teaching.


﻿- 19 -
Part_:    Im2roving the Ouality and Relevance of Cycle I teaching
1.   Reinforcing the capabilities of IPN by twinning it with a
university-level institution in order to: (a) offer to its per-
sonnel short and long-term training; and (b) provide short-term
specialist services.
2.   Monitoring and evaluating the qualitative impact of Project
activities by assessing: (a) student achievements; (b) classroom
working conditions; and (c) parental perceptions about education.
3.   Increasing Cycle I teachers' effectiveness through:
(a) financing of a revision of the organization, curriculum and
teaching for pre-service training; and (b) support of in-service
training program for: (i) about 100 inspectors and pedagogic
advisers; (ii) about 1,000 school directors; and (iii) about 3,000
teachers.
4.   Revision of the Cycle I curriculum.
5.   Providing both public and private schools with an adequate
supply of textbooks and pedagogic materials by: (a) formulating
and implementing an appropriate policy regarding the production
and-distribution of school textbooks; (b) completing eleven new
textbooks and preparing their matching teachers' guides;
(c) printing and reprinting about 1.1 million copies of new and
existing textbooks plus about 40,000 teachers' guides; and
(d) strengthening the existing storage and distribution systems at
the central and regional levels.
6.   Strengthening pedagogic support and control by: (a) in-
service training of inspectors and pedagogic advisers; and
(b) providing logistical means for MEN's National Directorate of
Basic Teaching for each of the IEFs to permit regular school
visits.
Part C:   Initiating and Developing a Strategy for Restructurin
Secondary and Higher Education
1.   Reinforcing the capacities of the Directorate for Secondary
Education and of the Directorate for Higher Education and
Scientific Research of MEN.
2.   Financing the formulation of a plan for the restructuring of
secondary and higher education including recommendations to
increase female school enrollment and access of women to teaching.


﻿- 20 -
3.   Supporting improvements to facilitate the first phase of the
reform: (a) renovation and replenishment of libraries in the
Grandes Ecoles; and (b) opening of a line of credit for financing
selected micro-enterprises established by young graduates.
Part D:   Strengthening of the Education Sector Planning and
Management Capacity
1.   Reinforcing the capacities of MEN's Directorate for Education
Planning and Equipment in order to: (a) insure collection,
analysis and publication of educational statistics; (b) maintain a
country-wide school map; (c) monitor the flows of students;
(d) conduct and disseminate surveys and studies on key sectoral
issues; (e) inform and train other directorates in basic statis-
tics and sectoral policy analysis; and (f) prepare and update a
control panel on critical developments in the education sector.
2.   Reinforcing the capacities of MEN's Directorate of Adminis-
trative and Financial Affairs in order to implement budget
restructuring, staff redeployment and procurement rationalization
measures.
3.   Strengthening the decentralized management of education:
(a) by providing seminars and training to: (i) MEN's National
Directorate for Basic Education; (ii) MEN's Regional Education
Directorate; and (iii) the IEFs; and (b) by providing logistical
support and office equipment to MEN's National Directorate of
Basic Teaching.
4.   Reinforcing the capacities of: (a) PCU for Project implemen-
tation, management and coordination; and (b) PCU's Technical
Studies Division for physical resource management.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1994.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works for Categories (1) to
(3) and (5) to (7) of paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement
rL.A:    International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the "Guidelines").
2.   To the extent practicable, contracts shall be grouped in bid
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more
each.
Part B:   Preference-for Domestic Manufactuers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in the Borrower's
territory may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56
of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2
thereto.
Part C:   Preference for Domestic Contractors
In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:   Other Procurement Prodres
1.   Items which cannot be grouped, or groups of items estimated
to cost less than the equivalent of $100,000 and not less than the
equivalent of $10,000, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the
equivalent of $3,100,000, may be procured under contracts awarded
on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.


﻿- 22 -
2.   Items or groups of items estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $10,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not
to exceed the equivalent of $2,000,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations
solicited from a list of at least three suppliers eligible under
the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association.
3.   Civil works under Category (1) (a) of paragraph 1 of Schedule
1 to this Agreement may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of
at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Par.Z: Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   (a) With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in para-
graphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of
the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract, together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 3, shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this
Agreement.
2.   The figure of 10% is hereby specified for the purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.


﻿-23
Section II. Empoyment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, the Borrower
shall employ consultants and experts whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the baiis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consul-
tants by World Bank iorrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
Section III.   Procurement of goods for Category          (8) of
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
1.   Contracts for the procurement of goods shall be awarded
through international competitive bidding in accordance with pro-
cedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of
the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the "Guidelines"), subject to
the following modifications:
(a) Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the
following is substituted therefor:
"2.8 Notification and Advertising
The international community should be notified in a
timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done by
advertising invitations to apply for inclusion in a bidder's
invitation list, to apply for prequalification, or to bid;
such advertisements should be placed in at least one news-
paper of general circulation in the Borrower's country and,
in addition, in at least one of the following forms:
(i) a notice in the United Nations publication,
Development Forum, Business Edition; or
(ii) an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or
technical journal of wide international circula-
tion; or
(iii) a notice to local representatives of countries and
territories referred to in the Guidelines, that are
potential suppliers of the goods required."


﻿-24-
(b) The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:
"As a further alternative, bidding documents may require
the bidder to state the bid price in a single currency widely
used in international trade and specified in the bidding
documents."
(c) Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.
2.   With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1 of
this Section, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prior
to the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the
analysis of the respective bids and recommendations for award, a
description of the advertising and tendering procedures followed
and such other information as the Association shall reasonably
request.


﻿- 25 -
SCHEDULE 4
Conditions -or Release of Sector
Import Financing (Category (8) of
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement)
The following actions shall be taken consistent with the
principles outlined in the Program and in a manner satisfactory to
the Association:
Part A:   Actions Referred to in Paragraph 4 (a) of Schedule 1
to this Agreement (Conditions for Release of Second
Tranche)
1.   The Borrower has: (a) kept MEN's recurrent budget at not less
than 25 percent of the Borrower's recurrent budget; (b) increased
the share of Cycle I financing in MEN's recurrent budget to not
less than 40 percent; (c) kept the share of higher education
financing in MEN's recurrent budget to not more than 19 percent;
(d) increased the share of materials in MEN's recurrent budget to
not less than eight percent; and (e) reduced the aggregate amount
attributed to higher education scholarships by at least ten
percent of the amount of the previous school year.
2.   The Borrower has: (a) prepared a study on MEN's personnel
policies and procedures, including proposals to reduce the number
of Cycle II and secondary teachers and to establish appropriate
levels of recruitment for Cycle I and Cycle II teachers; and (b)
reviewed with the Association the recommendations contained
therein.
3.   The Borrower has modified its Decision No. 346 of March 23,
1986, and its Arrdt6 No. 5728 of June 6, 1986, by providing that
Cycle I teachers shall be: (a) recruited among upper secondary
education graduates; and (b) trained, in accordance with a
curriculum acceptable to the Association, for not more than two
years.
4.   The Borrower has adopted a staffing plan for teachers insur-
ing a student-teacher ratio of at least 35 to 1 for Cycle 1; 18 to
1 for Cycle II; and 10 to 1 for secondary education.
5.   The Borrower has submitted a plan satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation for the utilization of existing facilities of training
colleges for cycle II teachers.


﻿- 26 -
6.   The Borrower has submitted a plan satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation for restructuring its secondary general, technical and
vocational, and higher education system.
Part B:   Actions Referred to in Paragraph 4 (b) of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement (conditions for Release of Third Tranche)
1.   The Borrower has: (a) kept MEN's recurrent budget at not less
than 25 percent of the Borrower's recurrent budget; (b) increased
the share of Cycle I financing in MEN's recurrent budget to not
less than 42 percent; (c) kept the share of higher education
financing in MEN's recurrent budget to not more than 19 percent;
(d) increased the share of materials in MEN's recurrent budget to
not less than nine percent; and (e) reduced the aggregate amount
attributed to higher education scholarships by at least five
percent of the amount of the previous school year.
2.   Satisfactory progress has been made in implementing the
action plan referred to in Part A.6 of this Schedule.
3.   A student-teacher ratio of at least 36 to 1 for Cycle I; 20
to 1 for Cycle II; and 12 to 1 for secondary education has been
reached under the staffing plan referred to in Part A.4 of this
Schedule.
4.   The Borrower has submitted a plan for the revision of Cycle I
curricula satisfactory to the Association.
5.   The Borrower has implemented the recommendations of the study
provided for in Part A.2 (a) of this Schedule, reviewed in
accordance with Part A.2 (b) of this Schedule and satisfactory to
the Association.


﻿- 27 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) to
(7) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to CFAF 500,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a)
of this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of
this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a) For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount
of such Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
(b)   (i) For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for deposits into the Special Account at such
intervals as the Association shall specify.


﻿- 28 -
(ii) Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
documents and other evidence required pursuant to
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request, the
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
shall have requested and as shall have been shown
by said documents and other evidence to have been
made out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
(a) if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions
of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b) once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allo-
cated to the relevant eligible Categories less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Cate-
gories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall
be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall


﻿- 29 -
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in
the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized
in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Asso-
ciation may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or,
if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an
amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall other-
wise agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c) The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in
the Special Account.
(d) Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accor-
dance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including
the General Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


