Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15772
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
(Credit 2581-NIR)
June 21, 1996
Country Operations Division
West Central Africa Department
Africa Regional
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit             =      CFA franc (CFAF)
US$1.00                   =      CFAF 500 (March 1996)
CFA franc I million       =      US $ 2,000
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURE
Metric system
FISCAL YEAR
January 1-December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BCEAO        Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest (Central Bank)
BCN          Banque Commerciale du Niger
BIC          Imp6t sur les B3nefices Industriels et Commerciaux
BIN          Banque Islamique du Niger
CNCA         Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole
ESAF         Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
ICTS         Imp6t Cedulaire sur les Traitements et Salaires
IGR          Imp6t General sur les Revenus
IRVM         Impot sur les Revenus des Valeurs Mobilieres
rUTS         Impot Unifie sur les Traitements et Salaires
NIGELEC    Societe Nigerienne d'Electricite
NIGETIP    Public Works and Employment Project
ONPPC        Office National des Produits Pharmaceutiques
PESAP        Public Enterprise Sector Adjustment Program
PFP          Policy Framework Paper
SAL          Structural Adjustment Program
UEMOA        Union Economique et Monetaire Ouest Africaine (West African
Economic and Monetary Union)



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Preface
Evaluation Summary                      ...........................................................  i
PART I: PROGRAM  IMPLEMENTATION  ASSESSMENT ..............                             .................. I
Introduction                  .............................................................          I
Economic Background .              ............................................................ 1
Devaluation and the Econonic Recovery Credit ............................. .................. 2
A. EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES ................................... .......................... 3
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES .......................................7.....................7
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT .........................9
D. SUSTAINABILITY OF RESULTS . ............................................................   10
E. BANK PERFORMANCE  ............................................................    10
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE ...........................1.................................    1
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME  .............................................................    1
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS  ............................................................   11
1. KEY LESSONS LEARNED  ...................                  .........................................   12
PART 11: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1:  Summary of Assessment .14
Table 2:   Related Bank Credits .15
Table 3:  Project Timetable .15
Table 4:          Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .16
Table 5:          Key Indicators for Project Implementation                                          16
Table 10:  Status of Lgal Covenants .18
Table 12:   Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .19
Table 13:  Bank Resources: Missions .19
APPENDICES:
Appendix A:    Mission Aide-Memoire
Appendix B:    Borrower's Evaluation
Appendix C:    Reform Matrix
This docuLment has a restricted distribuuon and may bc used by recipients ordy in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed widhout World Bank authorization.                 1






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
CREDIT 2581-NIR
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Economic Recovery
Credit (ERC) in Niger, for which Credit 2581-NIR in the amount of SDR 18.2 million
equivalent was approved on March 17, 1994 and made effective on March 25, 1994.
The Credit was closed on June 30, 1995, the original closing date. This was a one-
tranche operation which was fully disbursed on February 21, 1995. The special account
was fully recovered on April 28, 1995.
The ICR was prepared by Mr. Mbida-Essama, Consultant, under the supervision
of Mr. Amadou Cisse (AF4CO), Task Manager, and reviewed by Mr. Franz Kaps,
Operations Advisor (AF4DR).
Preparation of the ICR was begun during the Bank's completion mission, April 1
to 12, 1996. The Aide-Memoire of this mission is provided in Appendix A. The ICR is
based on material in the project file, including the Memorandum of the President, the
Statement of Economic and Social Policies, supervision reports and related documents.
The Borrower commented and prepared its own evaluation, an English summary of which
is attached as Appendix B. The full report is available in Africa Files.



a



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
CREDIT 2581-NIR
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.    Since the early 1980s, the Bank, in collaboration with the [MF and other donors,
has helped the Government implement a series of adjustment programs. These programs
were aimed at improving economic and financial management by: (i) reinforcing controls
on public expenditures; (ii) improving the revenue collection system; (iii) restructuring the
public service sector; (iv) inducing economic growth by improving the incentives
framework for the private sector; (v) improving the resource allocation process; (vi)
improving policies for the management of human and physical resources; and (vii)
improving the quality and implementation of the public investment program.
2.    The Economic Recovery Credit is a continuation of such Bank's assistance. It is
an emergency effort to help the Government through the immediate trauma of the
devaluation of the CFA franc on January 12, 1994. It is disbursed in one single tranche
subsequent to the devaluation and untied to any other action, albeit associated with several
important measures/actions, many of which are carry-overs of previous adjustment
programs.
Statement and Evaluation of Objectives and Design
3.    The emergency financial support had two-pronged objectives: (i)  to provide
immediate relief to the Government to mitigate the negative social effects of the
devaluation and forestall further deterioration of the economy; and (ii) to help leverage
efforts to continue to deepen ongoing macro-economic dialogue and the reforms efforts
started under the last ESAF (many of which would go beyond the ERC period), and lay
the foundation for the next adjustment program at an opportune time. Specific objectives
and/or measures of the ERC addressed issues related to overall macro-economic
management, public finance, revenue and taxation, wage policy, trade and price policy,
monetary and financial policy, public investment, public enterprises, the promotion of the
private sector, and a selected number of social measures.
4.    The Government's ability to consolidate the early gains from the devaluation and
maintain its financial and economic program required immediate availability of budgetary
support and a refocussing of its priorities as reflected in the "Statement of Economic and
Social Policy". The credit judiciously did not have any heavy conditionalities that could
have delayed disbursements and provided for a one tranche disbursement. Finally, the



ii
objectives adequately reflected the transitional nature of the program which had to fit
within a wider framework of future assistance to Niger to help it widen and deepen its
reforms while consolidating the gains already made.
5.    However, the scope of the objectives, the measures required to achieve them and
the timeframe provided may have been unrealistic in some respects given the known
institutional weaknesses of the Niger public administration and specially in the context of
an uncertain and unstable political context of change and transition.
Achievement of Objectives
6.    As discussed below, the objectives of the ERC have been achieved. In particular,
the main objective of the devaluation was to restore extemal competitiveness, which
required that the expected initial surge in inflation would be brought under control
effectively within a few months. This was achieved and the conditions for the long run
sustainability of gains in external competitiveness seem assured. Other specific reforms
were intended to reinforce the Government's commitment to the ongoing adjustment
process by providing immediate relief to mitigate the negative social effects of the
devaluation, and help leverage efforts to deepen the reform program. With the resumption
of donor support, the Government has almost doubled the investment share of GDP
focusing on human resource development and private sector led growth, thus affording the
country with the first increase in per capita incomes since 1988.
Factors Affecting the Program
Factors not generally subject to Government control
7.    The credit was implemented during a period of political transition characterized by
the emergence of active political parties, pressure and interest groups bent on
counterbalancing the weight of the Government and requiring coalition-building skills to
arrive at consensual decisions. This created an environment of high political instability and
gridlock which was hostile to the introduction of far-reaching social reforms.  The
decision making process became very slow and inoperative and was beyond the
Government's control.
8.    Finally, the weight of the informal sector in the economy and the impact of
neighboring Nigeria and its currency on the local economy also had a major impact on the
implementation of the program and its results.
Factors generally subject to Government control
9.    The implementation of the ERC program was also substantially influenced by
factors which were essentially within Government control, and amongst these were: (i)
weak political commitment to reforms as evidenced by the fact that sufficient logistical and
administrative support was not provided to the agencies involved such as the tax



111
directorate, the customs directorate and the treasury; (ii) the inadequate and ill-defined
coordination and follow-up mechanism considering that the program dealt with many
agencies, many sectors and a wide geographical area; (iii) the delays experienced in
appointing competent staff in certain key positions (customs, taxes and treasury) when
there was no major constraint to doing so.
Sustainability of Results
10.   The implementation of the ERC-supported reforms has in many respects laid or
reinforced the foundations for the further deepening and expansion of structural
adjustment programs. With the devaluation, the long run sustainability of gains in extemal
competitiveness seem assured. In view of the results scored by the additional specific
objectives of the ERC, sustainability may have more to do with the consolidation and
expansion of the reforms than with the results themselves. The sustainability of the
reforms will depend on: (i) a clear definition, targeting, scheduling and sequencing of the
reforms taking into account the institutional and implementation capacity of the
Government to carry out the program and the characteristics of the overall socio-political
environment; (ii) the provision of adequate institutional strengthening measures to help
implement the reforms with a particular emphasis on planning, programming and public
resource management; (iii) continued support from external partners for the design and
implementation not only of adjustment programs but also of operations or investments in
priority sectors; (iv) the taking into account of the Nigeria/Naira factor; and (v) strong
political commitment from the Government.
Bank Performance
11.   The Bank acted with exceptional speed to process the ERC in a way consistent
with the requirements of the need to provide immediate assistance to Niger. Such speed
was permitted by the advance preparation of the credit done in conjunction with the
preparation of the CFA franc devaluation. The Bank coordinated its work well with the
Government and other donors to insure a coherent and convergent approach for all. Bank
supervision of the ERC was good and carried out within the context of the necessity to
prepare future adjustment programs. With hindsight however, the inclusion of a technical
assistance in program design, could have further improved program performance with
respect to the determination of the incremental manpower, logistics, and administrative
needs to strengthen tax revenue collection.
Borrower Performance
12.   The borrower performed well under the program.  The Government worked
diligently with the Bank and the Fund to put together a credible program in record time.
It tried to implement the program under very hostile and difficult circumstances. To that
extent, it may have underestimated the risks to be faced by the reform program and
allowed for a too optimistic implementation timetable. The Government also failed to
ensure that the coordination and follow-up agreed upon with its partners is made effective.



iv
This led to a dispersion of efforts and sometimes to poor coherence and resulted in
minimal impact. The Government did not display an adequate political commitment to the
reform process. This may have reduced its capacity to influence political debate and
consensus building at the National Assembly. Finally, the Government was slow in putting
competent personnel in key positions when necessary and this fact seriously delayed
effective implementation of the revenue and tax collection measures of the prograrn.
Assessment of Outcome
13.   Based on the Bank's ex-post evaluation norms, the ERC  is classified as
"satisfactory". Most objectives of the ERC have been achieved, albeit with delays in some
cases. In many of such instances however, corrective steps have been taken to put the
reform program on a sounder path and results are being obtained. A good groundwork
has therefore been laid to support the reforms to come. The chief reasons for the
satisfactory performance include: (i) the program succeeded in reviving the investment
program through heightened donor support that addressed the large requirements in social
infrastructure; this, in conjunction with above average rainfalls, yielded a higher than
expected economic growth and positive growth in per capita incomes for the first time
since 1988; (ii) the program succeeded in dampening inflation, and eventually in restoring
price stability following the devaluation; (iii) substantial progress was made in the area of
education, and to a lesser extent in health; (iv) following the initial administrative controls,
the price regime has been liberalized quickly in the aftermath of the devaluation. The main
reason for some of the partial results was the inability to build coalitions that put the
Government and the reform process at the mercy of emerging pressure groups.
Future Operations
14.   The continuation and deepening of reforms are fundamental in order to achieve
economic stabilization and to promote an environment conducive to growth, sustainable
economic development and poverty alleviation.  The main thrust of future reform
programs has been defined in the 1996-98 PFP and would include: (i) institutional
development and capacity building; (ii) more efficient resource mobilization and
management; (iii) more rational public investment planning, programming and
implementation; (iv) the promotion of the private sector; and (v) strong and adequate
support for the development of the social sectors.
15.   The instruments that can be used are adjustment and reform programs supported
by the Bank, the IMF and other donors; they should also include institutional development
schemes; public service reform assistance; social sector investment programs; and the
creation of a good environment for the private sector.
Key Lessons Learned
16.   Keeping in mind that this was a special operation under special circumstances
brought about by the devaluation of the CFA franc, the overall positive performance



v
scored by this credit was largely due to the simplicity of its design. Additionally, some of
the key lessons that can be drawn from the implementation of the ERC-supported program
are: (i) One tranche operations in general, and ERCs in particular, are best to address
concrete upfront policy decisions, and are less adequate vehicles for structural reforms
requiring extended implementation periods. This is all the more so in environments like
Niger where there exist long run reforms carried over from past operations; (ii) The
design of a reform program under conditions of political uncertainty and instability
requiring a high degree of consensus building should include provisions for a meaningful
communications effort to promote a better understanding of the need and rationale for
reforms by the different political, interests and pressure groups that have to be won over
and to ensure a greater assimilation and ownership within the administration. (iii) The
setting of reform objectives and the timetable for their implementation must be realistic
and take into account the risks inherent in a pluralistic political situation where coalition-
building and consensual decision making are the name of the game.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
CREDIT 2581-NIR
PART I: PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Introduction
Economic Background
1.    Since the collapse of uranium  prices in the early 1980s, Niger's economic
performance has continued to be unsatisfactory despite the adoption of a number of
adjustment programs supported by the international donor community. During the second
half of the 1970s, Niger's traditional dependence on subsistence agriculture shifted to
uranium as highly favorable market conditions led to a dramatic increase in uranium export
earnings. As a result, the modem sector grew to a dominant position through the creation
of many public enterprises and the rapid expansion of the civil service. The increased
revenues were also used to support an extensive public investment program in
infrastructure and construction projects to the detriment of agriculture. At the same time,
recurrent expenditures favored personnel and transfer payments, neglecting existing
infrastructure and basic public services.
2.    The sharp decline in uranium prices in 1981 and the failure of the Government to
curb public spending led to rapidly increasing balance of payments and budget deficits as
well as debt servicing problems as the structural weaknesses of the uranium-led boom
came to the fore. Faced with this deteriorating situation, the Government implemented a
series of adjustment programs with the support of the IMF, the World Bank and other
donors beginning in 1983.
3.    The adjustment programs implemented by the Government aimed at improving
economic and financial management by: (i) reinforcing controls on public expenditures; (ii)
improving the revenue collection system; (iii) restructuring the public service sector; (iv)
inducing economic growth by improving the incentives framework for the private sector;
(v) improving the resource allocation process; (vi) improving policies for the management
of human and physical resources; and (vii) improving the quality and implementation of
the public investment program.
4.    Despite all these efforts, little progress was made and in fact the situation
continued to deteriorate. Over the 1985-92 period, real GDP growth remained very low
at an estimated average of 0.25 percent per year while per capita income has declined by
3.4 percent per year since 1980. In 1992 and 1993, the situation continued to deteriorate
and substantial domestic and external payment arrears accumulated while fiscal imbalances
continued. The current budget deficit increased from 3.0 percent of GDP in 1991 to 3.9



2
percent in 1992 and 4.2 percent in 1993. In 1992, tax revenues decreased to a level hardly
sufficient to cover the civil wage bill and in 1993, civil service wages reached to four
months of arrears. Further arrears accumulated with respect to consumption of public
utilities and government agencies. External debt servicing fell to a minimum, and the
counterpart funds towards foreign-financed projects declined, a major contributing factor
to excessively low levels of public investment. The balance of payments current account
deficit, excluding official transfers, remained at 7.5 percent of GDP as in the previous two
years.
5.    Factors that have contributed to the overall worsening situation are both external
and internal. External factors include the continuous decline in uranium prices, worsening
terms of trade, droughts and the effects of adjustment policies in Nigeria within the
context of cross-border trade between the two countries.  Internal factors include
inefficient economic management, low savings and investment ratios, and the lack of
appropriate incentives for the development of the formal private sector which has been
gradually decreasing in importance to the benefit of the informal sector. In addition, the
dramatic change in the political situation and the long transition period until the
installation of a democratically-elected government in April 1993 was a major cause of the
derailment of the adjustment program.
6.    The Government has attempted to curb the deterioration in fiscal balances via
internal adjustment measures, notably a 13 percent wage cut in September 1993.
However, it became increasingly obvious that the extent of appreciation of the real
exchange rate and its adverse consequences had become so serious that these measures
alone could not improve the competitiveness of Niger's economy and restore its financial
viability. A major policy change was therefore necessary.
Devaluation and the ERC
7.    The Government of Niger, jointly with the other members of the CFA zone,
decided to strengthen its adjustment strategy by changing, as of January 12, 1994, the
parity of the CFA franc from  50 to 100 CFA franc per FF.  With this currency
realignment, a new macro-economic program was adopted to improve competitiveness
and bring the country to a path of sustainable growth. The 1994-96 adjustment program
aimed at: (i) achieving a real GDP growth rate of 3.9 percent in 1994 and 4.2 percent over
the next two years; (ii) rehabilitating public finances and achieving primary surpluses in the
Government budget; (iii) substantially increasing the investment-to-GDP ratio; (iv)
sustaining the improvement in extemal competitiveness through resuming structural and
sectoral reforms, and a return to low inflation after the initial transitional period; and (v)
reducing poverty and reorienting public expenditures priorities in favor of human resource
development.
8.    The ERC was conceived as an emergency effort to help the Government through
the immediate trauma of the devaluation of the CFA franc. It was disbursed in a single
tranche subsequent to the devaluation and untied to any other action, albeit accompanied



3
by several important measures/actions, many of which are carry-overs of previous
adjustment programs. It was part of a donors' concerted action that included a 12-month
SDR 18.956 million stand-by arrangement approved by the IMff on March 4, 1994.
Finally, it was designed to complement on-going social sector assistance provided by the
European Comnmunity and some bilateral donors such as the French Fonds d'Aide et de
Cooperation (FAC).
A. EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
9.    The emergency financial support had two-pronged objectives: (i) to provide
immediate relief to the Government to mitigate the negative social effects of the
devaluation and forestall further deterioration of the economy; and (ii) to help leverage
efforts to continue to deepen ongoing macro-economic dialogue and the reform efforts
started under the last Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF) (many of which
would go beyond the ERC period), and lay the foundation for the next adjustment
program at an opportune time. Specific objectives and/or measures of the ERC were to:
(a) Macro-economic goals: (i) achieve a real GDP growth rate of 3.9 percent in 1994, to
be increased to 4.2 percent the following years; (ii) limit inflation to some 37 percent in
1994, 7 percent the following year and less than 3 percent by 1996; (iii) limit the
worsening of the current account deficit of the balance of payments to 16 percent of GDP
in 1994 (from 7.5 percent in 1993) and reduce it to 12 percent by 1996; and (iv) increase
investment from 5.7 percent of GDP in 1993 to 15.5 percent in 1996.
(b) Public Finance: (i) adopt a revised 1994 budget in agreement with the IiMF; (ii) adopt
a revised system of public accounts; (iii) limit the current budgetary deficit, on a
commitment basis and excluding grants, to CFA franc 48.4 billion (5.7 percent of GDP) in
1994, to be reduced to 2.7 percent the following year; (iv) limit the overall fiscal deficit
(excluding grants) to 9.0 percent of GDP (CFA franc 77 billion) in 1994 before reducing it
to 6 percent in 1995; (v) eliminate external arrears estimated at CFA franc 102 billion
(new parity) at end-December 1993 by the end of 1994; (vi) make a cash settlement of
domestic arrears for CFA franc 17.5 billion (out of an identified stock of CFA franc 35
billion) while the remaining arrears were to be settled through issuance of government
securities; and (vii) establish an inventory of all arrears at end- 1993 and proceed with their
formal regularization.
(c) Revenue and Taxation: increase overall budget revenues from CFA franc 47.6 billion
in 1993 to CFA franc 76.5 billion in 1994 through a series of measures including: (i) the
regular payment of mining royalties; (ii) the advance payment of BIC (business income
tax) and. IRVM (securities income tax), and dividends by Uranium companies; (iii) the
unification of the VAT at 17 percent; (iv) the in:.roduction of the VAT to public utilities
(water, electricity, transportation); (v) the use of numbered tickets with printed price for
road toll; (vi) the introduction of automobile stickers; (vii) the strengthening of tax audits;
(viii) the definition of tax collectors and collection targets; (ix) the strengthening of
collection of tax arrears; (x) the passing of collections code in parliament; (xi) the merging



4
of the Imp6t General sur les Revenus (IGR) and the Imp6t Celulaire sur les Traitements et
Salaires (ICTS), simplification of rates; (xii) a significant reduction in BIC exemptions
(Investment Code); (xiii) a stricter application of profit tax to the informal sector; (xiv) the
strengthening of desk tax audits; and (xv) the levying of property tax on all homeowners.
(d) Wage Policy: (i) limit the civil wage bill to CFA franc 44.3 billion in 1994 while
slightly increasing civil service size from 38,738 to 39,080 by end-1994 and raising salaries
by a maximum of 10 percent of their September 1993 level after March 31, 1994; (ii) limit
overall scholarship amounts to CFA franc 4.8 billion; and (iii) establish a rigorous student
selection process.
(e) Price Policies: (i) maintain lower taxes on gas-oil and no taxes on kerosene for a
three-month period; (ii) freeze water and electricity rates until mid-April 1994 and readjust
them thereafter taking into account increases in import costs and sector restructuring
measures; and (iii) maintain free agricultural producer pricing.
(f) Trade policy: (i) double the minimum administrative values; (ii) cut cumulative taxes
and duties on essential and intermediate goods by 50 percent; (iii) introduce transitional
clauses for imports paid for before the parity change; (iv) eliminate ad hoc exemptions
except those related to projects, diplomatic privileges and special conventions; and (v)
introduce a comprehensive tariff reform.
(g) Monetary and Financial Policy: (i) complete the closing and liquidation of the Caisse
Nationale de Credit Agricole (CNCA); (ii) speed up the restructuring of the Banque
Islamique du Niger (BIN), the Meridien-BIAO, and the Banque Conmuerciale du Niger
(BCN); (iii) increase money supply in 1994 by 24 percent; (iv) increase net bank credit to
Government by 11 percent in 1994; (v) increase credit to the economy by 30 percent
during 1994; and (vi) maintain outstanding central bank advances to the Government
within the statutory ceiling (20 percent of last registered fiscal revenues) in 1994.
(h) Public Investment: (i) take measures to strengthen the planning, programming and
implementation of public investment; and (ii) reactivate the three-year rolling public
investment program.  Specific measures to be implemented included a systematic
budgeting of the requirements for counterpart funds for the project and programs
launched with assistance from external donors and of foreign debt arrears; a close follow-
up of procurement procedures; an increase in the investment budget from CFA franc 27 to
70 billion; and higher level of investment budget execution.
(i) Public Enterprises: (i) make an inventory of the cross debts of the public sector and a
timetable to clear them by end-April 1994; (ii) conduct independent audits for NIGELEC
(electricity), ONPPC (pharmaceuticaib,, SONIDEP (petroleum), and CNSS (social
security); (iii) liquidate COPRO-NIGER (distribution); and (iv) implement the reforms of
the uranium sector and NIGELEC in accordance with agreed timetable.



5
(j) Promotion of the Private Sector: (i) eliminate Government monopoly on hiring; and
(ii) revise the labor code.
(k) Accompanying Social Measures: in addition or concurrently with (e) and (i) above:
(i) eliminate tariffs on rice and sugar for three months and set total taxation at 10 percent
thereafter; (ii) eventually take steps to supply markets with essential goods (cereal, sugar,
cooking oil) at subsidized prices; (iii) substantially increase in real terms appropriations for
non-salary expenditures in education and health in the revised 1994 budget; (iv) insure
adequate supply of free essential drugs in public health facilities and improve the supply of
low cost generic drugs in private pharmacies; (v) provide allocation in the 1994 revised
budget of CFA franc 10 billion for the foregoing social measures; (vi) put in place special
programs targeting the poorest social groups with the assistance of NGOs and donors,
including IDA; and (vii) increase on-going labor intensive programs with the assistance of
IDA and other donors.
10.   The objectives of the ERC were well defined and reflected the needs of the Niger
economy within the context of previous reform programs and shortly after the
devaluation. The program was prepared by the Government in close coordination with its
partners, most specifically the World Bank and the IMF. The Government's ability to
consolidate the early gains from the devaluation and respect its financial and economic
program required immediate availability of budgetary support and a refocussing of its
priorities as reflected in the "Statement of Economic and Social Policy". Finally, the
objectives adequately reflected the transitional nature of the program which had to fit
within a wider framework of future assistance to Niger to help it widen and deepen its
reforms while consolidating the gains already made. The objectives were consistent with
the need to: (i) pass-through the benefits of the devaluation to the rural producers; (ii)
reduce absorption by the Government, adjust taxation and external tariffs and limit wage
increases; (iii) address the political and social dimensions of the realignment strategy; and
(iv) accelerate the structural reforms necessary to support the supply response.
11.   However, in hindsight, the scope of both the objectives, the measures required to
achieve them and the timeframe provided appear to have been unrealistic in some respects
given the institutional weaknesses of the Niger public administration and in particular in
the context of an uncertain and unstable political context of change and transition. About
60 specific measures or goals were to be undertaken, completed or achieved in 1994,
about 40 percent of which immediately, i.e. within 30 days of effectiveness of the credit
and the balance in the course of the year, as summarized in Table 1 below.



6
Table 1: Summary of Goals and Measures
Area          Number  Immediate  During 1994
1.Macro-economic         4          0             4
2. Public Finance        7          1             6
3. Revenue/taxation     15          10            5
4. Wage Policy           3           1            2
5. Price Policy          3          1             2
6.Trade Policy           5          5             0
7. Monetary Policy       6          0             6
8.PIP                    2          1             1
9. Public Enterprises    4          1             3
10. Private Sector       2          0             2
11. Social Measures      7          3             4
TOTAL                   58          23           35
Source: President's Report. ICR Mission
12.   Although a number of these measures (about a dozen or so) had reportedly been
undertaken, the effective implementation of most of them was by no means assured and
proved problematic later, a reflection of institutional weaknesses, weak political will or
unstable political environment.
13.   Some measures such as the advance payments of taxes and dividends by uranium
companies have raised legal and regulatory issues that are still unresolved.
14.   Finally, three points need to be underlined. The first is that a coordination and
follow-up mechanism was clcarly agreed upon but not included in either the policy
statement or the credit documents. This informal set-up was subsequently lost on the
administration and reduced the effectiveness of the program. The second point is that the
Government may have interpreted the lack of conditionalities and the one-tranche
disbursement provision as an indication of the inevitability of donor assistance to reward
the devaluation. This may have had a dampening impact on their determination or
commitment to undertake meaningful reforms despite the clear link of the ERC to future
adjustment programs and continued external assistance.
15.   The third point is that practical considerations such as incremental staff, office
space and supplies, transportation and current expenditure needs necessary to implement
some of the reform measures seem to have been overlooked. For instance, no provisions
seem to have been made in the budget or otherwise for the intensification and expansion of
tax collection efforts beyond Niamey to other cities whose contribution to fiscal revenues
has traditionally been weak and below their recognized potential. Likewise, the need and
time to train tax inspectors or collectors on the realities of a unified and simplified tax rate,
and to educate the taxpayers accordingly seems not to have been explicitly recognized or
accounted for. This has led to considerable delays in tax collection. Another illustration is
the fact that the need for the restructuring of the pharmaceutical parastatal ONPPC as a



7
prerequisite for the successful importation of generic drugs on the scale projected seems
not to have been realized.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
16.   As discussed below, the objectives of the ERC have been achieved. In particular,
the main objective of the devaluation was to restore external competitiveness, which
required that the expected initial surge in inflation would be brought under control
effectively within a few months. This was achieved and the conditions for the long run
sustainability of gains in external competitiveness seem assured. Other specific reforms
were intended to reinforce the government's commitment to the ongoing adjustment
process by providing immediate relief to mitigate the negative social effects of the
devaluation, and help leverage efforts to deepen the reform program. With the resumption
of donor support, the government has almost doubled the investment share of GDP
focusing on human resource development and private sector led growth, thus affording the
country with the first increase in per capita incomes since 1988.
17.   Macro-Economic Policy. All macro-economic goals were met: GDP surpassed the
growth target of 3.9 percent (4.0 percent) in 1994 owing to a good rainy season and a
good supply response to export needs of products like niebe, onions and livestock. Gross
domestic investment rose to 10.4 percent of GDP from 5.7 percent in 1993. The current
account deficit was 13.6 percent of GDP against a target of approximately 16 percent. On
an annual average basis, inflation stood at 36 percent, i.e., lower than the projected 37
percent.
18.   Public Finance. Public finance objectives have been partially met. The revision of
the 1994 budget and the adoption of a revised system of public accounts were
implemented on schedule. Other targets were either partially met, or not at all. The
current 1994 budget deficit excluding grants was 6.4 percent of GDP, slightly above the
projected 5.7 percent. By contrast, the overall fiscal deficit slipped at 12.5 percent of
GDP as against the projected 9 percent. Approximately 65 percent of external arrears
were eliminated, however, the bulk of non-wage internal arrears was left untouched; and
the inventories of all arrears was completed with delay and a formal mechanism to clear
them has just begun at credit closure. However, a process of negotiations with various
lenders has been initiated and agreements have been reached with BADEA and Algeria.
Unfortunately, the Government has not lived up to its part of these agreements and the
process may have to start afresh.
19.   Revenue and Taxation. Fifteen measures were to be implemented, of which ten
immediately and the rest during the year or within twelve months. Three of the proposed
measures were achieved within the deadline: the unification of the VAT as of January 1st,
1995; the passing of the collections code by the parliament; and the definition of the
collectors and collection targets. Two measures have still not been taken: the advance
payment of taxes and dividends by uranium companies and the tax exemptions under the



8
investment code. All the other measures were carried out with delays varying from a few
months to more than a year; some of them were also achieved only partially.
20.   Wage Policy. Overall, objectives is this category were unmet: the wage bill
exceeded the target by CFA franc 3.1 billion (47.4 versus 44.3) or 7 percent, and
scholarship payments reached CFA franc 5.5 billion, 0.7 billion or 15 percent over their
ceiling. Finally student eligibility criteria were defined, but seem unlikely to be followed.
21.   Price Policy.  The price policy measures were adopted within the planned
timeframe.
22.   Trade Policy.  All the trade policy measures were adopted except for the
elimination of ad-hoc tariff exceptions. The comprehensive tariff reform was introduced in
September 1994.
23.   Monetary and Financial Policy. The liquidation of CNCA was effectively carried
out. The restructuring of the commercial banks has met with delays: BIAO-Meridien was
restructured one year later than planned and the Banque Islamique du Niger and the
Banque Commerciale du Niger are still being restructured. Money supply increased by
only 6.7 percent compared to the 25 percent planned. Net bank credit to the Government
increased by 12.9 percent against a target of 11 percent. Credit to the economy increased
by only 10 percent compared to the 30 percent target and advances by the Central Bank to
the Government represented 27 percent instead of the statutory 20 percent of fiscal
revenues.
24.   Public Investment Program (PIP). The three year rolling PIP was prepared as
required, and some of the measures aimed at strengthening the institutional setting for the
planning, programming and implementation of the PIP were taken. With a larger volume
of projects once again eligible for inclusion in the PIP because of the progress attained in
eliminating some of the external arrears, the investment rate almost doubled in one year at
10.4 percent of GDP, even though the budget was about 48.8 percent executed in 1994.
Stricter selection criteria for projects were adopted for the 1995 budget which was
subsequently executed at 76.1 percent.
25.   Public Enterprises.  Most of the measures on public enterprises were either
partially achieved or carried out with delays varying from a few months to more than one
year. An inventory of the debts of only 17 out of 60 companies was made, however, they
were the most important ones. Independent audits were carried out on time for two
companies and with a one-to-two year delay for the other two. The liquidation of
COPRO-NIGER was not completed as planned in 1994, but started in January 1995.
Finally, the reforms of both the uranium vector and NIGELEC are still underway.
26.   Promotion of the Private Sector. The labor code has still not been revised and
Government monopoly on hiring has not been eliminated.



9
27.   Accompanying Social Measures. Most of the proposed seven social measures
were partially implemented. The elimination of tariffs on rice and sugar for three months,
and the labor intensive programs, were carried out in a satisfactory fashion. The kerosene
and gas oil program was not implemented. Three measures were partially executed: the
provision of essential goods at subsidized prices; the supply of essential free drugs; and the
appropriation of CFA franc 10 billion in the revised 1994 budget to support the social
measures (only about CFA franc 2.6 billion was allocated). Finally, appropriations for
non-salary expenditures in education and health moderately increased in real terms in the
revised 1994 budget.
C. FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROGRAM
Factors not generally subject to Government control
28.    The credit was implemented during a period of political transition characterized by
the emergence of active political parties, pressure and interest groups bent on
counterbalancing the weight of the Government and requiring coalition-building skills to
arrive at consensual decisions. This created an environment of high political instability and
gridlock which was hostile to the introduction of far-reaching social reforms. The
decision-making process became very slow and inoperative and was beyond the
Government's control.
29.   The need to build coalitions in the National Assembly sometimes led the
Government to appoint officials, without the required experience or background, to key
Government positions just because they were members of the parties willing to support its
programs. These officials contributed to a further weakening of the effective operation of
the administration.
30.   Finally, the weight of the informal sector in the economy and the impact of
neighboring Nigeria and its currency on the local economy was also a major factor that
affected the implementation of the program and its results.
Factors generally subject to Government control
31.   The implementation of the ERC was also substantially influenced by factors which
were essentially within the Government's control and among these were: (i) weak political
conmmitment to reforms as evidenced by the fact that sufficient logistical and
administrative support was not provided to the agencies involved such as the tax
directorate, the customs directorate and the treasury; (ii) the inadequate and ill-defined
coordination and follow-up mechanism considering that the program dealt with many
agencies, many sectors and a wide geographical area; (iii) the delays experienced in
appointing competent staff in certain key positions (customs, taxes and treasury) when
there was no major constraint to doing so; (iv) the inadequate management of the CFA
franc 10 billion provided for in the Financial Operations of the Central Government
(TOFE) but not satisfactorily appropriated in the revised 1994 budget. This led to



10
dispersion of efforts and inefficient management of the social measures; and (v) the
inability to complete the inventory of public enterprise debts because of the lack of
cooperation of some agencies.
D. SUSTAINABILITY OF RESULTS
32.   The implementation of the ERC-supported reforms has in many respects laid or
reinforced the foundations for the further deepening and expansion of structural
adjustment programs.  In view of the generally partial achievements of the ERC,
sustainability may have more to do with the consolidation and expansion of the reforms
than with the results themselves. The sustainability of the reforms will depend on: (i) a
clear definition, targeting, scheduling and sequencing of the reforms taking into account
the institutional and implementation capacity of the Government to carry out the program
and the characteristics of the overall socio-political environment; (ii) the provision of
adequate institutional strengthening measures to help implement the reforms with a
particular emphasis on planning, programmning and public resource management; (iii)
continued support from extemal partners for the design and implementation not only of
adjustment programs but also of operations or investments in priority sectors; (iv) the
taking into account of the Nigeria/Naira factor; and (v) strong political commitment from
the Government.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
33.   The Bank acted with exceptional speed to process the ERC in a manner consistent
vith the requirements of the need to provide immediate assistance to Niger.  It
coordinated its work well with the Govermment and other donors to ensure a coherent and
convergent approach for all  However, its efforts to provide effective institutional
development assistance to Niger were seriously hampered by the failure of the 1990
ESAF. This assistance would have helped better achieve the objectives of the ERC. The
hostile attitude towards adjustment that prevailed throughout the transition period made
matters even more unwieldy. It may have been helpful to take more account of some of
these factors in determining the design, objectives, and implementation timetable of the
reform program.
34.   Bank supervision of the ERC was good and carried out within the context of the
necessity to look forward to, and prepare future adjustment programs. Close coordination
with the other donors was carried out in an efficient manner. With hindsight however, the
inclusion of a technical assistance in program design, could have helped program
performance with respect to the determination of the incremental manpower, logistics, and
administrative needs to strengthen tax revenue collections. This is a direct consequence of
a program hurriedly designed.



11
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
35.   The Government worked diligently with the Bank and the Fund to put together a
credible program in record time. It tried to implement the program under very hostile and
difficult circumstances. To that extent, it may have underestimated the risks to be faced
by the reform program and allowed for a too optimistic implementation timetable. The
Government also failed to ensure that the coordination and follow-up agreed upon with its
partners would be effective. This led to a dispersion of efforts and sometimes to poor
coherence and resulted in minimal impact. The Government did not display an adequate
political commitment to the reform process. This may have reduced its capacity to
influence political debate and consensus building at the National Assembly. Finally, the
Government was slow in putting competent personnel in key positions when necessary and
this fact seriously delayed effective implementation of the revenue and tax collection
measures of the program.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
36.   As discussed below, the objectives of the ERC have been achieved. In particular,
the main objective of the devaluation was to restore external competitiveness, which
required that the expected initial surge in inflation would be brought under control
effectively within a few months. This was achieved and the conditions for the long run
sustainability of gains in external competitiveness seem assured. Other specific reforms
were intended to reinforce the Government's commitment to the ongoing adjustment
process by providing immediate relief to mitigate the negative social effects of the
devaluation, and help leverage efforts to deepen the reform program. With the resumption
of donor support, the Government has almost doubled the investment share of GDP
focusing on human resource development and private sector led growth, thus affording the
country with the first increase in per capita incomes since 1988.
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS
37.   The continuation and deepening of reforms are fundamental in order to achieve
economic stabilization and to promote an environment conducive to growth, sustainable
economic development and poverty alleviation.  The main thrust of future reform
programs has been defined in the 1996-98 PFP and would include: (i) institutional
development and capacity building; (ii) more efficient resource mobilization and
management; (iii) more rational public investment planning, programming and
implementation; (iv) the promotion of the private sector; and (v) strong and adequate
support for the development of the social sectors.
38.   The instruments that can be used are adjustment and reform programs supported
by the Bank, the IMF and other donors; they should also include institutional development
schemes; public service reform assistance; social sector investment programs; and the
creation of a good environment for the private sector.



12
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
39.   Keeping in mind that this was a special operation under special circumstances
brought about by the devaluation of the CFA franc, the overall positive performance
scored by this credit was largely due to the simplicity of its design. Additionally, some of
the key lessons that can be drawn from the implementation of the ERC-supported program
are:
(a) One tranche operations in general, and ERCs in particular, are best to address
concrete upfront policy decisions, and are less adequate vehicles for structural reforms
requiring extended implementation periods. This is even more the case in situations where
there exists an important continuing reform agenda carried over from past operations
(such as in Niger). The assessment of ERCs in such cases would require that the credit be
judged on its own merit, rather than being clouded by the progress of otherwise long term
continuing reforms;
(b) The design of a reform program under conditions of political uncertainty and
instability requiring a high degree of consensus building should include provisions for a
meaningful communications effort to promote a better understanding of the need and
rational for reforms by the different political, interest and pressure groups that have to be
won over and to ensure greater assimilation and ownership within the administration.
(c) The setting of reform objectives and the timetable for their implementation must be
realistic and take into account the risks inherent in a pluralistic political situation where
coalition-building and consensual decision making are the name of the game. In addition,
the officials at all levels of government who ultimately bear the responsibility for
introducing and implementing the reforms must be involved in their design and the
determination of the implementation timetable and the administrative requirements that the
program entails.
(d) In the final analysis, the success of a reform program and its effective implementation
depend to a large extent on the political will and unequivocal commitment of the
Government to undertake reforms, the existing institutional capacity to implement the
reforms, a realistic design of the program taking into account local absorptive capacity,
and an adequate awareness of the stakeholders of the need for reforms. All these factors
should be reflected in the project design.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
CREDIT 2581-NIR
PART H: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1:          Summary of Assessment ...................         ...............................   14
Table 2:         Related Bank Credits ..................................................   15
Table 3:          Project Timetable ..................................................   15
Table 4:          Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual ............ .........   16
Table 5:         Key Indicators for Project Implementation ............................................   16
Table 10:         Status of Legal Covenants ... ................................................   18
Table 12:         Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .............................. ....................   19
Table 13:         Bank Resources: Missions .......................      ...........................   19



14
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
4A.AchievementofObectives   Substantial   Partial   Ne _i iec                             le
Macro Policies                         X
Financial Objectives                                X
Institutional Development                                        X
Physical Objectives                                                               X
Poverty Reduction                                   X
Gender Issues                                                      x
Other Social Objectives                             X
Environmental Objectives                                                          X
Public Sector Management                            X
Private Sector Development                                        X
| B. Proejct Sustainabiliq       Likel              Unlikely             Uncertain
x
C. Bank Performance          _HighlySatisfactory          Satisfactory   Deficient
Identification                              X
Preparation Assistance                                          X
Appraisal                                                       X
Supervision                                 X
D. BorrowerPerformance            Hi hi Satisfacto        Satisfactor    Deficient
Preparation                                                      X
Implementation                                                                  X
Covenant Compliance                                              X
E.Asesmet f  utoe   ig!ySaisacorStifato                     UsaisaXo



15
Table 2: Related Bank Credits
Credit Title                    Purpose                 Year of      Status
__                                                           Approval
Preceding Operations
1. SAL I                To introduce reforms aimed at          1986       Closed
improving basic macro-economic
management
2. PESAP                To restructure the public enterprise   1987       Closed
sector
Following Operations
1. Human Resources      To restructure and improve human       1994      On-going
Secal                resource development and management
2. SAL II               To continue supporting public sector   N/A         Under
management (civil service and PE                preparation.
reform, improved public investment),              Not yet
. and support private sector development          a2praised.
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle         Date Planned                Actual Date
Initial Discussions with IDA  January 10-14, 1994      January 10-14, 1994
Appraisal Mission            January 17-25, 1994       January 1994
Negotiations                 February 28, 1994          February 28, 1994
Board Presentation           March 17, 1994             March 17, 1994
Effectiveness                March 31, 1994             March 25, 1994
Credit Closing               June 30, 1995              June 30, 1995



16
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
_ _ _ _:__ _ _ _ _ _ _            FY94
Appraisal Estimate                 25
Actual                             25.8
Actual as % of estimate           103.2
Date of final disbursement       4/28/95
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
1. Macro-economic data         Objective for 1994              ActuallEstimate
GDP Real Growth (%/o)                  3.9 %                        4.0 %
Inflation                             37 %                         36 %
Current Account Deficit (% of         16 %                         24.4 %
GDP)
Investment (% of GDP)       From 5.7 in 1993 tol5.5 % in           10.4 %
1996
2. Public Finance           CFAF Bn       % of GDP       CFAF Bn       % of GDP
Current Budget Deficit        48.4           5.7%          55.5           6.4%
(Excluding Grants)
Overall Fiscal Deficit        77              9 %          108.9         12.5%
(Excluding Grants)                       I                            I
Reduction in External Arrears    CFAF 102 Billion           CFAF 65 Billion
Cash Settlement of Internal      CFAF 17.5 Billion       Not Available but believed to
Arrears                                                  be negligible
Other Settlement of Intemal      CFAF 17.5 Billion       Not Available but believed to
Arrears                                                  be negligible
3. Revenue and Tax           CFAF Bn       %ofGDP          CFAF Bn       % ofGDP
Fiscal Revenues               76.5            9%             46.6           5.4%
4. Wage Bill                    CFAF 44.3 Billion            CFAF 47.4 Billion
5. Strength of Civil Service  39,080 civil servants       40,761 civil servants
6. Scholarships                 CFAF 4.8 Billion          CFAF 5.5 Billion
7.Monetary and Financial
Policy
Increase in Money Supply             25%                         6.7%
Increase in Net Bank Credit          11%                        12.9%
to Government
Increase in Credit to Economy        30%                         10%
Central Bank Advances to              20%                        27%
Government (Statutory limit of
20% of fiscal revenues)
Sources: Bank, IMF staff estimates; PFR, Central Bank; TOFE.



17
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
NOT APPLICABLE
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
NOT APPLICABLE
Table 8A: Project Costs
NOT APPLICABLE
Table 8B: Project Financing
NOT APPLICABLE
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
NOT APPLICABLE



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Credit      Covenant   Present   Orinl           Revised                           Description of Covenant                             Comments
Agreemst        Type       Status   Fufiflment  Fulfillment
Section     ._.__Date                              Date
3.03 (a)     Financial    C                                     The Borrower shall mnaintain or cause to be maintained records and
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently mnaintained
sound accounting practices the expenditures financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
3.03 (b) (i)   Accounts/   NC                                   The Borrower shall have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph   Auditing finn has been
Audits                                           (a) of this Section, including those for the Special Account for each fiscal   selected. Audit in
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles    progress.
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association.
3.03 (b)(ii)   Financial    N.C.                                The Borrower shall furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in    Report to be provided
any case not later than four months after the end of such year, a certified  after audit has been
copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such   carried out
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested, and
3.03(bXiii)   Financial    N.C.                                The Borrower shall furnish the Association such other inforonation
concerning said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably request.                                     Go
3.03 (c)     Financial                                         For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the
Boffower shall:
3.03(cXi)    Accounts    C                                     maintain or cause to be maintaied, I accordance with paragraph (a) of
I_________                           _________  this Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
3.03(cxii)    Accounts    NYD)                                 retain at least one year aftcr the Association has received the audit report    Records expected to be
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account  raintained as required.
was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
________  _______                                 ________   documents) evidencing such expenditures;
3.030(c)(iu)  Accounts    NC                                   enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; and  Expected to be
complied with
3.03(cXiv)    Accounts    NC                                   ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audits  Complied expected
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of such audit  despite the delay
contains separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of   experienced.
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be
__________    _________              __________    __________      relied   upon to support the related withdrawals.                ______lte_w__drwas
C: CoMlied witb NC: Not Complied witl; NYD: Not yet Due



19
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
NOT APPLICABLE
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of             Planned               Revised               Actual
Project Cycle
Weeks      US$       Weeks       US$       Weeks       US$
1. Through Appraisal     0          0          0         0         2.7       9,300
(preparation, pre-
appraisal, appraisal)
2.Appraisal-Board        0          0          0         0          0          0
3. Board-                0          0          0         0          0          0
Effectiveness
4. Supervision           0          0          0          0         9        16,200
5. Completion            8        7,600       13       19,000        8.1    31,800
TOTAL                    8        7 7,600     13       19,000      19.8      57,300
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of    Month/ Number   Days   Specialized        Performance Rating    Types of
Project Cycle    Year     of       in     Staff skills                        Problems
Persons   Field   Represented    status    Objectives
Preparation &     Jan.      3        8    2 Economists
Appraisal         1994                     1 Country
___________  _____  ______      ~O fficer    _  _  _  _  _ _  _  _
Appraisal-Board
Board-
Effectiveness
Supervision I     Nov       1       12     Econornist
10-22,
1994
Supervision II    May       1       10     Economist  Unsatifactory  Unsatisfactory   Project
3-13,                                                          Manag.
1995                                                          Perform.
Supervision III    Sept     1        8     Economist
17-25,
1995
Completion       April      2       11     Consultant
1-12,                    Economist
____ ___ ___ ___ 1996






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
CREDIT 2581-NIR
APPENDICES
Appendix A:    Mission Aide-Memoire
Appendix B:    Borrower's Evaluation
Appendix C:    Reform Matrix






APPENDIX A
REPU-BLIQU ;E DU NTGER
`ISSION D'ACHEVENLENT
(I-12 AVR[L 1996)
CREDIT D'APLPI A LA RELANCE ECONOLMIQLE
(C,ARE)
AIDE-.VENIOCRE
Lr nrroduction
I.           Une mission de la Banque LMvfondiale composee de \.f Bonaventure
\IBIDA-ESSAMA (Consultant er chef de mission) et \Mf. Ide GNA;NDOJU (Economiste a
la .'Mission R-sidente de la Banque LMondiale) a rravaille au Yiger du ter au 12 Avril en
vue de la preparation du Rapport d'Achevement du Cr.dit d'Appui   l la Relance
=conomlque (CARE).
La mission voudrair remercier les autronrzes nigeriennes ainsi que les
rer esentanrs des bailleurs de fonds pour ia franche collaboration, I'assistance et
1'accuetl chaleureux qu el[e a rectis. Le present Aide-M&.rmoire presente les conclusions
ore iminaires de la mission qui seront conrirmees car la direction de la Banque 4vfondiale.
Obieztifs de la Mlission
Le pnnc;pai objecnf du  rapporr d'achevemnent (ou de ['evaluation
.rroscectlvej est daopprecier dans quelle  rnesure  les reformes  conom:ques er
rIsT:rurtonneiles insc;-ires au CAIRE ont _re mises en oeuvre er si ces reformes se sont
. velees perunentes pour resoudre les problemres qut avaient ete identities. Dans c-
conrexre. Ies Objeczi s spec.riTues de [a mission -raienr de: (i) dere.rminer si les
pr.nc;paux volets du CARE correspondaient aux conditions econorniaues, soc:ales et.
;rsziLrurzonnelles cui prevalaienr au momenr de sa are-ararion: (ii) faire 'e poinr sur les
,mesures de rer'ores -r'fectivernent pnses er appliquees et c [les aui n'ont pas ere prises
ou _ont la mise en oeuvre a _!e carrielle: (iii) comparer Ies resultats obtenus aux resultars
-scompires (iv) evaluer le r6ie et 1'efficac1re de la Bancue \.londiale dans la conception
cu CARE et le suivi de son execution ainsi que le r6le er ['drficacire de [a pamde
migerienne dans la detinicion des politiques macro-economiques -t secaonelles. leur
-xecunion er le respect des clauses de l'accord de credit:  v) apprecier la manzere dont la
coordinarion s'est erfectuce enrre [es bailleurs de tonds  fiIarmraux et muinlareraux: er (vi)
tnd:ciuer les enseignements qui peuvent erre tires du C.AR E pour les operations furures.
Contexte de la Mission
4.            La mission  a eu lieu  au  moment ou  une  importanre delegarion
wouvernementale se trouvalt a Washington pour des discussions de hauE riveau avec la
Barque Mondiale et le Fonds .Mlonetaire [nternational (FNMI). Beaucoup des hauts cadres
resconsables du CARE faisalent partie de certe del&garion. Cependant, les autonres ont



pris toutes dispositions utiles pour que le travail se passe dans de bonnes conditions. Le
tra,ail de la mission a ete coordonne par N4. Saidou S[DIBE. Secretaire General Adjoint
du Ministere des Finances et Au Plan. Des reunions ont etc oraanisees aNec les
responsables des re,ies tinancieres, de la cellule du PAS, et d'aurres sericC_s du
!Ministere des Finances et du Plan er du Nl'inistere des Mtines, du Commerce et de
Industne.
S.            Le Gouvernement a remis a remis a la mission un avant-projet du rapport
de Fin d'-xecution du CARE etabiis par ses soins. Ce document a ert utilise en partie par
la mission dans ses discussions avec les responsables du Gouvernement. La mission a
sugqere que le document soit ameliore en le rendant plus analvtique et synthetique et en y
incorporant une evaluation des r6les respectifs de la Banque Mondiale et des auton'tes
nioeiennes et une indication des enseignements a tirer de 1'experience du CARE pour les
operations futures. L'Annexe U1 porte sur le texte du Gouvemement tel que remis a la
Banque et l'Annexe [II du present Aide-Memoire donne un apercu de la structure que ce
document pourrait avoir.
Resultats d'ensemble
6.            Dans l'ensemble, la plupart des objectifs du CARE n'ont pas tet realises
mnalgre les efforts considerables d6ploves par les differents responsables impliques dans
le programme de reformes. D'autre part, piusieurs des reformes qui ont pu etre
effectivernent realises l'ont ete avec un retard parfois considerable qui a reduit la portee
de leur impact sur la situation. [1 faut toutefois souligner que dans bien des cas, des
mesures correctives ont ete pnses qui ont conduit a un debut de realisation effective. bien
que tardive. des objectifs des reformes. Le processus ainsi lance est porteur d'espoir pour
la continuation et l'approfondissement des reformes qui ne manqueront pas de suivre.
7             les pnncipales causes des resultats peu satisfaisants du CARE sont: (i) le
climat d'instabilite et d'incertitude politiques qui a prevalu pendant presque toute la
penode d' execution du CARE. Ce climat etait franchement hostile au lancement de
pl usieurs reformes importantes; cii) une falble volonte politique du Gouvernement qui a
tait Le jeu "es groupes de pression et des centres de contre-pouvoir inherents a une
periode de transition comme celle du Niger; (iii) I'incapacite' du Gouvemement a rallier
une pamie importante de I'opinion a un consensus de changement qui a contribue a des
blocages; (iv) les falblesses institutionnelles de ['administration nigerienne; et (v)
I'absence de la mise en place d'un mecanisme approprie de suivi et de coordination.
Enonce et Evaluation des Obiectifs
S.            Les objectifs du CARE etaient de: (i) donner une assistance financire au
Gouvernement au lendemain de la devaluation pendant qu'il preparait des operations a
venir; et (ii) appuver et faciliter le dialogue entre le gouvernement et P'IDA. Parmi les
elements specitiques du programme supporte par le CARE, on peut citer, comme
objectifs specitiques: (0) la devaluation du Franc CFA. (ii) des mesures fiscales visant a



aumrnenter les recertes de l'Etat; (iii) un programme important de mesures sociales pour
attenuer les effets de  ia devaluation  sur les couches  vulnerables. v compns
l augrnentation en termes reels des depenses budgetisees et realisees pour la sante et
l1education; (iv) la reduction de l importance du secteur public et parapublic dans
1'economie, (v) un meilleur contr6le de la masse salariale; (\ui) et la reduction des axes
sur le commerce international. Les objectifs macro-economiques eraient de reaiiser un
taux indicatifde croissance du PIB de 3,9%0 en 1996. la reduction de I intlation a m oven
terme, la relance de l'investissement et la maitrise du deficit courant de la balance des
paiements.
9.            Dans l'ensemble, les objectifs du CARE repondaient bien aux problemes
economiques et tinanciers du Niger: la situation economique etait marquee par un niveau
inadequat des recettes Fiscales face aux depenses structurelles donc incompressibles
resultant en des deficits budgetaires chroniques et insoutenables; une politique
economique et une gestion inadequates; des ressources physiques et humaines mal
utilisees; une faible productivite; et une pauvrete croissante surtout des couches les
moins tavonsees. Le decalssement rapide en une tranche etait conforme aux besoins
urgents et la necessite de reagir rapidement a une situation qui risquait de se deteriorer
vite. 11 visait aussi a appuver les mesures d'accompagnement de [a devaluation.
10.          Cependant. I'ampleur des objectifs et le temps programm6 pour leur
realisarton ont probablement manque de realisme a certains egards. Les nouvelles
contraintes d' un svsteme socio-politique caracteinse par un grand nsque d' instabilite et la
necessite de former des coalitions politiques fragiles ne semblent pas avoir ete
sutfisamment prises en compte. Par ailleurs, le decaissement en une tranche sans
conditionalites semble avoir elimine tout avantage qu'un effet de levier aurait pu
conftrer au CARE. Pour terminer, les objectifs retenus faisaient appel, pour leur
realisation, a une coordination interministenelle et a des capacites d'execution qui ne
semblent pas avoir ete bien pensees: une structure de suivi n&a pas ete mise en place ou
ciairement definie malgre l accord informel obtenu a cet eflet entre le Gouvernement et
ses partenaires.
Realisation des obiectifs
Ii.          Dans 1'ensemble et comme indique ci-dessus (para. 6 et 7), la plupart des
objectifs du CARE ne semblent pas avoir ete realises. D'autre part. [es quelques objectifs
qui ont ete arteints l'ont etc avec un retard consid&rable sur le calendner prevu.
minimisant d'autant les benefices artendus.
[2.          Auzrnentation des recettes fiscales. 11 a ete prevu de mettre en oeuvre 15
mesures fiscales: dix d'entre elles devaient -tre appliquees immediatement et les cinq
autres en cours d'ann6e. Les recertes fiscales ont augmente beaucoup moins que prevu.
Une cause importante est que les reformes entreprises pour augmenter les recertes ont cte
decidees avec du retard. Les mesures prises dans des delais raisonnables ont quant a elles
egalement connu des retards dans leur application. Par suite d'opposition poiitique a
l'Assemblee Nazionale, plusieurs reforrnes n&ont pu arre lancees et certaines autres ont da
3



SLuMi uCs modifications qui ont reduit _eur por.ee Cest Id cas notamm;nt -es aimlesures de
fusion de lIimDvt sur les revenus ([GR) et des imro6ts cedulaires sur les traitements et
sa"a.-v 4rzS   .       >W;i;tacv>.aii;,  u   )i,.i   ,iiia; 
L%.. i ~I  . 3 AHFnCSS3i  uCS   LLIVIla     I L .3     i-IUIIL.cc..  PLi- ciPaIls  pa
exemrle. Finalement. les mesures administratives vu lolstiques (le redeololement du
Ier,o nel e ,    *oer.r e :        .;bles en.o,er deJ .- eat-C.-I-  ''"'p'a.mb[  - -
pe '- ~s*.L.l    'A IS.V      1 %L  V.1LSfL'.3  nt L.JSIIlt ' e-,  LJA     I  a*I*    I   IJlI   '3 I  SLIL
pas ete prises pour tacilirer la mise en oeuvre des refornes.
13.           Ge~oiin deN d&pcnsg. La =stiun des L  pt-mbcs porLdlt )ur un piu, gurnd
cnntr6le de la maSse ,alanale et des hour.es, la reduction des arneres de la dette inrere.
iiniimaEiln des arlire&s externes, et uie pius grande  allocation des ressouwces
budgetaires  pour  les  depenses  de  foncutonnement hors  salaires  et le  budget
d investissement. Ces objecufis ne semblent pas avoir ete atreints: la masse salanale et Ie
montant des bourses ont largement depasse les maxima prevus: Les amTieres de la dette
interre nont pas ete modifies et auraient meme augiente; les ameres extcrmes it ont ete
reduits qu'a concurrence d'environ 70%' des obiectifs. Cependant. les allocations
budgta.rcs ^our 'c budgCt d invcstisscmcn; dC 1994 scmbicnt avoir largcncnt dpassc
les ob,ectifs du CARE er le budget des depenses de tonctionnement non salanales est
cvnfo....e a;;x ob;ec IL-3.
!1-          rTe depassement des piafonds fixes pnokr les salaires et les bouirses
pruvienuruiL czcnticielmrit de l'infiuence des diff6rents groupes de pression politique
sur l'assemble et le 2ouvemement. Line raison importante pour la non-resolution du
probleme des ameres internes, en dehors des difficultes de tresorene. est 1'incapacite du
couvernement a realiser un recensement precis des ameres de paiement interieurs dans
les deiais prevus.
IS 5Programmation des lnvestissements Pubiiques. Le CARE prevovair la
preparation d'un PEP tnennai -lissant et le renforcement des capacites institutionnelles
du gouvernement pour la planiFication, la programmation et 1'execution des
investissements pubiiques. Dans ce cadre, it a ete notamment prevu a travers certaines
dispositions de: 1) viser en amont la centralisation systematique (et l'inscription au
tableau de bord du Ntinistre des Finances) des besoins de fonds de contrepartie (volet
tresor) de tous les projetsi,programrnmes et des armeres exterleurs dus au,x balileurs de
tonds intervenant dans leur rinancement: et en aval. le suivi svstematique des regies de
passarion de marches publics affectant la marche des projets: et oil) d'auLrnenter le
volume des investissements passant de 27 a 70 milliards. Un P[P triennal a ete prepare
mais son execution a souffert des carences ci-dessus. a savoir la faible mobilisation des
tonds de contrepartie et l'accumulation des amreres exteneurs; le bilan d'ex6cution du
budget d'investissement a fin decembre 1995 etait d'un eaux de 62.8%'.
l6.           Politigue monetaire et financiere. Les objectifs etatent d'augmenter le
taux d'escompte de la Banque Centrale de 10,5%  a 14,5%'0, le credit a i'economie de
30,2%'o. et de maintenir les avances de la Banque Centrale au Gouvernement dans la
limite du plafond starutaire de 20% des recettes fiscales constartes. Le taux d'escompte a
ere augnente commme projete. En dehors du taux d'escompte, aucun objectf monetaire ne
sembie avoir ete atteint. L'assainissement du systeme bancaire n'a pas ete finalise. La
4



CNCA a ete liquidee mais la restructuration des trois hanqueS commerciales a accuse
beaucoup de retard: La BIAO-Mvendien a ete restrucruree avec un an de retard sur le
calendrier initial et celles de la Banque rslamzque du NlTer (B[N  et de la Banque
Commerciale du Niger  BCN) sont touJours en cours
1 7           Politique Commerciale. Trots des cinq objectifs poursuivis ont e re%raIses
lans les delais pre, us  les valeurs mercuriales. administracives et baremees onr ete
doublees. Ies droits d'entree sur les intrants indusrriels et certains produwts de premriere
necessite ont ere reduits de 50%, et les clauses transitoires pour [es Importations non
dedouanees mais reglees a l'ancien tauLx de change ont ete mises en place. Par contre, les
exonerations speciales nWont pas ete eliminees et la revision du tanf des douanes a ete
faite avec pres de six mois de retard.
18.           Politique des Prix. Les pnx des produits petroliers ont ete modifies
comme prevu. les tanfs de 1'eau et de l'electricite ont ete geles jusqu'au mots d'avnl et
ont ete revises par la suite: et la liberte des pnx agncoles a ete maintenue.
19.           Entreorises   Publiques.   L'essentiel   des   mesures   portant  sur
l assainissement des entrepnses publiques n a ete executees dans les delais prevus: les
pertes et les dettes n ont ete inventoriees que  pour quelques societes (les plus
representatives cependant): [es audits independants socitets ont ete realises ont etc
realises pour la plupart des societes ciblees, bien qu'avec du retard, les liquidations nront
pas eu lieu aux dates prevues. et les reforrnes prevues dans le secteur de l'uranium ont
ete inmees et suivent leur cours.
20.           Promotion du secteur orive. Le code du travail n a toujours pas ete revise
et le monopole du Service de la Main-d'Oeuvre sur le marche du travail n'a pas encure
etl definitivement remplace.
21            !vfesures Sociales. La plupart des objectifs definis sur le plan social n ont
Itas etc  realises parce que les mesures requises no nt pas ere mises en oeuvTe:
I elimination des drotts de douanes pour le nz er le sucre et leur re-instrution a des
niveaux moderes se sona faites dans le temps prevu; le gel ou augmentation moderee des
prix du petrole et du  .zas-oil nWont pas eu lieu: L approvisionnement du marche en
produits essentiels tels que les cereales, le sucre et 1'huile de cuisine ne s'est pas fait: les
allocations budgetaires pour les secteurs sociaux n ont pas aurnente en terrnes reels dans
le budget de 1994: I'approvisionnemenE en medicaments .zenenques ne s<est pas airte
dlans les conditions souhaitees: et I'allocarion de 10 milliards de Francs CFA pour
supporter l'ensemble des mesures sociales n a pas ete effective.
Facteurs avant eu une influence sur le CARE
Facteurs k:happant au eontrule du Gouveruerneint
22.           Le CkRE a ete lance dans une penode de mutation politique profonde
caractensee par l'emergence de groupes de pression er de centres de contre-pouvoir
5



necessitant la formation de coalitions pour arriver a des decisions de consensus. Cec, a
conduit a un climat de gande instabilite politique et de blocage hostiles au lancement de
reformes profondes avec des effets soclaux. Dans le melileur des cas, le processus de
pnse de decision a ete considerablement ralenti tout en echappant en grande partie au
contr6le du Gouvernement.
23           Le besoin de composer avec les aurres partis politiques pour obtenir une
majorite lui per-mettant de faire vocer des projers de loi s'est traduite pour le
Gouvernement par la nomination de cadres de ces parris a des postes importants dans
P administration. Dans plusieurs cas, le protil, Iexperience et les qualifications de ces
cadres ne correspondaient aux cxigences des postes qu'ils occupaient. En plus de leurs
manques de qualifications. ces cadres ont souvent eu des comportements qui retletaient
plus leurs sensibtlites politiques souvent changeantes que les priorites d'une gestion
economique objective er saine. Les faiblesses institutronneiles ont ainsi ete renforcees
sans que le Gouvernement puisse y remedier.
24.           L'importance du secteur informel dans l'economie du Niger et celle
considerable de 1'etffet du Nigena et de sa monnale sur l'economie nig6rienne, deux
tacteurs echappant au controle du Gouvemement, du moins a court termne, ont aussi eu un
impact considerable sur le CARE.
Facteurs Controlis par le Gouvernement
25           La mise en oeuvre du CARE a ete handicapee par les facteurs suivants qui
relevaient en irande partie du Gouvemement: (i) i'absence d'un engagement suffisant
pour la poliuque de retformes Des movens suffisants ou au moins suffisants, pourtant a la
portee du Gouemrnement. ne  rembient pas avoir cte mis a la disposition des reyies
ninancieres pour fac;liter leurs etforts de recouvrement des imp6ts et taxes: (1i) le
caractere peu fonctionnel du mecanisme de coordination et de suivi (structure lourde et
des responsabilites mal derinies l mis en place a [a pnmature dans le cadre des reformes
economiques et sociales envisavees dans le programme du CARE qui concernaient
plusieurs departements et services. plusieurs secteurs et une couverture geographique
-rendue; (ii  le retard  accuse dans la nomination de cadres competents a la rete de
certains services-cie dles remies tinancieres) alors qu'aucun obstacle ne s'v opposait: (lv)
lc manque dc budgetisation des 10 milliards inscnts au TOFE enrrainant ainsi une
dispersion et un desordre dans [es operations relatives au tilet social; et (v) le blocage des
uoerations de recensement des arrieres inteneurs par les administrations ddpensleres.
?erennisation des activites du CARE
'6            Les activites du CARE fourTissent des fondations qui peuvent servir de
support au lancement de reformes plus profondes dans I'avenir. Compte tenu des
resultars hesitants et rardit's, la perennisation concerne beaucoup plus la consolidation des
et I'txtension des reforrnes que [es premiers resultats.
6



I7           La durahilite des reformes sera conditionnee par (  un cihlane -t une
programme  realistes  des  reforrnes  en  tenant compte  des  venrables  capacites
institutionnelles de I'administration et du climat de transition politUque qu9 prevaut: i1i i la
mise en place de mesures de rentorcement institutionnel adequates. avec un accent
particulier sur le processus de planitication. programmation et uestion des ressourcs
(iii) un appui continu des partenaires du Ni,er pour la conception er la mise en place non
seulement des politiques d'ajustement macro-economiques mais aussi d'operations
secrorielles dans les secteurs pnontaires: (iv) la pnse en compte des facteurs
Nigena,Naira. et (v) la volonte politique des autorites de soutenir les reforrnes.
R6le et Efficacit6 de Ila Banque
28.          La Banque a agi avec c.lente dans le lancement du CARE, repondant
avec a propos aux exigences du contexte de la devaluation: les objectifs du programme
ont ete determmies par les autontes en etroite coordination avec la Banque Mondiale. le
FlM. et les autres partenaires du Niger: ils etaient adaptes a la situation du Niger et
representaient une reaction approprine a la d6valuanon du Franc CFA. Cependant, a
cause du derapage du cadre macro-economique observe depuis 1990 (FASR), la Banque
n a pu mettre en place des instruments de pret. d'assistance, ou de renforcement des
capacites, qui auraient consolide davantage le cadre des mesures d'accompagnement de
la devaluation. Ceci a ete ampllfle par 1'artitude hostile de la Conference Nationale.
-9           La supervision du CARE a ete adequate et s'est faite dans le contexte de
la preparation d'operations futures d'ajustement et de la definition d'une nouvelle
stratize d'assistance au Niger. une rois de plus en erroite collaboration avec le F.M  er
les autres partenaires du Niver. L coordination avec les autres donateurs a ainsi ete
constamment assuree   c'est le  cas  notamment de  l'Union  Europeenne  pour
l'approvisionnement en medicaments de base, de la Cooperation Francalse pour
lUagriculrure, la promonion de travaux a haute intensite de main d'oeuvre executes par
NIGETIP et ce dans !e cadre du Fonds Special de Developpement (FSD) pour ce qui est
du filer social.
iO.          Finalemenr, la mise en place a trawers le CARE de tonds a d6caisemenr
rapide a sans doute perTnis de -enerer des artirudes Lavorables aux reformes dans le pays.
[I Faut rout simplement rcgrrtcr que les aurontrs n'cn aicnt pas profirt au maximum pour
taire passer les retormes structurelles essentielles a la poursuite d'objectits macro-
economiques a moven terme visant a ameliorer de maniere durable la competitivite de
l'economie. Ie (3ouvemement avant cede tres souvent aux pressions des groupes locaux
(svndicats et etudiants surtout). Le C\RE n est en effet que la premiere etape de
l'ajustement global envisage, le projet sectoriel pour l'enseignement tondamental
(proset) avant constitue la deuxieme etape qui sera suivie par le PAS [I.
R6le et Efficacite du Gouvernement
3 1.          Le Gouvernement a mis en oeuvre des reformes dans un climat ditficile et
hostile d'instabilite et de transition polinques. Mfme en tenant compte do ces facteurs.
7



dans V-ensernhle, sa performance n'a pas ete satisfaisante. Lors de la conception du
programme et des modahites de son execution, le Gouvernement n a pas suffisamment
mis l'accent sur les risques inherents a la situation socio-politique qui sont de nature a
compromettre la realisation des objectifs ou a retarder le calendrier d'execution des
mesures ainsi definies. Le mecanisme de suivi et de coordination mis en place oar le
Gouvernement n'a pas ete efficace. Ceci a eu comme resultat une dispersion des eCforts.
un manque de coherence dans certains cas et un impact reduit des efforts cul ont ete
d&ployes.
32.           La volonte politique  du Gouvemrnement en  faveur des reformes a
,eneralement t'ait defaut. c c qui peut avoir eu une influence negative sur sa capacite a
intluencer les debats de l'Assemblee Nationale sur des aspects importants du CARE.
Finalement, le Gouvernement a ete lent a nommer un personnel competent a certains
postes cles.
Evaluation des Resultars
33.          Globalement, les resultats du CARE n'ont pas repondu aux attentes des
autorites ou des bailleurs de fonds. La plupart des objectifs qui ont pu etre realises l'ont
ere avec un grand retard qui nsque de se repercuter de facon sensible sur l'ensemble du
programme de rerormes a venir.
Coordination des Bailleurs de Fonds
34.          Certains autr,s bailleurs de fonds en dehors de la Banque Mondiale ont
appuve la politique du Gouvemement apres ta devaluation. MIalheureusement. le
Gouvernement qui est responsable sur le terrain n'a pas pu toujours assurer une
coordination efficace de leurs interventions qui se recoupaient partois. Les propres
faiblesses institut]onneiles de l'administration Nigenenne evoquees ci-dessus et les
procedures d'interventions (gestion directe et agences d'execution) de certains bailleurs
de .onds expliqueraient cette siruation.
Ooerations Futures
La continuation et ['approftondissement du programme de reformnes sont
indispensables pour stabiliser 1'economie et promouvoir le developpement d'un cadre
macro-economique pouvant facilirer une croissance e un developpement conomilques
durables et la reduction de la pauvrete. Les grands axes d'un tel programme de reformes
sont definis dans le Document-Cadre de Politique Economique (1996-98) et portent
essentiellement sur (i) une plus grande maitnse des rinances publiques: (ii) une gestion
plus rationnelle et plus efficace des ressources de F'Etat tant sur le plan de leur
mobilisation que celui des allocations intersectorielles, de la relance des investissements
sur des bases saines et d'une meilleure gestion budgetaire; (iii) des mesures de
renforcement des capacites institunonnelles de gestion economlques, (iv) la mise en
place d'un environnement incitatif pour le secteur pnve. et (v) le developpement des
secteurs sociaux.
8



36            Dans ces  perspectives.  les  Instruments  qut  serInt utilises  Vont
probablement inclure des programmes d'assistance a l ajustement structurel (soutenu par
la Banque Mondiale et le FNII), des projets sectonels ou hvbndes dans les secteurs
Sociaux et agricoles; des activites d'appui au developpement institutionnel pour renforcer
la capacite de planitication, programmarLon et utilisations des ressources publlques. la
reforme de la fonction publique, et lVappui a la promotion du secteur prime sous routes ses
tormes.
EnseiLnements a tirer
37.           On peut tirer plusieurs enseignements ou lecons de I'expenience du
CARE. Les plus importantes ou signiticatives aux differents stades du CARE sont:
38.           Conception. La conception du CARE s'est faite dans un contexte instable,
difficile et incertain necessitant la formation d'un consensus sur les reformes et le soutien
des differents groupes d'interets ou partis politiques pour sa mise en oeuvre. En plus, !es
activites programmees etaient dispersees dans plusieurs services gouvernementaux. Dans
un tel contexte, un effort de communications important doit etre entrepris pour assurer
une plus grande comprehension du programme parmi [es groupes d'interets e un degre
d'assimilation adequat au sein de ['administration.
39.           La definition des objectifs des reformes et la programmation de leur
execution dotvent davantage tenir compre de 1'existence des centres de contre-pouvoir.
En meme temps, les cadres nationaux impliques directement dans la gestion des reformes
doivent etre responsabilises dans la definition des objectifs et du calendrier d'execution
des mesures pnses a cet effet.
40            En detinitise, le succes d'un programme de reformes et de sa misc en
oeuvre sont rnbutaires de la volonte politique des autorites a s'engager sans ambiuifte
dans la vole des reformes, de la capacite institutionnelle de l'appareil de l'Etat. d'un
c:blage bien dose des preconisees en fonction de ta capacite d'execution et donc
,fabsorption locale, et d'un effort de sensibilisation adequat des groupes nteresses ou
affectes par les reformes. Ces considerations devraient etre rerl tles dans la conception
du prozramme de rtorrmes.
' 1.         Mise en oeuvre des reforrnes. La mise en oeuvre des reformes doit se faire
dans le cadre d&un mecanisme de suivi et de coordination intra-zouvernementale
claircment defini. Les activites de tous les bailleurs de fonds gagncraient a etre rec=nses
et egalement coordonnees pour assurer un plus grand impact. Finalement, le calendrier
d'execution doit aut=nt que possible refleter les contraintes suscepubies de ['entraver.
9



APPENDIX B
BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
Note: the following text summarises the findings sections of the completion report (40 pages)
prepared by the Ministry of Finance and Planning in June 1996. The full text of the report is
available in Africa files
Objectives of the Program (pages 2-3)
The prime objective of the ERC is to support the actions of the Government to attenuate
the effects of the devaluation on vulnerable groups. The credit provided the financial support
necessary during the post-devaluation transitional period to help the country's structural reforms.
Results of the Program (pages 7-8)
Despite the many reforms and measures implemented since Independence, several factors,
including the weather, strong pressures on land in the South and in the intermediate zone, as well as
a fragile economic fabric dominated by the informal sector, combine to present a major challenge
to socio-economic development. The lack of a good solution to these problems has given rise to the
serious economic crisis in which Niger has found itself since the early 80s, and which is
exacerbating social tensions.  Despite the many policies and programs carried out, and the
recommendations made on the occasion of numerous nationwide debates, the economic situation
has deterriorated, and socio-economic development continues to be a major challenge.
Indeed, various analyses of the economy of Niger indicate that the country has not
managed to realize all of the goals of the program supported by the ERC.  While the difficult
social and political climate in Niger is partly to blame, serious delays have also occurred in the
implementation of the program's structural measures, and administrative weaknesses have caused
slippage in the program. It should also be noted that the scope of the objectives and the time
allotted for their achievement were probably unrealistic in certain ways.
Despite these shortcomings, it must be acknowledged that the program did lay the
groundwork for the profound reforms needed to get the economy back on track. Although there
have sometimes been considerable delays in their implementation, certain measures, and especially
the fiscal ones, have considerably boosted Government revenues (cf. TOFE, Annex). It should also
be pointed out that in many cases, corrective measures were taken to allow the achievement of
reform objectives. Given the positive impact on Government revenues, on privatization and the
restructuring of certain public enterprises, additional efforts are called for to ensure sustainability
and the continuity of program objectives.
A certain number of factors on the Nigerien side have contributed to the partial slippage of
the program. These factors include: (i) the lack of a mechanism for monitoring and coordinating
program activities that involved several Government departments and agencies, several sectors and,
therefore, several areas of expertise; (ii) the deficient analysis of the scope of measures and actions
to be undertaken; and (iii) a socio-political situation characterized by frequent changes of
Government staff and by the actions of interest groups (e.g., unions and professional associations)
that have never subscribed to the program's objectives.



On the World Bank side, one should note: (i) the absence of an adequate guarantee of
program execution; (ii) an inadequate assessment of the political instability prevailing at the time,
as well as an overestimation of the Government's true capacity to implement the program.
Lessons learned from the CARE (page 9)
Overall, the CARE's objectives corresponded closely to government concerns, namely: the
quest for a good match between budgetary resources and current expenditures; competitiveness of
public enterprises; expansion of exports and reduction of the chronic trade deficit; and poverty
alleviation -- in short, the creation of conditions conducive to an economic rebirth. However,
certain weaknesses need to be underlined:
- the ERC was conceived in a context of socio-political instability. This made it necessary to
engage in a lengthy process of consensus-building on the subject of reforms and to obtain the
support of various interest groups, and especially of the unions and professional associations. In
other words, Government commitment alone to the program's objectives is not sufficient to
guarantee success. The Government's actions should be guided by a philosophy of transparency,
meaning that a great effort should be made to inform and involve the various actors at all levels in
the design and implementation of reforms;
- the overestimation of the Government's capacitv to carry out reforms in such a short span of
time, and particularly the failure to take into account the centers of countervailing opinion, which
could compromise the program's chances of success at any moment;
- the lack of a mechanism or structure for monitoring and coordinating reforms was felt, especially
since these reform measures involved several government services.
Finally, to give the various reforms in Niger optimal chances of success, there must be
greater involvement of the private sector and social service providers in the formulation and
monitoring of development strategies.
Conclusion (page 10)
The economic situation as of mid-1996 indicates a continuation of the crisis which began
almost 14 years ago following the drop in uranium demand and prices. Favorable rainfall in 1994
spurred 17% growth in agricultural GDP, which allowed overall economic growth of 4% and a
satisfactory food security situation. Had it not been for this performance, which was due to
exogenous factors, the combined effects of the CFA franc devaluation and public finance deficits
would have derailed the economic and political progress that had been made. Industrial activity
remains sluggish, in part because of the depreciation of the naira (leading to competition from
products from Nigeria) and partly because of rising production costs and shrinking domestic
demand (purchasing power has dropped 40 to 50%, and workers are owed back pay). The
devaluation of the CFA franc fostered black market activity and the "informalization" of the
economy. The share of the informal sector in GDP climbed from 65.8% in 1985 to 73% in 1994.
The resurgence of private investment has yet to be felt. Raw capital formation in the modern
pnvate sector dropped 40 to 45% in real terms in 1994.
The ERC made it possible to initiate several measures that undoubtedly contributed to the
signing in 1995 by the authorities of Niger, the IMF and the World Bank, of a letter of intent for an
ESAF. Nevertheless, implementation of the ERC program has encountered some delays due to the
difficult socio-political situation in connection with the recent move toward democracy, social
upheavals, and the practical logistics of launching reforms.



APPENDIX C
Page 1 of 4
Matrix of Reforms and Their Implementation Status
Reform                               Deadline             Implementation Status
1. Macroeconomic Reform
Realignment of exchange rate, fixed at  January 12, 1994  Done
CFAF for 1 FF
2. Public Finance
- Adoption of a revised 1994 budget in    March 1994      Done
agreement with the IMFl
- Adoption of revised system of public    December 1994   Done
accounts
a. Revenue
- Regular payment of mining royalty  Immediate            Done with much delay
- Advance payment of BIC and IRVM,    Immediate           Not done
and dividends by uranium companies
- Unification of VAT at 17 percent   January 1, 1995      Done
- Introduction of VAT: water, electricity,  July 1, 1994  Done except for
transportation                                          transportation
- Road toll: Numbered tickets with   Immediate            Done in June 1994
printed prices
- Automobile sticker                 Immediate            Done in January 1995
- Administration: strengthening of tax  Immediate         Done with delay
audits
- Administration: strengthening of desk    Immediate      Done with delay
audits
- Administration: Definition of tax  Immediate            Done
collectors and collection targets
- Strengthening of collection of tax  Immediate           Done in September 1994
arrears
- Passing Collections Code in Parliament   New 1994 budget    Done
- Merging of IGR, ICTS, simplification of January 1, 1995  Done for January 1996
rates
- BIC exemptions (Investment Code)   July 1, 1994         Not yet completed
- Informal sector: stricter application of   January 1, 1995  Done January 1 st 1996
profit tax
- Property tax: levied on all homeowners  Immediate       Done for 1996 tax law
.~~~~~~~~ I.___



APPENDIX C
page 2 of 4
Matrix of Reforms and Their Implementation Status
Reform                                 Deadline          Implementation Status
2. Public Finance
b. Expenditure
- Set wage bill at CFAF 44.3 billion   Immediate         Actual wage bill of 47.4 bn
- Maintain the number of civil servants  1994            Number reached 40,761
below 39,080                                                                    l
- Eliminate external payment arrears   1994              Only 65 billion eliminated
(CFAF 102 billion)
- Reduce domestic arrears by at least  1994              Partially done
CFAF 17.5 billion
- Make an inventory of all domestic    March 31, 1994   Inventory not completed
arrears and regularize them formally
- Set a scholarship ceiling at CFAF 4.8  1994            CFAF 5.5 billion paid
billion and maintain eligibility                        Eligibility criteria unclear
criteria
- Increase outlays for materials and   1994              Outlays increased to CFAF
supplies from CFAF 16 billion in 1993                   28.1 billion
to CFAF 28 billion in 1994
- Raise public investment expenditures  1994             CFAF 109.9 budgeted
from CFAF 27 billion in 1993 to 70
billion in 1994
3. Public Investment Programmingl
- Prepare a three-year rolling Public  April 1994        Done
Investment Program for 1994-96
- Strengthen Institutional setting for  1994             Not done
planning, progamrning, andl
implementation of public investment
4. Monetary and Financial Sector Policy
- Increase discount rate of Central Bank  January 18, 1994   Done
from 10.5 percent to 14.5 percent
- Closing and liquidation of CNCA      July 1, 1994      Done
- Complete the restructuring of the    1994              BIAO done in September
BIN, the Meridien BIAO (MIB), the                        1995, others in progress
Banque Commerciale du Niger and the
Nigeria International Bank-Niamey                      BNiay                      I



APPENDIX C
page 3 of 4
Matrix of Reforms and Their Implementation Status
Reform                                 Deadline          Implementation Status
5. Trade Policy
- Double values, schedule values, and  Immediate         Done
mninimum administrative values
- Cut cumulative taxes and duties on   Immediate         Done
essential and intermediate goods by 50
percent
- Eliminate ad-hoc tariff exceptions   Immediate         Not done
- Introduce transitional clausesfor imports  Immediate   Done
paid before the parity change
- Introduce comprehensive tariff reform  April 30, 1994  Done in September 1994
6. Price Policy
- Set new prices for petroleum products,   Jan-April 1994  Done
water and electricity
- Maintain free agricultural producer  1994              Done
pricing
7. Public Enterprises
- Compile an inventory of loss-debts of the  April 1994  Partially done
public sector companies and prepare a
timetable to clear them
- Conduct independent audits for       1994              Done on time for NIGELEC
NIGELEC, ONPPC, SONIDEP, CNSS                           and CNSS, delayed for rest
- Liquidate COPRO-NIGER                1994              Started in January 1995
- Implement reforms of the uranium sector  1994          Reform underway
and the Electricity Company (NIGELEC)
8. Promotion of the Private Sector
- Elirninate Government monopoly on    1994              Not done
hiring
- Revise Labor Code                    1994-1995         Not done
.~~~~~~~ I                                 ..



APPENDIX C
page 4 of 4
Matrix of Reforms and Their Implementation Status
F Reform                                 Deadline          Implementation Status
9. Accompanying Social Measures
- Eliminate tariffs on rice and sugar for  Jan-April 1994  Done
three months and set total taxation at
10 percent thereafter
- Freeze the price of kerosene for three  January 1994    Not done
months and increase the price of gas-oil
by less than 30percent
- Take steps, to eventually supply the  1994              Partially done
markets with essential goods (cereal,
sugar, cooking oil) at subsidized prices
- Increase substantially in real terms  Immediate         No substantial increase
appropriations for non-salary
expenditures in education and health in
the revised 1994 budget
- Ensure adequate supply of free        1994              Partially done
essential drugs in public health
facilities and promote the supply of low
cost generic drugs in private pharmacies
- Provide allocation in the revised 1994  Immediate       Partially done
Budget of CFAF 10 billion for the
foregoing social measures









IMAGI mN
Report No:        15772
Type, ICR



