Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
G ,Z
Report No. P 6264-NIR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF TIE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT OF SDR 18.2 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF NIGER
0eo fiz Ad
February 28, 1994
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No: P-    6264 NIR
Type: PR
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit             =          CFA franc (CFAF)
US$1.00                    =         CFAF 592 (January 31, 1994)
CFAF 1 million            =          US$ 1,687 (January 31, 1994)
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURE: METRIC
Metric                               U.S. Equivalent
1 meter (m)               =          3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)          =          0.62 miles (mi)
I square kilometer (km2)  =          0.39 square mile (sq mi)
1 hectare (ha)            =          2.47 acres (a)
I metric ton (t)          =          2,205 pounds (lb)
1 kilogram (kg)           =          2.2046 pounds (lb)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1-December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BCEAO    Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afiique de l'Ouest (Central Bank)
GON       Government of Niger
NIGETIP  Public Works and Employment Project
PESAP    Public Enterprise Sector Adjustment Program
PFP       Policy Framework Paper
SAL       Structural Adjustment Program
UEMOA   Union Economique et Monetaire Ouest Africaine (West African Economic and
Monetary Union)



FOR OFFICAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT (ERC)
Table of Contents
Page No.
Credit and Program Summary                                                    i
Part I:    The Government's Economic and Social Program                      1
A. Recent Economic and Social Development                         1
B. The Decision to Change the Parity of the CFA                   2
C. Macroeconomic Objectives and the Program for 1994              4
D. Structural Reforms                                             6
E. Social Aspects                                                 7
F. Financing Requirements                                         9
Part II:   IDA's Strategy and Operations                                     9
A. Country Strategy and Priorities                                9
B. Foliow-up Operations to the ERC in 1994                        13
Part III:   The Economic Recovery Credit                                     13
A. Financing and Management of the Program                        13
B. Procurement and Disbursement                                   14
C. Environmental Aspects                                          15
D. Project Implementation                                         15
E. Benefits and Risks                                             16
Part IV:   Recommendation                                                    17
Annexes
Annex I   Key Economic and Social Indicators
Annex II   Status of Bank Group Operations
Annex HI   Timetable of Key Processing Events
Annex IV   Government's Statement of Economic and Social Policies
- English translation
Annex V   Matrix of ERC Actions
This document has a restricted distribution and may be   by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be a,. .osed without World Bank authorization.



REPUBLIC OF NIGER
ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT (ERC)
Credit and Program Summary
Borrower:         Republic of Niger
Amognts:          IDA Credit: SDR 18.2 million (US$ 25 million equivalent)
Terms:            IDA Credit: Standard with 40-year maturity
Program
Description:      The African member countries of the Franc zone decided to devalue their currency,
the CFA franc, effective January 12, 1994. The proposed credit would support the
post-devaluation reform program as outlined in the Government's Statement of
Economic and Social Policy and, more particularly, the measures aimed at
minimizing the negative social impact of the devaluation in the short-term; and to
provide the necessary fanancial assistance during the transition period in which
follow-up operations are being prepared to support further structural and sectoral
reforms. The Government's program has also obtained the support of an IMF
Stand-by arrangement. The previous adjustment programs of the 1980s were
supported by two Structural Adjustment Credits (SAL I and PESAP) as well as by
the IMF Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF).
The Nigerien Government has already taken a series of key macroeconomic and
structural measures to regain and consolidate competitiveness. The ERC is
designed to support the implementation of these measures in 1994. The major
measures art (i) the devaluation of the CFA Franc from 50 CFAF to 100 CFAF/1
FF; (ii) tax measures to increase fiscal revenue; (iii) a substantial program of social
measures to attenuate the effects of the devaluation on vulnerable groups,
including increasing significantly in real terms current expenditure for health and
education; (iv) prudent demand management policies to reduce absorption by the
public sector and limit wage increases; and (v) reduction of external tariffs.
Estimated
Disbursements:    Due to the urgent nature of the operation, the entire US$25 million would be
disbursed in a single tranche shortly after effectiveness.
There is no separate staff appraisal report.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
TO NIGER
1.    I submit for your approval t&e following report and recommendations on a
proposed Economic Recovery Credit to Niger for the eqcuivalent of US$25 million (SDR
18.2 million) in support of an emergency recovery operation designed to provide the
financial and technical support needed as a follow-up to the parity change of the CFA
franc. The credit would be at the standard I)A terms, with a maturity of 40 years.
2.    A 12-month stand-by arrangement, to be replaced by a three-year arrangement
under the enhanced structural adjustment facility of the IMF, for the equivalent of SDR
18.596 million (38.5% of quota) is expected to be considered on March 4, 1994. A
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) will be circulated to the Board shortly, and the Third
Policy Framework Paper (PFP) will be ready at the beginning of FY95.
PART _: THE GOVERNMENT'S ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL PROGRAM
A.   Recent Economic and Social Developments
3.    Since the downturn of its uranium prices in 1981, the economy of Niger has
suffered continual setbacks. The setbacks were mainly the result of the deterioration in
Niger's terms of trade, the continual depreciation of the Naira of Nigeria since 1986, poor
economic management, as well as recurrent droughts. Losses due to the deterioration of
the terms of trade between 1987 and 1992 have been estimated at 10% of real GDP. The
competitiveness of Niger's modem industries has been seriously eroded by the
depreciation of Nigeria's Naira and other partners' and competitors' currencies, and the
resulting thriving informal border trade, smuggling and custom fraud. As a result, the
Nigerien economy still remains in a deep slump. Over the period 1985-92, real GDP
growth has remained very low, on average 0.25%. Per capita income has declined by
3.4% per year since 1980 and as a result, Niger's fast growing population (3.2%) is
becoming one of the poorest of the world. The formal sector (28.4% of GDP) comptises
a relatively inefficient public sector and a small modem private sector in rapid decline
owing to the decrease in competitiveness. The informal sector is fast growing. Uranium
exports amounted to 80% of total exports until the end of the 1980s, and some 70%
thereafter.



2
4.    Niger's social indicators paint a grim picture of the country's poverty profile. At
present, 80% of the population lives in rural areas where food security and nutritional
status are closely linked to rainfall patterns. However, with declining per capita incomes,
poverty and malnutrition levels have at best remained constant and more likely have
worsened in the 1980s. In addition, the large appreciation of the real exchange rate since
the mid-1980s, which reduced severely the potential for export and import substitution,
had an adverse impact on rural incomes in particular.
5.    In 1992 and 1993, the fiscal position continued to deteriorate and substantial
domestic and extemal payment arrears accumulated.  The stock of debt increased
substantially, and the net foreign asset position remained weak. The thin manufacturing
base, as well as the uranium sector contracted cor.siderably with significant negative
spillovers. In order to curb this deterioration, the authorities adopted a strengthened
internal adjustment program in August 1993 and took key measures in September,
including a decrease in public sector salaries by about 13% on average, as well as
piecemeal protection measures against fraudulent imports. Despite these measures, the
fiscal imbalances continued. The current budgetary deficit increased from 3.0% of GDP in
1991 to 3.9% in 1992 and 4.2% in 1993. In 1992, tax revenue decreased to a level hardly
sufficient to cover the civil service wage bill and, in 1993, civil service salaries went up to
four months in arrears (3.4 months on average at the end of 1993), while further arrears
accumulated with respect to consumption of public utilities and government agencies.
Scholarship payments were only CFAF 3.5 billion as against a budgeted CFAF 4.5 billion.
External debt servicing fell to a minimum, and the counterpart funds towards foreign
financed projects declined, resulting in excessively low levels of public investment. The
balance of payments current account deficit, excluding official transfers remained at 7.5%
of GDP in 1993, like in the previous two years.
6.    Past structural adjustment efforts exerted by Niger with the support of IDA and
the IMF received much needed concessional financing by both multilateral and bilateral
donors. Reforms were implemented to improve public finance and debt management,
liberalize the economy and foreign trade, reduce constraints on pricing and marketing in
agriculture, strengthen the programming Lnd implementation of public investment,
restructure the public enterprise sector, including agricultural sector agencies, rehabilitate
the banking system and improve financial intermediation. Significant progress was
achieved in the period 1985-89. However, economic conditions continued to leteriorate
and the underlying decreasing competitiveness was compounded by adverse shocks. In
parallel, the political situation evolved and the long transition period unr:' the installation
of a democratic government in April 1993 caused the structural adjustment program to
derail.
B.    The Decision to Change the Parity of the CFA Franc
7.    The internal adjustment measures taken by the new Government should contribute
to economic stabilization. However, the extent of the appreciation of the real exchange



3
rate and its adverse consequences had bec_mne so serious that these measures alone could
not improve the competitiveness of Niger's economy and restore its financial viability. A
major policy change was therefore necessary.
8.    The Government of Niger, jointly with the other member countries of the CFA
zone, decided to strengthen its adjustment strategy by changing, as of January 12, 1994,
the parity of the CFA franc from 50 to 100 CFAF per FF. With the realignment of its
currency, the Government of Niger has adopted an adjustment program for 1994-96
during which it aims at (i) achieving a rate of real GDP growth of 3.9% in 1994, and 4.2%
the next two years; (ii) rehabilitating public finances and achieving primary surpluses in the
Govemment's budget; (iii) increasing substantially the investment-to-GDP ratio; (iv)
sustaining the improvement in external competitiveness through resuming structural and
sectoral reforms, and a return to a low inflation after transitional period; and (v) reducing
poverty and reorienting its public expenditure priorities in favor of human resource
development.
9.    With a good potential for the development its agriculture, Niger stands a good
chance for accelerated growth through export expansion (cowpeas, onions, livestock), and
food crop development,  sustained improvements in living standards, and poverty
alleviation. Prospects for uranium exports are unfavorable given the world market
situation; the devaluation, together with on-going reforms in the sector, will permit,
however, to restore the financial viability of the sector. The supply response in the much
damaged modem manufacturing sector will take time. There is, however, a potential for a
quick response of informal and small-scale enterprises in a number of import substitution
activities.
10.  International experiences suggest that devaluations in low-inflation countries can
effectively bring about real depreciations as it leads to only a temporary increase in the
inflation rate. The history of low inflation in the CFA zone, which is largely due to the
supra-nationality of monetary policy--a unique situation in the world--confers an important
advantage and lends higher probability that the devaluation, provided it is accompanied by
appropriate fiscal policies, will be able to restore lasting competitiveness while allowing
the currency to resume its role as a nominal anchor of macroecononic policy.
11.  In order to guarantee the success of the devaluation and reach its development
objectives, the Government of Niger is aware of the need to accompany the change of
parity with measures designed to: (i) pass-through the benefits of the devaluation to rural
producers; (ii) reduce absorption by Government, adjust taxation and external tariffs and
limit wage increases; (iii) address the political and social dimensions of the realignment
strategy, and seek policy advice and technical assistance to manage the process; and (iv)
accelerate  the structural reforms necessary to support the supply response.  The
Government's policies are summarized in the "Statement of Economic and Social Policies"
shown in Annex IV.



4
C.   Macroeconomic Objectives and the Program for 1994
12.   Macroeconomic Goals. The main objectives are to achieve a real GDP growth
rate of 3.9% in 1994, to be increased to 4.2% the following years; limit inflation to some
37% in 1994, 7% the following year, and less than 3% by 1996, which would allow to
achieve and maintain a real depreciation of some 40% in domestic currency terms; limit
the worsening of the current account deficit of the balance of payments to 16% of GDP in
1994 (from 7.5% in 1993), and reduce it to some 12% by 1996. The projected increase
in the B.O.P. current account deficit in 1994 is due to the expected decrease in uranium
export revenue and a large increase in capital good imports linked to the public investment
program. The value of uranium exports is projected to fall by US$27.4 million in 1994, or
17% of their value in 1993.
13.  In order to ensure the attainment of positive growth in per capita income, the
program provides foc an increase in investment from 5.7% of GDP in 1993 to 15.5% in
1996. This rapid increase is necessary because of the low levels of investment in recent
years and the large public investment requirements in economic and social infrastructure,
and it reflects the investment response which is expected in the private sector.
14.   Public Finance. The Government has taken specific measures to ensure that the
current budgetary deficit, on a commitment basis and excluding grants, does not exceed
CFAF 48.4 billion (5.7% of GDP) in 1994, to be reduced to 2.1% of GDP the following
year. The overall fiscal deficit (excluding grants) will be limited to 9.0% of GDP (CFAF
77 billion) before being reduced to 6.0% in 1995. External payments arrears, estimated at
end-December 1993 at CFAF 102 billion (at the new parity), will be eliminated by end-
1994. The program provides also for the cash settlement of domestic payments arrears for
CFAF 17.5 billion (out of an identified stock of CFAF 35 billion), while the remaining will
be settled trough issuance of government securities. In the event that budgetary aid
exceeded the amount anticipated, the cash settlement of domestic arrears would be
increased accordingly. The Government will establish an inventory of all arrears at end-
1993 and proceed to their formal regularization.
15.   Revenue and taxation. The realignment of the exchange rate should result in a
significant increase in government revenue, especially customs revenue. In addition, the
Government has taken a number of tax measures, in accordance with the
recommendations of an IMF technical mission, which should have a considerable impact
on revenue, particularly beginning in 1995. The total impact of these measures is
estimated at CFAF 11 billion already in 1994, or 25 percent of actual tax revenue in 1993.
They include (i) a significant reduction in exemptions, (ii) a strengthening of the tax
administration and the effectiveness of its audit activities, (iii) a simplification of the tax
system, (iv) a reinforcement of anti-fraud measures, and (v) enhanced collection efforts.
Concerning the VAT, the existing three rates (10%, 17%, and 24%) will be replaced by a
single rate of 17%, consistent with the proposed harmonization of the VAT within the
UEMOA; the number of exempted products will be reduced as much as possible, and



5
coverage of the VAT will be extended to public utilities (electricity, water, transportation)
after the companies concerned have been restructured. The Govermnent will ensure that
its actions are consistent with the initiative to harmonize tax policy within the West
African Economic and Monetary Union (UEMOA). Overall, it is expected that the ratio
of budgetary revenue to GDP rise from a low 7.6 percent in 1993 to 11. I percent in 1996.
16.   Wage Policy. A strict discipline in wage policy is essential to limit inflation,
achieve the necessary real depreciation and restore competitiveness. The civil service
wage bill will be limited to CFAF 44.3 billion in 1994, representing an increase of 14.2%
over 1993. To achieve this objective, the size of the civil service will increase only slightly
from 38,738 to 39, 080 by end-1994, taking into account the priority requirements in the
education, health sector, and tax administration. Salaries have been realigned at their pre-
September 1993 level, and will be raised by a maximum of 10% after March 31, 1994.
The overall amount of scholarships will be limited to CFAF 4.8 billion, and a rigorous
selection process will ensure that only the most deserving students receive support.
17.   Price Polices. The Government will continue its policy of free pricing and wil! not
introduce ptice controls beyond the current exception for petroleum products and public
utilities (water, electricity, telecommunications).
a.    Petroleum prices have been modified to reflect import price increases. In
order to dampen price hikes, however, taxes have been lowered on gas-oil, which
is important in itidustry and transport, and have been eliminated on kerosene--an
essential consumer good--for a 3-month period..
b.    Water and electricity rates will be frozen until mid-April, and will be
readjusted thereafter, taking into account increases in import costs and the
restructuring measures envisaged for these sectors.
18.   External Tariff The realignment of the exchange rate makes it necessary to adjust
external tariff. The following measures have been taken soon after the devaluation: (i)
doubling of standard values, schedule values, and minimum administrative values (these
values are to be eliminated in the forthcoming tariff reform; para. 24); (ii) 50% cut on
cumulative taxes and duties for essential goods, and intermediate goods; (iii) transitional
clauses were applied exclusively to imports not yet cleared through customs, but already
paid at the old exchange rate; (iv) ad hoc exemptions have been eliminated, except those
related to projects, diplomatic privileges and special conventions.
19.   Monetary Policy.  The Government will implement a prudent credit policy,
consistent with the program targets. Money supply would increase in 1994 by less than
15%. With a targeted rise of CFAF 5 billion in net foreign assets of the banking system,
net bank credit to the Government will rise by only 11%, and credit to the economy by
30% during 1994. The outstanding central bank advances to the Government would be
brought within the statutory ceiling in 1994. Credit and financial intermediation will



6
continue to benefit from the reform of monetary policy instruments undertaken by
BCEAO, including the pursuit of a more flexible interest rate policy and indirect regulation
of credit through the introduction of reserve requirements and a broadening of the role of
the inter-bank money market. To tighten temporarily monetary and credit conditions, the
Central Bank's discount rate was raised from 10.5% to 14.5%, effective January 18, 1994.
The rehabilitation of the banking system will continue with the closing and liquidation of
the Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole (CNCA), the speeding up of the restructuring of
the Banque Islamique du Niger (BIN), the Meridien BIAO, the Banque Commerciale du
Niger, and the Nigeria International Bank-Niamey.
D.   Structural Reforms
20.   The Government is currently preparing a comprehensive program of structural
reforms which will be outlined in the Fifth Policy Feamework Paper (the Fourth Policy
Framework Paper was considered by the Executive Director on September 11, 1990). For
the restored competitiveness of the economy to effectively lead to the resumption of self-
sustained growth., the Government is determined to accelerate essential structural
reforms, concerning in particular the liberalization of the economic system,  the
functioning of  factor markets and private sector promotion, public investment
programming and implementation and human resource development.
21.   Public Investment.   Measures will be taken to strengthen the planning,
programming and implementation of public investment. The three-year rolling public
investment program will be reactivated with the support of the Bank and project selection
will be consistent with sectoral development strategies.  Priority will be given to
infrastructure projects in direct support of productive sectors, human resource
development and employment creation.
22.   Agricultural Policy.  The Government will continue to avoid restrictions on
agricultural prices, and will pursue efforts to liberalize the operations of the Riz du Niger
(RINI), and limit the role of the Office des Produits Vivriers du Niger (OPVN) to the
management of food security stocks. Rice farning has immediately benefited from the
parity change, with increases in already high import prices. Actions have been taken
through the government extension services to inform farmers of the benefits they can
draw from the exchange rate realignment and make sure that the increases in export
proceeds are fully passed through to the producers.   The Government intends to
encourage private investment, including in small-scale irrigation, and promote the
expansion of agricultural credit for investment and commercialization. The scope of
government intervention will be limited to ensuring appropriate land tenure legislation,
environmental protection, food security, rural infrastructure, as well as research and
extension services, training and education. A legal framework and an action program are
being prepared to organize rural communities and empower them for resource
management and socio-economic development at the local level.



7
23.   Industrial Policy will be centered on the promotion of exports on the regional
market and the development of small and medium-size enterprises for import substitution
througk improvements in competitiveness and productivity.  Accordingly, the most
important measures concern the regulatory framework and the elimination of bottlenecks
throttling supply response.  With respect to the labor market, the Government is
committed to repeal the regulations regarding prior authorization in hiring and firing, so as
to provide flexibility for such a strategic factor market. Concerning public enterprises,
some measures will be accelerated. They concern conducting independent audits in some
enterprises (NIGELEC, ONPPC, SONIDEP, CNSS), the liquidation of COPRO-NIGER,
and restructuring actions in a number of other enterprises. Also, the cross debts of the
public sector will be identified and a timetable establ: ied by the end of April 1994 for
their settlement. The reforms in the Uranium sector as well as in the electricity company
(NIGELEC) will be implemented in accordance with the agreed timetable.
24.   With respect to trade, the realignment of the ex'.hange rate is an opportunity to
reform the system of external protection with the objectives of simplifying import and
export procedures, harmonize effective protection, reduce custom fraud and increase tax
revenue. Active preparation of the trade reform has begun with the support of Bank staff
and the Government is committed to introduce it at the end of April 1994.
25.   Regional Integration.  Together with the devaluation, a major step towards
regional economic integration was taken by the seven Heads of State of the UMOA in
Dakar with the signing of the Treaty transforming the UMOA into an economic and
monetary union (UEMOA).   This improves the prospects for agricultural and
manufacturing development in Niger, like in the six other UEMOA countries', by
increasing the potential for intra-regional trade on a market of nearly 60 million persons
and permitting economies of scale. Moreover, the strengthening of the Union institutions
and the proposed mechanisms to ensure the convergence of fiscal policies and the
harmonization of economic and sectoral policies among the seven countries increase the
likelihood for them to maintain viable macroeconomic frameworks.
E.    Social Aspects
26.   The realignment of the exchange rate is a fundamental element of the
Government's strategy to reduce poverty, particularly in the rural areas, where the large
majority of the population lives. The immediate rise in producer prices of export crops
and livestock as well as the much improved competitiveness of food crops on the domestic
market, particularly rice, will lead to an increase in real incomes of the rural population
and a reversal in the rural-urban terms of trade which had been distorted for a long time.
In the longer term the general economic recovery, resulting from the restoration of
competitiveness, is expected to create new employment opportunities and benefit all social
groups. In addition, the restoration of viable public finances will allow to increase
'Benin, Burkina-Faso, Cote dlvoire, Mali, Senegal and Togo.



8
expenditure in the social sectors and improve the access of the population to essential
social services. In the short term, however, price increases resulting from the impact of
the devaluation on import costs will be felt before new employment opportunities appear
in the urban areas. To minimize this negative impact on the most vulnerable groups, the
Government has adopted a series of accompanying measures.
(i)    Custom duties and taxes have been eliminated for a period of three months
to limit the price increases of products (rice, sugar, kerosene) that make up a
significant part of .he consumption basket of low-income households;
(ii)    Adequate supply of free essential drugs in public health facilities is being
provided with the assistance of external donors and actions are being taken for
ensuring the supply of low cost generic drugs in private pharmacies;
(iii)   Steps have been taken to supply the markets with essential foodstuffs
(cereals, sugar, cooking oil) at subsidized prices, if the need appears to break
speculative commercial practices;
(iv)   Budgetary appropriations for social expenditures, in particular in the areas
of primary education and primary health services have been increased substantially
in real terms in the 1994 Budget and the Government has undertaken to redeploy
staff from central ministries to health facilities and primary schools in the interior
and rural areas.
27.   An amount of CFAF 10 billion (US$ 17 million) is explicitly budgeted to cover the
cost of the measures above. This amount is subject to review according to the needs now
being evaluated by the Niger authorities and available external financing.
28.   In addition,
(a)    Special programs, nutrition in particular, targeting the poorest social
groups will be put in place with the assistance of non-governmental associations
(NGOs) and donors, including IDA.
(b)    The ongoing labor-intensive programs, primarily in the areas of civil works
(roads, urban infrastructure -- NIGETIP), rural infrastructure (Small Rural
Operations Project), education and health, will be increased, with the assistance of
IDA and other donors.



9
F.    Financing Requirements
29.   After taking into account the commitments already made for project loans, the
gross external financing requirements for 1994 will amount to CFAF 201 billion. These
requirements will be covered by exceptional financial assistance from multilateral creditors
and bilateral creditors, and debt relief operations. The exceptional financing already
identified for 1994 totals CFAF 51 billion, including the proposed IDA credit. The
financing gap for 1994 stands at CFAF 150 billions. This gap is expected to be covered
by debt relief of CFAF 108 billion, and by an additional financial aid of CFAF 42 billion.
PART II: IDA'S STRATEGY AND OPERATIONS
A.   Country Strategy and Priorities
30.   A full Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) is under preparation. The last CAS was
discussed by the Executive Directors on April 21, 1992. The following paragraphs outline
the principles which will guide future Bank interventions and provide a context for .he
present operation:
(a)   Country's Potential: Niger's economy remains relatively undiversified with
only one major export commodity, uranium and limited natural resources. Growth
is highly dependent upon rainfall patterns in the absence of widespread irrigation,
and the price of uranium. In the face of such constraints and uncertainties, Niger's
growth prospects continue to depend critically on the Government's ability to
maintain a viable macro-economic framework and to design and implement a
reform program which would open up potential new areas of growth and which
donors can support (section c below). In the longer term, Niger's development
potential will depend on the following factors: (i) human resource development
which is necessary for the country to have a skilled and productive labor force; (ii)
investment in critical sectors, notably human resources (education in particular),
agriculture and natural resources management and economic infrastructure; (iii)
mobilizing domestic savings and improving the efficiency of resource use in the
public and private sectors through policy reform; and (iv) consistent with point
(iii), a sustained improvement in the competitiveness of the economy through
efforts to lower domestic production costs and an improved environment
conducive to private investment.
(b)   Ownership and Consensus Building. It will be difficult for the Nigerien
society to transform itself by changing the nature of the relationship between the
state and the private sector unless strong efforts are made at strengthesiing the
quality of our dialogue with the civil society at large (Government, NGOs, trade
unions, businesses, etc.). This would allow the Bank to be a facilitator of change



l0
by acting as a catalyst promoting internal debates aimed at reaching consensus and
generating ownership of development programs.
(c)   Sources of Growth
(i)    Supply Response from the Rural Sector: In both the short and long-
terms, the agriculture sector is likely to remain the most important sector in
terms of employment and it is there that the supply response is expected at
first. Thus, an essential component of our strategy is to promote structural
reforms which should lead to expanded production of export and food
crops such as: subsistence cereals, cowpeas and onions, higher value
vegetables, and livestock products. Much of Niger's potential here would
lie in taking advantage of its geo-economic position vis a vis Nigeria,
through trade.
(ii)   Supply Response from the Private Sector: In the long term, the
private sector should become one of the principal sources of sustained
growth. The informal sector is highly integrated with the economy of
Northern Nigeria, and is relatively diversified. The magnitude of the
informal sector activity in Niger is imperfectly understood since most trade
with Nigeria takes place unofficially. The formal private sector is relatively
small but contributes a disproportionate level of government revenue.
Policy constraints such as labor legislation have taken their toll. The
private sector could actively participate in the development of such sectors
as tourism and services, small scale mining and the production of small
scale agricultural implements in addition to agriculture (see above). Thus, a
central focus of the assistance program should be on the promotion of
competitiveness through regulatory reform to make the economy more
responsive to opportunities and create the conditions for rapid economic
growth. It should also be on helping design incentives to encourage the
informal sector to enter the formal sector.
(iii)  Increased and Improved Public Investment: The last four years
have witnessed a steep decline in public investment. Thus, an important
component of our strategy in the short to medium terms would be to help
increase the investment rate especially ensuring that investments are
redirected towards the social sectors, to agricultural services and to the
maintenance and rehabilitation of existing infrastructure in preference to
new works. These investments should also help generate employment as
part of efforts to alleviate poverty.



(d)   Five Ncessau Actions to Sustain Succcss:
(i)    Human Resources Development. Niger ranks among the bottom
five countries in the world for all social indicators. Improving significantly
the situation underlined by these indicators is a sine qua non condition of
development. Signiflcant and sustained improvement is crucial for both
long term growth within Niger and, in the absence of employment
opportunities at home, to improve the chances for migrants to find gainfil
employment in the coastal countries. The key issue on the agenda in the
development of human resources are: (a) to lower the growth rate of
population from its current level of 3.2%; (b) to improve the coverage of
primary health care; and (c) to increase the level and quality of basic
education. Human resource development is thus the central focus of our
partnership with Niger. In education, emphasis is on strengthening primary
education, by restructuring expenditures towards the primary level and
increasing the enrollment rate. Concerning higher education, the emphasis
is on reducing costs of student services and scholarships and using the
savings to improve primary education as well as the quality of education
and research activities. In health, the emphasis is on strengthening primary
care, developing strategies for dealing with STDs, and on developing a
coherent approach to the provision of low-cost essential drugs.
(ii)   Population Growth and the Status of Women: Faster growth will
not contribute significantly to poverty alleviation unless the Government is
able to slow down rapid population growth. Thus as mentioned above, a
central focus of Bank activities in Niger will continue to be on population,
including through improvement of the status of women. Particular
emphasis will be given to improving the quality and availability of adequate
health and family planning services and to addressing low female
enrollment and literacy rates.
(iii)  IProvision of Adequate Infrastructure: Regardless of structural
reforms, the growth of exports, particularly to Nigeria and the other
UEMOA countries, and the private sector in general and the rural sector in
particular, will only be possible if the infrastructure bottlenecks are
removed. Thus, Bank activities in the provision of adequate infrastructure
services are an essential support to the GON's efforts in the promotion of
the private sector and the agriculture sector.
(iv)   E'nvironment, Agricultlire and Natural Resources Management:
Rapid population growth, shrinking cultivable land and soil degradation
may culminate in a crisis of unmanageable proportions in agriculture.
Increased  urban  populations  will  require  better  sanitation  and



12
environmental services. But even as the country becomes moie urban,
agriculture will remain a key economic artivity. The natural resource base
is threatened by environmental degradation, thus undermining the
livelihood of 80% of Niger's population. Thus, another component of our
strategy is to slow down or to reverse present environmental trends,
maintain or increase existing levels of per capita production to help achieve
food security, and provide a source of economic growth. Central to our
activities are: (a) environmental management; (b) food security; (c) an
adequate incentive structure for farmers; and (d) efficient delivery of public
services (extension, research, etc.).
(v)   Institutional Development and Capacity Building. At the policy
level, the scarcity of reliable data, poor coordination, and the absence of a
proper policy-making process have in the past hindered the design,
implementation and monitoring of reform packages. For example, the
budget is not often used as a policy instrument and sector ministries do not,
generally, have the required planning and programming capabilities.
Although national expertise is often available (university, research centers),
it is rarely used systematically. Implementation performance under
investment projects continues to be mixed. The recent emergence of a new,
democratically elected Government and of new actors in the policy
dialogue has improved matters somewhat but much remains to be done to
improve their analytical capacity. In light of the foregoing, a major
component of IDA strategy is to support efforts at developing a
comprehensive long-term institutional development strategy which includes
specific actions in capacity building.
31.   Until now, Niger was in 'core' mode since, in the absence of sustained actions on
the adjustment front including a depreciation of the real exchange rate, the economic
prospects were poor. As a result, IDA lending had shifted from one that included quick-
disbursing to one that only included investment financing with an emphasis on population
and human resources, agriculture (including natural resources management), infrastructure
maintenance and rehabilitation (NIGETIP) and capacity building. During this transition
period, the Bank continued encouraging dialogue with the country and promoting the role
of the private sector. The Bank also made available technical and material assistance to
help the Government put its financial house in order (including the mobilization of
revenues). The opportunity presented by the realignment of the CFAF, and the
commitment of the new Government, justify planning a commensurate program of
financial support for macro and sectoral adjustment operations as an important component
of our strategy for Niger in the coming years. Nevertheless, we remain cautious in the
conmnitment of scarce IDA resources.



13
B.    Follow-up Operations to the ERC in 1994
32.   The Economic Recovery Credit represents an exceptional response to a historic
decision. In particular, its design and conditionality reflect two constraints: (i) the need to
provide a timely first response to the measures taken to accompany the devaluation; and
(ii) the absence of any other quick-disbursing instrument to do so. The ERC is the first
element of the response planned by IDA to ensure the necessary conditions for a favorable
supply response following the devaluation. Then, our plans include both quick disbursing
adjustment operations to provide the necessary financing in support of strong reform
efforts, and investment operations aimed at developing human resources, employment
creation, capacity building and agricultural development. The first subsequent adjustment
operation will be a Human Resources SECAL (hybrid). This operation, which is expected
to be presented to the Board in May 1994, will aim at consolidating and furthering the
many actions government has recently been taking to increase school enrollment and to
improve the quality of education. The second adjustment operation is a Second Structural
Adjustment Credit which will be aimed at picking up where the past adjustment operation
(PESAP) was derailed. It would focus on incentives and policy reforms for the private
sector, public resource management, and public enterprise reform.
33.   IDA also intends to accelerate the implementation of existing projects and provide
supplementary credits. A first step toward income creation is a planned supplement to
NIGETIP (Public Employment Project) which would effectively double the output of
NIGETIP over the next year with a substantial impact on employment. The supplement
would accelerate the provision of basic urban services. NIGETIP would be expanded to
secondary urban centers. A supplement is also planned for the Small Rural Operations
Project (SRO) which would be aimed at addressing infrastructure needs in rural areas as
well as exploring support for export promotion activities in rural areas.
PART m: THE ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
A.   Financing and Management of the Program
34.   It is proposed that an Economic Recovery Credit in the equivalent of US$ 25
million be allocated to Niger on IDA standard terms. The objectives of the credit are: (i)
to support the Government's program, outlined in the Government's "Statement of
Economic and Social Policies" dated February 28, 1994, and, more particularly, the
measures aiming at minimizing the negative social impact of the devaluation in the short-
term; (ii) to provide the necessary financial assistance during the transition period in which
follow-up operations are being prepared; and (iii) to support the policy dialogue between
the Government and IDA. Due to the urgency of the operation, it is proposed that the
credit be disbursed in one tranche upon effectiveness. The Government's ability to
consolidate the early gains from the devaluation and respect its financial program requires
that budgetary support be made available rapidly. There is no condition of effectiveness,
except for the legal opinion and ratification of the Credit Agreement.



14
B.    Procurement and Disbursement
35.   Procurement procedures have been designed to permit rapid use of funds while
ensuring efficiency and accountability in the process. Simplified international competitive
bidding (ICB) would be required for eligible imports by public agencies and by the private
sector exceeding US$ 5 million. Procurement by public agencies for items costing below
the threshold will follow standard government practices found to be acceptable in the past.
Eligible imports below the threshold by private entities would be procured in accordance
with normal commercial practices, and wherever possible, quotations from eligible
suppliers from at least two countries would be sought. Single source purchasing would
be permitted for proprietary equipment or where compatibility with existing equipment
requires standardization. Contracts valued less than US$5,000 would not be eligible for
financing under the credit. Procurement documentation will be maintained for ex-post
review by the Bank. The documentation may consist of: (i) a brief description of
procurement procedures; (ii) and evaluation summary giving number of bids received; (iii)
a comparative statement of prices received; (iv) dates of contracts and payments; (v) a
copy of the contract; (vi) a copy of the invoice; and (vii) any other documentation
required by disbursements.
36.   The proceeds of the credit would be used to reimburse 100% of the foreign
exchange cost of eligible general imports. On an exceptional basis, to allow for timely
disbursements, no limitation is placed on petrol or food imports. Public and private sector
imports would be eligible, except for:
(a) Negative list;
(b) Imported Goods already financed under bilateral or unilateral credits.
37.   The Government will establish a Special Account at the Central Bank (BCEAO) to
facilitate disbursements. The authorized allocation for the Special Account would be
CFAF 6 billion (about US$ 10 million equivalent). This account would be replenished
regularly on the basis of fully documented withdrawal applications in excess of US $
500,000 or on the basis of statements of expenditures (SOEs) for expenditures below that
amount. The Borrower would indicate on the SOEs the nature and origin of the goods,
as well as the payment date, and would maintain all relevant supporting documentation
(invoices, evidence of shipment, customs declarations, evidence of payment) for review by
Bank supervision missions. Expenditures under the IDA credit would be in accordance
with normal IDA rules. The proposed date of eligibility would be set in light of the
Government's renewed internal adjustment efforts in August 1993. In order to permit
timely disbursements in the amount needed to keep the program on track, the total amount
of the credit would need to be eligible for use for retroactive financing. Given Niger's
disbursement patterns, the selection of August 2, 1993, as the cut-off date for retroactive



15
financing would provide timely effective access to the credit proceeds. Exceptional
retroactive financing would thus meet an essential objective of the operation.
C.   Environmental Aspects
38.   The project would be consistent with IDA policy and would follow acceptable
IDA procedures.  In conformity with IDA policies for adjustment operations, no
environmental rating has been assigned.
D.   Project Implementation
39.   The Ministry of Finance and Plan is the Government's organization responsible for
coordinating and implementing the proposed project. It will undertake its work under the
guidance and supervision of an Interministerial Committee which has been established to
prepare a structural adjustment program and a policy framework paper. The Committee is
chaired by the Minister of Finance and Plan. Bank staff will coordinate with the IMF to
ensure adequate monitoring of key economic policies and indicators. The Government
will arrange for an audit report by an auditor acceptable to the Bank to be provided within
four months after the end of the fiscal year of the Borrower.
40.   The policy measures to be taken under the proposed credit are detailed in the
Governments Statement of Economic and Social Policies (Annex IV). As conditions of
negotiations, the Govermnent agreed to the following actions which have already been
taken:
a)    Realignment of the exchange rate, fixed at 100 CFAF for 1 FF effective
January 12, 1994;
b)    Adoption of a number of tax measures to increase tax revenue, based on
the recommendations of the December 1993 IMF technical mission;
c)    The civil service wage bill has been limited in the revised 1994 Budget to
CFAF 44.3 billion (representing an overall nominal increase of 14% over 1993);
d)    Administered prices (petroleum products, water and electricity) have been
set as specified in the Government's Statement of Economic and Social Policies
(paragraph 16 of Annex IV);
e)    Free agricultural producer pricing has been maintained and restrictions on
rice marketing have been eliminated;
f)    With respect to the customs tariff the measures specified in paragraph 18
above have been taken; and



16
g)    Allocation in the revised 1994 Budget of CFAF 10 billion (US$16 million)
for social safety net measures, including:
*  elimination of tariffs on rice and sugar for three months;
*  freezing the price of Kerosene for three months and limiting the increase in the
price of gas oil to 30%;
* ensuring proper supply of free essential drugs in public health facilities;
* supplying the markets with essential foodstuffs (cereals, sugar, cooking oil) at
subsidized prices to break speculative commercial practices;
* increasing significantly in real terms current expenditure for health and
education and ensuring the availability of free essential drugs in public health
facilities.
h) Increase the Central Bank discount rate from 10.5% to 14.5%.
E.    Benefits and Risks
41.   Benefits:  The proposed project would aid the Government in managing the
transition following the currency realignment, assisting it in restoring macroeconomic
equilibria and meeting the immediate social needs of the post-adjustment period. Human
resource development efforts would be accelerated by increasing the availability to basic
services and by increasing opportunities for employment creation in both rural and urban
areas. Among the 13 CFA countries, Nigers economy is probably the one which has most
suffered from the overvaluation of its real exchange rate, because of its proximity to, and
traditional trade relations with Nigeria and its limited resource base; much damage to the
modem manufacturing sector has already been done. The devaluation is an essential
prerequisite for economic recovery and poverty reduction, and its positive impact on
agriculture and on the financial viability of the uranium sector is already felt.
42.   Risks: Short-term costs, particularly the decrease in urban standard of living, may
put the new democratic Government in difficulty with the opposition party and various
interest groups such as students, labor unions, and civil servants. It may also generate
tensions within the coalition of parties in power. However, important remedial measures,
including exceptional financial assistance by donors, have been put in place to address
these risks. Furthermore, the devaluation, coming after a prolonged crisis, has injected a
sense of urgency into the debate on economic reform. The success of the devaluation in
provoking an investment and supply response in the medium-term will depend on the
determination of the Government in implementing these reforms.



17
PART IV: RECOMMENDATION
43.   I amn satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the Articles of
Agreement of the International Development Association and recommend that the
Executive Directors approve it.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Washington, DC
February 28, 1994
Attachments



Annex I
Page 1 of 5
Niger: Table 1: Social Indicators
Niger: Priority Poverty Indicators
Meat Se,. regie^,Ano     gr           J
25-30       13-20  S    Id            Se-
U(RJ of            Y*WW        y-w    n maa          Sake.           LO,-       Licame
IndJeaLor                                   'WAWe                2.e          ago        (MV4          hmova                  group
POVERTY
Uppc povty lne                              locl or.
HCedzcount index                           % o pop.
Lowv  povcty line                          loc1   s.                _           _            _           _            _ r
HeAdoouu indx                              %otpop.                 ..          _            _           _            -            _
GNPpercapits                                  USS                 170         230          300         350          350        1,610
SHORT TERM LNCOME INDICATORS
ulld wtn    m                               local cr.       _          _  _    _     _ 
UasldiUDad Ju wages 
Ruml lrms of trde                              *                                _            _           _            _
Coumer price index                          1997-iC'               22          39           8S
Lowe inDom- -                                                                               -           -                  -
Food                                          '                    _           _           91           _            _
UTban                                                                         - _ 
Rural                             ^ _
SOCIAL LDICATORS
Public expend. co bic SOCavim               %of GDP               _ _                        -             
anas e roUi    ntcOs
primuy                                  %schoolagepop.             11          20           29          70          113          100
Male                                                              is          25           37          76          122          106
Famsle                                        *                    7          14           21          60          106           98
Moraity
lag mnaulit                             aoLlivebirths           I1O          161          126         104           70          40
Lind, 5                                                                        -onalit*  320          177           98          53
k=MmiLtioc
Measlez                                  % srapup                  _                       27          40           73          70
DPT                                           '                    _                        S          35           81          74
Ciild mailmition (undcr5)                                                                   49           -            -            -
Life expency
Toul                                         yCan                 37          40           46          St           63           67
F:emaJ/aJles                                 emio               1.09         1.08        1.09         1.06        0.95         1.08
Total frtflity ratc                     bin  pr wommn            7.2          7.3         7.4          6.4          3.7         3.5
MaJra rnonality rate                    100,000 live births                     -                  -     .. 
Population growth rate                        Irfant mortality rate                        Primary enroUment
(p!rmeTe)                                (thoLu oflivebi)                                (pd)
6 -                        *               250                                           120+ 
5                              ~~~~~~~200                                     100
150~~~~~~~~~8
3                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~60
100
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
mid 60s    zcid70c       U=                  mid 70u    mid7s        on                    mid 6O    mid 70s mi
Low income



Annex I
Page 2 of 5
Niger: Table 2: Social Indicators
Niger Resources And Expenditures
moo"                              .
25-10      Z1-20       ,'e                                    .
Unkt of           ,pu         y-w       m.st        Sahm           La"be 
fnldwor                                     rc'                go     _    go        (nr)         Jc        hs,eob       poa
HUMAN RESOURCES
Populadon (mre1991)                       thousands           3,736      4,704       7,911      4S8S932   3,127,265     773,203
A-e de;oap-decY rso                        nlio               0.90        096        099          0.97        0.66 .      0.71
Urbad                                     %ofpop.               6.8        10.6        20.0        2.7         40.1        53.9
Populationogo-ithAlc                      *i%                   2.7         2.8         3.1         3.0         1.9         1.7
Urban                                       *                  5.6         6.8         5.7         5.0         5.2         3.1
Labor force (S164)                       thousands           2,177       2.590      3,712      203,947    1,44S,104    302,44S
% of labor fotoe        95          93           _            _           _
Ind s.*                                                          I           I
Ind-.Muy                                     .49                            49          47          37          33           32
Feale per 100 czla
Utran                                     nutmber                           -
Ru.>nJ                                      ,                   _           _           _- 
NATIRAL RESOURCES
Area                                    tbotL s km            1,267       L267        1,267  .   23,066      38,S22      23,990
D,-.sitv                                pop.p- sq. km           3.0         4.0         6.0        20.0        77.0        31.0
Agice;l.-s lland                        %of land am            10.1       10.1         10.2        51.0        47.4        41.8
Change in agiculltural land               annual %              0.2         0.0        0.0          0.0         0.0         0.0
Aglicukl=j land under ingaptio               %                  0.1        0.1         0.2          S.5        13.7        12.6
Fores and woodland                       tou. sq. km            35          29          21       6,631        9,197       5,396
Deforwaion (ned)                              a%               .1.7       .2.0         -2.           -           -8
I?COME
Household uwoe
Share ortop 20% of housoldo             % of iiem               _           _           _ -               -
Share ofbonotn 40% ofhousc                  ^                   _           _ o
Shuet oftbotom 20% of hebolds
E(PFNDITURE
Food                                     %ofGDP                  _           _           _           _           _
Staplos                                                         -           -           _           _           _            _
Mcat,  niDc cbeese, osw
Cereal ir4po                            o tou. Mric totmes       4          17    S      6        7,838      36,008      44,413
Food ad int cals                             *                              73          35       2,677       6,669        4,047
Food production percapit&               197941-100             :02          76          76          94         122          101
F-eri    corsumptico               ;                                      0.0          1.0        14.5        47.5        94.2
ShutofsniculurainGDP                     %ofGDP               67.7        503         3.4         29.2         2.7            -
Housing                                  %ofGDP                  _-                      -           - 
Avea-ge bouselold size               pasom pae boaehold
U rbaa                                                          _           _           _.          -           _            _
Fixed inveruncrt housing                 % of GDP                _           _           _           _           _            _
Fuel and power                           % of GDP                -           -           -           .           -            -
nergcy.su.mption per capita             kg of oil oquiv.         S          25          40         100         350        1,249
HouLiseioids with electricity
Urban                                 %ofhouseholda             _                             -                 - 
Ru.ra
Trnsport and comnmunuclon                %ofGDP                  _           -           ..          _           -            -
Fixed  vcrmen traDSport eqipme=                                 -                                   - _  _
Totai road length                           km
NhVES-i TENT E N' H AL.N CAPITAL
Healtm
Ac=e to health care                       %orpop.
Population per physician                   p,s3,a           65,544      59,306      34,845
popuileion per nurse                                         6,206        1,671        654                 -                  -
PopuLL:ion per hospital bed                                      -        1,974          _        1,328       1,042        509
Access o safe water                       % ofpop.               _        27.0        46.0         36.7        70.6           -
Urban                                                                    36.0        35.0         74.3        79.3 
Rurl'                                                                    26.0        49.0         24.2        62.8           _
Orre rrhy&Ttionoherapy(undr-5)           %ofest                  -                      54          35          32
Educ2don
Gros elime st rAio
Secondary                            %ormadool.agepop.           1           2           7          1S          44           56
Fr,iie                                                          0           1  .        4          14          37            -
Pupil-teacher mino: prin y             pupils pe tlads          42          39          42          39          39           25
Pupil-teCxher rmaio: socondary               *                  16          24          29           _          20            -
Pupi, reehing rade 4                     % of coh                _          76          75          69           _
Repeate-rate:pnriary                   %oftowalavoll            23          13          14 4                     _
Illiteraz                             %ofpop.(gapS+)                        -          72          51          39            _
Fe. e                                %otftrne (age 15+)         -           _          S3          62          52            _
Ncwrano.ztlaltion                       parshouL pop.            0     0                 I              5
Source: World Bank Intcirniiocul Eonomic Depurtlitc April 1993



Annex I
Page 3 of 5
TABLE 3
NIGER - KEY ECONOMIC INDICATORS
1985    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996
Est.    Prog.        Proj.
Economic Indicators (annual t change)
Real GDP                                                   1.7    -1.8       1.9    -6.5       1.4      3.9      4.2      4.2
Total real consumption per capita                         -5.4    -5.4    -1.7    -0.5    -0.5    -0.5    -0.5    -0.7
Exports of GNFS (based on current CFAF valuesl            -6.0        0    -0.9   -13.4    -3.9    58.4    -2.3           4.1
Imports of GNFS (based on current CFAF values)             3.1    -3.2       1.9   -12.1    -1.8    98.2    -8.3    -0.9
Cur. Acct. Bal., bef. grants (t of GDP)                  -15.2   -11.2    -7.4    -6.7    -7.5   -16.4   -13.3   -12.2
Consumer price index                                      -0.1    -1.5       1.3    -1.8       0.4    36.7       7.3      2.9
National Accounts
1/  GDP at 1987 constant prices (USS millions)              1485.1  2557.1  2399.5  2417.0  2262.3  1444.7  1590.3  1266.3
GDP at current prices (USS millions)                    1440.5  2480.4  2327.5  2344.5  2194.4  1401.4  1542.6    1632.0
Private investment/GDP                                     7.2      4.4      4.1      1.9      1.9      2.4      4.2      4.8
GDS/GDP                                                    6.1      8.8      6.4      1.0      1.3      2.0      5.2      7.5
Private savings/GDP                                        2.6      6.3      5.0      5.4      3.5      1.7      3.5      5.1
Public savings/GDP                                         3.5      2.5      1.4    -4.4    -2.2        0.3      1.7      2.4
External Debt
Total debt outstanding (USS millions)                     1031    1584    1503    1631    1257    1390    1532    1653
Total debt service/GDP (%)                                 7.4      3.8      3.7      3.9      4.2      6.8      5.8      5.1
Debt outstanding/GDP (t)                                  71.6    63.9    64.6    69.6    57.3    99.2    99.3   101.3
Debt Service/exp. of gds. and serv. (t)                   29.8    21.3    26.6    27.4    26.8    35.6    32.8    29.3
Fiscal Indicators (% of GDP)
Central government rev., excl. grants                     11.4    10.3       8.5      8.2      7.6      9.0    10.7    11.2
Central government expenditures                           21.3    22.7    16.9    16.8    16.2    23.5    22.2    21.8
Current expenditures                                      11.6    13.3    11.1    12.6    12.2    14.5    12.5    11.9
Capital expenditures                                       9.7      8.9      5.4      4.7      4.3      8.3      8.3      8.6
Other
Population growth rate                                     3.4      3.1      3.2      3.2      3.2      3.2      3.3      3.3
1/ 1987 prices



Annex I
TABLE 4                                   Page 4 of 5
NIGER- BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
(US$ Millions in Current Prices)
1991      1992      1993      1994      1995      1996
Est.     Prog.          Proj.
Trade Balance                                   3.3      -1.0      -5.9    -50.7    -37.0    -26.4
Exports, f.o.b.                             284.1    265.4      235.5    211.2    218.7    231.1
of which: uranium                         199.4     190.1     159.7     132.2     134.9    138.9
Imports, f.o.b.                           -280.8   -266.4    -241.4    -261.9   -255.8   -257.6
of which: imports for
uranium sector                 -41.1     -43.8    -41.8    -42.9    -43.9    -45.0
Services (net)                               -138.2   -133.4   -124.3   -144.4   -136.8   -137.5
Of which: uranium sector                    -30.1     -21.4     -19.8     -18.8    -19.2    -20.5
Of which:
Freight and insurance                    -74.6    -70.8    -64.2        -69.6    -68.0    -68.5
Sched. int. on public debt                -39.7    -34.4      -33.5    -39.1      -38.6    -39.9
Sched. int. on private debt               -          -3.0      -2.1      -2.1      -1.6      -1.3
Unrequited transfers (net)                     25.5      20.4      38.8    -14.4       -8.0    -14.3
Current Account Balance                      -109.4    -114.0    -91.4   -209.5   -181.8   -178.2
Excluding official grants                  -172.9   -174.0   -163.7   -230.3   -204.8   -199.9
Capital Account                                29.2      65.0      29.2      53.6      72.7      92.2
Investment grants                          94.3      69.1      62.3      75.7      83.8      92.2
Official long-term, net                     -20.2      28.7     -11.5    -16.9       -7.5       2.8
Drawings                                   24.5      82.7      44.7      34.9      38.1      42.0
Budgetary                               -          46.1      18.5     -         -             -
Projects                                24.5      36.6      26.2       34.9      36.1      42.0
Sched. amortization                       -44.7    -54.0    -56.2    -51.8    -45.6    -39.2
Private capital, net                        -46.1     -18.1      -6.6      -5.2      -3.6      -2.7
Errors and omissions                         -1.4     -16.7    -14.9      -         -         -
Overall Balance                               -80.2    -48.9    -62.1   -156.0   -109.1    -86.0
Of which: uranium sector                    128.1     124.9      98.1      70.5      71.7      73.4
Financing                                      80.2      48.9      62.1   -176.6       -8.4    -12.8
Net Foreign Assets (BCEAO)                   -3.6    -12.6        9.4      -8.3      -8.4    -12.8
Fund financing                           -11.3       -9.5      -9.5      13.4      -6.7    -11.1
Purchases                               -         -         -          23.2       2.6     -
Repurchases                            -11.3      -9.5       -9.5      -9.8      -9.3    -11.1
Other assets, net                           7.7      -3.1      19.0    -21.7       -1.6      -1.6
Debt relief                                  29.1       3.9       9.1     -         -         -
Arrears (-reduction)                         54.7      57.5      43.6   -168.3      -         -
Financing Gap                                 =         =                   332.5     117.5      98.8
Memorandum items:
Average period CFAF/US$
exchange rate                             282.1     264.7    286.4      604.7     611.1     619.3
Sources: Data provided by the Central Bank; and IMF staff estimates
and projections.



Annex I
Page 5 of 5
TABLE S
NIGER- Statement of Government Financial Operations
(In Billions of CFA francs)
1985    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996
Est.    Prog.        Proj.
rotal revenue                                74.0    69.3    55.6    51.0    47.6    76.5   100.4   113.3
rotal expenditure                           137.9   153.2   110.7   104.1   101.6   199.3   209.0   220.6
Current expenditure                      75.0    90.1    72.5    78.4    76.5   122.6   117.9   120.2
Capital expenditure                      62.9    60.3    35.2    29.2    27.3    70.4    78.5    87.4
Other                                    -         2.8      3.0    -3.5    -2.2       6.3    12.6    13.0
Wverall fiscal balance (comm. basis)        -63.9   -83.9   -55.0   -53.1   -54.0  -122.8  -108.6  -107.3
Adjustments (changes in arrears)           1.8     3.9    20.4    21.0    18.8  -136.6    -           -
)verall Fiscal Balance (cash basis)         -62.1   -80.0   -34.6   -32.1   -35.2  -259.4  -108.6  -107.3
.inancing                                    62.1    80.0    34.6    32.1    32.5    60.5    38.1    47.4
External Financing                       60.2    82.4    35.8    33.3    28.8    37.8    47.9    60.0
Drawings                             64.8    67.6    38.6    45.8    42.6    66.9    74.5    83.1
Amortization due                    -18.6   -17.5   -12.3   -14.3   -16.4   -31.3   -27.9   -24.3
Debt relief                          14.0    32.2       9.4     1.8      2.6     *        .
Domestic Financing                        1.9    -2.4    -1.1    -1.2        3.7    22.7    -9.9   -12.7
Banking system                       -3.3      1.9    -3.5    -1.2       2.5      5.4    -4.1    -6.9
Other                                 5.2    -4.3       2.4     0.0      1.2    17.3    -5.8    -5.8
'inancing gap                                -       -        -        -       -       201.1    71.8    61.2
*emo:
Current balance                          -1.0   -20.8   -16.9   -27.4   -28.9   -46.1   -17.5    -6.9



Annex II
Page 1 of 2
STATUS OF WORLD BANK OPERATIONS IN NIGER
(As of January 31, 1994)
Amount in US$ million
(less cancellations)
Fiscal                                                    Undis-  Closing
Credit No.    Year                   Purpose                 IDA       bursed   Date
Thirty two (32) Credits closed                              377.03
1668-NIG     1986         Health                             27.50      8.31  06/30/94(R)
1740-NIG     1987         Primary Education                  18.40      5.25  12/31/94(R)
1838-NIG     1988         P.E. Institutional Development      5.50      0.40  06/30/94(R)
1880-NIG     1988         Energy                             31.50     22.01  12/31/94(R)
1890-NIG     1988         Small Rural Operations              9.30      2.34  06/30/96
2122-NIG     1990         Agricultural Research              19.90      18.51  12/31/95
2209-NIG     1991         Public Works and Employment        20.00      3.61  12/31/94
2355-NIG     1992         Agr'.,ultural Services             18.00     15.27  06/30/98
2360-NIG     1992         Population                         17.60      15.57  06/30/97
TOTAL number of Credits = nine (9)                          167.70
TOTAL (including closed projects)              544.72
of which repaid                                14.07
TOTAL held by IDA                              530.65
TOTAL undisbursed                                         91.26
Notes:
(R) indicates formally revised
(S) indicates SAL/SECAL credits
Closing dates are based upon the Loan Departmnent official data and are not taken from the Task Budget file.



Annex II
Page 2 of 2
SUMMARY OF IFC INVESTMENTS IN NIGER
(As of January 31, 1994)
Original Gross Commitments
Fiscal                           Type of                   Loan    Equity  Total
Year         Company             Business                         US mil --------
1982         Les Moulins du
Sahel              Agribusiness                2.1      0.2     2.3
less repayments, write-offs, cancellations
and exchange adjustments                       2.1      0.2     2.3
Net Commitment held by IFC                       0        0       0



ANNEX I II
Page 1 of 1
TIMETABLE OF KEY PROCESSING EVENTS
Time taken to prepare program                      2 months
Program prepared by                                Ministry of Finance and Planning
Initial Discussions with MDA                       January 10-14, 1994
Appraisal Mission1                                 January 17-25, 1994
Negotiations                                       February 28, 1994
Board Presentation                                 March 17, 1994
Planned date of effectiveness                      March 31, 1994
Expected program completion                        June 30, 1995
1This program was appraised in January 1994 by an IDA mission consisting of Messrs. Francois Laporte (Lead Economist,
AF5), Emmanuel Mbi (Principal Country Officer, AF5CO), Amadou Cissd (Country Economist, AF5CO), Abdul Haji
(Resident Representative, Niger), and Francis Mody (Program Offlcer, Niger Resident Mission). The mission was
undertaken in parallel with an BF Stand-By mission. Mmes. Norma Camacho (AF5CO) and Song Li Ti Fong (AFSDR)
assisted witi the processing of the operation. Ms. Katherine Marshall and Mr. Jean-Louis Sarbib are the Department
Director and the Managing Division Chief; respectively, for the operation.



Annex IV
Page 1 of 12
REPUBLIQUE DU NIGER                                      Niamey, le 28 Fevrier 1994
Ministere des Finances et du Plan
CABINET DU MINISTRE
Le Ministre
A
Monsieur Lewis T. Preston
Pr6sIdent
Banque Mondiale
Washington, D.C. 20433
USA
OBJET: D6claration de Politique Economique et Soclale
Monsieur le Prdsident,
Au nom du Gouvemement du Niger, J'al 1'honneur de vous adresser ci-Jolnte une
D3claration de Politique Economique et Soclale qul decrit les obJectifs kconomiques et soclaux du
Oouvernement pour le moyen terme, ainsl que les potitiques d'ajustement rnaco-econonilques et
structurelles destind& I permettre la rdali8ation de ces obJectifs. Ces polltiquos tradulsent la volontd
du Gouvernement du Niger de renforcer le processus de redressement et de rdtabllr la
conip6itivIt de I'dconomie natlonale.
A I'appui de ces objectifs et politiques renforces, le Gouvernernent du Niger gollicite
l'obtention d'un Cr6dit d'appul k la relance &conomique d'un montant de 18,2 millions de DTS.
VeullIez agrder, Monsieur le Prdsldent, I'assurance de ma trUs haute considdration.
AB_ALLAH BOURLMA
Ministre des Finances et du Plan



AnnexIV
Page 2 of 12
ENGLISH TRANSLATIOAN
NIGER
STATEMENT OF ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL POLICY
February 28, 1994
I.    Introduction
1.    Since the end of the uranium boom in 1981, Niger has suffered repeated economic
reversals, which have had a profound effect on its development. Deterioration in the
terms of trade, and the continued depreciation of the currencies of numerous competing
countries, in particular the Nigerian Naira since 1986, the lack of efficient economic
management as well as the prevalence of drought cycles have contributed to this crisis.
Losses due to the deterioration in the terms of trade between 1987 and 1992 have been
estimated at about 10% of real GDP. Competition from imports from Nigeria, and from
Asian countries through Nigeria, together with the development of border trade over a
very wide area, have had a severe impact on the modern manufacturing sector of Niger.
Uranium exports have declined first in volume then in value starting in 1988 because of
the weakening of the intemational uranium market. The decline in uranium exports and
the loss of competitiveness were immediately reflected in a contraction of Government
revenue and the intensification of a financial crisis which proved difficult to manage.
Sizable non-concessional external loans had been contracted during the uranium boom to
finance investment which, in the end did not produce the expected results. The banking
sector, in particular, suffered as a result of the difficulties encountered by many debtors
and, notably, by the enterprises in difficulty.
2.    To face these difficulties, Niger adopted a series of adjustment programs
supported by the IMF and the World Bank. World Bank support came through and IDA
financed SAL (1986) and a sectoral adjustment credit for public enterprises (PASEP)
terminated in 1990. These programs were supported by large concessional financing from
multilateral and bilateral donors and allowed for debt rescheduling by the Paris and
London Clubs. Despite the progress achieved in implementing structural and financial
policies, the economic situation continued to deteriorate. Concurrently with economic
difficulties, the political climate worsened. However, after a long transition period and a
national conference, free elections were organized and a democratic Government was put
in place in April 1993.
3.    To deal with the deteriorating economic situation, the new Governrment has
decided to take all the necessary measures to revive growth, realize the economic potential
of the country and alleviate poverty. Consequently, the Government of Niger, jointly with
the other member countries of the CFAF zone has decided to deepen its adjustment
strategy by adding a realignment of the exchange rate from CFAF 50 to CFAF 100 per
FF 1 effective January 1, 1994. This action, together with the comprehensive measures
accompanying it should allow to restore and maintain competitiveness and opens up
prospects for sustainable growth. The Government has adopted, in agreement with the



AnnexIV
Page 3 of 12
ENGLISH TRA NSLATION
IMF, a%n economic and financial program for 1994. It has decided to request exceptional
financial support from the World Bank to facilitate the execution of this program, in
particular, the social measures accompanying the devaluation. The Government is also
preparing an adjustment program for 1994-1996 for which it will also request the financial
support of the World Bank.
4.    The purpose of this statement is: (i) to describe the accompanying measures that
the Government intends to put in place in 1994, a crucial year for the success of the
devaluation; and (ii) to state the major thrust of its medium term social and economic
policies. The success of the monetary realignment will depend upon a continuation of
economic rehabilitation policies and of the structural reforms needed to establish viable
mac:oeconomic framework and improve factor markets, the execution of public
investment programs focused on human resource development and support to the private
sector, the reform of public enterprises and the elimination of rent and monopoly
situations which increase costs and reduce competitiveness, as well as a careful and
sustainable management of the country's natural resources.
II.   Recent Economic Developments
5.    The transition Government that emerged from the national conference has adopted
in June 1991 an emergency program, entitled The Economic and Financial Recovery
Program (PREF), designed to redress public finances, solve the Government's payments
crisis, and promote economic recovery. The program's financial and economic objectives
were not met. For budgetary revenues, results were unfortunately disappointing and the
goal of reducing the fiscal deficit could not be achieved in spite of significant reductions in
expenditures. In 1992, for the third year in a row, total fiscal revenue and tax receipts in
particular, have drastically decreased. The current fiscal deficit, excluding grants (on a
commitment basis) grew from 3% of GDP in 1991 to 3.9% in 1992, while significant
internal and external arrears accumulated. Arrears on civil service wages in 1992 reached
3 months, while new arrears were accumulated on public utilities consumption and
Government's contracts. External debt service payments fell to a minimum as did the
national contribution to externally financed development projects, the level of which
declined by two thirds. The lack of counterpart funds, poor institutional coordination and
the deterioration of the political situation resulted in a low rate of implementation of the
public investment program. Finally, the long transition period towards democracy has
considerably slowed down the adjustment process.
6.    The continuing deterioration of Niger's economy and finances led the Govermment
in March 1993 to take internal adjustment measures and to relaunch a program of
structural reforms. On the financial fronts, the Government decided as a priority to
increase and reduce expenditures. The measures introduced since September 1993 to
increase revenue have included the establishment of road tolls and the adjustment of rates
and basis of various taxes. The initially planned wage savings amounted to CFAF 8 billion
(1.3% of GDP) and included a 25% reduction in base salaries and cuts in various



AnnexlV
Page 4 of 12
ENGLISH TRANSLA TION
allowances. After consultation with the social partners, these savings have been brought
back to CFAF 5.6 billion or 13% of the wage bill. As for non-wage expenditures, they
have been reduced by 4.6% in 1993 compared with 1992. Together, the above measures
made it possible to bring down the overall fiscal deficit, on a payment order basis, to an
estimated 3.4% of GDP in 1993. This, however, still involved a new accumulation of
domestic and external payment arrears, which reached the equivalent of 60% of GDP at
the beginning of 1994.
7.    In the structural area, progress was made in the studies regarding the needed
reforms in the uranium sector and the civil service. In the uranium sector, SOMAIR and
COMINAK have made substantial savings and almost matched their average cost of
production with the 1992 uranium sale price of CFAF 17,000 per Kg. Thus, the tax and
royalty systems have recently been substantially revised, and a cost reduction strategy
compatible with balancing operating accounts in a context of steadily declining uranium
prices has been adopted. The lack of financing has stopped the voluntary departure
program in the civil service, but the Government has introduced competitive entrance
examinations into the civil service, and has begun to redeploy its personnel (in particular in
education and health sectors) towards the interior of the country. The reorientation of the
Government's rural development strategy toward small operations, farmer participation,
and rehabilitation of existing infrastructure has not produced demonstrable results, in large
part because of the lack of financing from the banking sector.
8.    Because of increased competition from imports, stagnating agricultural exports
and the public finance crisis, the economic situation has continued to worsen - real GDP
growth fell by 6.5% in 1992 and the latest estimate of GDP growth for 1993 is 1.4%.
This economic recession combined with a population growth rate of about 3.2 % dashed
hopes of increased access to education and basic health services. Less than 30% of
Niger's children are enrolled in primary school and this rate drops to 21% for girls. With
one physician for 35,000 people and one nurse for 3,000 people, medical personnel is
scarce even when compared to other Sahelian countries. Globally, per capita income has
dropped by 40% in real terms since 1981. The recently adopted internal adjustment
measures have contributed to reduce the intermal ani external deficits. These measures,
however, came too late and were insufficient by themselves to reestablish the
competitiveness and the financial viability of Niger's economy.
III.   The 1994 Program
9.    Major macroeconomic objectives for 1994 are as follows: achieve real GDP
growth rate of 3.9% in 1994; contain the inflationary impact of the devaluation as much as
possible; and to limit the worsening of the current account deficit of the balance of
payments due to the deterioration in the terms of trade which will result from the decline
in uranium export prices. The value of uranium exports is projected to fall by US$ 20
million corresponding to CFAF 12.1 billion (a reduction of 13%); this decline will only be
partially offset by the increase in other exports. Overall, exports are expected to decrease



Annex IV
Page 5 of 12
ENGLISH TRANSL4ATION
by about US$ 17 million (CFAF 10.3 billion). On the contrary, imports, a large part of
which is linked to the uranium sector and consumption by expatriates, and other sizable
share involves capital goods financed by external aid, would increase by US 26 millions
(CFAF 15.7 billion) in 1994 because of the recovery of public investments, and inspite of
the contractions of domestic demand for consumption goods. The total current deficit of
the balance of payments (excluding official grants) would increase from 7.5% of GDP in
1993 to about 16% in 1994, and the overall balance of payments, before debt
rescheduling, would show a deficit of about US$ 156 million (CFAF 94.3 billion) in 1994.
10.   The Government is aware of the need to combine the change in parity of the CFA
Franc with a coherent set of appropriate measures, particularly in the areas of pu4Aic
finance, wage, monetary, external trade, and price policy, and social measures. These
measures are aimed primarily at ensuring that the positive effects of the devaluation are
not eroded by inflationary pressures, and that the restoration of competitiveness of the
economy is durable. Thus, after the initial price shock, the Government will ensure that
the inflation rate returns to its moderate level preceding the devaluation.
11.   Public Finance. The Government has taken concrete measures to ensure that the
current budgetary deficit on a payment-order basis and excluding grants, does not exceed
CFAF 48.4 billion (5.7% of GDP) in 1994, before falling to CFAF 20.1 billion (2.1% of
GDP) in 1995. External arrears, which were estimated at CFAF 101.8 billion (at the new
exchange rate) at end-December 1993, will be eliminated by end-1994. The 1994
program also calls for the cash settlement of CFAF 17.5 billion in domestic payment
arrears, of an identified stock of CFAF 34.8 billion. The Government will proceed with an
inventory of all arrears at end-1993 and the formal regularisation of arrears not settled in
1994. Moreover, in order to meet its objectives for 1994, the Government has taken a
series of revenue and expenditure measures which have been integrated in the 1994
budget. Before end-December 1994, the Government will also adopt a revised system of
public accounts and a budget for 1995 consistent with the program's objectives.
12.   The adjustment of the exchange rate should result in a significant increase in
government revenue, especially customs revenue, thereby reversing the serious downward
trend of recent years. The total impact of these measures in 1994 at CFAF 11 billion or
1.3% of GDP. Overall, budgetary revenue would increase from CFAF 47.6 billion (7.6%
of GDP) in 1993 to CFAF 76.5 billion (9% of GDP) in 1994. Revenue would further
increase to 11.1% of GDP in 1996. The tax measures underlying this perforrnance are
based on the recommendation of an LMF technical assistance to Niger in December 1993.
The tax revenue projections will be reviewed in the context of the negotiations with the
IMF for the replacement of the standby arrangement by an ESAF facility taking into
account 1993 results and revenue trends.
13.   As of January 1, 1995 at the latest, the current system of three value-added tax
(VAT) rates (10,17, and 24%) on non-petroleum products will be replaced by a single rate
of 17%, consistent with decision tobe made in the sub-region on this matter. In addition,



AnnexIV
Page 6 of 12
ENGLISH TRANSLA TION
the number of exempted products will be reduced to the maximum extent possible and
coverage of the VAT will extended to public utilities (electricity, water, transportation)
after the companies and agencies concerned have been restructured. As for indirect
taxation, the requirement to display an automobile sticker has been introduced, and the
payment procedures for road tolls will be reinforced. Tax administration has been
strengthened with the use of field and desk audits and the creation ofjoint inspection
teams. The adoption by parliament of the Collections Code in the revised 1994 budget
will allow more efficient collections of tax arrears. In the area of direct taxes, in addition
to administration and collection measures are already taken, the tax system will be
simplified as of January 1, 1995 by combining income tax (IGR) and sedular taxes on
wages (ICTR) and monthly schedules and by the introduction of a single business licence
tax and the elimination of the flat rate system for the informal sector. The BIC exemption
period under the exemption code will be shortened as of July 1994.
14.   Expenditures for goods and services will be globally increased by 5% in real terms
in 1994 compared to the level budgeted the previous year so as to improve their
availability to Government services. Public investment expenditures for 1994 are
budgeted at 17.4 CFA billion, of which 5% will be financed by local budgetary resources
which represents an important volume increase compared to actual investment
expenditures in 1993. In the context of the 1994 program, priority is given to the
development of economic infrastructure and to social sectors which represent each 39% of
the total amount. Total current budgetary expenditures on a commitment basis will be
limited to CFAF 122.6 billion.
15.   Wage Policy. The Government is aware that controlling inflation and
reestablishing the competitiveness of the economy after the devaluation depends closely on
enforcing a strict discipline on wage policy. The wage bill will be subject to an overall
ceiling of CFAF 44.3 billion in 1994, which represents a nominal increase of 14.2%
compared to 1993. To achieve this objective, the number of Government employees will
be increased slightly from the current level of 38,738 to 39,080 at the end of 1994 to meet
priority needs in education, health, and tax administration. Taking account of this slight
increase in personnel, the wage bill target will allow the average wage to increase by
13.2% in 1994 so as to partially offset the increase in the cost of living. The overall
amount of scholarships will be limited to CFAF 4.8 billion and a rigorous selection
process will be made on merit-based criteria.
16.   Price Policies. The Government is determined to pursue its policy of price
liberalization for both production and consumption, with the exception of petroleum
product prices and public utility rates (water, electricity, telecommunications).
(a)   Petroleum product prices have been modified to dampen the increase of
import prices by reducing taxes and cross-subsidies, especially for kerosene
and diesel fuel (para 19).



Annex IV
Page 7 of 12
E'NGLISII 7RANS1SA 7ION
(b)   Water and electricity tariffs will be frozen until mid-April, and will be
readjusted later, taking into account increase in import costs and the
restructuring measures under consideration in these sectors.
(c)   The Government will continue to maintain free agricultural prices and the
operations of Riz du Niger (RINI) and Office des Produits vivriers du
Niger (OPVN) will be fully subjected to market mechanism. Information
campaigns are underway to ensure that the producers of cowpeas, onions
and livestock for export benefit fully from the impact of the devaluation on
the value of their exports denominated in CFAF.
17.   Extena Trade. Customs tariff measures were taken immediately after the
devaluation: (i) standard values, scheduled values, and minimum administrative values
were doubled; (ii) the percentages of cumulative taxes and duties were reduced by half for
certain essential goods and intermediate goods; (iii) transitional clauses were applied
exclusively to imports not yet cleared through customs but already paid for at the previous
exchange rate; and (iv) exemptions granted on an ad-hoc basis are being abolished.
Finally, the tariff reform currently under preparation will be accelerated.
18.   MQn2ImZQIgIy. The Government will pursue a prudent credit policy consistent
with the program's objectives. This prudence will be bolstered by the increase in the
discount rate of the Central Bank from 10.5% to 14.5% effective January 18, 1994.
Meanwhile, the Government is committed to further tighten monetary and financial
policies in the event that the program's objectives for inflation and net foreign assets are
not met. Broad money would increase by 25% in 1994. Between end December 1993
and end December 1994, net credit to Governments will rise by only 10.7% and credit to
the economy by 30.2%. The outstanding amount of Central Bank advances to the
Government will be kept within the statutory ceiling in 1994. Credit policy and financial
inter mediation will continue to benefit from the reform of monetary policy instruments
undertaken by the BCEAO, particularly the gradual replacement of administrative credit
controls by indirect instruments, notably the pursuit of a more flexible interest rate policy,
the introduction of reserve requirement, and a broadening of the role of the money market.
The rehabilitation of the banking system will continue with the closing and liquidation of
the Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole (CNCA), by July 1, 1994, as well as the speeding
up of the restructuring of the Banque Islamique du Niger (BIN), the Meridien BIAO
(MIB), the Banque Commerciale du Niger, and Nigerian International Bank - Niamey.
19.   Social Measures The deepened adjustment strategy adopted by the Government
aims at improving the standard of living of the population with particular attention to the
poorest social groups. Until a more precise estimate of the needs covered by the socia
safety net is available, an amount of CFAF 1O billion has been included .n the 1994 budget
to finance a series of actions and programs aimed at minimizing the negative impact of the
devaluation on the most vulnerable groups.



AnnexIV
Page 8 of 12
ENGLISH TRANSL TION
(a)   In the short-term, the Government has taken compensatory measures to
dampen price increases for certain essential commodities. These measures have
been to eliminate customs tariffs on rice and sugar for three months. At the end of
this period, taxation limited to 10% will be introduced on these two commodities.
The price of kerosene was frozen at its December 1993 level for an initial period of
three months, after which this price will be reviewed. Import tariff on diesel oil
has been reduced to limit the increase in the official retail price to 30%.
(b)   To respond to possible speculation on the prices of essential goods,
Government is ready to intervene on the market with deliveries of cereals, sugar,
and cooking oil. If necessary, a security stock of OPVN will be used and
Government will organize the necessary purchases. Security stock will be
reconstituted with the assistance of the concerned external partners.
(c)   Non-wage expenditures in health and education have been increased in real
terms in the 1994 budget. Furthermore, the availability, at affordable prices, of
essential drugs in public health facilities and of school materials will be fully
guaranteed through the contributions of external partners.
20.   The cost of the exceptional measures above will be covered by the CFAF 10 billion
budgetary allocation mentioned in the preceding paragraph. Moreover:
(a)   special targeted programs will be set up for vulnerable groups with the
assistance of NGOs and certain donors, in particular feeding programs for small
children, and
(b)   labor-intensive programs, notably for public works (roads, urban
infrastructure, NIGETIP), education, and health will be strengthened and
developed in the context of the public investment program. A special program will
be added to the NIGETIP project to finance social actions with NGOs and local
communities.
IV.   Medium-term objectives and strategy
21.   The deepening of the medium-term adjustment strategy of the Government is built
around three major axes: the monetary parity change which will allow a return to
competitiveness in terms of relative prices; the pursuit of a restrictive demand policy
focused on limiting Government absorption; and a quickening of structural refoims,
aiming at a sustainable recovery of macroeconomic equilibrium and sustained economic
growth.



Annex IV
Page 9 of 12
ENGLISH TRANSLA TION
A.    Macroeconomic objectives
The Government has adopted the following macroeconomic objectives for the
1994-1996 period:
(a)   increase the real GDP growth rate to a level higher than the population
growth rate estimated at 3.3% per year. In 1994, the indicative real GDP growth
rate will be 3.9%. This rate should increase to about 4.2% per year over the
following years. The increase in the growth rate after the parity change will thus
be gradual and reflect the development of agricultural production, of livestock and
exports, the recovery of import-substitution activities, and the increase in public
investment, as well as the recovery expected from the rehabilitation operations
undertaken in the modern sector of the economy.
(b)   from 1996, ensure that the inflation rate returns to the lower levels of
previous years (under 3%).
(c)   reduce the current deficit of the balance of payment (excluding official
grants) from about 16% of GDP in 1994 to about 12% in 1996. This modest
improvement in the current balance of payment is essentially due to the fact that,
notwithstanding a return to competitiveness after the parity change, exports wili
not increase notably in the medium-term, because of the weight of the uranium
sector (about 70% of exports) for which prospects remain limited.
22.   To ensure a positive growth rate in per capita income, the program envisages an
increase in the investment to GDP ratio from the very lower level of 5.4% in 1992 to
15.5% in 1996. This ambitious goal for public investment is justified by accumulate
deferments during recent years and important needs in the development of economic and
social infrastructure. Private investment will also be facilitated by the liberalization of the
regulatory framework for trade and labor legislations and by the uniformization and
simplification of fiscal regimes.
23.   Increase in investment will be financed to an increasing extent by domestic savings
which will increase from 1.3% of GDP in 1993 to 7.9% in 1996. Public sector savings
will increase gradually to reach 2.4% of GDP in 1996 against negative savings of 1.5% in
1993. The improvement in the fiscal position will contribute greatly to this increase. In
the public sector, where current expenditures have been greatly reduced to the detriment
of efficiency during recent years, efforts will focus essentially on the reallocation of
resources to equip Government services and to ensure national contribution to externally-
financed projects.
24.   Sustainable rehabilitation of public finances is a key element of the medium-term
strategy, as the country's financial strategy is dependent on the restoration of the



Annex IV
Pagel0 of 12
EArGLISH TRANSL4 TION
Governrment's solvency. The solvency problem, which hampers regular monitoring of
budgetary procedures, is caused essentially by the decline in budgetary revenues, and by
the excess burden of the wage bill, which in 1993 was equivalent to more than 80% of
total budgetary revenue. Thus, the two-fold priority will be to increase tax revenue and to
reduce the ratio of personnel exper.diture relative to budgetary revenue. In this context,
the ratio of the wage bill to budgetary revenue should be reduced from 82% to less than
40% during the period.
25.   The increase in tax revenue from the modem sector will be achieved through (i) a
significant reduction and exemption, (ii) the strengthening of the tax administration and
the effectiveness of its controls, (iii) a simplification of the tax system, (iv) a reinforcement
of anti-fraud measures, and (v) enhanced collection efforts. The Government will ensure
that these actions are consistent with the initiatives to harmonize tax policy within the
West African Economic and Monetary Union (UEMOA). These measures should make it
possible to increase the ratio of budgetary revenue to GDP from 7.6% in 1993 to 11.1% in
1996.
26.   In the area of personnel expenditure, efforts will focus on controlling staffing
levels, wages, and benefits. During the program period, the total number of civil servants
will increase only modestly and new recruits will be hired on the basis of formal
competition. Government employees will be re deployed to meet the needs of the various
departments. Expenditure on higher education scholarships will be contained and
scholarship criteria will be tightened. Arrears accrued in 1992 and 1993 on civil service
salaries and scholarships will be eliminated as Government finances permit.
B.    Structural Policies
27.   To ensure that the recovery of competitiveness of the economy effectively lead to
renewed growth, the Government is determined to speed up essential structural reforms,
in particular, by liberalizing the economy, improving factor markets, executing efficient
public investment programs in priority sectors, eliminating rent and monopoly situations
which increase cost and limit competitiveness, and by managing natural resources in a
prudent and sustainable manner.
28.   Public investment Program. The system to program and monitor public
investments will be strengthened, and in consultation with the World Bank a three-year
sliding investment program for 1994-1996 will be adopted by May 1994. This program
will give priority to infrastructure projects providing direct support to productive sectors
and to the development of human resources. Efforts to improve programming, appraisal
and selection of investments and to strengthen monitoring of project implementation will
be continued.
29.   For public enterprises, a number of emergency measures will be accelerated,
among these are: undertaking independent audits (NIGELEC, ONPPC, SONIDEP,



Annex IV
Page 11 of 12
ENGLISH TRA NSLA TION
CNSS), liquidation of COPRO-NIGER, and continued rehabilitation of selected public
enterprises -- reduction in the personnel of ONAHA, reduction of losses of SNI,
elimination of passenger traffic on SNTN, reduction in the KWH costs of SONICHAR. In
addition, cross-debts of the public sector will be listed and settled according to a timetable
to be set before April 1994. Reform of the uranium sector as well as restructuring of the
Soci6te Nigerienne d'Electricite (NIGELEC) will be implemented according to the agreed
timetable. Finally, liquidation of the CNCA will be completed at the latest by July 1, 1994,
and residual assets of this institution will be transferred to the Government.
30.   Since existing regulations concerning the labor market create a heavy burden on
investment and enterprise development, the Government intends to reform them shortly.
In a first step, the Government monopoly for hiring will be eliminated. Then, the labor
code regulations on hiring, firing, and remunerations will be revised with the view to favor
job creation and to create a dynamic labor market. In the civil service, the redeployment
program for education and health personnel will be implemented.
31.   The devaluation and the increase of the cost of imported products create an
opportunity for a fundamental reform of customs tariffs and regulations so as to facilitate
imports, reduce and harmonize effection protection, and optimize budgetary revenue.
This tariff reform, to be executed by end April 1994, will entail:
(a)   introducing a simplified tariff structure (three product categories and two
taxes) similar to that foreseen for the future common external tariff of UEMOA;
(b)   eliminating most standard values, scheduled values, and taxing imports ad-
valorem;
(c)   eliminating quantitative restrictions and replacing them as need be by
digressive taxes; and
(d)   establishing a timetable and modalities to eliminate exemptions granted in
the context of special conventions.
32.   During the Dakar meeting of January 10-11, 1994, the Head of State signed,
together with the six other Head of States of UMOA, the treaty transforming the
monetary union into a monetary and economic union (IJEMOA). This treaty foresees the
creation of appropriate mechanisms to ensure convergence of fiscal policies and the
harmonization of the macroeconomic and sectoral policies of the seven concerned
countries as well as the unification of fiscal regimes and the creation of a customs union.
The new economic block thus created, with a single market of 60 million people, increases
greatly the prospects for economic growth in Niger and in the six other countries of the
Union.



Annex IV
Pagel 2 of 12
ENGLISH TRANSLA TION
33.   The Govemment is currently preparing a more comprehensive program of
structural reforms which will be articulated in the Policy Framework Paper (PFP).
Preliminary discussions on this document have already been held with the Bank and a final
draft will be submitted to the World Bank and the IMF in March 1994.
V.   External Financing Needs and Extemal Debt Management
34.   Reflecting the budgetary objectives of the program indicated in paragraphs 18 to
20 above, and taking into account project aid, the gross extemal financing requirements
amount to CFAF 201 billion. Identified financing from multilateral institutions totals
CFAF 51 billion, leaving a financing gap of CFAF 150 billion for 1994. This gap is to be
covered entirely by extemal debt relief of CFAF 108 billion and supplementary financial
assistance of CFAF 42 billion. The amount of the debt relief could be obtained through a
rescheduling of end-1993 arrears and current maturities falling due during 1994 on pre-
cutoff-date debt. During the upcoming weeks, the Government will endeavor to obtain
the additional financing required and to receive the necessary assurances before the
program is submitted for consideration by the Fund's Executive Board.
35.   Extenal debt. The Government will continue to pursue a prudent external debt
management policy in order to reduce the debt-servicing burden. In 1994 it will not
contract or guarantee any extemal non-concessional loans with maturities of less than 1
year (other than regular short-term import-related loans) or between 1 and 15 years,
excluding debt rescheduling or refinancing. The Government will service the debt at the
scheduled maturities and will not accumul,.te any further external payments arrears; all
external arrears will be eliminated by end-1994.



Annex V
Page I of )
NIGER ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
ACTION MATRIX FOR 1994
1,     Macroeconomic Framework
- Realignment of the exchange rate, fixed at 100 CFAF for I FF.   January 12, 1994
2.     Public Finance
- Adoption of a revised Budget for 1994 in agreement with the IMF  March 1994
- Adoption of revised system of public accounts                    December 1994
a. Revenue
- Regular payment of mining royalty                        Immediate
- Advance payment of BIC and IRVM, and dividends by Uranium    Immediate
companies
- Unification of the VAT at 17 percent                     January 1, 1995
- Introduction of the VAT: water, electricity, transportation  July 1, 1994
- Road toll: Numbered tickets with printed price           Immediate
- Automobile sticker                                       Immediate
- Administration: Strengthening of tax audits              Immediate
- Administration: Definition of tax collectors and collection targets  Immediate
- Strengthening of collection of tax arrears               Immediate
- Passing Collections Code in Parliament                   New 1994 budget
- Merging of IGR, ICTS, simplification of rates            January 1, 1995
- BIC exemptions (Investment Code)                         July 1, 1994
- Informal sector: stricter application of profit tax      January 1, 1995
- Administration: strengthening of tax audits              Immediate
- Administration: strengthening of desk audits             Immediate
- Strengthening of collections of tax arrears              Immediate
- Property tax: levied on all homeowners                   Immediate
b. Expenditure
- Set wage bill ceiling at CFAF 44.3 billion               Immediate
- Maintain the number of civil servants below 39, 080      1994
- Eliminate external payments arrears (CFAF 102 billion)   1994
- Reduce domestic arrears by at least CFAF 17.5 billion    1994
- Make an inventory of all domestic arrears and regularize them  March 31, 1994
formally
- Set a scholarship ceiling at CFAF 4.8 billion and maintain  1994
eligibility criteria
- Increase outlays for materials and supplies from CFAF 16 billion    1994
in 1993 to CFAF 28 billion in 1994
- Raise public investment expenditures from CFAF 27 billion in 1993 1994
to 70 billion in 1994



Annex V
Page 2 of 2
3.     Public Investment Programming
- Prepare a three-year rolling Public Investment Program for 1994-96  April 1994
- Strengthen institutional setting for planning, programming , and  1994
implementation of public investment
4.     Monetary and Financial Sector Policy
- Increase the discount rate of the Central Bank from 10.5% to 14.5%  January 18, 1994
- Closing and liquidation of Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole (CNCA)  July 1, 1994
- Completing the restructuring of the Banque Islamique du Niger (BIN), the   1994
Meridien BIAO (MIB), the Banque Commerciale du Niger and the Nigeria
International Bank-Niamey
S.     Trade Policy
- Double standard values, schedule values, and minimum administrative  Immediate
values
- Cut by 50% cumulative taxes and duties on essential and intermediate goods Immediate
- Eliminate ad-hoc tariff exceptions                              Immediate
- Introduce transitional clauses for imports paid before the parity change  Immediate
- Introduce comprehensive tariff reform                            April 30, 1994
6.     Price Policy
- Set new prices for petroleum products, water and electricity    Jan-April 1994
- Maintain free agricultural producer pricing                      1994
7.     Public Enterprises
- Make an inventory of noss-debts of the public sector and prepare a  April 1994
timetable to clear them
- Conduct independent audits for NIGELEC, ONPPC, SONIDEP, CNSS     1994
- Liquidate COPRO-NIGER                                            1994
- Implement reforms of the uranium sector and the Electricity Company  1994
(NIGELEC)
8.     Promotion of the Private Sector
- Eliminate Govermment monopoly on hiring                          1994
- Revise Labor Code                                                1994-1995
9.     Accompanving Social Measures
- Eliminate tariffs on rice and sugar for three months and set total taxation    Jan-April 1994
at 10% thereafter
- Freezc the price of kerosene for three months and increase the price  January 1994
of gas-oil by less than 30%
- Take steps, eventually, to supply the markets with essential goods  1994
(cereals, sugar, cooking oil) at subsidized prices
- Increase substantially in real terms appropriations for non-salary  Immediate
expenditures in education and health in the revised 1994 Budget



Annex V
Page 3 of 3
- Ensure adequate supply of free essential drugs in public health facilities  1994
and promote the supply of low-cost generic drugs in private pharmacies
- Provide allocation in the revised 1994 Budget of CFAF 10 billion for the    Immediate
foregoing social measures



