Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFmICIAL USE ONLY
zl? CJ    7<o- 04A°}J5
RIert No. P-4066-PNG
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$27.6 MILLION
TO THE
INDEPENDENT STATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA
FOR A
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDER (MILNE BAY) PROJECT
May 3, 1985
document has a restricted distribution sad my be used by recipients ely in the performjnce of
ther offiena due  las cotents may not odrwise be disobsed mthout World Bank authorizaion.
la    -                 



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                         Kina (K)*
Appraisal
Calendar 1984                   Exchange rate
US$1.00      K 0.8944                     K 0.8912
Ki           US$1.118                     US$1.122
Kl million   US$1,118,000                 US$1,122,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilogram (kg)              =      2.2046 pounds
1 metric ton (mt)                   2 2,204.6 pounds
1 kilometer (km)             =      0.6214 miles
1 meter (m)                  =      1.0937 yards
1 centimeter (cm)            =      0.3937 inches
FISCAL YEAR
January to December
ABBREVIATIONS
ABPNG     -     Agriculture Bank of Papua New Guinea
CDC       -      Commonwealth Development Corporation
Company   -     Milne Bay Estates Proprietary Ltd.
DOF       -     Department of Finance
DPI       -     Department of Primary Industry (Agriculture)
DWS       -     Department of Works and Supply
ERR       -     Economic rate of return
ffb       -     fresh fruit bunch
ha        -      hectare
ICA       -     International Coffee Agreement
IRR       -     Internal rate of return
LIBOR     -      London Interbank Offered Rate
PNG       -     Papua New Guinea
* The Kina is tied to a basket of currency and floats against the dollar on a
day-to-day basis. The exchange rate in March 1985 was US$1= K0.943, close
to the appraisal exchange rate, and the impact of Yariations in the
exchange rate on project costs is less than 5%. -



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDER (MILNE BAY) PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:         The Independent State of Papua New Guinea.
Beneficiaries:    The Milne Bay Estates Pty. Lcd (Company) and smallholder
farmers in the Milne Bay Province.
Loan Amount:      USS27.6 million equivalent.
Terms:            Repayable in 17 years, incLuding 6.5 years of grace at the
standard variable interest rate.
Onlending Terms:  The Government of Papua New Guinea will onlend US$18.5 mil-
lion equivalent to the Company at a variable interest rate
with a margin of 1.55Z above six-month LIBOR and will
provide US$1.6 million equivalent as its equity contribu-
tion. The Company will bear the foreign exchange risk. The
Government will also lend US$0.7 million equivalent to the
Agriculture Bank of Papua New Guinea (ABPNC) at 8Z p.a. for
onlending to smaLlholder farmers at 11% p.a., with the
Government bearing the foreign exchange risk. The grace
periods and terms of loans Lo the Company and ABPNG wiLl be
the same as those of the Bank loan. The remainder of the
Bank Loan proceeds (US$6.8 million equivalent) will be
retained by the Government for other project works,
including infrastructural investments.
Project
Description:    The project is designed to increase Papua New Guinea's
export earnings from sales of palm oil, palm kernel and
cocoa, and to assist in development of Milne Bay, one of the
least developed provinces in the country. Under the project
3,700 ha of oil palm plantation, 750 ha of cocoa plantation
and 1,000 ha of peripheral smallholder oil palm blocks will
be developed in the Milne Bay Province.  The project will
also provide for the necessary processing facilities and
infrastructural support, including construction of an oil
palm mill, a cocoa fermentary, and improvements in project
area roads and bridges. It will also improve the quality of
life for the poorer inhabitants of the province by providing
health, education and housing facilities. The project is
expected to increase PNG's annual exports of palm oil and
kerneL by about US$13 million and cocoa by US$2 million.
The project faces no special risks.
Thisdocunenthsarstricteddisbutionand maybeusdby cipientsonly in theperformnnc
|oftheirofficial dutiLts contentsmay not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii. -
Cost Estimates:                                            Local   Foreign   Total
--- US$ Million -
Nucleus estate development                  18.3      20.5       38.8
Smallholder oil palm development             1.0       0.6        1.6
Infrastructure support                       2.1       2.4       4.5
Base Cost                             21.4      23.5       44.9
Physical contingencies                       1.0       1.5        2.5
Price contingencies                          5.9       5.9       11.8
Total Project Cost /a                 28.3      30.9       59.2
Interest during construction lb              0.9       8.2       8.8
Total Financing Required                    29.2      39.1      68.3
Financing Plan:                                            Local   Foreign   TotaL
- US$ Million --
IBRD                                         7.4     20.2       27.6
Commonwealth Development Corporation        12.9      18.9      31.8
Smallholders                                 0.6        -        0.6
Government                                   8.3        -         8.3
Total                                   29.2      39.1       68.3
Estimated
Disbursements:  Bank FY         1986  1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993
Annual          0.9   2.3   6.4  14.0   2.6   1.0   0.3   0.1
Cumulative      0.9   3.2   9.6  23.6  26.2  27.2  27.5  27.6
Staff Appraisal Report:  No. 53E5-PNG dated April 5, 1985
Rate of Return:   14%
Map: IBRD 18332
/a   Includes duties and taxes (US$2.0 million)
/b   Includes on-lending fee (US$0.9 million)



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE INDEPENDENT STATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA
FOR A NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDER (MILNE BAY) PROJECT
*  1.     I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Independent State of Papua New Guinea (PNG) for the equivalent of
US$27.6 million, to help finance a Nucleus Estate and Smallholder (Milne Bay)
Project. The loan will have a term of 17 years, including six and a half
years of grace, at the standard variable rate. The Government of Papua New
Guinea will onlend US$18.5 million equivalent to the Company at a variable
interest rate with a margin of 1.55Z above six-month LIBOR and will provide
US$1.6 million equivalent as its equity contribution. The Government will
also Lend US$0.7 million equivalent to the Agriculture Bank of Papua New
Guinea (ABPNG) at 8Z p.a., for onlending to smallholder farmers at 11% p.a.
The grace periods and terms of loans to the Company and ABPNG will be the same
as those of the Bank loan. The Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC)
will co-finance this project, by making an equity investment of about US$14.3
million equivalent and a loan of about US$17.5 million equivalent to the Milne
Bay Estates Pty., Ltd. CDC's loan will be at an annual 9% interest rate for
16 years incLuding eight years' grace.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The last economic report, "Papua New Guinea:  Development Policies
and Prospects for the 1980s" (Report No. 3544a-PNC), was distributed to the
Executive Directors in December 1981. This section reflects the findings of
subsequent economic missions and draws upon various country documents and
recent IMF work on Papua New Guinea.
Structure of the Economy
3.        Papua New Guinea is a land of numerous, widely scattered islands,
rugged and sometimes impenetrable mountains, and rich valleys and coastal
plains.  It is favored with abundant rainfall, considerable mineral resources,
and forestry and fishery resources of good commercial potential. The capital
city, Port Moresby, with a population of about 134,000, is an enclave, with no
road links to other parts of the country, and is the largest urban settlement
in what remains an overwhelmingly rural society. Per capita GNP in 1983 was
estimated at US$790. Despite this relatively high figure, Papua New Guinea
remains an exceedingly poor country, where the majority of the multi-tribal
society lives at a level of, or scarcely above, subsistence. The figures for
monetary incomes are biased upwards by the inclusion of the incomes of
expatriates and the value added of enclave enterprises. The population in
1983 is estimated at 3.1 million, spread among 19 provinces (with populations
ranging from 26,000 to 310,000), each with its own assembly and separate
administrative apparatus.



4.        The modern sector of the economy is dominated by the enclave sector,
particularly copper mining and associated investments, and by the public
sector. In the late L970s copper, mined by Bougainville Copper, Ltd. (BCL),
accounted for about 15X of GDP; by 1982 this had fallen to 7.8% as prices
declined sharply and as the more productive veins were being exhausted.
However, new investments in 1982, togecher with some improvements in copper
and gold prices, brought BCL's value-added to 10.5% of GDP in 1983. With
declining ore grades and prices, performance is likely to be considerably
lower in 1984. Construction of the new Ok Tedi mine generated about 12Z of
GDP in 1983 (largely through capital investments representing roughly 45% of
PNG's total investments), chus more than compensating for the decline in
BCL.  Since gold production came onstream in June 1984, Ok Tedi's contribution
to value-added in the mining sector has grown to a point where, together with
new copper production, it should reach about 12.5% of GDP in 1987. Non-mining
industry accounts for about 9Z of GDP (low for a country of PNG's per capita
income), while government services, heavily dominated by expatriates in the
upper ranks, account for about one quarter of the total. Strikingly, the
primary sector, which employs about 85% of the labor force, contributes only
about 35% of GDP, a large portion of which is in the subsistence sector.
5.        PNG's growth record has been quite mixed; for the decade of the
1970s as a whole, real per capita growth was negative at -0.2% per annum
despite the strong growth in copper exports. The Latter haLf of the decade
was even worse in per capita income terms (-0.5% per annum), despite some good
years, particularly 1978-79. The terms of trade effects on GDP during the
1970s were roughly neutral with respect to their impact on economic activity.
Between 1980-82, real GDP has stagnated - implying a real decline in per
capita income of about 2.4%. The situation stabilized in 1982, as domestic
adjustment policies became effective, and improved significantly in the second
half of 1983 as export prices recovered. As a result, GDP growth in 1983
reached 1%, lower than the 2.3Z population growth, but still an improvement
over the earlier years. In these years the deterioration in the terms of
trade did bite as the Government cut back services and capitaL investments and
restricted the growth in the money supply to protect the balance of payments
and the value of the kina. With the unfavorable terms of trade effect, gross
domestic income has fallen 20% since 1979. On the other hand, the upturn in
the economy gathered momentum in 1984. Real growth reached about 5% and is
expected to be around 4% in 1985, largely because of the start-up of the Ok
Tedi mine and higher prices for agricultural exports. While growth rates may
in fact improve somewhat as a result of the impact of Ok Tedi, continued poor
agriculturaL performance, together with a cautious demand management policy,
may finally result in the weak growth performance that characterized the
decade of the 1970s.
6.        As suggested above, the economy has been severely affected by the
sharp drop in commodity prices that began in 1980. The price of copper
dropped to its lowest level in 30 years, leading to a fall of K 42 million in
budgetary resources derived from BCL between 1981 and 1982 and a further fall
of K 19 million in 1983. The prices of agricultural export commodities have
fallen by half since the late 1970s, although the situation improved in 1983
and 1984. Lower export receipts depressed economic activity and reduced
imports through 1982. In 1983 and 1984, however, average export receipts



jumped by over 20Z, while average imports rose by 72. After taking account of
the budget support grant of about US$255 million a year from Australia, the
current account deficit in 1983 was US$370 million, or about 16Z of GDP. The
US$296 million external current account deficit achieved in 1984, roughly
equal to 12Z of GDP, represented a further improvement over 1983. With other
official and private capital flows as projected, the expected deficits will be
covered without undue strain on reserves or on the debt-service ratio, which
was about lIZ in 1983. The role of the Australian grant is significant in
supporting higher levels of government expenditures, GDP and imports than
would otherwise be possible with PNG's own resources.
7.        In view of the fact that most of its export prices have been subject
to fluctuations, often sharp. the Government has taken a number of measures to
reduce the impact of these -Luctuacions on the economy and on the producers of
export crops. The Mineral Resources Stabilization Fund was designed to smooth
the impact of fluctuating copper prices on the budget, and stabilization funds
for coffee, cocoa and copra were designed to reduce the oscillations in prices
received by the producers (para 61). While these funds for agricultural
products have had the effect of dampening price-induced supply responses, they
have contributed to the stability of the economy. For the most part they have
shielded producers from income declines and, with the exception of the copra
fund, their toEal resources are still relatizely healthy as a result of
substantial levies accumulating in the late 1970s, when export prices were at
historical highs.
8.        Between 1972 and 1976, following the establishment of the Minimum
Wage Board, real minimum wages mare than doubled, giving PNG the highest wage
costs of the developing countries in the region. The urban minimum wage is
currently equal to nearly US$50 per week. Since independence from Australia
in 1975, two three-year wage agreements limited the rise of both public and
private sector wages to that of the consumer price index, subject to an annual
maximum of 11.75Z, thus ending the sharp upward spiral of real wages that
occurred during the 1972-76 period. The wage situation was accompanied by a
"hard kina" policy causing the kina to appreciate vis-a-vis PNG's major
trading partners, which had the effect of dampening wage demands and keeping
down prices of imports (40% of GDP by value). This tended to offset somewhat
imported inflation, so that the increase in domestic price Levels has averaged
about 7.5% between 1977 and end-1982 as compared with the international
inflation index of 8.7%. Prices in 1983 rose 7.8% with the devaluation of the
kina along with that of the Australian dollar in March 1983 and stood at 7.5%
by the end of 1984, largely due to growing consumer demand induced by good
export prices.
9.        Increasingly concerned about the negative impact of high real wages
on the economy, the Government sought to impose a three-year freeze on urban
wages. The Minimum Wage Board rejected this stringent approach proposed by
the Government, deciding in favor of full indexation of the first five per-
centage point change in the CPI, but with no further indexation. This resul-
ted in an approximate L.8% and 2.5Z erosion in real wages in 1983 and 1984,
respectively.  The kin; had been allowed to appreciate until March 1983, when
parity with the Australian dollar was maintained at the time of its 10%
devaluation, thus resulting in a 5.5; devaluation of the kina against its



basket of currencies. The Government is gradually reducing the real value of
the kina, both through wage restraint and - although not officially - through
a very gradual downward float.
10.       The Government has also responded to its straitened circumstances by
raising taxes in 1982 and 1983 in the face of a deflationary situation,
lowering government expenditure by lOX in the latter year, and laying off some
2,000 employees, about 4% of the total public service. Preliminary estimates
indicate that the public account deficit in 1984 was K 69 milLion (3.5Z of
GDP), the lowest deficit since 1980. As was the case in 1983, little of this
was financed by borrowing from the CentraL Bank. Borrowings from foreign
commercial banks are estimated at about US$20 million in 1984, as compared
with US$60 million in 1983. The 1985 budget estimate projects a deficit of
K 92 million.
Development Strategy and Planning
II.       in the post-independence period, a concerted effort was made to
define a set of economic and social priorities according to which government
resources were to be allocated. However, as noted above, more weight had been
given to developing a decision-making process for the budgeting of government
resources than co the preparation and implementation of a comprehensive
development plan. While a National Development Strategy (NDS) was defined and
strategic objectives identified as the basis for resource allocation, these
had not represented a basis for a growth-oriented development strategy as
such.
12.       The NDS placed a high priority on improving the quality of life for
the rural population, focusing on rural development in the less developed
areas of the country. While this focus remains, it is now to be set within
the context of a growth-oriented strategy. This objective recognizes not only
the agricultural potential of the country, but also the fact that for quite a
few generations the agricultural sector will be the main source of employment.
13.       For several years, PNG has had a four-year plan known as the
National Public Expenditure Plan. This plan focuses on capital expenditures
for the first year of the (rolling) plan, concentrating on the recurrent costs
of capital projects and the ability of the budget to support them. (This
feature is rare in developing country planning and is expected to be retained
under the new planning system, which is still being worked out.) Currently
the Government is in the process of revising its planning procedures,
partially in response to Bank recommendations, in order to take a somewhat
longer-term view and to en/ompass a broader review of both capital and recur-
rent budget requirements.-
14.       The Government's current approach to carrying out its intentions is
to develop a Medium-Term Development Strategy (MTDS). This will: (a) review
I/ Ref. "Public Sector Management in Papua New Guinea: An Administrative
Overview," June 27, 1983 - Report No. 4396-PNG.



the current economic situation and forecast how it could be expected to
develop over the next five years, working out an appropriate financing
strategy; (b) involve the preparation of medium-term sectoral strategies
focusing on physical targets; and (c) work out the division of available
resources among the various sectors and agencies. In conjunction with the
MTDS, a Medium Term Development Program, intended to be a five-year indicative
plan, wiLl be drawn up. This will follow sectoral objectives and resource
allocations for each Department as agreed by the Cabinet.
Development Issues
15.       The major factors that will affect the Government's ability to pro-
mote economic development are the decentralization of government activities,
the abiLity to achieve self-reliance in both staffing and financial resources,
and the willingness to take new initiatives in policy formulation and invest-
ment in the agricultural sector.
16.       Decentralization, which gives the provinces greater control over
spending, reduces the national Government's ability to pursue its priorities,
while inadequate staffing limits the capabilities of the provinces to develop
their own plans. PNC's topography has made it a country of scattered tribes,
and a degree of political decentralization was a necessary response to local
pressures. Provincial governments are gradually assuming regulatory and
financial control in some areas and will share power with the national
Government in others. Provincial governments are financed through national
government conditional and unconditional grants, national government refunds
of certain revenues and, to a very limited extent, their own taxation
measures. Unconditional grants, which allow provinces to spend according to
their own priorities, are by far the most important source of finance; but,
whereas in the 1984 budget they comprised over 70Z of the total receipts of
the provinces, they amounted to less than 25% of total national government
revenues. One of the most serious probLems facing provincial governments is
the shortage of trained and experienced staff, and the most urgent priority of
the provinces is to develop the capability for budgeting, planning, and
project identification and preparation.
17.       Self-reliance in PNG involves both availability of skilled manpower
and financial resources. On the staffing side, the Government has made sub-
stantial progress in replacing expatriates with nationals, especially consid-
ering that the University of Papua New Guinea produced its first graduates as
recently as 1972. However, the country still relies heavily on expatriates
for many necessary services. This situation has created a relatively high-
cost government, financed partiy by the Australian grant (equal to about 10Z
of GDP, or about one-third of total government revenues). The establishment
of provincial governments is adding to the pressures on existing staff, and
the policy of localizing positions held by expatriates adds to the demand for
trained Papua New Guineans.
18.       The Government's efforts to attain financial self-reliance emphasize
modest but steady and sustainable growth in real public expenditure. Domestic



- 6 -
revenue accounted for only about 36% of government receipts in FY68,2/ 60% of
the total in FY76 (immediately after independence), and 71% in 1984. Over the
past seven years, the Bougainville copper mine has been a major source of
domestic revenue, averaging 18Z of the total and reaching a peak of 27Z in
FY76, but falling to about 3% in 1984. While mineral revenues should be sub-
stantially restored in 1985, when the Ok Tedi mine is expected to become fully
operational, revenues from these sources may not regain their former share of
overall revenues.
19.       Capital expenditures (including those financed by external assis-
tance) as a share of the total budget have been relatively modest. These
expenditures doubled between 1978 and 1980 (to reach 20% of the total budget)
and have remained at those nominal levels. While in the past the availability
of the Australian grant, together with substantial revenue from the mining
sector, may have contributed to a certain laxity in financial discipline in
the area of current expenditures (particularly for wages and salaries), this
situation no longer prevails. Even with fairly substantial increases in taxes
over the period (but excluding the Australian grant), government revenues
stagnated between 1980 and 1982. However, reflecting the improvement in
commodity prices starting in 1983, together with the improvement in the
Australian grant, 1983 revenues were up 10% in 1983 and 14% in 1984.
20.       While economic management has been largely sound, the country's
growth performance has been disappointing. Of particular concern is a lack of
growth in the agricultural sector, which will have to absorb the bulk of the
additions to the labor force in the foreseeable future. Despite a great
potential for agricultural development, even with the current world price
situation, investment in the sector remains low, and its prospects for the
coming decede are not bright unless steps are taken to bolster its growth.
The major constraints have been inadequate extension services for small-
holders, lack of smallholder credit, customary land tenure practices and
shortage of managerial expertise. The country also faces a serious problem in
marketing its surplus coffee production.
External Sector
21.       PNG experienced huge trade deficits prior to the start of copper
exports in FY73. The current account deficit was around one-quarter of GDP in
the early 1970s. Imports were over 50% of GDP, whereas exports were only
about one-third as high. Since FY73, however, earnings from copper exports
have dwarfed those from other commodities and, except for small deficits in
FY75/76 when copper and copra prices fell, the balance on current acr--nt,
which includes the large Australian grant, remained positive, despite large
service payments, and reserves of foreign exchange reached ten months' worth
of imports in mid-1979. However, falling commodity prices, a decline in the
copper content of the Bougainville mine and continued inflation in the import
sector have dramatically changed the situation, with the current account
2/   PNG's fiscal year was July 1-June 30 until January 1, 1978 when it was
changed to coincide with the calendar year.



turning from a positive K 55 million in 1979 to a negative K 265 million
(about 13X of GDP) in 1984. In that year, the overall balance, at K 10 mil-
lion, was positive for the second consecutive year, and international reserves
are now sufficient to cover about six months of imports.
22.       The current account deficit is likely to continue declining in 1985
to about K 226 million (102 of GDP). Especially with the help of Ok Tedi gold
exports and continuing conservative demand management, exports are expected to
begin again to exceed imports and the resource balance is expected to turn
positive by 1986. During the period 1985-1987, PNG is likely to require an
average net capital inflow of about US$300 million p.a. The minerals sector
is expected to finance considerably more than half of the inflow through
direct foreign investment and borrowing: Ok Tedi-related borrowings were
US$330 million in 1983. With respect to official borrowings, public debt
service, estimated at 11% in 1983, is not expected to grow further, and by
1990 should be down to 5X. Thus despite a Large current account deficit,
PNG's external position is a highly comfortable one. Total external public
debt outstanding as of December 31, 1083 amounted to US$765 million, of which
US$149 million (192) was owed to the Bank Group. Debt service payments to the
Bank Group are only about 8% of total debt service payments.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
23.       As of March 31, 1985, Bank Group assistance to Papua New Guinea
consisted of 14 loans and 13 development credits, totaling US$318.0 million.
The first operation was a telecommunications loan of US$7.0 million approved
in 1968; most recently a West Sepik development project (US$9.7 million) was
approved by the Board in October 1984. In general, project implementation has
been satisfactory. The first rural development project in the Southern
Highlands experienced some difficulties with recruitment of essential
expatriate staff as the rapid turnover of expatriates and the transitional
problems of recruiting and training their replacements led to delays.
Physical implementation is now approximately on schedule. As of March 31,
1985, nine credits and seven loans were fully disbursed, and the Loans and
credits to Papua New Guinea held by the Bank and IDA amounted to US$302.8
million. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and IDA credits.
24.       In recent years Bank Group lending has emphasized agriculture, with
strong support in education and transport and some lending for energy. The
Bank's strategy for future lending is based on three objectives: (a) support
for more growth-oriented policies and institutions; (b) development of oppor-
tunities for permanent, cash-economy employment based on the substantial agri-
cultural resources of the country; and (c) promotion of human resource devel-
opment. A rural roads project and a third power project are under prepara-
tion. The proposed Nucleus Estate and Smallholder Project will assist in
development of the agricultural potential of PNG in line with the above
objectives.
25.       Disbursement performance on Bank Group projects has been extremely
varied. Shortly before and just after independence, disbursement rates were



- 8 -
unusually high, reflecting the relatively small and simple pre-independence
projects and the fact that they were mqzaged by an experienced expatriate
civil service. The disbursement rate _ for FY84 was 31.2Z, compared to an
average of 28.1X for FY80-84. Disbursement rates for selected comparators for
FY80-84 were as follows: CoLombia - 22.7%; Philippines - 22.5%; Morocco -
16.1Z; and Benin - 26.8%. It does not seem possible to determine a trend
since low disbursemer- years are followed by a high disbursement year, then
another low disburs-ment year.  PNG's disbursement figures reflect periodic
disbursements of substantial amounts against individual large projects rather
than steady disbursements for all projects.
PART III - AGRICULTURE AND ITS TREE CROP SUBSECTOR
26.       Agriculcure pLays a dominant role in the PNG economy as provider of
food and incomn to the great majority (over 80%) of PNG's population.  The
sector, including forestry, fisheries and livestock, accounted for more than
40Z of PNG's exports of K 687 million in 1983 and about a third of its GDP.
Production follows three modes: subsistence, smallholder cash crops, and
estates. PNG enjoys a humid tropical climate ihat is conducive to agricul-
tural production. The land are! of 461,700 km is sparsely populated (an
average of seven persons per km ) and nearly 15 million ha (30%) is topograph-
ically, geologically and climatically suited to agriculture. With only about
half of this suitable land currently used for agriculture, there is consider-
able scope for increased utilization, especially with tree crops.
Tree Crop Subsector
27.       Tree crops cover about 476,000 ha (1%) but account for 77% of
agricultural exports. Tree crop production volume has increased by 4% p.a.
from 253,500 tons in 1978 to 293,600 tons in 1983, mainly due to increases in
oil palm and coffee production. The slow growth coupled with reduction in
commodity prices since 1978 has resulted in a slight decline in the export
proceeds from K 227.3 million in 1978 to K 219.3 million in 1983. The
performance and prospects of major tree crops in PNG are discussed below.
28.       Coffee.  Coffee is the most important tree crop, accounting for
almost half of PNG's tree crop export value. About 86% of the 47,000 ha
coffee area is cultivated by smallholders. The main constraint to future
expansion of coffee planting is the high level of current coffee production in
relation to market opportunity. PNG is a member of the International Coffee
Agreement (ICA), and in most of the recent years its export quota has been
below 70Z of its production. Since local consumption is low (5Z), according
to the terms of the Agreement a substantial proportion of production (over
25%) has to be exported to non-ICA countries at heavily discounted prices
despite the fact that PNG's coffee is of premium grade. Until PNG is able to
get a substantial quota increase, incentives for expansion of the coffee area
will be small.
3/   The disbursement rate is derived by dividing the actual disbursement
during the fiscal year by the net cumulative undisbarsed balance.



29.       Cocoa.  The cocoa area, at 128,000 ha, is more extensive than that
of coffee, but production volume and value are lower so that cocoa accounts
for only about 19X of tree crop exports. The larger part (57Z) of the cocoa
area is cultivated by smallholders. Cocoa production has declined by about
202 since its peak production of about 35,000 tons in 1974/75 due to senility,
pests and diseases, and current average yields of about 0.3 tons/ha are very
low. However, suitable remedies have been or are being discovered and future
prospects are good. Locally selected disease-resistanc varieties are now
available and, under good management conditions, the prospects for increasing
cocoa yields are excellent. The proposed project will make a modest beginning
in this direction and will partailly offset previous production declines.
30.       Coconut.  Copra production is PNG's longest established industry.
Even now, coconut covers 57Z of the area devoted to tree crops, but accounts
for only 15X of tree crop exports due to the emergence of other tree crop
exports. About 64% of the 263,000 ha coconut area is under smallholder
management. Copra yields are variable but average about 0.7 tons per ha.
Increased yields are now possible through the utilization of hybrid planting
material. To produce such material, coconut seed gardens have been
established to support planting of about 3000 ha p.a.
31.       Oil Palm.  Oil palm is grown and processed on a commercial scale at
Cape Hoskins and Biala in West New Britain Province, and at Popondetta in Oro
Province. Of the total 28,700 ha of oil palm, about 58Z is managed by small-
holders. Production and export of palm products grew at an average annual
rate of more than 20% from 32,600 tons in 1978 to 87,000 tons in 1983. This
high growth rate relative to other crops resulted from the higher profit-
ability of oil palm, which in turn has been due to high yields and a strong
world market demand.
32.       Due to favorable climatic and soil conditions, PNG's oil palm yields
rank among the best in the world. Even under smallholder management condi-
tions, yields as high as 34 tons ffb/ha per annum had been reached prior to
1980, with average annual yields at maturity ranging between 19 and 24 tons
ffb/ha per annum. Since then, technological improvements have increased
yields to levels around 28 tons ffb/ha per annum on nucleus estates and about
22 tons ffb/ha per annum on smallholder farms.
33.       In 1983, PNG produced and exported 77,900 tons of palm oil and 9,100
tons of palm kernel worth K 25.1 million. In the five-year period ending in
1983, export volume almost tripled and, despite price declines, export value
increased by 124Z. PNG palm oil is of excellent quality and is sold at a
slight premium (2%). PNG palm oil exports to Europe enter duty-free and,
therefore, attract an additional premium of about 4%. Such favorable prices,
considered with good fruit yields, provide PNG with a competitive advantage
over other paLm oil producers.
34.       Tea and Rubber.  PNG also has small areas of rubber (6,500 ha) and
tea (2,800 ha). Low annual rubber yields (0.6 ton per ha) from aging trees,
high labor costs and recent depressed prices have led to declines in rubber
areas and production. Like rubber, the tea industry in PNG is declining. Tea
is even more labor-intensive than rubber, requiring very careful harvesting



- la -
techniques. Declining real prices, coupled with high labor costs in PNG, make
tea production less attractive than other tree crops. While production
increases from existing cea areas are possible, it is unlikely that any new
project will be started.
Tree Crop Support Services and Institutions
35.       The primary responsibility for all agricultural extension is with
provincial Departments of Primary Industry, under technical guidance from the
national Department of Primary Induscry (DPI). For new projects the national
DPI establishes a project team to coordinate and facilitate tree crop planting
and maintenance, and provision of input and credit. Once the project is
completed, extension responsibility is turned over to the provincial DPIs.
This arrangement has caused deterioration of extension support in the post-
project phase due to weaknesses in the provincial extension services. This
situation is improving with the strengthening of provincial extension training
being carried out under the Bank-assisted Agricultural Support Services
Project (Ln. 2276).
36.       Research.  National DPI is responsible for the tree crop research
stations at Keravat, Aiyura, Kuk, Bisianumu and Omuru. In addition, industry-
based, cess-financed research is being carried out for oil palm (at Dami),
cocoa (at Keravat), and coffee (at Keravat and Aiyura).
37.       Agricultural Credit.  Credit for smallholder agriculture is provided
by the Agriculture Bank of Papua New Guinea (ABPNG). ABPNG operates 10
branches, 3 sub-branches, and 14 field offices. In line with government
policy, the agricultural sector is the major recipient of ABPNG loans, and
agricultural loans comprise 57% (K 30 million) of the total portfolio. While
about 21% of all loans are in arrears, the situation for loans to oil palm
smallholders is better, with only 5% of the loans in arrears. This is because
oil palm fruit is processed only in factories controlled by companies par-
tially owned by the Government. These factories cooperate fully with ABPNG
and deduct credit repayments and other charges before paying smallholders for
the fruit. Therefore, there is less opportunity for smallholders to avoid
credit repayments.
Development Objectives and Strategy
38.       The main goals of agricultural development in PNG are: to improve
the livelihood of rural families, to increase and broaden agricultural
exports, and to reduce food imports. The Government's agricultural and rural
development srategy emphasizes: (a) an open economy based on a strong private
sector; (b) the support of clans and other traditional groups as recognized
legal entities; (c) the delegation of major development responsibilities to
the provincial level; (d) financial and managerial assistance to nationals to
enable them to assume responsibility for plantations formerly owned and
managed by expatriates; and Ce) expansion of specialized agricultural training
and improvements in the remuneration and working conditions of agricultural
support staff. There has been a renewed awareness within the Government thet..
agriculture will remain the mainstay of PNG's economy for many years to come.
This recognition is manifested in the Government's more flexible approach to



- 11 -
expatriate ownership and management of plantations, in its Eormulation of a
national food and nutrition policy, and in its efforts to improve agricultural
services such as research, extension and credit.
The Bank's Role in PNC Agricultural Sector
39.       Since 1975, the Bank has supported agricuitural development through
six projects:  (a) Popondetta Smallholder Oil Palm Development Project (Ln.
1333-PNG); (b) Southern Highlands Rurai Development Projecc (Cr. 841-PNG);
(c) Second Agricultural Credit Project iCr. 1149-PNG); (d) Enga Provincial
Development Project (Ln. 2125/Cr. 1227-PN?): (e) Agricultural Support Services
Project (Ln. 2276-PNG); and (f) West Sepik Provincial Development Project
(Ln. 2475-PNG). Of these. only cne Popondecta SmalLhoLder Oil Palm Develop-
ment Project has provided assistance for smallhoLder oil palm development and
has been substantially completed. in addiLion, cwo IDA credits (137 and
175-PNG) for the New Britain Smallholder Development Project (1969-70) also
provided assistance for smallholder oil palm development prior to PNG's inde-
pendence. A project performance audit report (PPAR No. 1400 of December 28,
1976) and an impact evaluation report (IER No. 3070 of July 7. 1980) are
available on this project. The main lessons learned from these reports were
as follows:
(a) due to extremely fertile soils and favorable climatic conditions,
actual peak yields for smallholders at 24 ton/ha for phase I and 19
tons/ha for phase II were above appraisal estimates of 18 tons/ha.
Consequently, the economic rate of return exceeded the appraisal
estimate (15%); it was 19% in 1976 and 25Z in 1980. Average family
incomes also proved to be twice as high as the appraisal estimates;
(b)  extension standards in the project area dropped after project com-
pletion because of reduced involvement of the more experienced
national DPI staff. However, the nucleus estates recognized that it
was in their interest to improve extension standards and therefore
appointed an experienced expatriate as a smallholder liaison
officer. (Under the proposed project, similar arrangements will be
made);
(c) some friction between out-of-province settlers and local farmers
developed but was resoLved. (Since the proposed project will not
have any settlers, such problems are not anticipated); and
Cd) some smallholders fell behind with their farm maintenance activities
due to personal and social commitments and later found the accumu-
lated maintenance too daunting. Later, the nucleus estates offered
to rehabilitate such farms with costs to be recovered from fruit
sales. Provision of such services by the nucleus estates has worked
satisfactorily. (Similar arrangements will be adopted in the
proposed project.)



- 12 -
The Milne Bay Estates Pty. Ltd.
40.       The Milne Bay Estates Pty Ltd. (Company) was established in 1983,
under PNG's Companies Act. Ch. 146. and the proposed project wiLl be its first
investment. The CommonweaLth Development Corporation (CDC) of the United
Kingdom will invest about 60% of the equity required and provide additional
loan funds as weLl as the top leveL managers (para. 47). Even though the
Company is new, CDC has Long experience in managing tree crop enterprises in
many countries, including the profitable oil palm nucleus estate at Higaturu
in PNG.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
41.       The proposed project was prepared during 1983 by the Commonwealth
Development Corporation with the participation of the Government's Department
of Primary Industry (DPI) and the Bank. The project was appraised by the Bank
in June/July 1984. Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C. from March
20-26, 1985. The PNC delegation was led by Mr. Ian Morris. A Staff Appraisal
Report (No. 5318-PNG, dated April 5, 1985) is being distributed separately.
Supplementary project data are provided in Annex III.
Objectives
42.       The proposed project has been designed to address several of the
Covernment's development objectives. These are: (a) increasing and
diversifying foreign exchange earnings through investments in sectors where
PNC has a comparative advantage, such as oil paLm production; (b) reversing
the declines in its cocoa exports; (c) accelerating economic development in
the least-developed provinces, such as Milne Bay Province; (d) increasing
rural employment opportunities through choice of technologies by giving
preference, for instance, to manual land-cLearing techniques; and (e)
improving the quality of life of poorer sections of the population through
provision of social infrastructure and suitable houses for estate labor.
43.       By its support to the proposed project, the Bank will encourage
greater inflow of risk capital into PNG, along with scarce management exper-
tise. The tieing of risk capital to the expatriate management input will
ensure that there is a greater performance incentive and, therefore, a higher
quality expatriate management input. Through the project, the Bank will also
encourage greater smallholder participation, institution building, sectoral
development and training of local staff; indeed, these aspects of the project
were strengthened during project appraisal. Combining oil palm production,
processing and marketing into one project will also permit the Bank to monitor
these costs (Section 4.01 of Project Agreement) and, since these costs are
critical in establishing fruit price (para. 61), this will help ensure that
the pricing of smallholder oil palm fruits is done in an equitable way.
Through the project, the Bank will also assist in the development of one of
the less developed provinces of PNG.



- L3 -
Project Area
44.       The project wiLl be located in the Cumini and Sagarai areas of Milne
Bay Province near Alotau, che provincial capital (Map). Economically, the
province is one of the least developed; it is in the lower third of provinces
in PNC in terms of per capita income, despite its being one of the most
advanced in terms of education of population and enrollment in schools. It
has a pooulation of 128.000, of whom about h,000 are in the Cumini and Sagarai
areas.   Many people in Lhe project area are familiar with cash cropping and
have visited ocher oil palm cultivation areas. Based on these visits, they
have developea enthusiasm for oil palm cultivation. This was confirmed by an
anthropological study completed in November 1981 and also during project
appraisal.
Project Description
45.       The proposed project will be implemented over six years and will
include:
(a)  development of 3,700 ha of oil palm nucleus estate plantation; 750
ha of cocoa nucleus estate plantation; and 1,000 ha of peripheral
smallholder oil palm blocks;
(b) construction of a 30 ton per hour palm oil mill with associated
maintenance, transport and storage infrastructure; and a 13 ton
(dry-bean-equivalent) capacity cocoa fermentary and drier;
(c) construction of 560 houses for laborers and staff; construction of
three bridges and upgrading of provincial and other access roads,
bridges and culverts;
(d) construction of necessary health, education and police protection
facilities within the project area; and
(e) provision of administrative, technical and training support; and
strengthening of governmental extension, research and project
preparation services.
Project Implementation
46.       The following institutions will have the primary responsibility for
implementing the proposed project:
(a) the Milne Bay Estates Pty. Ltd. (the Company); and
(b) the national Department of Primary Industry.
Project implementation will also be assisted by the national Department of
Works and Supply (DWS) and bF- ABPNC.
47.       The Company (para. 40) will be responsible for implementing the
project's nucleus estate components covering 86% of the project cost. It will



- 14 -
be headed by a policy-making Board of Directors, consisting of representatives
of the two shareholders - the Government and CDC. Executive responsibility
will be with the General Manager. The Government will enter into a management
agreement with CDC under which CDC will provide the General Manager and the
Company Secretary, who will also act as the Chief Financial Officer. Signing
and effectiveness of the joint venture agreement among the Government, the
Company and CDC, and signing of the loan and management agreements between CDC
and the Company will be a condition of loan effectiveness (Section 6.01 of the
draft Loan Agreement). The General Manager will supervise all activities of
the Company. Under the General Manager, seven senior officers will be heading
Company divisions in charge of processing and workshop, building, adminis-
tration, finance and three field divisions. The Company will be responsible
for supplying all planting material required by oil palm smallholders (Section
2.06 of draft Project Agreement).
48.       DPI will be responsible for coordinating the non-nucleus estate
components of the project, which together form 14% of the project cost, and
for providing extension support to smallholders. For the purposes of the
project, DPI has designated a Field Project Manager, who is to be stationed at
Alotau in the Milne Bay Province. A Field Project Manager acceptable to the
Bank, will be appointed by March 31, 1986 for the duration of the project and
made responsible for coordinating the non-nucleus estate components of the
Project (Section 3.04 of the draft Loan Agreement). He will be assisted by a
smail staff contingent, consisting of a field supervisor, three extension
officers, and office support staff. DPI will ensure maximum farmer partici-
pation, and for this purpose, farmer participation levels and incentives will
be reviewed with the Bank annually (Section 3.05 of draft Loan Agreement).
49.       DWS wiLl be responsible for construction of roads, bridges, DPI
offices and houses, a health center, classrooms and a local police post.
ABPNG will be responsible for the smallholder credit component. Since the
credit wiLL be disbursed in-kind only, the Company and DPI will assist in
credit disbursement and the Company will collect credit repayments and other
charges. Therefore, the load on ABPNG will be small.
50.       The Company has already started initial implementation activities.
Agreements for transfer of the nucleus estate lands have been reached with the
Govern.nent. The signing of the necessary agreements for land lease will be a
condition of loan effectiveness (Section 6.01 of the draft Loan Agreement).
The Company has already started actions for the establishment of an oil palm
nursery and construction of houses for staff and labor. Bidding documents for
initial purchase of equipment and vehicles are being prepared. Designs are
available from an earlier CDC-managed nucleus estate at Higaturu in PNG.
Project Cost
51.       The project will cost US$59.2 million, including US$2.0 million for
duties and taxes and US$30.9 million in foreign exchange. The total financing
requirement, including US$9.1 million for interest during construction on
loans to the Company, will be about US$68.3 million, of which US$2.9 million
will be duties, taxes and on-lending fee. The total requirements in foreign



- 15 -
exchange wiLl be about US$39.1 million. Interest during construction is
included because the Company is new and wiLl not be able to finance these
interest charges from self-generated funds. Base costs are calculated on the
basis of the June 1984 estimates, updated to December 1984. Physical contin-
gency estimates for civil works average about 8.62, and for other categories
about 3.7%. Price contingencies are based on an estimated local inflation
rate of 8Z in 1985, 7.5% in 1986 and 8Z p.a. between 1987-90. The inflation
rate for foreign costs is estimated at 5% in 1985, 7.5% in 1986, and 8% p.a.
between 1987-90. Total physical contingencies will amount to 5.5% of base
cost and expected price increases to 26X.
Project Financing
52.       The proposed IBRD loan of US$27.6 million equivalent will finance
52% of foreign exchange costs and 28% of local costs (net of duties, taxes and
on-lending fee), equivalent to about 42% of net financing requirements. The
Bank loan will be at the standard variable interest rate, for 17 years with a
6.5-year grace period. The Longer grace period is essential because of long
gestation crops and extended planting schedules. The Bank loan will be made
to the Government. From the proceeds of this loan, the Government will onlend
US$18.5 million to the Company and US$0.7 million to ABPNG. It will also make
an equity contribution of US$1.6 million to the Company. The loan to the
Company will be at a variable interest rate with a margin of 1.55X above six-
month LIBOR, and a loan term of 17 years including an 8-year grace period for
repayment of loan, with the Company bearing the foreign exchange risk. A
commitment fee of 0.75% will also be charged. The loan to ABPNG will be at 8%
p.a. interest, with the Government bearing the foreign exchange risk. ABPNG
will advance in-kind credit to smallhoLders for planting material, fertilizer
and some housing construction (US$0.8 million) at an interest rate of 11 for
15 years with a 5-year grace period. The interest rate to final beneficiaries
will be six percentage points above the long-term inflation rate in PNG, which
is projected at about 5Z p.a. A margin of three percentage points for ABPNG
is considered adequate because administrative costs and default on oil palm
credit will be smaLl. Signing of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the
Government and the Company, acceptable to the Bank, will be a condition of
loan effectiveness (Section 6.01 of the draft Loan Agreement) and signing of a
Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government and ABPNC will be a condition
of disbursement for the smallholder credit component (Schedule 1, Section 3(b)
to the draft Loan Agreement).
53.       CDC will contribute 60% of the equity requirement of the Company,
which during the project period will amount to about US$14.3 million
equivalent. In addition, CDC will make a pound sterling loan directly to the
Company, which during the project period will amount to about US$17.5 million
equivalent. The loan wiLl be at an annual interest rate of 9Z for 16 years
with an eight-year grace period. Signing of a satisfactory loan agreement
between the Company and CDC will be a condition of loan effectiveness (Section
6.01 of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 16 -
Procurement
54.       The construction of the oil palm factory, bulking station, staff
quarter and housing for laborers (US$11.6 million) will be carried out under
five contracts after ICB in accordance with Bank guidelines. About 20 sepa-
rate contracts will be awarded by the Company and DWS for estate offices and
fermentary (US$1.0 million), some housing (US$1.5 million), roads (US$3.7 mil-
lion), social infrastructure (US$0.8 million) and new bridges and roads
(US$2.2 million), following LCB procedures in which foreign contractors will
be eLigible to participate. LCB procedures are justified as these works are
scattered over 50 locations in two separate areas and are to be implemented
over five years. DWS will use force account for upgrading of provincial roads
(USS1.4 million) and smallholder access roads (US$0.7 million). Force account
is justified because the upgrading will require work on short stretches of
road in remote locations, which is unlikely to be of interest to most
contractors. Contracts over US$300,000 will be reviewed by the Bank prior to
issuance and will involve about six contracts covering 832 by value.
55.       Most machinery, equipment and transport vehicles (83%) worth
US$9.7 million will be procured following ICB procedures in accordance with
Bank guidelines. Some furnishings and small office and workshop equipment
(USSl.8 million) wiLl be procured by the Company in small quantities over six
years through LCB procedures in which foreign suppliers are eligible to par-
ticipate, cr for items less than US$75,000 in value by seeking quotations from
at least three suppliers. Similarly, vehicles and equipment (US$0.23 million)
for extension and research services will be procured by DPI using LCB proce-
dures, or for items less than US$75,000 in value by seeking quotations from at
least three suppliers. Contracts over US$150,000 will be reviewed by the Bank
prior to issuance and wilL involve about six contracts covering 88Z by value.
56.       Fertilizers and agrochemicals worth US$3.1 million (85%) will be
procured following ICB procedures. Chemicals worth US$0.6 million will be
procured in small quantities over six years and will not be suitable for
ICB. These will be purchased under LCB rules or, for items less than $75,000
in value, by seeking quotations from at least three suppliers. Technical
assistance and training (US$0.7 million), to be financed by the Bank, will be
procured following Bank guidelires.  Other technical assistance (US$0.3 mil-
lion) will be financed by CDC and will be procured under CDC procedures. Land
(US$0.4 million) is being purchased through negotiations after independent
valuation. The remainder is for staff salaries (US$9.5 million), agricultural
labor wages (US$4.1 million), incremental operating expenditures (US$4.7 mil-
lion), and incremental working capital (US$1.4 million).



- 17 -
PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS US$ million) /a
Project                       Procurement method                      Total
element                ICB      LCB        Other         NA           cost
Civil works           11.3       9.3         2.1          -             22.7
(8.7)     (4.2)       (2.0)        -            (14.9)
Equipment &
vehicles             9.7       2.0          -           -            11.7
(8.3)     (1.8)         -          -            (10.1)
Agro-chemicals         3.1       0.6                                     3.7
Technical
assistance            -         -          1.0          -             1.0
& training                                (0.7)                      (0.7)
Smallholder credit                                       0.8            0.8
(0.7)          (0.7)
Staff salaries, wages  -          -           -         17.5           17.5
and incremental                                       (1.2)          (1.2)
operating costs
Land                    -         -          0.4          -             0.4
Incremental
working capital       -         -           -          1.4            1.4
Total           24.1       11.9         3.5       19.7            59.2
(17.0)     (6.0)       (2.7)      (1.9)          (27.6)
ia  Costs are inclusive of contingencies, duties and taxes, but exclude
financing costs. Figures in parentheses indicate expected disbursement
from proposed Bank loan.
Disbursement
57.       The Bank loan will be disbursed by September 30, 1992, nearly seven
years after approval. This compares with the disbursement profile of about
eight years for agriculture projects in the East Asia and Pacific Region. A
somewhat lesser disbursement period is considered reasonable because project
implementation has already started in a limited way. In addition, much of the
project will be managed by experienced CDC staff who can draw upon the exper-
ience, systems and designs from an earlier successful oil palm development at
Higaturu in PNG (para. 50). The lumpiness of the projected disbursement
profile is due to parallel cofinancing, whereby the Bank will be disbursing on
selected components which are more suitable for ICS. Disbursements from the
Bank loan for the nucleus estate will be made for: (a) 1002 of foreign
expenditures on directly imported machinery, equipment and vehicles and on
training, or 85% of local expenditures on locally procured machinery, equip-
ment and vehicles; and (b) 77% of expenditures on civil works for processing,
storage and housing. Disbursements for other components will be made for:
(a) 95Z of expenditures on infrastructure, smallholder credit, incremental



- 18 -
operating expenditures for extension and research; and (b) 85% of expenditures
on equipment, vehicles, and technical assistance. Bank disbursements for road
and bridge upgrading (US$1.7 million), smallholder credit (US$0.7 million),
and extension and research incremental operating costs (US$1.2 million) will
be made quarterly on a Statement of Expenditure (SOE) basis. The SOE's will
be prepared by the Field Project Manager from the consolidated quarterly
project accounts. Disbursements for other components (US$24.0 million) will
be based on fully documented withdrawal applications. No special accounts are
needed because short-term funds are available Locally.  Retroactive financing
of up to US$0.3 million will be allowed for eligible expenditures after
July 15, 1984.
Accounting and Audit
58.       The implementing agencies will maintain separace accounts.  indepen-
dently audit:ed ,inancial statements and profit center reports, al-ong with
auditors' findings, will oe made avaiLable to the Bank wichin six months of
the end of each fiscal year (Section 4.01 of drait Loan and Project
Agreements).
Production, Markets and Prices
59.       Palm Products.  World exports of palm oil and kernel are about
3.5 million tons, of which PNC's share in 1983 was 3%. Palm oil accounts for
14% of world trade in edible oils and fats, second only to soybean oil. The
market share of palm products has been growing, and the incremental production
of 27,000 tons for palm oil and kernel over 11 years will be absorbed
easily. The price of palm oil is currently US$710/ton c.i.f. Europe, but is
expected to drop from current high levels by 22% in the next 11 years.
Similarly, the palm kernel price of US$515 ,er ton is expected to drop by 14Z.
60.       Cocoa.  World trade in cocoa is about 1.5 million tons, of which PNG
contributes 2%. Project incremental production of 1,260 tons (still far from
offsetting a 8,700 ton decline in the PNG cocoa production since 1975) will be
only 0.1% of world trade and 4Z of PNG exports. As such, marketing of cocoa
should not pose a problem. The 1984 cocoa price was US$2,380/ton c.i.f. UK
and is expected to drop from these high levels by some 15% over 11 years.
61.       Marketing.  Oil palm and cocoa from the project will be processed
and marketed by the Company. Smallholder oil palm fruits will be coLlected by
the Company at prices calcuLated using a formula established by the
Governmenc. The formula alLows for the fruit prices based on f.o.b. prices of
palm oiL and kernel less processing and marketing costs. In the past, the
residual price paid to smallholders has fluctuated along with oil palm f.o.b.
prices and caused hardship to smallholders when prices were low. Therefore
the Government has recently established a stabilization fund for oil palm
smallholders. This fund will help dampen price fluctuations for smallholders
by paying out a bounty when prices are lower than the seven-year moving
average price and charging a levy when higher. The bounty/levy compensates
for 50% of the price difference from the seven-year moving average price.



- L9 -
Benefits and iJstification
62.       Smallholder Financial Returns.  The typical smallholder participant
will have a 3-ha oil palm farm, which will reach a peak production within
seven years from planting, yielding US$2,700 in net income. Based on this
income the internal rate of return (IRR) will be a very attractive 30Z and
will provide sufficient incentive for the farmer to grow oil palm as planned.
The in-kind credit proposed under the project will invoLve an initial outlay
of only US$1,450 per famiLy (constant terms). Interest at IlZ will be capita-
lized for four years, and the debt will be repaid over 10 years in equai pay-
ments of principal and interest. The credit package is relariveLy smail, and
experience shows that full repayment of principaL and interesc can be expec-
ted. The cost recovery index for the credit package at a L0O real disccunt
rate will be about 80Z with an implied subsidy of about USS0.1 million. It
infrastructure and extension costs are added, the cost to the Government wilt
be about US$1.2 million. This will be completely offset by tax revenues from
the project with no adverse impact on the government budget.
63.       Nucleus Estate Financial Returns.  The Company will generate
US$15.1 million in revenues per annum by its tenth year of project execution.
After allowing for production costs, US$5.8 million will be left as annual nec
income. The Government will be the main beneficiary, receiving US$1.8 million
(35%) as taxes and dividends. About 25Z will cover the finance charges, 15%
will go to CDC, and the remaining 25% will be retained within che Company for
future investments or for distribution as additional dividends. The IRR will
be 11% in real terms and 17% in nominal terms.
64.       Financial Structure of the Company.  The Company will have a sound
financial structure, and by the tenth year, it will have sufficient surplus
cash, resulting in a high current ratio of 3.2 and a low debt:equity ratio of
44:56. This will give the Company sufficient borrowing capacity to be able to
make further investments. However, to ensure that the Company does not prema-
turely undertake such expansion during the construction and initial operation
phase, up to December 31, 1991, it will maintain a debt to equity ratio of not
more than 70:30. After 1991 the Company will maintain: (a) a debt service
coverage ratio of at least 1502; and (b) a current ratio of at least 1.5
(Sections 4.03-4.05 of draft Project Agreement).
65.       Non-Quantified Benefits.  The project will provide new health and
education facilities, which will benefit about 1,000 estate workers and their
dependents. In future years, the nucleus estate development will have a
demonstration impact, to encourage more smallholders around the project area
to start and expand oil palm and cocoa plantings using techniques learned from
the nucleus estate and using high-quality planting materials obtained from the
estate. The project will establish the groundwork and infrastructure that
will allow lower cost expansion of smallholder tree crops in the future. The
project, through funds for preparation of future projects and research, will
assist in sectoral development.
66.       Economic Analysis.  The project economic rate of return (ERR) will
be about 14%, with individual components having an ERR ranging between 13Z and
34Z. Component ERRs show the highest return from smallholder oil palm and



- 20 -
less for the nucleus estate, because the nucleus estate requires expensive but
essential expatriate management staff, due to a shortage of trained and expe-
rienced local staff. Because smallholder returns are higher, the project
design was changed at the appraisal stage to increase the proposed smallholder
area by 67Z. A larger increase is not considered feasible at this stage
because of the small size of the project area population (para. 44) and the
reluctance of local population to accept outside settlers.
67.       Project Risks and Sensitivity Analysis.  The project ERR is not very
sensitive to changes in operating and development costs, and these can indi-
vidually increase by up to 36Z without reducing project ERR below PNG's oppor-
tunity cost of capital (estimated at 10%). The project ERR is more sensitive
to reduction in oil palm revenues, and a 152 drop will reduce ERR to 10. Oil
palm yields in PNG are well established, however, and yield reductions of more
than 1OZ are not expected. The projected oil palm product prices are also
estimated conservatively at about 20% below current prices (para. 59).
Further reduction in long-term average prices is unlikely. The impact of
estate cocoa and smallholder oil palm revenues on project ERR is small and,
even if these revenues are reduced individually by up to 100%, the project
returns will remain above 1OX. The project places emphasis on adequate
extension services for the success of its smallholder component (paras. 45 and
48). While there is some project risk owing to the fact that the Company,
which is the main implementing agency, has just been formed, the risk has been
reduced by having CDC manage the Company. CDC has a long experience in
managing such enterprises, both in PNG and elsewhere. Environmental risks
have been minimized by ensuring that project lands include only secondary
forest and dilapidated estate lands and by having proper effluent treatment
facilities in the oil palm mill.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
68.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Independent State of Papua New
Guinea and the Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and the
Company and the report provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the
Articles of Agreement are being distributed separately to the Executive
Directors. Special conditions of effectiveness are (i) signing and
effectiveness of the CDC joint venture agreement, and the signing of the loan
and management agreements (para. 47); (ii) signing of contracts for leasing of
nucleus estate lands by the Company (para. 50); and (iii) signing of a
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, between the Government
and the Company (para. 52). A special condition of disbursement of the ABPNG
credit component is that a Subsidiary Loan Agreement, satisfactory to the
Bank, has been signed between the Government and ABPNG (para. 52). Amendment
or termination of the CDC Master Agreement with the Government and the Company
without the Bank's agreement will be an additional event of suspension of the
Bank loan (Section 5.01(e) of the draft Loan Agreement). Special conditions
of the project are listed in Section III of Annex III.



- 21 -
PART VI - RECONMENDATIONS
69.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan will comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
70.       I recommend that the Ezecutive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
May 3, 1985
Washington, D.C.



- 22 -                                                  ANNEX I
T AIL :  34                                      Page  l of 5
PFAM *s1 Gen"                                  -60CUNDICIIDICDATA
nPa se CUINL         - mac  zams (nicaau an usi
nina -  aima                   mi     CUuMn annct Urnan =).A&A f
nazi                    pear mcc  3T34) lb
196OLb                             HIDOL VAM              HIrD .  =
t~ak 1970C&. zatnialkd       ASIA 6 PACIFIC        LAX. AMMECA A CAR
TOL                              461.7       461.7      461.7
AULICUTLTIIAL                      3.7         4.4        4.8
con arGTmL Cum)                     180.0       360.0     790.0  ih 1091.z                          210.6
11110  air'wl In acaXIrn
(KILLOCAMS OF OIL EQUIVALENT)     37.0       114.0      240.0             567.3                   995.5
WOAX  A    EL Sb TISTC
POSnoLAlONKItAX (TUOUSAODS)   1932.0        2418.0    3100.0  -h
URBA POPULATION CZ oF TOTAL)       2.7        9.6        16.3              34.7                    66.5
POPULATIS PRjCOnafs
POPUATUJ IN WsA  2000 (HILu)                            4.6
sTATIOAT POPIULATION (KtLL)                            10.0
PaputIan 1100LW                                         1.8
POPULTTON DMUSKT!
in sq. Mi.                       4.2         5.2        6.6             261.9                    35.7
PEL SQ. 12. AGtI. WAND         520.0       555.9      644.4            1735.1                    92.4
POPMLATION St STWCTUuE CZ)
0-14 US                         40.5       42.0       41.8              39.0                     39.9
15-64 us                        56.6        55.0       54.9              57.6                    56.0
65 AND ABOVE                     2.9         3.0        3.3               3.3                     4.1
BPPLTUGRWRAE, CZ e) s
TOAL                              1.         2.2       2.3  Ih            2.3                     2.4
03*                             15.3        15.2        6.6               4.3                     3.6
RUDE DIE!! RATE (PER IIOUS)       44.0        41.5       34.2              30.1                    31.3
MTRDE DEAT RATE (PE iRONS)        23.2        16.1       13.2               9.5                     8.1
CROSS REPRODUCflOE RE              3.0         3.0        2.5               2.0                     2.0
1A31. 11A43ING
A    nS. aVNIL (TO0M)              .                     -
USERS Ct OF MAIK WHOEN)           ..         ..          ..              52.7                    40.3
EFM  A   WUITTS
IMU  oF P0  MO. PER CAPrTA.
(1969-71-100)                     100.0      100.0       n.o              123.0                   114.3
PER CAPITA SuiPL or
CALOIS (K OF aEQUIRENS)         79.0        83.0       92.0             114.4                   110.6
PROTES (WAMS PER DAT)           42.0        46.0       53.0              57.0                    67.3
OF  ICII ANIMAL AND PULSE      17.0       20.0       20.0 /c           14.1                     34.1
CHILD (ACES 1-4) DEATH RATE       26.2        19.4       12.6               7.2                     5.7
LltE EXPEECT. AZ 31  (YEARS)      40.6        46.4       53-0              60.4                    64.7
IANE  aT. RAZE (PER TOM0)       165.0       133.0       99.4              66.3                    60.6
ACCESS TO SAFE NAMZI (:POP)
TOTAL                              ..         ..       20.0 id           37.0                    65.4
un                                ..          ..       30.0 7i           54.6                    78.1
RuM                               ..         ..        19.0 7JT          26.4                    46.2
AL-SS TO EXEET  DISPOSAL
(Z OF POPUITATIOU)
TOTAL                              ..       14.0       18.0 Id           41.3                    52.9
URN"                              ....                   ..*47.4                                 67.0
RURAL                             ,,         5,0        5.0 Id           33.3                    Z4.5
FoPULATION PU PUltSICIN         19320.0    11630.0    13590.0 lI         7749.4                  1917.7
POP. PER 33513 PNURS Olt                    1800 0      960.0 7;         2460.4                   615.8
OP PER inspnL a  D
TOTAL                           140.0 if   150.0      250.0 J          104.2                    367.2
BAN                               ..        50.0      100i0  ;r         651.2                   411.5
RUAL                              ..       260.0      270.0 7          2594.6                   2036.3
ADZKSSKOUS PM mosPAL ED             ..         ..          ..              27.0                    27.3
mc 
AVEtSE SZE Or  USEOLo
TOTAL                             3.1         ..
m .                               ..          .....
RURAL                              -                              
Alma fl;. OF VELSOUSlROOK
iTAL                              0.7         ..                           .        
USIA...                              ...                           ..
a                                  ..        -......
AS tO ELCt (2 ar UIELLIS)
TotAL                            80.0         _.
me                        ..         ..         .                  ..
aL                                ..          ..         .                  ..
ACCM TO ELECT- (Z Otr DUELLINGS)_ 



-23 -                                                       ANNEX I
TADLI 36                                          Page 2 of 5
PU NIW ICVWD          -SOCIAL INDICATOR  UL  UE
PAM    NW" con"                     uEUCE   0U   (UWuID MWIAAES) r-
305                     amT lcuN   MSTNAXR) lb
RECENT            muDDLI  SIM          Nina  Imm
196ll  197aLb isTM Z               ASIA 6 PIAcnC         LAT. AICA   A CAR
ADUSIT  DZRaUJART RATIOS
PRINAl?t  WOTAL                  32.0       52.0        65.0             102.0                    105.4
HALZ                  59.0        63.0       73.0             105.9                    106.3
15L.                   7.0        39.0       58.0              98.2                    104.5
BECONDAM  TOTAL                   1.0        8.0        13.0              46.0                    63.2
rAZZ                   2.0        11.0       17.0              41.7                     42.3
70ALI.                 1.0         4.0        6.0              *3.1                     44.5
VOCATIONAL ( 0F SECOUDARI)         16.0       19.4        16.2              17.5                    33.6
PUPIL-TIACKR IRATIO
PEDI31                           35.0       30.0        32.0              31.B                    30.1
SU DMAU                          18.0         ..        22.0              23.5                    16.1
ADULT LITERACY RATE (1)            29.6       32.1        32.0 /d           72.9                    79.3
PASSENCER CARS/TBUSAIM POP          2.0        7.2         6.1 /a           10.1                    46.0
IADIO RICEIVERS/TOID POP             ..         ..         .8              113.6                   225.6
TV RZCEIvS/TNUSAND POP               ..         ..          ..              50.1                    107.2
UISIDPAP0( C,DAMY 051RAL
INEREST') CZICULLTION
PER 23U0551  PPULATION            ..         ..         6.5              J3.9                    63.5
CNEZA LAE?A ATIEDACEAPT              ..         ..          ..               3.4                     2.8
urINs PRCE
TOTAL UBAR FOR  (THOUS)          1058.0     1257.0      1537.0
PELZ  (CECENT)                   41.4       41.3        40.9              33.5                    23.2
C:ECm.TRZ  CPERCENT)             89.0       86.0        12.1              52.2                    31.5
IIIDUST  (PERCeNT)                4.3        5.8         7.7              17.9                    23.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERUCET)
TOTAL                            54.8       52.0        *9.2              36.7                    32.2
MALZ                             61.2       58.5        56.2              50.9                    49.3
75MA?.                           47.7       44.9        41.6              26.6                    15.2
sZCOKuIc DEPENDENCZ RATIO           0.8        0.9         0.9               1.1                     1.4
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCME
RECIVED 11!
HIGHEST SE 01 NOUSE NID5           ..          ..         ..              2.2
HIGHEST 202 OF NUStI.DR            ..         ..          ..              8.0 
LOWEST 202 OF HOUSEHOLDS           ..          ..         ..               6.4
LOkEST 401 OP HOUSEHLDS            ..         ..          ..              15.3
minia TARGT CIOm
ESTfIMTED ABSOLUE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PE CPITA)
URBAN                               .         ..       400.0 /           18.6                    238.2
1URAL                              ..         ..       275.0 L           152.0                   184.0
ESTIMATEDXELATIVE POVERTY INCM
LEVL (USS PEm CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..         ..          ..             177.9                   322.8
RU                                 ..         ..          ..             164.6                   372.4
ESTIATED POP.       ABSOLUE
POVL'TY INCMM LEVEL (Z)
URBAN                              ..         ..        10.015            23.4
RURA^L                             ..         ..        75.0              37.7
MIT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
11 0 T IS S
/a  The group avera4e for each Indicator are population-wanJhted arltbtic  eane. Coverage of coitrle  mong the
Indicators depends an awallability of date mod in not unlzom.
Ib   Ual.s otbrewie noted. 'te for 1960 refer to am year betmen 1959 mad 1961; 'Reta for 197U betee  1969 and
1971; and date for 'Most RIecet Eatmtee  be tven  1980 ond 1982.
/c  1977; /d 1975; /e 1978; /f 1964;  L. 1979; /h   1983.
JUNE. 1984



-24 -                                                                                  AmNEX I
wwli it somaca- amease                                                             Page   3   of   5
bas. 'Atimbe  ib. a. aM dmao FM  -eera  seaIfti  jsdgedSb" etm              tMetan wAs  relbate. ISt Wold ste  b. need  lwta Ibi see at 3.lemestp
pst.bees-.? sor    teN. e. .e.sos..a.d d.iisimm..s a   .seee.sa  b   t,ses  allIdeo 1. atiLasi  agmu ao.. VW. da.ies. s.eeab... isseet Es
Wb. eat.... dew -n CIt3 the s clessy Eno sF ORb A.d) mess" oed Cal . ....t5, sago eAtA sanbeeh blghef -MPse utoe mic Sb. -4457 sssls .im
e   Mjeearey (eseeps    1 tee   1I basUt bpeemetC gsap odo. 134dbs besesl btes  Add.. NWd WUl hPI 3. abae bolase or silee .ei-emtaee
aei9tuotes. 15m. nosieresa Eeno ese  ste mioa eoe pil.ttA_ seige  edrbsie                 is. -Ab Idcitse eed .b- aii tee sejeisy c the  -eestote  We 
s   r.tse  i    stkats Lsmessa.     a matech. SesesI3.?   Thea mca see ao"Ot, seede  te    im' mu. seits af ast msdsa U- aMtm asiaM  I   e
% t -j oqhins..  et.es   aesedmaett      eseet                                    Ptadiaegeaestee                   ae"lld alVa -.1stmP-t mea  ad
u¶N  Ipee. ehta    IscsegdecW               m  t   et.  tues.                    s.fimm3alitevta.
I.L-A  __'.ste    ai..eta ---                                                -msltle (ad
t   llad  HI deem.                                                                                                                              son;.1     e   iilau~.  n.
U-plol. ool pee tpite se     oltes em  ane  setem ples..                    sasreS. locul       dne.geaela  sei.Sd  aOtla
atsst6       a  aeetan0            amldeltit  less bal.ts                             itestit     ma  2see   ifteset  ate aebiese   a nlsel
els, i's.e. t gm  P.isawcrnt-d                                   I-.byweltea   - pbyiae.s. ptsebte-ebaaeo pieldiUmo bimpaitp in.i.
co-onto -0od- OWL6link Al. (19"2 b-L13ateNasMe   coetone. meetutsptee  bae. mumlaze. pheSS  ad
low. nSM.hMiIe1 sn sis   esalsbaeii                                               se  esema    eeest  stated- WUfol by  *eueet  Ike by e--duee
aod geetu-.cnt   t'ateeat"  me citegiest ci Lt ousbmI-a PeP taplmt  3IND.              Prs-ad. m imeme ees at esilset Faltitie..
e   g, dmse                                                                     A"                            ee   eeaasl       -dela
-&e  - Mi El i.ti Is us. two., ad mi9112_____________________________________
cease                                                          a~~~~- = -M.tL7. d.od ibsti ms eel..  5 bnle  OF   a,_ -o    as,-  b  .11w
sass eanta   te-ieLo    . mes,a  mini a"..                                            mu. besbid Is. smtieotie   spa
1. zp, rum                                                                    -11 _boo.~.eeeebae aesse   y,is-mqmee.yba.    es.1  esenese
S.    19      -C %-et Rpeslstise pieJe-lta  se booS a tISO                  ipcnwwatetlte diet                                aet
Mol W-M- B -0  ld  nad Iti.1   seLmie -ad ief1tisy                         dicltn.  opicpsatie. bettine sateS  me-peise, emltaw  MAd
teats asmsg air. eepse-a as bulb lnieaisll Ails. oncer515 Pee                    i.asenettl?(il,delip  -se    b.a   se  -
e  1seiss  iees. ad sssetLt.ieee     -. .ae.c   seitaisaML IeseMsdetseiuteret  'te !s "'si" -"                                                -
--".as teatmn is eetmttet   nela8 me tam   teal ad pese taut
PI-oull peesass. teis  ast.7 Ia tlse eslpol as S9 tu..  ta
-sbseb  tsetLity ad feettlimy i-disi peejitm   psipes.
vw=     ratLi. - Xe -  55 -.51st a- o  a-sceelte neset
ietateis.etsege    -esi   ag  upitted, Ste - 1g-site leetitimybt"    dti     wd6- 
isPifLetm   eae.. Z. -a  . pepjtete, a. .ets. Ie me stt                                i   in ss-d tee dilisc  Res rl S-a-,e  doa-S is.
ad ewls1m mu. bell iase  ie. " e et"O   s  s  a  easmat ad ch.                      sesea  it  asese  s          ~satm   -.aetla   a, sand IN  ee
geah ileb -L   e.. Oo-bs etaibai  esetesia eta. -  eetseees  a tb.                   emse n.  melt, as 1ema - ass as aittete  sacL O".
boot cC uba leejete d u-setsietoo el M. pseslsits  elo        svseosysit ttest. ate ad   fl   Goopo   a teci  a.sdse
W.  s   le tl. am-R idet  iste me  -dsed semy. he.                             saietyaiU      dd
ana         pesete  5e tb. yat I So oooncd a . isl. f tu.itsee   ats  ies       ecsae-  atateeteis
.JAMd. tW  .-c  ..                                                                 MIa.mv els -siteay adeesmsie- tct eedeie  eShd 
M.        ~       M  tilt, -ItaWi l                                                  upil doe ad   dey  jes-ts sea    enea   emem  t
roo, 19ts5. ills, ad meot da-e                                                iniiue.ssAa     - tiseam  eSiss Cebe W iced ad cets. a
toi    .   .escsslte-e tess - p-od - .3-. a- evlsesea  taed                      ici..tqp Or ue11  Itpelpitesia            5 v-na   ad O .
Pissietus An eses  sree St       CaUdit  (es-i.aet M..eemeeeer-                    ___
O.Ri ~ec. aested         R- ys ad  Ise  a ecsm  at  d-ar                           inPeeaiAa eetL     es   se                                 ie-
pc.ets15. 1110. a Rol dsie.                                                 in4tu1nd=jejiajaeee.'bec  bsc,a
Poaslelis LrEMt eees Ppest    ce L.  e=   ginO   lee ef .-I eid-                       esttsaY asb.etee
pcpptiai.iiss,kt-o   dtlle.555tsie  Ler ;munsed                                                            lss   - Agatsypeeo a ital cs.1e essi
PenUtemi Cents,hi P   eon cc   t    a..e - nA-agei   ias  e.                            eia  - gcsee-a-tt ic  tieeW.          .1 spitem-el seitas
PWA peeeta f lisA0. Ils a   55  i.-   aemitee seelebe  lists..-  oulooo .  -
less.    b Got. te(e 51-      ;:.t- Lasst- scebes sisa   i eti-yce.r                15d nasasee  ftot ss          st ta  -. 5, -cess is. -MbtC o-
- Amen. see21=       atdeMaeaaw    iihe  smm oeg   adt  ia   b   neit  eCU as. a   isefet
Samaticoo  asa a..nti,  ts.-yn   esia  edicsk istI.  t5', a                           e.9.Iisetea  ' -detlyn sm -s tsSsees  an  e W ettad me paci
I-list.                                                                              pibllcemis .1..da9 .tw.190  -  -- -   -eac  pilaitt  me-isssidaangst. adn.d - . easodestd
FalIw itts    Mces    etLmsa  -atde  asepce                                              edi  if-i  paa-1as la  -dug slas an                ftO.
pyagra.ood)   &ol  oo.tlds-ece . d.17 a                                                             t fat.PP- a  Iyat. tlto.e at  assI. tas
Pal Itae -te  (tta  .1 eeieia  seott -               .Ie-tg  .1Ii_ d                  bAttaes
is11 cietidbeims4= sc  seissa  le  bebed 
p-OcUtIll ur 9-  t noo-Opt- C.eeiets.ci  t sa.  egiSta--sesesa   mij  ee a
set sesciel aS all  an sedte .ec           M.dat  e11-P.. es  a                       - otwa is  lPasse,o lanes. bemi, ad.. t
scetisa istg-geea   iasceIbea   esteesiscL.e                                        Senum- tebee Fet.b  is eete. aetesdioe tantesIew.   ad
-lise -Ad ta see asee t.Leeeme pisca  s h ansi. ia                                  ltiitiL.ta .-          -d  aR -erassiass .1 sawl i.b.m Fas   to"le i&l
bond a c-ltast a-sva  peSe  pieo e             1gcsam-I. 19's. -Ad a5U               ad mat sets.
_am.                                                                          Pesil-etffaM ia bee Lasst -sce.sa,adcat  -setepet -
Me.  -Aettebl     U ss-pt.s. 106ia nemLJe seede ote.lees   e                        le ftt,-a..inns dt. tes-bs    Us,- psti .pet   iA
-Wnst   a  ts iad issasaim, aod tess  me dasIthecialo   .tqcie         -       tee      ooo aaem    mie    nitcm   me
as.eee     -`a bt yeA bees - neeetett-a asd  Fa sen                                 Oees et    - ftit  a 5aase-e                mu IS -1   ad   m
esiletm, ad bolfts esnmdsel asir-emem tia,cmtos. bOy asiebs.                        iitiniiut -PZ:5a (thee aged AS-0).
as  od as d'Stetitii  5! pocps.cmu aod eLteesg 15 pass  as. -se
ii   ient   t eIctls(is  s-Ow    "i"emli c.smeetslP We agise~                               -WdaiUist  tI-  (beth Is nO ad listf .   alktsd by tidlob    S
as els,p cifma pa as    a  ,i   ifeda  etdaes.   -pses  tht II Pe-s. psee-t M5 istit. es peas  W peeaf mlt
pita teseste, at chess. as area etats be adat p-I.is.                                                                                         d
oredie  e  tine the -bca ci lisa-ie. meat           b p Mtt ad itb san                     b tbsta ctte'asd .a1 se,spisit  i4t i5ylete.a
'slid  ertS Ped tepys m .s-os is'  a  tu. cet.. -pyo   -                              Peas   a..t.s Weet    a   eta   ecpm-aaa   se
tsr(esee  saaime   3-mi ic   a jl-ad ala-    Jolste  epl  t a Iwhelolsi.atems,ue  es m_ed ti-    isat  _Fsc  -.1t S                             ese
-ee-rta  date deitad ite  tits sebtet tIes, RUto ad ltwa am.                         iess      e   or lb.  -,seY. sea seic ii Sala-d its  a%  e-oe
inI s-It Adj-sMots is blab. as  .1 ttssa  We aaba al.
tesaied Peats   ta- AMeam  leaes iss te Leaset -  St
BP.r balce   asat (F-ee) - LeA_g  - - si Feas at alift iseetlmta                        aS     -1e  - teseStpet.am    eta a sseIa    s  5.3g
I.0 asseee  he- tea tinendi) - n-et Sctu  eN ieiefl oda  as
P-eisa   Wesae  ita """iA sun. ml's ad laga deie.
eAst is tIe. tar Revs  icasme     se.sb,  des
tooet at P-ptits.     .cb,adast is saei   cam   i                                                                       Caeii   aey.be ad tee fiteta
esiv eppt (ssldeeiisie  icts  es      tesc  btInet e-ntet ad -eJesi- wopese
sseaiesmd sh   a-    fa tinLe   ict-esd bideoloe. .pse.a                                                                             betI
eateem   -it.) - pse-ssla-  f ehe2e -sp-sts  ppcgetatb. has
-_l se. Peb=   tna*le a  teatkp   1teces as, C    Mo 25 -tes-
Le.be  -Fey-  eeleeiateis  stte isa.....ble sa   ot ate
bas . te ea  ees  sem             sa-U 5atv sin  a. bisaf
ab Sq I. tets            cl  e- net ned.dpOpoloo    ~
m- beee-        K.l  mtl   ',a    at)esdh   ae   tpe 
pseastlao cc mbw ia-pemeie popeteelemo. mccst. Sepast a,-sl
a" sel-tetu ad stepseel. situW -L"Nt~ Mout. st lon sscM
ad  c     m     IV niten   isa  - As as 51 Wl peii  ad
esAis tasseolmaita.



-25 -                          Annex I
Page 4 of 5
COUNTRY DATA - PAPUA NEW GUINEA a
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1983                   ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH
(at current prices)
1960-69 1970-76 1975-83
US$ mln     z             (constant prices) -
GNP at Market Prices         2,510.0   100.0        6.5/b    2.7/b    1.7/b
Gross Domestic Investment      724.5    28.9       19.2      5.6      4.8
Gross National Saving          324.1    12.9
Current Account Balance       -370.5   -14.8         .        .
Exports of Goods, NFS          926.0    36.9        9.9     18.1      1.9
Imports of Goods, NFS        1,360.9    54.2       16.5      2.7      2.8
OUTPUT, EMPLOYMENT AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1979
Value Added {c    Emloyent          Value Added per Worker
US$ =ln    Z      '000    Z       US$   Z of National Average
Agriculture        659.4   32.1     996   87.6        774          39.9
Industry           699.0  34.1       27    2.4    25,141        1,295.3
Services           696.3   33.9     114   10.0     6,642          342.2
Total/Average    2,054.7  100.0   1,137  100.0      1,941         100.0
GOVERNKMENT FINANCE
Central Government
K million               Z GDP
1984            1983      1976-78
Current Domestic Receipts           479.0            20.8        19.7
Current Expenditures                633.0             30.8       32.2
Current Deficit                     154.0             8.3        12.4
Capital Expenditures                107.0 /d           6.2        4.5
External Assistance (net)           228.0             10.7       13.5
/a  As of January 1, 1978, PNG changed its fiscal year from July 1 - June 30
to January 1 - December 31. All data have been adjusted to a calendar
year basis.
/b   Growth rates are calculated in line at end-points.
7c- At factor cost. These figures are for 1981. More recent data not
available.
/d  These include capital transfers to provincial governments ana to public
enterprises.
not applicable
not available
April 1985



26 -                                    Annex I
-~ 2P6ges5 of 5
COUNTRY DATA - PAPUA NEW CWINEA
MNST, CREDIT and PRICES                       1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983
lilCion K outstanding at end of perio=d
Monoy and Quasi Noney                        449.0    571.7   553.1   554.7   567.8   649.6
Bank Credit to Public Sector, net             13.5     35.0      8.1    43.4    71.1      4.9
Bank Credit to Private Sector, net           193.8    229.0   303.9   342.6   373.2   449.0
(Percentage or Index Numbers)
)bney and QUasi Noney as Z of GDP             31.4     35.3    31.9    33.5    32.5    32.5
Consumer Price Index (1977 - 100)            109.0    117.6   131.4   138.7   148.3   160.9
Annual Percentage Change In:
Consumer Price Index                         5.8      5.8     8.0      5.5     6.9      8.5
Bank Credit to Private Sector               41.8     18.2    11.7    12.7      8.9    20.3
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                       MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1980-83)
1981     1982    1983                               US$ aln    Z
Exports of Goods, NFS         875.0    863.6   926.0      Coffee                     126.7   14.6
Imports of Goods, NFS       1,237.0  1,395.3 1,360.0      Cocoa                       53.1    6.1
Resource Gap (Deficit - -)  -362.0   -531.7. -434.9       Copra & Copra Products    48.8    5.6
Timber & Timber Products  70.8    8.2
Factor Services (net)         -88.6    -93.4   -96.3      Copper Concentrates        192.1   22.2
Transfers (net)               190.3    138.2   160.7      Gold                       242.3   28.0
Balance on Current Account  -260.3   -486.9  -370.5       All Other Commodities    133.0   15.3
Private Capital (net)         155.7    378.3   312.9      Total                     866.8  100.0
Public MLT Loans (net)        137.9    101.7   152.3
Errors andi Onissions /a        4.0    -32.6    14.4
Increase in Reserves          -37.3    -40.7   109.1      EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1983
US$ mln
Import of Fuel and Related
Materials                   235.2    198.1   200.7      Public Debt, mdcl. Guaranteed       765.6
Nonguaranteed Private Debt         820.1
Total Outstanding & Disbursed   1,585.7
PUBLIC DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1983 lb
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                               z
Public Debt, incl. Guaranteed    11.0
1978-79                     1980                          Nonguaranteed Private Debt         18.3
US$1.00 - K 0.71            US$1.00 - K 0.67              Total Outstanding & Disbursed    29.3
K 1.00 - US$1.41            K 1.00 - US$1.49
1981                        1982                          IBRD/IDA LENDING (AS OF MARCH 31, 1985)
US$1.00 - K 0.67            US$1.00 - K 0.74                                               US$ Mln
K1.00 - US$1.49             K 1.00 - US$1.36                                             IBRD   IDA
1983                        1984                          Outstanding & Disbursed        89.1  110.2
Undisbursed                  100.3    3.2
US$1.00 - K 0.83            US$1.00 - K 0.89
K 1.00 - US$1.20            K 1.00 - US$1.12              Outstanding incl. Undisb.   189.4  113.4
/a   Including capital n.e.i.
Wt Ratio of debt service to exports of goods and services.
April 1985



- 27 -
ANNEX It
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PNG
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits /a
(as of March 31, 1985)
Loan or                                                            Amounts (US$ millions)
credit                                                               (less cancellations)
number      Year    Borrower    Purpose                       Bank       IDA        Undisbursed
Seven loans and nine credits fully disbursed              75.5      64.4             -
1333-PNC    1976    PNG          Agriculture                  12.0         -            0.55
841-PNG    1978    PNG          Rural DeveLopment              -        20.0           1.31
1934-PNG    198.    PNG          Primary Education             6.0         -            5.90
1087-PNG    1981    PNG          Primary Education              -        12.0/b         0.34/c
1149-PNG    1981    PNG          Second Agric. Credit           -        15.0oh         0.34/c
2125-PNG    1982    PNG           Enga Provincial Dev.         6.0         -            4.61
1279-PNG    1983    PNG          Petroleum Tech. Assis.         -         3.0/e         1.18/c
2265-PNG    1983    PNG          Road Improvement             31.0         -           27.97
2276-PNG    1983    PNG          Agric. Support Serv.         14.1         -           13.49
2395-PIG    1984    PNG           Secondary Education         49.3         -           47.53
2475-PNG    1984    PNG          West Sepik Provincial         9.7         -             -
Total                                                   203.6     114.4         103.22
of which has been repaid                                 14.2        1.0
Total now outstanding                                   189.4     113.4
Amount sold                 8.1                            0
Repaid                      8.1
Total now held by Bank and IDA                          189.4     113.4
Total undisbursed                                       100.05      3.17        103.22
B. Statement of IFC Investments
None
/a   The statrs of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on all
Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and circulated
to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
/b   Credit amount is SDR 9.4 million (equivalent of US$12.0 million at time of
commitment).
/c   Amount expressed here is US$ equivalent of undisbursed SDR amount in terms of US$
commitment.
/d   Credit amount is SDR 12.3 million (equivalent of US$15.0 million at time of
commitment).
/e   Credit amount is SDR 2.7 million (equivalent of US$3.0 million at time of
commitment).



-28 -                          ANNEX III
Page 1
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLLOLDER r (MILNE BAY) PROJECT
Supplementary Date Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
Time taken to prepare the project:            One year
Project Preparation Agency:                   The Commonwealth Development
Corporation (CDC), with assistance
from the PNG Department of Primary
Industry and the Bank
First presentation of the project
to the Bank:                                May 1984
Departure of appraisal mission                June 1984
Completion of negotiations:                   March 1985
Planned date of effectiveness:                August 1985
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) Conditions of Effectiveness
ti)   signing and effectiveness of the joint venture agreement by
the Government, the Company and CDC, and the signing of the
loan and management agreements by the Company and CDC
(paras. 47 and 53);
(ii)   signing of agreements for leasing of nucleus estate lands to
the Company (para. 50); and
(iii)   signing of an acceptable Subsidiary Loan Agreement by the
Government and the Company (para. 52);
(b) Before disbursements begin on the project's ABPNG credit component,
a Subsidiary Loan Agreement, acceptable to the Bank, will be signed
by the Government and ABPNG (para. 52).



- 29 -                            ANNEX III
Page 2
(c) Other Conditions
(i) the Company would meet all planting material requirements of
oil palm smallholders in the project area (para. 47);
(ii) for each calendar year, che farmer participation levels and
incentives for farmers to participate in the project would be
reviewed and discussed with the Bank with a view to ensuring
the maximum possible farmer participation (para. 48);
(iii) a Field Project Manager, acceptable to the Bank, would be main-
tained for the duration of the project and made responsible for
coordinating the non-nucleus estate components of the project
and for provision of extension services to smalLholders
(para. 48);
(iv) the Company would maintain separate profit accounts for its
field and processing (including marketing and transport)
divisions and, within six months of the end of each fiscal
year, would make available to the Bank independently audited
financial statements and profit center reports, along with the
auditor's findings (para. 58); and
(v) up to December 31, 1991, the Company would maintain a debt to
equity ratio of not more than 70:30; and, after 1991, the
Company would maintain:
a.   a debt service coverage ratio of at least 150X; and
b.   a current ratio of at least 1.5 (para. 64).






