Report No. 23747
Report No: I054966 <--Please check for duplicates!
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 02/27/2002
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: UKRAINE         Project ID: P054966
Project: Private Sector Development      Task Team Leader: Vladimir G. Kreacic
Authorized to Appraise Date: February 1, 2001     IBRD Amount ($m): 30.00
Bank Approval: March 21, 2002    IDA Amount ($m):
Managing Unit: ECSPF     Sector: IR - Industrial Restructuring
Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program Loan (APL)          Status: Lending
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The development objective of the Private Sector Development Project is to
increase the competitiveness of the Ukraine enterprise sector. The project
aims to lay the groundwork for the development and expansion of the
private sector in Ukraine by:
i) Creating demand for restructuring and constituencies for reform at the
enterprise and oblast level and responding to this demand by building
sustainable institutional capabilities, creating a market for managerial
expertise, and developing local capacity to utilize and supply this market;
ii) Demonstrating the economic payoffs resulting from restructuring by
assuring the sufficient supply response to reforms (including increased
sales, exports, investments, and FDI); and
iii) Providing incentives to oblast administrations to reduce
administrative costs of doing business (by making improvements in the
business environment a precondition for assistance).
This approach is intended to demonstrate the benefits of successful
enterprise restructuring, training of managers and consultants, and
improvements in the legal and regulatory environment for business.
I.A.3. Project Description:
The Project has four main parts, subject to modifications as agreed upon
by the Government of Ukraine and the Bank. The components are described
below.
Part A: Enterprise Restructuring (market adjustment)
i) Provision of technical advisory services to improve the profitability,
productivity, and general operational, financial and managerial efficiency
of private enterprises.
ii) Provision of technical advisory services to facilitate the development
of a highly qualified domestic consulting industry that thoroughly
understands the local business and political climate in the context of the
Ukrainian economic transition.
iii) Strengthening the constituency for reform at the oblast level through
the training of approximately 600 business consultants who will provide
business advisory services to about 160 enterprises. The constituency for
reform will include entrepreneurs, managers, local academia, consultants
and other stakeholders benefiting from enterprise restructuring and a
market-friendly business environment.



Part B: Management Training
i) Design, subcontract and supervision of in-house training courses for
selected candidates, including study of one major commercial language,
computer skills, and basic management and business communication skills.
ii) Enhancing the secondment of selected candidates to selected foreign
firms to see how skills, organization and technology are combined to
respond to the continuously changing market demands.
Part C: Monitoring and Project Administration
The project will provide technical advisory services and equipment to
State Committee on Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship (SCRPE) and
Ukrainian Center for Enterprise Restructuring and Private Sector
Development to facilitate:
i) the selection of appropriate enterprises and implementation of a
restructuring framework plan that sets forth the various obligations and
commitments of the enterprise, realistic financing plans, and agreed
sanctions for non-compliance;
ii) the management of the work of consulting teams, including the
preparation of Terms of Reference, selection of consulting firms,
supervision of workplans, delivery of outputs, resolutions of conflicts
between enterprises and consultants; quality control, and approvals of
payment for services;
iii) a dialogue between state agencies and the private sector concerning
necessary reform measures to facilitate enterprise adjustment to markets;
iv) the selection, recruitment, and training of local specialists that
will team-up with foreign consultants to ensure the resources of foreign
consultants are most effectively utilized and directed where needed; and
v) the organization of on-the-job training for managers of participating
enterprises in the leading firms abroad.
Part D: Improvement of Regulatory Environment
i) The project will provide technical advisory services and equipment to:
a) introduce performance based incentives into the oblast-level policy
process, linking an exit from the project to the improvement of regulatory
environment, monitored through bi-annual surveys; b) enhance the
institutional capacity of SCRPE to effectively implement state regulatory
policy through its regional offices; and c) empower civil society
institutions and especially regulatory associations in their relations
with local authorities and build local capacity to conduct credible policy
research, analyze data, and use it for the policy purposes.
The project will carry out regular monitoring of the quality of regulatory
environment in the regions, through the use of indicators measured by the
survey-based research and analysis.
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key
environmental and social characteristics of the area and population likely
to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or critical
natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
Ukraine
B. Check Environmental Classification: C (Not Required)
Comments: No civil or rehabilitation works anticipated
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)         Yes
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)    No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)    No
-2-



Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)      No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)        No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)    No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)     No
Cultural Property (OP 4.11)      No
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*         No
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)       No
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice
the final determination of the parties' claims on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions.
If information is not available, describe steps to be taken to obtain
necessary data.
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the
proposed project. Identify and describe any potential large scale,
significant and/or irreversible impacts.
N/A
II.D.lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of
more than one safeguard policy or due to multiple project component.
N/A
II.D.lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future
activities in the project area.
N/A
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if
required)
Not required
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
N/A
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for
consultation and disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on
potentially affected people.
N/A
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact
in any policy. Or on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards.
Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the provisions of
that policy apply.
I S1. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or
significant technical and institutional risks in management of one or more
safeguard areas
I S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are
limited in their impact and are technically and institutionally manageable
[XI S3. - No safeguard issues
I SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds,
community driven development or similar projects which require a safeguard
framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard issues.
-3 -



F. Disclosure Requirements Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management
Plan:   Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:      Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:   Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Pest Management Plan:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Dam Safety Management Plan:      Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected,
please explain why.
Signed and submitted by          Name    Date
Task Team Leader:       Vladimir G. Kreacic      February 7, 2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:        Rita Klees/Person/World Bank    February 15, 2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:        Stan Peabody/Person/World Bank  February 21, 2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:    Name     Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator:         Bernard Baratz  February 26, 2002
Sector Manager/Director:         Paul J. Siegelbaum      February 25, 2002
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
- 4 -



