Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 22470 UA
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED ADAPTABLE PROGRAM LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 30 MILLION
TO
UKRAINE
FOR A
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT
In support of the First Phase of a US$60 Million Private Sector Development Program
March 6, 2002
Private and Financial Sector Deveikopment Department
Europe and Central Asia Region
Ukraine/Belarus Country Unit



* CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective February 2002)
Currency Unit = UAH (Hryvnya)
UAH 1 (Hryvnya) = US$0.1879
US$1 = UAH 5.3206
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 -- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APL           Adaptable Program Lending
ARIA          Moldovian Agency for Restructuring and Enterprise Assistance
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
C/B           Cost Benefit
CERMA         Georgian Center for Enterprise Restructuring and Management Assistance
CQ            Consultant Qualifications
CPAR          Country Procurement Assessment Report
DFID          Department for Intemational Development
EDAL          Enterprise Development Adjustment Loan
EDAL II       Second Enterprise Restructuring Adjustment Loan
FBS           Fixed Budget Selection
FDI           Foreign Direct Investments
FMR           Financial Monitoring Report
FSL           Fixed Spread Loan
FSU           Former Soviet Union
GDP           Gross Domestic Product
GoU           Government of Ukraine
GPN           General Procurement Notice
IC           Individual Consultants
ICB           International Competitive Bidding
IFC           International Finance Corporation
IFIs         International Financial Institutions
IMF           International Monetary Fund
IR           Industrial Restructuring
IS           International Shopping
LCS           Least Cost Selection
MOF           Ministry of Finance of Ukraine
N/A           Not-Applicable
N.B.F.        Non-Bank Financed
NCB           National Competitive Bidding
Vice President:  Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:  Luca Barbone
Sector Manager:   Khaled Sherif
Task Team Leader    Vladimir G. Kreacic



NGO           Non-Governmental Organization
NPV           Net Present Value
NS            National Shopping
PHRD          Policy and Human Resources Development
PIU           Project Implementation Unit
PPF           Project Preparation Facility
PSD           Private Sector Development
PV            Present Value
QBS           Quality Based Selection
QCBS          Quality and Cost Based Selection
RFP           Request for Proposal
SA            Special Account
SCRPE         State Committee on Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship of Ukraine
SFB           Selection under a Fixed Budget
SL            Short List
SMEs          Small and Medium Enterprises
SOE           Statement of Expenditure
SOEs          State Owned Enterprises
SPF           State Property Fund of Ukraine
SRO           Self-Regulatory Organization
SS            Single Source
TA            Technical Assistance
TACIS         Technical Assistance for the Commonwealth of Independent States
TORs          Terms of Reference
UCER          Ukrainian Center for Enterprise Restructuring and Private Sector
Development
USAID         United States Agency for Intemational Development






UKRAINE
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
CONTENTS
A. Program Purpose and Project Development Objective                                Page
1. Program purpose and program phasing                                              3
2. Project development objective                                                     3
3. Key performance indicators                                                       4
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project   4
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                        4
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                6
4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans                 7
C. Program and Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                               8
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                     8
3. Benefits and target population                                                    8
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                     9
D. Project Rationale
1. Project altematives considered and reasons for rejection                         10
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies       11
3. Lessons leamed and reflected in the project design                               11
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                 12
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                      12
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                         13
2. Financial                                                                        15
3. Technical                                                                        15
4. Institutional                                                                    16
5. Environmental                                                                    17
6. Social                                                                           17
7. Safeguard Policies                                                               18
F. Sustainability and Risks



1. Sustainability                                                                   19
2. Critical risks                                                                   19
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                   20
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                          21
2. Other                                                                            21
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                        23
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                       23
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                        24
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                  26
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                       35
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                                 36
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                             41
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                     42
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                   52
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                 53
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                54
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                          55
MAP(S)



UKRAINE
Private Sector Development
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
ECSPF
Date: March 1, 2002                             Team Leader: Vladimir G. Kreacic
Country Director: Luca Barbone                  Sector Manager: Khaled Sherif
Project ID: P054966                             Sector(s): IR - Industrial Restructuring
Lending Instrument: Adaptable Prograrn Loan (APL)  Theme(s): Private Sector
Poverty Targeted Intervention: Y
Program Financing Data
Estimated
APL            Indicative Financing Plan       Implementation Period        Borrower
________                                ~~~~~~~~~~~(Bank FY)
IBRD            Others      Total   Commitment   Closing
US$ m     %      US$ m      US$ m       Date       Date
APL 1       30.00    78.9    8.00      38.00    09/01/2002  06/30/2007 Ukraine
Loan/
Credit__           __
APL 2       30.00    75 0   10.00      40.00    07/01/2007  06/30/2011 Ukraine
Loan/
Credit__          _ _ _ _ _  _ _
Total       60.00           18.00      78.00
[X] Loan    [ ] Credit   [ ] Grant    [ ] Guarantee   [ Other:
For LoanslCredits/Others:
Loan Currency: United States Dollar
Amount (US$m): 30
Borrower Rationale for Choice of Loan Terms Available on File: 1 Yes
Proposed Terms (IBRD): Fixed-Spread Loan (FSL)
Grace period (years): 8                       Years to maturity: 20
Commitment fee: 0.85percent on the undisbursed loan  Front end fee (FEF) on Bank loan: 1.00%
amount for the first four years of the  Payment for FEF: Capitalize from Loan Proceeds
loan's life, and 0.75percent thereafter,
until maturity
Initial choice of Interest-rate basis: Auto. Rate Fixing by period 6 months
Type of repayment schedule:
[X] Fixed at Commitment, with the following repayment method (choose one): annuity
[ ], Linked to Disbursement
Conversion options: [X]Currency  [X]Interest Rate  [X]Caps/Collars:  Capitalize from Loan Proceeds
Financing Plan (US$m):   Source                           Local        Foreign        Total
BORROWER                                                    4.00           0.00         4.00
IBRD                                                        4.46          25.54         30.00
UK: BRITISH DEPARTMENT FOR INTERNATIONAL                    0.00           2.00          2.00
DEVELOPMENT (DFID)



NETHERLANDS: MIN. OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS / MIN. OF                 0.00           2.00         2.00
DEV. COOP.
Total:                                                         8.46          29.54         38.00
Borrower: UKRAINE
Responsible agency: UKRAINIAN CENTER FOR ENTERPRISE RESTRUCTURING AND PSD
State Committee of Ukraine for Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship
Address: 27 Komintema St., Kyiv 01032, Ukraine
Contact Person: Oleksandra Kuzhel
Tel: (380 44) 246 8647          Fax: (380 44) 216 2435          Email: kuzhel(dkrp.gov.ua
Other Agency(ies):
PIU - Ukrainian Center for Enterprise Restructuring and Private Sector Development (UCER)
Address: 14b Dymytrova St., Kyiv 03150, Ukraine
Contact Person: Viktor Bekh
Tel: (380 44) 227 5152          Fax: (380 44) 227 1097          Email: admin@assistance.kiev.ua
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$m):
FY         2003       2004       2005      2006       2007      2007       2008       2009
Annual     1.80       5.70      14.90       5.60     10.00
Cumulative    1.80        7.50     22.40      28.00     38.00
Project implementation period: September 2002-December 2006
Expected effectiveness date: 09/01/2002  Expected closing date:  06/30/2007
OCS APt PAO F- ~ RM. Ah-D2
-2 -



A. Program Purpose and Project Development Objective
1. Program purpose and program phasing:
The purpose of the Program supported by the Bank Adaptable Program Loan (APL) is to foster private
sector development in Ukraine using a bottom-up approach, which focuses on enterprise adjustment and the
creation of a market friendly regulatory environment. The APL is planned as an 8 year Program consisting
of 2 loan phases. The first phase of this Loan (USD 30 rnillion), which is the subject of this PAD, will
focus on creating the baseline conditions for private sector development by working in collaboration with
the Government of Ukraine (GoU) to improve the regulatory environment for private business, and
provides intensive training of Ukrainian business managers and consultants to support enterprise
restructuring. The first phase of the project will be initiated in 4 pilot oblasts. The second phase (USD 30
million) will extend the institutional and restructuring experiences acquired to a larger number of oblasts
and enterprises.
The four pilot oblasts were selected on the basis of their demonstrated commitment to reforns, which
support a market friendly regulatory environment for the private sector. Incentives have been built into the
project to ensure that such comrmitment continues, so that any oblast, which fails to continue to support the
necessary regulatory reformns will be dropped from the project, and another oblast, which has demonstrated
its commitment to support positive private sector reforms will be substituted.
The Loan will support intensive training programs to upgrade technical business management skills of
Ukrainian managers and management consultants, as well as facilitate the process of enterprise
restructuring. Individuals who go through the training process will become the local experts and leaders in
enterprise restructuring, which will take place through various conventional modes like spinning off SMEs
from existing obsolete industrial complexes, or selling off certain assets or proprietary rights to create new
start-up enterprises. Enterprises that achieve financial viability will likely become strong competitors in
domestic and foreign markets. In this way, transforming inefficient and obsolete industrial enterprises into
profitable companies will accelerate the rate of growth in the industrial sector, demonstrate to the public at
large (as well as to foreign investors) that enterprises can actually thrive in an imperfect business
environment, and expand institutional capacity for further private sector development.
The first steps of this project, which set the groundwork for policy reform, have already been achieved.
These have included establishment of the necessary institutions to support private sector development and
implement the PSD Loan, as well as adoption of certain deregulatory measures by oblast administrations in
pilot oblasts. The State Committee of Ukraine for Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship (SCRPE) and
the Ukrainian Center for Enterprise Restructuring and Private Sector Development (UCER) have been
created to implement programs under the Loan. This Loan will build upon prior IFC-fumded TA projects in
the areas of SME privatization, divestiture of unproductive assets, corporate governance, and creation of a
market for high quality business advisory services.
2. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The development objective of the PSD project is to increase competitiveness of the Ukraine enterprise
sector.
In line with this objective, the project is aimed at laying the groundwork for the development and expansion
of the private sector in Ukraine by:
a. Creating demand for restructuring and constituencies for reform at the enterprise and oblast levels,
and responding to this demand by creating sustainable institutional capabilities, creating a market for
managerial expertise and developing local capabilities to utilize and supply this market;
- 3 -



b. Demonstrating the economic pay-offs resulting from positive restructuring by assuring the sufficient
supply response to reforms (including increased sales, exports, investments, FDI of pilot enterprises);
and
c. Providing incentives to oblast administrations to improve the local business environment and reduce
administrative costs of doing business by measurable results in these areas a precondition for receiving
assistance.
This approach is intended to demonstrate the benefits that can be expected from successful enterprise
restructuring, training of managers and consultants, and improvements in the legal and regulatory
environment for business activities.
3. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Key performance indicators to monitor and evaluate the program and the project consist of two
types indicators. The quantitative indicators will include the following:
*      the number of restructured enterprises;
*      the number of created SMEs;
*      the number of trained managers, and
*      the number of trained consultants.
The qualitative indicators that link the project's development objectives to outcomes and impacts
will include:
*      rate of growth of SMEs in pilot oblasts;
*      rate of growth of output of private sector in pilot oblasts; and
*      value/added per employee in restructured enterprises.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: R2000-167 [IFC/R2000-179]       Date of latest CAS discussion: 09/12/2000
This project is consistent with the Bank's present CAS for Ukraine, which designates promotion of private
sector development as a top priority. The proposed APL will provide funding for improvement of the
performance of private enterprises in the selected oblasts of Ukraine. Furthermore, targeted assistance at
the enterprise level will be complemented by strengthening institutional capacity at the policy and
regulatory level. This will ensure the growth and success in individual enterprises as well as in the business
environment initially in the selected oblasts. This experience will be spread throughout Ukraine and will
create a positive demonstrative effect as the project reaches new oblasts. The strengthening of the private
sector will also create a stronger taxable base for the central and local budgets and thereby improve fiscal
revenues.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Following successful stabilization between 1996 and 1997, Ukraine has maintained a relatively stable
macroeconomic environment. However, lack of structural reforms and the Russian financial crisis in 1998
- 4 -



prevented a full economic recovery. Highlights of recent macroeconomic performance as for the end of
2001 are:
*   Inflation reduced to 6.1 percent.
*   Real GDP growth: a 3% decline recorded in 1997 was followed by a 1.7% decline in 1998, a
smaller 0.4% decline in 1999, and 6% growth in 2000, for the first time since Ukraine
independency, followed by 9% growth in 2001. An increase of 5% in GDP is currently projected
for the year 2002, based on continued revival of industrial production (initially metals and
metallurgy and more recently light and food industry) and agricultural production.
*   The trade and current account balance have improved. The NBU estimated the former current
account deficit (which remained virtually unchanged at $1.3 billion in 1997 and 1998), has turned
into a $500 million surplus for 1999.
*   The cash deficit of the general government has been reduced from 5.6% of GDP in 1997, to 2.8%
in 1998, 2.4% in 1999 and less than 2% in 2000. This reduction resulted from improved budget
discipline, tighter expenditure controls, elimination of budget offsets, and cuts in tax privileges and
social subsidies, while lowering tax burdens on the business sector.
The development of the private sector, particularly of new SMEs, has been much slower in Ukraine than in
neighboring Central European countries. There are only four active SMEs per 1,000 people compared to
around 6 in Russia, 25 in Estonia and 35 in Poland. Although more than 650,000 private firms have been
registered, only some 217,930 are small (less than 50 employees). SME activities differ geographically and
still have very low impact on the economy - on average, in 2000, small enterprises delivered 6,9% of total
industrial output and employed 15,1% of the Ukrainian labor force. In the most advanced regions, SMEs
contribute no more than 15 percent of the GDP and employment. FDI per capita as of late 2001 was US
$85, which is significantly less than in neighboring Poland and has had a negligible impact on restructuring
of the Ukrainian economy. Relatively cheap labor could be a comparative advantage for the Ukrainian
economy. This advantage is, however, eroded by the low quality of products and the high risk of an
unstable regulatory environment. As a result, Ukraine is "specializing" in "dirty" and energy consuming
industries (such as steel products and raw chemicals) where quality requirements are lower, unaccounted
environmental extemalities higher, and where a short-term comparative advantage is possible due to the
depletion of assets installed in Soviet times.
The decline in manufacturing has been even more severe than the average decrease of GDP, and has led to
a change in the GDP composition. The service sector has increased from 50% in 1997 to 53% in 2000 at
the expense of industry, agriculture and construction. Base industries (coal, energy, ferrous and non-ferrous
metallurgy) have survived in relatively better shape than machine-building and light industries. The
emerging sub-sectors pattern is that some enterprises within a given sector are struggling to survive while
others have stopped their activities altogether. Structural reformns have generally been driven by negative
forces (contraction and rent-seeking behavior) rather than expansion of sub-sectors through green-field
investments or serious restructuring at the enterprise level. However, serious steps to improve the business
environment have already been taken by the Governnent of Ukraine. These included simplification of a
registration procedure for new entrants, reduction in the number of state inspections for companies,
decreasing the number of licenses needed to do business, and acceleration of cash privatization of large
Ukrainian enterprises. The Government has canceled almost all the tax privileges to industrial enterprises
(that in previous years reached USD 4 billion and seriously distorted the competitive environment).
Privatization is the main visible long-term base for the emerging private sector, both in terms of going
concems and assets. Privatization of SMEs was practically completed by the end of 1998. On average, new
private companies emerging from state owned enterprises (SOEs) have a better ownership structure than,
- 5 -



for example, their Russian counterparts. In privatizing larger enterprises, Ukraine has recently succeeded in
offering shares of privatized companies through open auctions to outsiders. Independent shareholder
registrars and public disclosure requirements introduced early in the reform program also make
management more accountable to shareholders. In addition, managers in enterprises privatized through
"buyout-through-leasing," are more accountable to employees than in other FSU republics. Despite these
factors, the incentives and skills necessary to undertake the challenge of the market economy are poor and
the number of cases of real enterprise restructuring are still too small. The most common scenario is one in
which an insider-led reorganization is usually oriented towards survival and the preservation of jobs, and is
achieved by rebuilding old networks of cooperation. Spinning-off most profitable technological units and
creation of small private trade companies continues, although at the reduced level. Searching for foreign
investors is a part of the agenda but the fear of losing control of assets is a serious limitation (although this
is decreasing due to the rapidly deteriorating conditions of enterprises).
Government's Economic Reform Priorities
The Government's overriding medium term priorities include achieving fiscal sustainability by improved tax
collection and better management of public spending, and economic growth. The development of a dynamic
private sector plays a key role in the achievement of both priorities. However, the Government presently
operates within an ultra-short time horizon with its decisions determined by the repayment of foreign and
domestic sovereign debt, constant pressure of overdue budgetary obligations to the social sphere, and often
successful lobbying by industrialists, for bail-outs and subsidies.
Despite these unfavorable conditions, systemic reformns are expected to continue, due in part to ongoing
Bank Programmatic Adjustment operation and the IMF's Extended Fund Facility. These reforms include
increased volumes of the budget revenues through cash privatization of large infrastructure and other
enterprises, and the effective introduction of international accounting and auditing standards. New business
start-ups will be encouraged by streamlining regulatory processes (deregulation); creating a simpler, more
transparent taxation system; and improving exit mechanisms by the creation of an appropriate framework
and process for bankruptcy. The capital markets will be developed to improve corporate governance by
increasing transparency, accountability and facilitating ownership transfer in the secondary markets. It is
hoped that the success of the PSD project in training managers, local consultants, and turning around
enterprises will create a strong demonstration effect and a lobby for PSD at the local level, thereby
improving the climate for PSD in Ukraine from the ground.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
To accelerate the development of the private sector and to increase the attractiveness of Ukraine to foreign
investors, the project will address the following areas:
* Lowering business transaction costs (which presently include numerous fees, bribes, bureaucratic
red tape, non-commercial risks) in order to encourage domestic and foreign entrepreneurs to start
businesses in Ukraine (see Box 1);
*   Improving the skills, knowledge, and incentives of managers and employees which is a necessary
precursor to functioning as a modem enterprise in a competitive market environment;
*   Strengthening Ukraine's comparative advantage of a relatively inexpensive and well-educated labor
force and a favorable geographical location; and
* Developing good corporate governance by clarifyfing and strengthening the rights of external
owners and creditors to make the financing of enterprises an attractive investment.
- 6 -



Box 1
Cost of Doing Business Surveys
The project will use the methodology for assessing costs of doing business in Ukraine developed by the
USAID-funded project Regulatory Reform Program in Ukraine. The main goal of the survey was to get
reliable data for assessing the cost to businesses of compliance with state regulations and to provide
benchmarks that enable comparisons of the business climate between the regions and over period of
time.
Since 1997, when the first survey was initiated, average costs for an industrial enterprise per year
decreased from USD 22,000 to USD 12.5 thousand in 1998, and to about USD 6,000 in 1999, which
confirms that measures undertaken by the new government had a positive impact on regulatory
environment. This survey covered 10 oblasts and illustrated that the average cost of doing business for
industrial enterprises in some regions can be 4 times higher than in other regions. We found that the
most costly items for entrepreneurs are registration of a new business (USD 180) and various official
inspections (USD 1,500). Additionally, companies involved in foreign trade are subject to huge imnport
and export transaction costs. The study found that administrative expenses per transaction can cost up
to USD 6,000.
4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans:
The first phase project of the proposed APL Program would be appraised as successful and, therefore, lead
to its expansion to other regions only when the following triggers are met:
*      Reduction of time needed to obtain all the necessary pemnits to start non-licensed business
activities to 2 weeks;
*      Implemented regulatory changes that streamline licensing regime as demonstrated in that all
licensing conditions are mainly based on public safety concems;
*      Legislative changes implemented which:
1) limit the number of agencies authorized to conduct inspections, impose penalties or stop business
activities to 10 (total);
2) limit the number of inspections per authorized agency to not more than one inspection per
enterprise per year; and
3) strictly limit the authority of other agencies to monitor compliance of enterprises with regulations
through issuance of recommendations and enforcement of laws/regulations only through court
proceedings.
*      A majority of participating enterprises are operating successfully in financially sustainable manner
(positive cash flow, adequate intemal financing for restructuring needs, and loans rescheduled to avoid
bankruptcy proceedings); and
*      Improvement in the regulatory environment for business activities is demonstrated by a higher
growth rate in number of SMEs in participating oblasts than the average growth rate in Ukraine.
-7 -



C. Program and Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Indicative            Bank-      % of
Component                   Sector        Costs     % of     financing.  Bank-
(US$M)    Total      (US$M)   financing
Enterprise Restructuring (market  IR                  24.00      63.2      19.00      63.3
adjustment)
Managerial and Consulting        IR                   11.50      30.3       9.00      30.0
Secondments
Monitoring and Project Administration Institutional    1.38       3.6       0.88       2.9
Development
Improvement of Regulatory        Business              0.82       2.2       0.82       2.7
Environment                      Environment
Total Project Costs                  37.70      99.2      29.70      99.0
Front-end fee                     0.30       0.8      0.30       1.0
Total Financing Required                    38.00     100.0     30.00     100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Ukraine is often criticized for a highly bureaucratic and unfriendly business environment, poor policies
toward entrepreneurs (both domestic and foreign), and weak institutional support of private business. These
negative conditions of doing business are amplified by the disruptive practices of the regulatory agencies,
such as the tax authorities, fire department, and health inspectors. The Loan will seek changes in these
areas by a combination of improved policy dialogue and additional funding tied to the satisfactory
completion of specific conditions (triggers for the lending sequence under the APL). A three-pronged
approach will be used with close collaboration of the PSD Loan team and the teams processing the
Programmatic Adjustment Loan, especially in taxation and public administration reform areas. In this
regard, concrete examples from the pilot oblasts will be shared and used to inform and forward policy
discussions with the government at the oblast and national levels. Loan processing will also be heavily
dependent on strengthening governmental counterparts and non-governmental agencies involved in the
implementation of the project.
There are important synergies between government policies oriented toward private sector development and
the proposed project. Pilot oblasts will be required to rein in often oppressive behavior of tax and other
inspections, while at the samne time, the project will help highlight problems faced by entrepreneurs in order
to help the government become more responsive to the needs of business and find workable solutions.
3. Benefits and target population:
Benefits:
* Improved competitiveness of Ukrainian enterprises both domestically and abroad.
* Introduction and dissemination of best practices on the continuous improvement and adjustment of
enterprises to market challenges.
-8 -



* Strengthened rights of external owners and creditors, and better accountability of managers.
* Job creation in new enterprise clusters, and averting massive job elimination, which would
inevitably result to the liquidation of unrestructured enterprises.
Target Population:
The first phase of the Project will be implemented in up to eight competitively selected oblasts (see Annex 2
Component 2).
*   Owners of enterprises will enjoy the benefits stemming from the enhanced earnings and growth
potential as well as increased shareholders' protection and improved capital markets.
*   Employees of privatized enterprises will have improved employment opportunities, as enterprises will
be growth oriented and financially sound. Additionally, the environment to establish start up enterprises
will be significantly improved.
*   Local consultants will benefit directly from involvement in the project and from the opportunity to
collaborate with foreign consulting firms.
*   Local communities will have better access to better quality and less expensive products and services as
a result of the spinning-off of a large number of SMEs.
*   Local knowledge and expertise in management will improve, and this will enhance the opportunity for
exponential dissemination of this expertise to all interested sectors of the local business communities
(including entrepreneurs, bankers, academics, consultants, universities, etc.)
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The project minimizes the dependence on the central administration. A Working Group established by the
Government for the proposed PSD Loan, and chaired by the Head of SCRPE, is to be used for policy
dialogue and intervention only when necessary. UCER, a specially created non-profit agency will serve as
the project implementation unit and will manage implementation of the project on a day-to-day basis.
UCER will delegate many of the implementation functions to its regional branches to minimnize the potential
impact of national political turbulence on project implementation. The project is to be started in the four
pilot oblasts with the highest "reform potential" demonstrated by: (1) commitment of local authorities
(reduction of bureaucratic obstacles to PSD, in-kind and financial support to implementing agencies); (2)
commitment of visited enterprises to participate in the project; and (3) existence of a robust business
community. The project will also work with and support a variety of non-govemmental organizations,
self-regulating organizations (SROs) of managers and consultants, training organizations, and independent
research groups. The oblast administration achievements will be monitored regularly through the surveys
that assess the cost of doing business.
Financial Management
Financial Management Assessment: During pre-appraisal, the implementing agency and the Bank jointly
agreed upon a series of measures to strengthen intemal financial controls and to improve financial
reporting. The implementing agency carried out the agreed upon measures on a timely basis and
subsequently the project satisfies the Bank's minimum financial management requirements.
Disbursements: Project funds will be disbursed under the Bank's established procedures, including
Statements of Expenditure (SOEs) and Summary Sheets.
The Borrower has selected Fixed-Spead Loan (FSL) that carries a commitment charge of 0.85% on the
undisbursed loan arnount for the first.four years of the loan's life, and 0.75% thereafter, until maturity. The
-9-



FSL commitment charge for the first four years includes a risk premium of 0.10%.
An authorization to sign withdrawal applications must be submitted to the World Bank immediately upon
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement. Pursuant to Section 11.03 of the General Conditions, the Minister of
Finance may authorize the Head of SCRPE and any other officer to have signature authority for purposes
of disbursements under the Loan.
Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs): Management-oriented FMRs will be used for project monitoring
and supervision. The formats of the FMRs, which have been agreed with UCER, are included within the
Operational Manual and have been confirmed. The UCER will produce a full set of FMRs semi-annually
throughout the life of the project beginning not later than the period ending 6 months after project
effectiveness date.
Audit Arrangements: Extemal audits by independent private auditors acceptable to the Bank, and on terms
of reference acceptable to the Bank will be procured by the UCER. Annual audited financial statements of
the UCER and of the Project will be provided to the Bank within 6 months after the end of each fiscal year
and also at the closing of the project. Terms of reference for the audit of UCER and of the project financial
statements have been agreed with UCER.
Procurement Arrangements
Project procurement arrangements shall include the procurement of goods and consultants' services and
shall follow the latest editions of the Bank guidelines "Procurement under EBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
and "Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" accordingly.
Procurement under the project shall be managed by UCER using relevant Bank standard procurement
documentation and Operations Manual, developed by the UCER and approved by the Bank. UCER has an
adequate number of regular employees combined into 4 sections; procurement section is one of them. It
includes a procurement specialist who will manage procurement under the project with the permanent
assistance of the lawyer and the financial manager. The unit reports to the Deputy Executive Director of
the UCER
The Procurement Plan will be updated within one month after the Board approval of the Project.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
* Introduction of strict top-down hard budget constraints upon enterprises trying to restructure in
post-communist economies has back-fired. Leaving such enterprises purely to the mercy of free market
forces in an environment where the institutional, regulatory and enforcement capacity of executive
branch institutions, courts and police authorities is low, often perpetuates illegal and unethical business
practices like asset stripping, fraud, and embezzlement. In post-communist countries, appropriate skills
that would enable owners and managers to take the necessary steps to restructure companies in a legal
. and ethical manner are often lacking. Where such skills are missing, those who own or control business
assets tend to engage in unethical business practices when they believe it is the most profitable and
efficient solution. Narrowing this knowledge and skill gap would enable business leaders to tum failing
businesses into profitable ones in an ethical and responsible manner. Successfully restructured
businesses would demonstrate to the business community at large that unethical and irresponsible
business practices are neither the only option, nor the best solution.
*   Court-led bankruptcy (liquidation and Chapter XI style reorganization) - rejected due to the weak
institutional capacity of the courts and limited success in much more advanced transition economies
- 10-



(i.e. Hungary). However, during project preparation a creditor-led approach compatible with the
Bankruptcy Law has been developed and tested successfully.
*   "Enterprise jail" model (Isolation Programs, for example in Bulgaria and Romania) - rejected due to the
significant risk of the reinstitution of governmental subsidies and bureaucratic control, and the strong
likelihood of numerous turf battles among branch ministries.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                     Project                 (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation  Development
Bank-financed                                                  Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
Privatization/Macro PSD reform    Ukraine EDAL (completed)         S             S
(UA-PE-35814)
Post-privatization restructuring  Moldova PSDII (ongoing)          S             S
(MD-PE-3581 1)
Post-privatization restructuring,  Uzbekistan EIBL (ongoing)       S            HS
case-by-case Privatization        (UZ-PE-55159)
Post-Privatization Restructuring  Georgia ERP (ongoing)            S             S
(GE-PE-08416)
Other development agencies
Privatization (USAID)             Unfinished Construction Site
Privatization Project
(completed)
(IFC-00502545-TF021908)
Business consulting (USAID)       Business Development Project
(completed)
(IFC-00502944-TF020391)
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly. Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
* Extensive work with the Government, local officials and politicians to explain the merits of spending
public resources on TA to privatized enterprises and building the skills of managers.
*   Study tours for senior Government officials to other transition economies that have implemented
similar programs in order to use success stories to provide a demonstration effect.
*   Training of consultants from transitional economies that have implemented similar programs, and
extensive training of Ukrainian consultants in these countries.
*   A strong team of WB staff on the ground for extensive periods of time.
*   The establishment of a highly qualified locally staffed agency implemnenting the project on a daily basis,
with strong local leadership.
*   The up-front commitment of participating regions, with 3-4 restructured enterprises during the project
preparation.



*   The downplaying of unrealistic expectations of quick and easy results.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Government has established a Working Group in the form of the Inter-Agency Coordinating Council
for preparation and implementation of the project. This Group is already working in close coordination
with the World Bank team and is headed by the Head of SCRPE and includes high level representatives
from all major governmental ministries and agencies. A project implementation agency (UCER) has been
created and offices have been provided by the Government. The Bank has also agreed to the Govemment's
request to reallocate USD 500,000 from the Enterprise Development Adjustment Loan's (EDAL) TA
component for the institutional strengthening of the UCER. UCER has been operational at the central and
oblast level since fall of 1999. There is also strong interest in the project at the local administration level, as
confirmed during multiple visits to the regions and a number of separate meetings requested by the oblast
governors. Proposed selection criteria for participating oblasts include a number of deregulatory and
tangible measures to be undertaken in advance by the winning oblasts. As an indication of the seriousness
of their interest in the project, many oblasts have financed visits to successful neighboring countries and
training centers in order to increase their competitiveness to participate in the project. The four oblasts that
have been selected jointly with the Govemment as pilot projects are Volyn (Northwestem Ukraine);
Chernovtsy and Khmelnitsky (neighboring oblasts in Southwestem Ukraine); and Zhitomir (Central
Ukraine).
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank's experience with successful post-privatization restructuring of enterprises and development of
managers' skills (Moldova, Georgia) and the experience of other countries in the region (Poland, Slovenia,
Hungary, and Slovakia) can provide a powerful demonstration effect for the Ukrainians. Furthermore,
synergy will be created with the Bank's adjustment operations, and provide strong policy and financial
support to the reformistic element of the Govemment in undertaking difficult measures. The project will
consolidate and strengthen a variety of donor activities already in place by using donor supported business
centers (e.g. created by the IFC TA projects. See Box 2), and intensify the work on accounting reform and
capital market development already begun under other Bank and donor funded programs. The project can
leverage the training and business advisory work that has been done by the business centers in the regions
by following up with on-site assistance to enterprises. The Govemment of the Netherlands intends to
support the Project. The British Department for Intemational development has commnitted to provide GBP
1.2 million (approx. USD 2 million) as co-financing the Loan. The discussions on possible cooperation
with other donors - like EU (TACIS) and USAID are proceeding. The project strengthens and expands, in a
hands-on way, the reforms supported by the Bank's adjustment lending for private sector development and
deregulation through the First and Second EDAL, and the Programmatic Adjustment Loan. Lastly, the
Bank will use consultants from Moldova and Georgia that were involved in the implementation of similar
programs in their own countries, and are experts in the areas of enterprise restructuring and management
training.
Box 2
PSD Development in Ukraine: Synergy between IFC and World Bank
Complimenting its core investment activity, IFC has provided major technical assistance and
consultation to the Government of Ukraine since 1993. The focus of this assistance is in privatization
and corporate sector development. IFC has been working on three technical assistance projects in
Ukraine:
- 12-



* Unfinished Construction Site Divestiture - aimed at the creation of a new class of private owners,
the development of small and medium-sized businesses, the formation of a competitive environment
in this field on the basis of unfinished construction objects. It also helps to divest unproductive
assets as a pre-restructuring activity at 6 enterprises involved in the PSD Loan preparation;
* Corporate Governance - targeted at improvement of the investment climate in Ukraine by laying a
solid foundation for incorporation of effective corporate govemance practices at newly privatized
Ukrainian enterprises that will complement the successful enterprise restructuring provided under
the PSD Loan.
* Business Development - focused on providing assistance in overcoming obstacles to the
development of small-scale and medium-scale businesses through creation of the business-centers
throughout Ukraine. In addition, the project advised central government officials on policy issues.
This project will assure synergies with IFC TA projects in the following way:
* Developing local consultant's market
TORs for intemational consulting firms will contain a provision specifying that the foreign
company should sub-contract local consulting companies or individuals for particular tasks in
which they have comparative advantage. For example, such tasks might include local market
research, business-planning, legal analysis and other areas. In this way, local consulting firms and
individuals will have opportunities for professional development under competitive circumstances.
* Focusing on low end beneficiaries -- weak firms with low capacity to pay full costs of services
delivery and developing new clients for IFC business development services.
The project focuses on enterprises in difficult financial situation but with promising assets. This is to
develop competitive and viable spin-offs of the enterprises being restructured. These spin-offs will be
natural and solvent clients for emerging local consulting markets.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
* Cost benefit    NPV=US$0.035 million; ERR = 9.73 % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
All cost-benefit calculations (including Tables of Annex 4) capture the benefit of the Enterprise
Restructuring component. Benefits of other components are very difficult to quantify. Discount rate is
assumed 10%.
Prices, and therefore financial results, are often distorted by two factors: (a) the role of multidimensional
barter transactions, i.e. making and accepting payments to suppliers, employees, and buyers in goods; and
(b) the fact that some enterprises still use resources and assets artificially depreciated during
hyper-inflation.
Economic evaluation methodology: Project Cost-Benefit analysis
The Cost Benefit (C/B) Analysis attached in Annex 4 discounts the incremental cash flows to the
Government's budget (from VAT) from the enterprises, which participated in the project as opposed to the
enterprises that did not.
The discount rate used is the Bank recommended rate of 10 percent. The C/B analysis shows that for the
- 13 -



project to increase its cost efficiency, it has to target medium to large enterprises rather than small ones. To
achieve the same increase in the VAT payments that cover project costs, small enterprises need a bigger
increase in sales in the first year of the project. On the one hand, the flexibility of small enterprises allows
for a bigger percentage of increase in sales in the first year, however, small enterprises also have more
difficulty in sustaining the increase beyond the first year.
A cost/benefit analysis is possible at the level of individual participating enterprise. Large (and positive)
externalities of "soft" investments in managerial skills, and the peculiarity of transition in FSU countries
when compared with other developing economies, make a C/B analysis less feasible for the development
impact of this project. There is, however, enough experience from other transition economies to
demonstrate that similar types of TA projects have, on average, produced results that outweigh costs (see
Box 3).
Box 3
The Moldovian Agency for Restructuring and Enterprise Assistance
The Moldovian Agency for Restructuring and Enterprise Assistance (ARIA) was created in 1995 with
the principal objective of accelerating adjustment of newly privatized enterprises to market conditions.
It was supported by two Private Sector Development Loans of the World Bank. The data taken from a
firm-level database provided by the Moldovian Department of Statistics indicate the following
restructuring impact:
In 1995 the firms that would eventually find their way to ARIA's doorstep, were on average worse off
than firms that would never be assisted by ARIA, both in terms of productivity and profitability. By
the end of 2001, despite worsening economic conditions in Moldova, ARIA-assisted firns were more
productive than their unassisted counterparts, exported more in relative terms, and paid more in taxes
per worker.
In 1995, the firms that ARIA would assist were underpaying their share of taxes, and under-exporting.
In 1999, these trends were reversed, and now ARIA firms are paying a greater share of taxes and
exporting a greater share of their output relative to their size.
ARIA assistance is positively, significantly, and consistently correlated with the real productivity
growth, with the growth in exports per employee, and with the sales growth. Extemal restructuring
assistance by other agencies (USAID, TACIS) has no effect, nor do agreements between firms and the
Moldovian Council of Creditors in boosting performance.
Among the firms ARIA assisted, the "ARIA effect" is strongest among the companies that were the
least profitable in 1995, with the benefits of ARIA's assistance diminishing as the 1995 level of
profit/employee increased.
ARIA was successful because it has found an efficient solution to politically charged issues of
liquidation and restructuring by working with existing capital and human resources to develop
enterprises. The key to ARIA's success leis in its ability to co-opt mangers or, if they are not
cooperating, to replace them. ARIA does not have formnal authority to do so. However, its "reputation
authority" is such that it is often, but not always, able to get results. The "reputation authority" is a
result of ARIA's track record as well as of its unique position as an autonomous government agency
with a strong and committed leadership and dedicated and skilled staff.
Industrial parks created by ARIA perform three functions:
* Recombination of assets: a technique (fornalized in operation manual) to carve out viable assets
(office space and some equipment) and lease them to spin-off SMEs;
- 14 -



* Creation of 'forced entrepreneurship' by convincing and cajoling most capable managers of the
existing plant to become managers/owners of spin-off SMEs; and
* Provision of better business environment (security protection, some protection from inspections)
and business development services to spin-offs, which are the part of the industrial park.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ 0.03 5 million; FRR = 9.73 % (see Annex 4)
Participating oblasts and enterprises should cover part of the cost of the assistance, primarily through
in-kind contributions (such as office space, telephone lines, support staff). The Loan will be provided to the
Ministry of Finance on standard maturity terms--20-year repayment with a 8-year grace period. Loan
proceeds will be transferred to the implementation agency as a grant under the control of the Government.
The implementation agency (the UCER) will be expected to cover a growing part of its operational costs,
with full self-financing of operational costs approximately five years after the Loan effectiveness
(excluding the costs of foreign consultants). The use of Loan proceeds for project implementation will be
audited in accordance with the rules of the Bank.
This project is designed to demonstrate the benefits of restructuring to enterprise managers, Government
officials, and foreign and local investors. A few successful cases of restructuring advisory services will
help in convincing officials, and enterprise managers, about the benefits of consulting services and the
feasibility of restructuring. Building the capacity of the local consulting industry will ensure that the
successful cases are replicable in many other enterprises and regions. Also, the know-how and management
skills acquired by the Ukrainian consultants from foreign experts and offered at the local prices will
contribute to project sustainability.
Fiscal Impact:
The Fiscal impact analysis coincides with financial impact, i.e. financial impact calculates the fiscal impact
of the enterprise restructuring component of the project.
3. Technical:
N/A
4. Institutional:
The success of the project depends on the removal of numerous administrative obstacles to the development
of the private sector. However, it is expected that many administrative obstacles will be identified only
during the process of project implementation. The Bank's previous experience in Ukraine has shown that it
is vital to have the backing of a strong and stable leader at the governmental level as well as a strong
manager for the implementation agency. The changing political environment in Ukraine has made it
difficult to secure both of these simultaneously, however, a promising candidate who enjoys high level
support in the Government has been identified and has been leading UCER since 1999. The successful
completion of the EDAL TA Component has been treated as an important trigger for the further
implementation of this Loan to strengthen institutional capacity on the Ukrainian side.
4.1 Executing agencies:
The Ukrainian Center for Enterprise Restructuring and Private Sector Development (UCER) is the
designated the executing agency for the PSD Loan.
- 15-



4.2 Project management:
The Project Implementation Unit (UCER) was set up as a separate legal entity in November 1998. It will
be responsible for day-to-day project implementation and management, and will delegate, as necessary,
some implementation functions to its regional branches to further minimize the impact of potential
turbulence in the national political scene on project implementation. The project minimizes the dependence
on the central administration. An Inter-Agency Coordinating Council established by the Government for the
proposed PSD Loan, and chaired by a Head of SCRPE, is used for policy dialogue and intervention only
when necessary.
4.3 Procurement issues:
The Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR) has been finalized and submitted to the Government
for comments. The procurement capacity assessment of UCER demonstrated that UCER could adequately
carry out project procurement responsibilities as it had built up experience and capacity through
procurement training and through implementation of EDAL TA project financed by the World Bank, and
preparation of PSD project while hiring consultants from the PHRD and PPF proceeds. The capacity of
UCER is further being strengthened through regular seminars and procurement sessions.
4.4 Financial management issues:
Financial Management Capacity: The financial management capacity within Ukraine has not been the
subject of a detailed review by the Bank. Any weaknesses that may exist in the country's financial
management capacity have been mitigated by the use of a specialized project implementing agency - the
Ukrainian Center for Enterprise Restructuring and Private Sector Development (UCER), for project
preparation and implementation, and drawing upon experience of projects of this nature. The main risks
related to the project's financial management system are as follows:
(i) Capacity of staff in the UCER. UCER currently employs one full-time accountant whose responsibilities
include maintaining accounts for the project preparation grant, project accounting, internal controls and
financial reporting. An additional accountant can be recruited if required during project implementation,
and this would be funded from the proceeds of the loan. UCER accounting staff will be further trained, as
needed, and this training will be provided as a part of the technical assistance for the project.
(ii) Capacity of accounting system to generate the agreed Financial Monitoring Reports (FMiRs). UCER is
using an accounting software package, which is capable of generating information needed to produce
FMRs. UCER has hired consultants to configure the system to maintain IAS compliant general accounting
data and to provide the information necessary to complete FMRs. Basic configuration has been completed
and full-scale FMRs will be produced by no later than 45 (forty five) days after the end of the first semester
after the effective date.
(iii) Banking Arrangements / Special Account (SA). Although UCER has previous experience in operating
SA for the Japanese PHRD Grant proceeds, the Borrower will open a separate new Special Account in US
Dollars in a foreign commercial bank acceptable to the World Bank to receive the loan funds. For payments
in hard currencies the Special Account may be used directly. To facilitate local payments in national
currency, a separate transit account will be opened in a local commercial bank acceptable to the World
Bank. To minimize potential losses arising from currency fluctuations, balances in the transit account will
be maintained at a level not greater than that required to meet requirements in national currency for one
month.
The Special Account will be audited annually and the results will be available to the Bank.
- 16 -



5. Environmental:                  Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
The project will have no direct impact on the environment. The Project does not deal with enterprises with
severe problems (including environmental ones), which cannot be solved without large investments. For the
purposes of Operational Directive 4.01, the project has, therefore, been placed in Category C and does not
require an environmental assessment.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
N/A
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft:
N/A
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
N/A
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
N/A
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
Enterprise restructuring may accelerate ongoing layoffs, which in turn may further deepen current social
problems, particularly in cities whose economies depend on one factory. Structural reduction in
employment has occurred to a lesser extent in Ukraine than in other FSU republics, thus increasing the
social and political sensitivity to creating unemployment. The Program, at least in the first phase, will avoid
these extreme situations. Participating enterprises will also be required to divest their social assets,
removing another source of potential social conflict. Furthermore, as the experience of Moldova shows (see
Box 3), after initial contraction, enterprises under restructuring start to grow and employ additional labor.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
Project preparation missions worked closely with Government officials on shaping the Loan in the broader
context of the proposed PSD strategy. Representatives of the GoU traveled to the oblasts with the project
team, and were an integral part of decision making. The team also consulted with and discussed the project
with some 50 privatized and private enterprises in 12 oblasts, numerous business organizations, and SROs.
The Team met with many Ukrainian consulting organizations, and held discussions with providers of
management training. The Project Team held an extensive consultation with the IFC TA projects operating
in Ukraine. Its Business Development, Corporate Governance and Unfinished Construction Sites projects
laid a good foundation for the effective preparation of the PSD Loan. The PSD Program -- its objectives
and components -- were presented to the media and the Program was discussed with present and potential
foreign investors in Ukraine.
- 17-



6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
The project aims to support already existing NGOs or create at least one NGO per oblast that will facilitate
public-private dialogue. For example, during project preparation, the PSD team has been working closely
with Podilya Pershi, an NGO that has been organizing meetings of entrepreneurs and local university
representatives with the oblast administration to seek ways of improving the business environment.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The Project would foster long-term social development in Ukraine by helping the Government and local
oblast governments understand their role in supporting private sector development. In addition, the business
management training programs will train a vast multitude of professionals and business leaders in the
process of company restructuring, which will lead to financial sustainability and profitability for existing
obsolete and loss-making enterprises.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
The targets established for increased numbers of newly created and restructured enterprises that achieve
financial sustainability, and the requirement that beneficiaries of the training programs publicly dissemninate
their knowledge, will indicate the degree to which the social development objectives, including improved job
opportunities for the general population, are achieved.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                    Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)           0 Yes * No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                   0 Yes 0 No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                    0 Yes 0 No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                      0 Yes 0 No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                  0 Yes 0 No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                   0 Yes 0 No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                          0 Yes 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                              0 Yes 0 No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)   0 Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*        0 Yes 0 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
N/A
- 18-



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The implementation agency should be sustainable after five years of operation (operational costs exclude
the costs of foreign consultants). Restructured enterprises are expected to cover follow-up costs that may
occur relating to continuous adjustment, finding investors and external financing, and training of staff.
Even if progress on the project is deemed unsatisfactory to move to the second phase of the APL, the
program will be successful because the training and assistance provided in the Phase One TA portion of the
loan will leave behind a critical mass of trained Ukrainian managers, turnaround specialists, and
restructured enterprises.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                    Risk Rating             Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Shortage of reasonably efficient            M         Up-front agreed list of candidates from selected
enterprises as candidates for restructuring.          oblasts.
Shortage of good managers ready and able    M         Start with a group of managers already trained
to participate in secondments abroad.                 locally by donor supported programs; intensive
preparatory training locally; intensive marketing
of the Program.
Worsening of overall business               M         Competition between participating oblasts; close
environment                                           cooperation with the state agencies responsible
for regulations of business activities;
deregulation and business friendly
administrative practices used as triggers for the
next loans within the APL structure.
From Components to Outputs
Lack of visible improvement in               S        Combination of qualified international
participating companies in spite of                   consultants and local specialists.
intensive TA.
Lack of visible improvement in selected     M         Incentives for managers to gain best practice
companies in spite of the buildup of new              from the western enterprises to establish
managerial and consulting skills.                     advantageous business linkages.
Low impact of restructuring in terms of      S        Only oblasts with reasonably good environment
spin-offs and start-ups because of high               for SMEs are selected.
costs of entry.
Overall Risk Rating                         M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
The main controversial aspects are related to the project design in the following areas:
*   possible govemment interference in the enterprise selection process;
- 19-



* subsidies to enterprise restructuring undermiining the consultant market (based on full cost recovery of
service provision); and
*   incentives of foreign consultants to transfer knowledge to local consultants.
The project design incorporates these issues in the following way:
Incentives for the Government to minimize its involvement in the enterprise selection process
The risk of political interference in the process of selecting of enterprises is minimal as the Project is
working only with 'best of the worst' enterprises. These are enterprises in which bureaucrats have little
interest as the potential to extract further rents from them is low, yet enterprise management remains eager
to restructure the firm and achieve profitability.
An additional safeguard is a two-stage selection procedure. Out of initial candidates for restructuring,
consultants select short list of potential enterprises. Short-listed enterprises are visited and assessed by two
groups of consultants. Such 'second opinion' for short-listed enterprises assures impartial objectivity of
selection, minimizes possible selection bias of consultants and raises credibility of selection process in the
eyes of the govermment.
Incentives for stakeholders to maximize cost recovery of consultant services
Since firms selected for restructuring are firms operating at a loss, it is unrealistic to charge pre-set fees for
consulting services. Instead, a graduated fee schedule will be used to create incentives for stakeholders
(consultants, managers and the govemrnent to maximize cost recovery) to maximize cost recovery.
Incentives for consultants
Consultants are reimbursed 100% of the costs of services. A fixed percentage of fees they raise from
the enterprise is their to keep as a strong power incentive to maximize cost recovery.
Incentives for managers
Managers would have more flexibility in selection of the scope, terms and areas of consulting services
provided.
Incentives for the government
The Govermment contribution to the project comes from the cost recovery. This means that the
govemment will have every incentive to maximize cost recovery and reduces the risk of the govemment
insisting on restructuring of unviable enterprises, from which the cost recovery would be unlikely.
Using and developing the local consulting market
TORs for intemational consulting firm will contain a provision specifying that foreign companies should
sub-contract local consulting companies or individuals for particular tasks in which they have comparative
advantage. For example, such tasks might include local market research, business-planning, legal analysis,
and other areas. In this way, local consulting firms and individuals will have opportunities for pressional
development under competitive circumstances.
The use of foreign consultants
The main use of expensive foreign consultants will be for on-the-job training of local consultants, and, as
needed, in the application of special skills, not available locally, to individual, specialized enterprise
problems. To assure efficacy and efficiency of the on-the-job training (by foreign consultants as coaches to
local consultant teams) foreign consultants will be placed in all four selected oblasts for the first two years
of the project.
- 20 -



Other controversial aspects include:
Initial lay-offs in restructured companies may be controversial. However, the criteria for selection of
restructured companies will lirmit the effects. Criteria for consideration will lirnit the negative effects if this.
The strict selection criteria in the screening process will ensure that only private companies with a strong
up-front commitment to thorough restructuring program by owners/managers are eligible.
There could be possible conflicts between newly trained managers and managers opposed to company
restructuring based on market principles. Minimizing this risk will depend upon selecting managers who
have a clear and rational understanding of what is needed to ensure the future sustainability and
profitability of the company.
A Financial crisis in the regions could damage macroeconomic stability in Ukraine. The Project will closely
monitor progress in related adjustment programs, particularly in the areas of banking and tax reform, and
deregulation.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
The only additional condition of effectiveness is the execution of the Subsidiary Grant Agreement between
the Borrower and UCER. For the Loan to become effective following the signing of the Loan Agreement,
the Borrower will need to confirm that the Loan Agreement has been ratified by the Borrower's Verkhovna
Rada and the Bank would need to receive a legal opinion in a satisfactory format from the Borrower's
Minister of Justice confirming that the Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, and
executed and delivered on behalf of the Borrower and is legally binding on the Borrower in accordance with
its terms.
The following additional matters would need to be reflected in the legal opinions furnished to the Bank
prior to loan effectiveness:
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or executed by UCER, and is legally binding
upon UCER in accordance with its terms; and
that the Subsidiary Grant Agreement has been duly authorized or executed by the Borrower and
UCER, and is legally binding upon the Borrower and UCER in accordance with its terms.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Conditions of NeRotiations
1. All financial resources to cover project preparation are in place, the PPF Letter-Agreement is signed,
and a separate foreign currency account is opened for deposit of PPF funds.
2. The Borrower contribution to the Project is defined and agreed.
3. Tax obligations applicable to the following transactions involving PSDL proceeds are clarified:
*   Operating costs;
* Procurement of goods under international and national shopping;
*   Procurement of consultants services:
i. local and foreign individual consultants; and
- 21 -



ii. local and foreign consultants - legal entities.
1. The Terms of the PSDL are defined.
2. The PIU Operations Manual, including PIU staffing structure and duty responsibilities have been
reviewed and approved by the Bank.
3. The PIU financial management system, capable of producing Financial Monitoring Reports, has been
approved by the Bank.
4. The Project Procurement Plan for the PSDL has been approved by the Bank.
5. Separate UAH account is opened for funds from the local budgets and beneficiary enterprises.
Agreements reached at Negotiations:
1. Project financial management issues: (i) formats of Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs); (ii)
timetable for submission of FMRs to the Bank; and (iii) terms of reference (TORs) for UCER and the
project annual audits.
2. Procurement would follow the procedures described in Annex 6 of this document and in Schedule 1 of
the Project Agreement.
3. Project implementation, monitoring and reporting would follow the procedures described in Section C4
of this document and in Schedule 2 of the Project Agreement.
4. Project disbursement would follow the procedures described in Annex 6 of this document and in
Schedule 1 of the Loan Agreement.
5. The Borrower will have the financial records, accounts and financial statements related to the Project
for each fiscal year audited and will submit a certified audit report to the Bank within six months after
the end of each fiscal year and also at the closing of the Project.
6. UCER will maintain policies and procedures adequate to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in
accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Bank, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement
of the Project's objectives, and the measures under the Program.
7. UCER will prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the Borrower and
to the Bank, not later than six (6) months before the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed
for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future operation of the Project.
8. UCER will adopt the new Financial Monitoring Report (FMR) System - instead of the Project
Management Report System - that was identified during the Project Appraisal. The FMR should be
produced by UCER every 6 months beginning 6 months after the date on which the Loan becomes
effective. For purposes of the form and substance referred to in Section 4.02 of the Project Agreement,
in addition to the 3 FMRs generated from UCER's accounting system (as specified in the Operations
Manual), UCER will also furnish to the Bank a report linking physical progress with expenditures
incurred to date.
9. The Borrower will submit its annual work plans and Project budgets for each next year of Project
implementation not later than November 30 of each year for review by the Bank.
10. UCER will select a long list of enterprises in each oblast of Ukraine, and consultants shall select
enterprises for restructuring from this list subject to UCER's approval.
11. Advance payment to consultants will be made for enterprises' diagnostics and drafting of the action
plan. Every action plan shall contain, among other items as deliverables, the planned:
- 22 -



* increase in taxes paid by the enterprise;
increase/decrease in jobs;
* increase in sales; and
* decrease in enterprise debts.
12. Payment for consultant services shall be made on a quarterly basis triggered by progress on
deliverables under the action plan.
13. Salaries for UCER staff shall be competitive enough to attract sufficiently high qualified staff from the
local labor market.
14. UCER staff shall be selected on a competitive basis and hired pursuant to contracts.
H. Readiness for Implementation
5 1. a) The engineering design docurnents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
Z 1. b) Not applicable.
Z 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
El 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
2 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
O 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
aled Sherif                     Luca Barbone
Team LeHr                         Sector Ma4el                       Country Director
- 23 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
UKRAINE: Private Sector Development
Key Performance      Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives        Indicators                                  Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:  Sector Indicators:     Sector/ country reports:  (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Sustainable economic     Share of GDP and        Publicly available statistical Macroeconomic stability
growth through private   employment generated by  data at central and selected  maintained, strengthened
sector development       the private sector      oblasts level            fiscal position of the central
and local governments
Program Purpose:         End-of-Program Indicators: Program reports:      (from Purpose to Goal)
To foster private sector  Increased industrial output  Bank and independent  Business environment
development in Ukraine   and GDP growth          studies, official statistical  improved; competitiveness
data                     of the Ukraine's private
sector increased
Project Development      Outcome / Impact        Project reports:        (from Objective to Purpose)
Objective:               Indicators:
Increase competitiveness of *rate of growth of SMEs in Bank and independent  Genuine support to private
the Ukraine enterprise    pilot oblasts;         studies                  sector on political,
sector                  *rate of growth of output of                     legislative, and central and
private sector in pilot                         oblasts administrative levels
oblasts; and
0 value/added per employee
in restructured enterprises
Output from each         Output Indicators:      Project reports:         (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
About 200 restructured    * the number of        Bank and independent     Availability of reasonably
privatized enterprises; new  restructured enterprises; studies, data from the  efficient enterprises as
SMEs as spin-offs of      * the number of created  implementation agency  candidates for restructuring.
restructured enterprises    SMEs;
* the number of trained
managers, and
* the number of trained
consultants.
Professionally trained                                                    Availability of good
managers able to respond to                                               managers ready and able to
market challenges; and                                                    participate in secondments
on-the-job trained Ukrainian                                              abroad.
enterprise restructuring
- 24 -



consultants
Business friendly                                Cost of doing business  Improvement in overall
regulations and institutions                     surveys                  business climate for SMEs
Project Components /     Inputs: (budget for each  Project reports:      (from Components to
Sub-components:          component)                                      Outputs)
Enterprise Restructuring  USD 24 million         Data from the            Visible improvement in
(market adjustment)                              implementation agency,  selected companies due to
supervision missions'   the intensive TA
reports
Managerial and Consulting  USD 11.5 million      Data from the            Visible improvement in
Secondments                                      implementation agency,  selected companies due to
supervision missions'   the buildup of new
reports                  managerial and consulting
skills
Monitoring and Project   USD 1.38 million        Financial Monitoring     Effective implementation of
Administration                                   reports, supervision     the project and providing
missions' reports       information on the project
results
Improvement of Regulatory USD 0.82 million       Regulatory indicators from  Ability of the Bank and the
Environment                                      bi-annual oblast-level cost  PIU to stick to
of doing business surveys  predetermined exit criteria
of the Projects from the
oblasts
- 25 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
UKRAINE: Private Sector Development
By Component:
Project Component I - US$24.00 million
Enterprise Restructuring (market adjustment) - US$ 24.00 million (of which US$ 19.00 mln. is Bank
financing )
Obiectives
(i) To support and help accelerate Government's reform effort by:
(a) providing advisory services through a local non-profit agency (Ukrainian Center for Enterprise
Restructuring and Private Sector Development - UCER) aimed at improving the profitability,
productivity, and general operational, financial and managerial efficiency of private and privatized
enterprises;
(b) supporting and facilitating development of a highly qualified domestic consulting industry, which
thoroughly understands the unique local business and political climate in the process of economic
development and transition; and
(ii) To strengthen constituency for reform at the oblast level consisting of entrepreneurs, managers, local
academia, consultants and other stakeholders benefiting from enterprise restructuring and market-friendly
business environment.
Background: The majority of Ukrainian newly privatized enterprises are facing a severe crisis situation.
First, the lack of coherent state policies to support private sector development, together with the myriad of
existing tax laws and administrative procedures make any conduct of legitimate business almost
impractical and unprofitable. Secondly, enterprise owners have deferred downsizing of business in
anticipation of possible re-emergence of various forms of state support. Therefore, old channels and
methods of doing business continue to prevail, and the little restructuring, which has occurred is only a
passive response to the rapidly changing business environment. Confronted with this range of
insurmountable obstacles, together with the underproduction of marketable products, scarcity of working or
investment capital, lack of skills needed to penetrate foreign markets, and predatory business environment -
many new owners/managers opt for short-term rent seeking, which results in pushing enterprises deeper
into crises. Uncertain business conditions keep foreign investors at bay, while local investors focus on those
few sectors (metallurgy, chemicals, energy), which can still turn a profit, primarily due to continued
subsidies and other privileges, which permnit below-market pricing. It is only in the past two years that the
Ukrainian enterprise sector has begun to register economic growth after almost 1O years of contraction.
The Govemment of Ukraine is determined to accelerate this enterprise adjustment process by funding the
training of about 600 Ukrainian business consultants who will provide solid business advice to about 200
enterprises. To achieve a critical mass of restructured enterprises, the first phase of this project will focus
on four selected oblasts - Chemovtsy, Khmelnitsky, Volyn and Zhitomnir. The pilot oblasts were selected
because they have demonstrated their commitment to project objectives by taking significant steps to
eliminate those administrative and regulatory barriers within their control, which impede enterprise
development, including minimizing predatory and corrupt actions of local officials. To this end,
administration officials in these oblasts have agreed to participate in regular and continuing dialogue with
interested parties of the private sector (entrepreneurs and other leaders), the process of which will be
institutionalized through the creation of oblast-level NGOs.
Enterprises will be selected as recipients of advisory services financed under the Loan in accordance with
-26 -



the following criteria:
(a) the degree to which shares of the enterprise are owned by non-insiders (i.e., investment funds or
banks), and where shareholders' commitment to real restructuring with the goal of increased
profitability and efficiency of the enterprise is demonstrated;
(b) the willingness of management to: collaborate with the external consultants, to pennit access to
all necessary company information/data, and to contribute to the costs of such advisory services
(including in kind support);
(c) the degree to which profitability improvements can be reasonably achieved within the
constraints of existing equipment and technology, through managerial, organizational, accounting,
financial and marketing improvements, and require little or no initial capital investment; and
(d) the degree to which enterprises are free from state control, such as price controls, restrictions
on sales, and dependence on monopoly state-owned supplier.
The participating enterprises will be expected to:
(a) vest the new management team with appropriately broad authority to sell assets, reduce the
workforce, cut costs, renegotiate debts, enter into new contracts and discontinue unproductive
contractual relations with suppliers and buyers;
(b) provide consultants with all requested information and data; and
(c) implement the tumaround program recomnmended by the consultant and agreed with UCER, or
sell assets to cover payments for overdue tax obligations in accordance with orders of the State
Tax Administration.
Financing and Costs Recovery. The advisory service costs for each assignment will be estimated by UCER
and approved by the World Bank. UCER will pay the consultants from the Bank's Loan proceeds. UCER
will be responsible for direct payment of 100 percent of the fees and expenses of the advisory services to
the consultant selected for the assignment. Participating enterprises are required to reimburse UCER no
less than 10 percent of total costs of advisory services paid to the consultant, subject to justified exceptions
in UCER's discretion. The proceeds collected from the contribution of the enterprises shall be used to cover
UCER's operational costs. It is expected that by the end of the third year of operation, at least 30 percent of
UCER's indirect operating costs (i.e. excluding domestic consultants employed by UCER and working on
particular projects) will be covered from the revenues and no less than 50 percent of the costs will come
from the UCER's revenues after its third year of operation. The amounts to be paid by beneficiary
enterprises to UCER shall be explicitly stipulated, along with a schedule of payments, in a contract signed
between UCER and the enterprise before the start of the consulting assignment.
The following incentives have been built into the project:
Incentives for the Government to minimize its involvement in the enterprise selection process
The risk of political interference in the process of selecting subject enterprises is minimal as the Project
works only with 'best of the worst' enterprises - firms in which the rents have already been exhausted and
the bureaucrats have no interest in (they are the worst in terms of rents opportunities) yet with the
management eager to restructure (in this sense they are the best).
An additional safeguard is a two-stage procedure of selection. Out of initial candidates for restructuring,
consultants select short list of potential enterprises. Short-listed enterprises are visited and assessed by two
groups of consultants. Such 'second opinion' for short-listed enterprises assures impartial objectivity of
selection, minimizes possible selection bias of consultants and raises credibility of selection process in the
- 27 -



eyes of the government.
Incentives for stakeholders to maximize cost recovery of consultants' services
Since in the beginning of restructuring many enterprises are loss-makers, to impose a predetermined
schedule of the fees is unrealistic. Instead, a graduated fee schedule will be used to provide incentives for
stakeholders (consultants, managers and government officials) to maximize cost recovery.
Incentives for consultants
Consultants are reimbursed 100% of the costs of services. A fixed percentage of fees they raise from
the enterprise is their to keep as a high power incentive to maximize cost recovery.
Incentives for managers
Managers would have more flexibility in selection of the scope, terms and areas of consulting services
provided.
Incentives for the government
Government contribution to the project comes from the cost recovery. This means that the government
will have every incentive to maximize cost recovery and reduces the risk of the government insisting on
restructuring of unviable enterprises (the cost for which would be unlikely).
Incentives for developing the local consulting market.
TORs for intemational consulting firms will contain a provision specifying that foreign companis should
sub-contract local consulting companies or individuals for particular tasks in which they have comparative
advantage. For example, such tasks might include local market research, business-planning, legal analysis,
and other areas. In this way, local consulting firms and idividuals weill have opportunities for professional
development under competitive circumstances.
Incentives for foreign consultants to train and mentor the local consultants
The main use of expensive foreign consultants will be for on-the-job training of local consultants, and, as
needed, in the application of special skills, not available locally, to individual, specialized enterprise
problems. To assure efficacy and efficiency of the on-the-job training (foreign consultants as coaches to
local consultant teams) the project suggests to place foreign consultants, in all four selected oblasts, at least
for the first two years of the project.
Project Component 2 - US$11.50 million
Managerial and Consulting Secondments - US$ 11.50 million (of which US $9.00 mln of Bank
financing)
Objective: The objective of this component is to expose the managers and consultants to new concepts of
market-oriented management, marketing and production through practical intemships in leading firms
abroad. This will be followed by dissemination of main lessons learned abroad to participating as well as
non-participating firms in Ukraine. In this way, this program will offer a more broadly-balanced approach
to company restructuring than that practiced today in which restructuring experts come from primarily
Westem developed countries. It has become apparent that company restructuring in a transition economy
requires more specialized skills and experience than in Westem economies. This program will endeavor to
send large numbers of Ukrainian managers and consultants to advanced companies in developed countries
or countries with transition economies, which have successfully restructured their enterprises. The program
has its precedence in the very successful post- world war II Marshall Plan TA Component when West
European managers visited the USA. As a direct consequence of the original Marshall Plan non-capital
- 28 -



productivity increased in individual firms by 25 to 50%. In the participating oblasts -- none of which has
access to energy generated rents-- the expected improvement is likely to be higher due to the severe
misallocation of assets inherited from central planning, the low current level of management training, and
the huge drop in production over the last 10 years.
Synergy with the Enterprise Restructuring Component
Company turn-around (i.e. achieving financial sustainability through restructuring), to be accomplished by
the first component of the project will increase the demand for management training and the need for more
customers and supplier from more developed market economies. Successful management training, including
placement of Ukrainian managers into foreign companies, financed by this component will radically
increase effectiveness of restructuring work and performance of companies.
Under this component, the implementing agency, UCER, will design, subcontract and supervise in-house
training courses for selected candidates including: study of one major commercial language, computer skills
(word processing, spreadsheet, presentation package, Internet), and basic management and business
communication skills. It is expected that approximately 400 participants will complete these introductory
courses, from which candidates will be selected for secondment to selected foreign firms to see how skills,
organization and technology are combined to respond to the continuously changing market demands.
Candidates will be required to complete a rigorous and demanding work program. To ensure transparency,
the final secondment assignments will be made by a Selection Committee representing UCER, the
Government, self-regulating consulting organizations (SROs), as well as leaders of the banking and
enterprise sectors.
To minimize costs and maximize the synergy effect, participants will be required, upon the completion of
their consultant training and secondment programs, to proactively contribute to disseminating their
knowledge and experience to the business community at large.
Participants will be organized into groups, which will consist of up to three members visiting the same host
firm. For training purposes, two to four groups can be combined. The secondment period will be divided
into two modules: a 6 to 12-week Basic Module and a 4 to 8-week Optional Module. A standard week
work load will be as follows:
(a) four days in the host firm on-the-job training,
(b) one day of in-class training based on case studies and specific management courses, and
(c) one day of report preparation.
The second (optional) module would consist of visits to other leading firms. Upon return and completion of
the modules, the groups will prepare, with the assistance of UCER, a written report on the operations of the
visited firm, including quality control, job structure and management, accounting and financing systems,
marketing channels and techniques, and export promotion. They will convene a series of workshops, wide
enough to secure a broad dissemination of new know-how acquired by the seconded participants. They will
also assist UCER in the preparation of further secondments and follow-up activities.
The targeted participants are medium-to-senior-level managers of private and privatized enterprises from
industrial and agro- processing sectors with a strong motivation to leam, and consultants with exposure to
enterprise restructuring. They must have basic competency in English or another commercial language,
basic computer skills and knowledge of management techniques or they could have successfully completed
the pre-placement training. Eligible firms willing to designate managers for the program have to be without
any overdue obligation to the state budget, or privatized firms in the process of restructuring.
The participating firms would be expected to cover all local costs during the first and the last blocks of
- 29 -



training (pre-placement training and dissemination of lessons learned). To secure participation of SMEs -
which can economically justify only very small expenditures on training - in exceptional cases and upon a
decision of the Supervisory Board of UCER, a larger part of secondment costs may be covered by the PSD
Loan funds or grant financing. Costs of local training (approximately US$ 2,000) would be borne by
participants themselves or their companies. Placement of some 350 managers into Central European
countries would cost some US$ 4.7 million, including the costs of establishing and maintaining training
related UCER activities for three years (four senior local staff, 10 part-time, young professionals involved
in secondments as interpreters and learning on their own, partly financed from the Program, two support
staff, and start-up costs).
The German Technical Assistance NGO now operating in Moldova ("GTZ"), which has substantial
experience in placing Moldavian managers in secondment assignments, has offered to place a pilot group of
Ukrainian managers on a trial basis. The announcement of this possibility in pilot regions has already
generated large demand.
Project Component 3 - US$ 1.38 million
Monitoring and Project Administration - US$ 1.38 mln. (of which US$ 0.88 mln. of Bank financing)
The project will be administered by a non-profit organization, the Ukrainian Center for Enterprise
Restructuring and Private Sector Development (UCER). UCER will sub-contract restructuring assistance
to be provided to participating enterprises to the best available international, turn-around consulting firms.
UCER has five principle functions:
(a) Selecting appropriate enterprises, and ensuring rational implementation of a restructuring
framework plan, which sets forth the various obligations and commitments of the enterprise (with
specific targets, dates and deadlines), realistic financing plans, and agreed sanctions for
non-compliance;
(b) Managing the work of consulting teams including: preparation of Terms of Reference (TORs);
selection of consulting firms; supervision of consultants' work progress and deliverables; intermediation
between enterprises and consultants in cases of the conflict; final quality of approval of consultants'
work; and payment for consultants services;
(c) Perpetuating continuous and productive dialogue between the Govenmuent and private sector
(through the UCER Supervisory Board) concerning necessary reform measures to facilitate enterprise
adjustment to markets;
(d) Selecting, recruiting and training local specialists that will team-up with foreign consultants to
ensure the advice/resources of foreign consultants are most effectively utilized and directed where
needed;
(e) Organizing on-the-job training for managers of participating enterprises in the leading firms abroad;
Activities:
Contracting Consultants. UCER will prepare TORs for the assistance provided by international consulting
firms. TORs under which such foreign assistance will be provided, will be funded and approved by the
Bank, and used to procure consulting services under the proposed Loan.
UCER will conduct open, competitive tenders for the advisory services of outside consultants. Contracts
will be awarded through Quality and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) to those firms that have a proven
record of work in transition economies, and according to the procedures specified in the World Bank's
"Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated January 1997, revised
- 30 -



September 1997 and January 1999. An Evaluation Committee will be formed to review the proposals
submitted by consultants and select the winner according to Bank procedures. The Evaluation Committee
will include representatives of the UCER Supervisory Board, UCER Executive Director, and an
independent observer. The results of the selection will be forwarded to the World Bank for review and
no-objection before final contracts are awarded. UCER may also contract ad hoc consultants as needed, in
accordance with Bank procurement rules and no-objection procedures.
Selecting Enterprises. UCER staff, supported by outside consultants as needed, will carry out the initial
diagnostic studies of enterprises that are candidates for receiving assistance under the project. The purpose
of the diagnostic study is to identify and prioritize the enterprise's needs for the advisory services, and
assess the receptivity of management to outside consulting advice, which will ultimately require difficult
restructuring decisions. The diagnostic study will deternnine whether the efficiency of the enterprise can be
improved without a significant capital investment. If it is determined that this is not possible within the
circumstances, UCER will provide no further consulting assistance to the company. The duration of the
diagnostic study will depend on the size and complexity of the enterprise and other factors.
Project Component 4 - US$0.82 million
Improvement of Regulatory Environment- US 0.82 mln. (of which 0.82 mln. of Bank financing)
Objective
To assist Ukrainian Government and provide strong incentives for oblast authorities to improve regulatory
environment. This will be achieved by:
*    Introduction of performance based incentives into the oblast-level policy process - linking and exit
from the project to the improvement of regulatory environment, monitored through bi-annual surveys;
*   Enhancement of institutional capacity of SCRPE to effectively implement State regulatory policy
through its regional offices; and
*   Empowering institutions of Civil Society and especially professional associations in their relations with
local authorities and building local capacity to conduct credible policy research, analyze data and use it
for the policy purposes.
Sub-component:
Performance-based incentives for regional deregulation
The key element of this sub-component is regular monitoring of the quality of regulatory environment in the
regions. It will be assessed by using the series of indicators that will be measured by the survey-based
research and analysis. The values and dynamics of these indicators will be used as criteria for the exit from
the project of the oblasts where efforts of Regional Administrations to improve regulatory environment will
be lower then in other regions.
Regulatory environment indicators can be best used in regional comparison or in the time-series that allow
assessment of their dynamics. In other words, absolute values of these indicators, despite significant utility
in rising awareness among government and community about the levels of the regulatory problems that
regulators face, are not entirely reliable tool for policy purposes. Research errors and shortcomings can
subject them to serious criticism and undermine their reliability. Their comparison across regions and
especially their dynamics over time, on the other hand, minimize embedded research errors and serve as a
reliable illustration of the outcomes of regional governments efforts to reform their regulatory environment.
In order to use such indicators, annual surveys will be conducted for the duration of the project in all
- 31 -



regions. In the pilot regions, however such surveys will be conducted on a semi-annual basis.
Every time the survey is conducted and analyzed, an aggregate indicator of the overall costs of regulations
for an average enterprise will be assessed. The value of this indicator will be used as a key element of an
exit strategy from an under-performing region.
Exit strategy is characterized by three features:
* Credible threat of exit. At most, the project will exit from one region only. It is the credible threat of
exit, which acts as a performance incentive for regional administrations to decrease the regulatory
burden;
* Possibility of reallocation of project activities from the dropped oblast into other oblasts of the project.
In case of exit, the project (i.e. public subsidies for consultants' activities) will reallocate its activities
to better performing oblasts. Consultants' activities in the dropped region will continue if the
enterprises are willing to hire the consultants on full cost recovery basis; and
* Transparent criteria of exit.
In 18 months after the project effectiveness, the worst (by absolute cost of doing business) of the 4 original
oblasts in accordance with the survey methodology stated in Box 4 would be dropped from the project, and
the consultants from the unsuccessful oblast would be re-located to a performing oblast; unless the worst of
the original four oblasts is either one of the six best oblasts of Ukraine by absolute cost of doing business
or one of the six best oblasts that shows the better improvement in reducing cost of doing business.
The regional survey will cover the following main groups of indicators (full description of the survey
methodology available in project files):
1) Business registration - cost (for all areas, cost includes in time and formal and informal types of
payments and contributions, including bribes), procedures required, delays
2) Business licensing - number and type required, cost, time and payments required
3) Obtaining business premises - procedure, costs, constraints, delays
4) Import and Export regulation, Customs - procedures, costs, delays
5) Product, input and equipment certification - types, incidence, procedures, costs, delays
6) Tax administration - requirements, constraints, costs, number of taxes and forms
7) Business inspections - types (and agency responsible), costs, number, process followed.
Box 4
Regulatory Cost Assessment Methodology
Sampling
Each survey will be conducted among representative semi-structured sample of at least 70 active
businesses per region. In order to ensure time-series reliability these samples will be drawn from the
regional sample pool of 300 enterprises that in tum will be drawn from the database of the State Tax
Administration. The sample pools will be structured by 3 size classes of enterprises (1- 10 employees;
11- 50 employees; and more than 50 employees). Each class will have a quota that will correlate with
the total number of respective active enterprises in the region. All survey samples will be randomly
drawn from within these quotas in the sampling pool.
Conducting the survey
- 32 -



An organization will be selected by open competition which will be responsible for conducting all
surveys. The selection criteria will include:
1.    Availability of trained professionals with prior experience in similar survey research;
2.    Access to the national framework of trained interviewers (preferably these interviewers should be
organized by local business associations or other civil society institutions). Interviewers cannot be state
employees;
3.    Effective system of quality control;
4.    Availability of hardware and software for data input and analysis;
5.    Preferably this organization should be not for profit and have prior record of policy work and
cooperation with business associations and governmental institutions;
6.    Quality of methodological suggestions; and
7.    Price for conducting the survey.
After organization is selected, it will review the questionnaire and methodology with UCER, SCRPE
and the World Bank representatives. This will be followed by instruction session for interviewers
managers from all regions. Pilot surveys will be conducted with three-five interviews in every region.
This will be followed by the final review of the questionnaire and the beginning of survey interviews.
Surveys will be conducted in the face-to-face interviews with operating managers of sampled
businesses. A questionnaire with exclusively close-ended questions will be filled by interviewers and
sent to Kyiv for the centralized data input and analysis. UCER will require selected research
organization to execute effective quality control through selective contacts with respondents and
confirming the fact of interviews.
Data analysis and presentation
The purpose of this survey vehicle is to assess the values of regulatory costs indicators (by type of
regulation) and the value of aggregate indicator of overall regulatory cost for an average enterprise.
Survey will assess the costs of the following types of regulations:
I.    Business registration in all required agencies;
2.    Regulations of the premises and their use:
Land usage
Construction
Renovation and remodeling
Change of function
Other usage permits
3.    Licensing;
4.    Imported equipment regulations;
5.    Export/Import regulations;
6.    Certification of production and services;
7.    Tax administration;
- 33 -



8.    Price regulations;
9.    Employment regulations;
10.   Regulations of contracts and trade;
11.   Regulations that require other additional reporting.
Assessed costs will consist of Direct Costs of following regulations (DC), and Indirect Costs (IC).
1.    DC of compliance with any procedure is the amount of payment that an enterprise has to pay in
order to comply with the procedure (e.g., obtaining registration certificates, licenses, other certificates
or permits). It includes both official and unofficial payments aimed to accelerate a procedure or
facilitate its consequences for the enterprise.
Direct Official Cost, consists of the following types of payments: official fees, notary fees, other official
payment needed to comply with procedures.
The second component is Direct Unofficial Cost, consisting of "voluntary contributions" and bribes.
Sometimes businesses must obtain permits or comply with procedure of several state agencies. In that
case, they will be asked about the direct cost for each body and each type of payment. These costs will
be calculated for each enterprise and then the average will be taken. Only those enterprises that reported
at least one cost component will be taken into account. This method is more precise than simple
summing of averages for each component.
2.    IC is all indirect expenses that enterprise has in order to comply with a given procedure. First of
all, this includes the Staff Time Cost. Interviewers will calculate staff Time at the field stage of the
survey. Then it will be multiplied with the average wage for the whole economy (excluding agriculture)
at the time the survey is conducted.
Total Cost (the sum of DC and IC) will be calculated for each enterprise, with following calculation of
the mean for all enterprises.
-34 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
UKRAINE: Private Sector Development
Local       Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Component                US $million  US $million   US $million
Enterprise Restructuring (market adjustment)              6.00         18.00        24.00
Managerial and Consulting Secondments                      0.54        10.96        11.50
Monitoring and Project Administration                      1.20         0.18         1.38
Improvement of Regulatory Environment                     0.72          0.10         0.82
Total Baseline Cost                                        8.46        29.24        37.70
Physical Contingencies                                   0.00          0.00         0.00
Price Contingencies                                      0.00          0.00         0.00
Total Project Costs'              8.46        29.24         37.70
Front-end fee                    0.30          0.30
Total Financing Required               8.46        29.54         38.00
Local       Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Category                US $million  US $million  US $million
Goods                                                       0.10          0.28          0.38
Works                                                       0.00          0.00          0.00
Services                                                    7.36         28.96         36.32
Incremental Operating Costs                                 1.00          0.00          1.00
Total Project Costs'      8.46         29.24        37.70
Front-end fee _                  0.30         0.30
Total Financing Required      8.46          29.54        38.00
Identifiable taxes and duties are O (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 38 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 78.95% of total
project cost net of taxes.
- 35 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
UKRAINE: Private Sector Development
[For projects with benefits that are measured in monetary terms]
Present Value of Flows                     Fiscal Impact
Economic      Financial Analysis
Analysis                             Taxes          Subsidies
Benefits:            20,946,525.43     20,946,525.43    20,946,525.43               n/A
in USD
Costs:               20,911,908.47     20,911,908.47    20,911,908.47                n/a
in USDI
Net Benefits:            34,616.96         34,616.96             N/A                n/a
in USD
IRR:                       9.733%            9.733%
The assumed discount rate is 10%
If the difference between the present value of financial and economic flows is large and cannot be explained by
taxes and subsidies, a brief explanation of the difference is warranted, e.g. "The value of financial benefits is less
than that of economic benefits because of controls on electricity tariffs."
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
I. Costs
A. To Society:
1. Monetary
a. For one enterprise assumed costs of technical assistance are the following:
Assumptions on the costs of enterprise assistance
Direct costs of assistance per enterprise     USD 100,000
Direct costs including overheads of Project   USD 115,000
management
Full costs (including the Marshal plan training and  USD 187,450
all other project components)
b. The total cost for restructuring each of 100 enterprises is the present value (PV) of the cash
outflows starting from the year 1 to year 20. These are: (a) one percent front-end fee payable
at the commencement of the project; (b) interest on the US $30,000,00 for first five years and
then interest on remaining principal; and (c) repayment of the principal from the year 6 to year
20. (These are assumptions that are likely to overstate the actual costs,i.e. the actual net benefit
could be higher)
- 36 -



The table in the end of this Annex presents the calculation of the project's net present value
(NPV) with the sensitivity analyses.
The outcome of analysis is based on uncertain future events. The following variables critically
affect the stream of discounted cash flow:
i. Sales per year at a starting time of the project;
ii. Percentage increase of the sales in the first year of the project;
iii. Percentage increase of the sales per year in the remaining 19 years, in the
enterprises that survive;
iv. Percentage decrease of the sales per year, in the enterprises that fail after 5 and 10
years;
v. Discount rate.
2. Non - Monetary and Indirect Monetary costs:
a. Increased number of unemployed in a short-run after downsizing, break-up or closure of
companies;
b. Enhancement of populist policy argument that IFIs are "destroying the industrial power" of the
country.
3. Forgone opportunities:
a. Forgone interest revenues;
b. Other use of money that would affect private sector development as: restructuring and
privatization of state enterprises, support development of business incubators, etc.
4. Distributional Effects:
The project can not cover all enterprises that could qualify for the restructuring assistance. The
competitive position of the remaining enterprises may be adversely affected by the project,
although they will be under pressure to improve performance in order not to lose the local market
share. While in this increased competition some enterprises may further contract and even close
with social consequences (lost jobs, redistribution of welfare etc.) more enterprises are expected to
"pick up" positive restructuring experiences from project beneficiaries and initiate turnaround
processes.
B. Costs to enterprises:
1. Monetary Costs: US$ 6,000-10,000 per enterprise should be paid for services received (or 10%
of the technical assistance);
2. Forgone opportunity to finance business.
11. Benefits
A. Direct and Indirect Monetary Benefits
1. To enterprises
a. Increased incremental positive cash flow, which can be used for financing of the business
and which then increases chances for medium-term survival: in the absence of
post-privatization restructuring, enterprises likely to continue contracting and eventually
- 37 -



die;
b. Increased productivity: value added per employee of 30 percent or more;
c. Increased profitability of enterprise: profit margin, return to assets, etc.;
d. Increased market share;
e. Increased exports;
f. Reduction of production costs;
g. Increased investments in the human capital of an enterprise, which eventually increase a
return to financial investments;
h. Reduction of future costs for qualified consulting services, since the enterprises can afford
to pay consultants trained by the project.
2. To society:
a. Increase in the overall performance of the enterprise sector in the region;
b. Increased revenues to the budget directly from enterprises benefiting from the project, and
indirectly from enterprises, which improves their performance through spillover effect;
c. Increased exports through improved competitiveness of enterprises;
d. Increased number of local highly qualified consultants in finance, management, marketing,
and operations, which saves finances for education, and enhances local quality of business
management expertise;
e. Shift from a barter dominant mode of operation to a cash mode;
f. Reduced spending on foreign consultants, substituted by Ukrainians trained through this
project.
B. Non-monetary benefits to society
a. The project helps to reveal problems in the real sector; it addresses lack of understanding
of processes at the micro level that can mislead economic policy decision-makers;
b. Better understanding of reforns at micro level and strengthening of pro-reform lobbies;
c. Immediate demonstration effect locally and spreading demonstration effect nationally;
d. Release of unused and underutilized assets to new owners who are more likely to use them
productively - creation of a market for machinery and industrial/services space;
e. Accelerated entry of SMEs through break-up and spin-offs of non-core businesses;
f. Spinning of 3-5 viable SMEs per enterprise. The spin-offs eventually increase the number
of SMEs in real sector.
g. Significant energy savings for the economy;
h. Strengthening of consulting business.
The calculation of NPV only of the monetary part shows that from the fiscal point of view, the project has
a strong positive impact. (see table below).
-38 -



Main Assumptions:
Taking into account the experience of similar projects in Georgia and Moldova, the assumptions used for
this analysis are quite conservative.
(A)  Both countries achieved increases in sales and value added per employee were higher than
the figures used for this calculation;
(B)  In both countries, the degree of the contraction of the industrial output was higher
(enterprises in Ukraine are generally in better shape today than was the case in Moldova in
1994 or Georgia in 1997 when post-privatization restructuring projects were started), and
(C)  The size of the Ukrainian market is over 10 times bigger than in Georgia or Moldova.
It is assumed that:
(1)    In 20 percent of restructured enterprises which would participate in the project, there would be
very limited positive monetary impact (negative impact can be excluded) and these firms would close after
year five. The assumption is based on the results of the current project in Georgia. In Moldova, after
restructuring was completed under a similar project, in the first fifty restructured companies restructured,
only one failed (but over 300 new SMEs were created - see Box 3). The analysis considers the increase in
sales, and consequently in value added tax (VAT) payments to the government as the only positive
monetary outcome of the project, although cash payments to the government may come also from the
increase in profits, salaries, employment, debt payments to the budget, etc.
(2)    VAT does not change during the 20 years from the beginning of the project.
(3)    After ten years from the beginning of the project additional 20 percent of restructured enterprises
are likely to close.
(4)    Assumed interest rate is 6.0 percent, grace period is 5 years and the government makes the
repayments of principal from year 6 to 20.
(5)    Hyper-inflation and other macro crises that could ruin the economy are excluded.
(6)    Discount rate used is 10 percent. The lowest commercial lending rate used in FSU by the
commercial banks with EBRD credit lines is above 20 percent. That gives the basis to consider 20 % as an
opportunity cost for the government granting 187,450 US$ to enterprises.
(7)    Barter is not excluded from sales, however it is assumed that the incremental sales resulting from
successful restructuring are increasingly cash sales.
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
Sensitivity analyses uses different values for the discount rate and the factors that affects the amount of
sales needed to get positive NPV for the project.
The calculations show that in order to get positive NPV (discounted for 20 years at 10%), a yearly
incremental VAT payment per enterprise of about US$ 20,000 is required. Since the Project in 20 percent
of enterprises fails after five and in 20 percent after ten years, the table below tracks the costs and expected
benefits of restructuring of 100 enterprises. Enterprises are divided into three groups:
1. 64 enterprises that survive 20 years,
2. 16 enterprises that survive 10 years, and
3. 20 enterprises that survive only five years.
- 39 -



Given that restructuring assistance will be provided to the best enterprises only these assumptions are
considered conservative.
YEAR            COSTS                     VAT                    NET
in current US$          in current US$         in current US$
1             2,099,440               2,691,456               592,016
2             1,799,520               2,650,145              850,625.3
3             1,799,520               2,614,567              815,046.9
4             1,799,520               2,584,220              784,700.3
5             1,799,520               2,558,646              759,126.2
6             3,559,052               2,352,632              -1,206,416
7             3,439,084               2,353,884              -1,085,199
8             3,319,116               2,356,928              -962,187.7
9             3,199,148               2,361,640              -837,504.4
10            3,079,180               2,367,913              -711,266.8
11            2,959,212               2,212,497              -746,714.7
12            2,839,244               2,234,620              -604,620.5
13            2,719,276               2,256,968              -462,307.1
14            2,599,308               2,279,538              -319,769.5
15            2,479,340               2,302,332               - 177,005
16            2,359,372               2,325,355              -34,016.14
17            2,239,404               2,348,608               109,207.4
18            2,119,436               2,372,096               252,660.4
19            1,999,468               2,395,816               396,350.8
20            1,879,500               2,419,775               540,275.9
-40 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
UKRAINE: Private Sector Development
Years Ending
June 30
(USD million)
IMPLEMENTATION PERIOD
| Year I I Year 2    | Year 3  | Year 4  | Year 5   1 Year 6  | Year 7
Total Financing
Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs           1.3       5.3       14.5       5.2       9.8        0.0      0.0
Recurrent Costs            0.2        0.4       0.4        0.4       0.2       0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs          1.5       5.7       14.9       5.6      10.0        0.0      0.0
Front-end fee    0.3        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
,Total Financing             1.8        5.7      14.9        5.6      10.0       0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRDIlDA                  0.6        4.4      12.3        4.2       8.5       0.0       0.0
Government                0.1        0.2       0.4        0.5       0.3       0.0       0.0
Central                0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0        0.0
Provincial             0.1        0.2       0.4       0.5        0.3      0.0        0.0
Co-financiers
Beneficiary Enterprises   0.1        0.1       0.2        0.9       1.2       0.0       0.0
Others                    0.5        0.5        1.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Others                    0.5        0.5       1.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Total Project Financing     1.8        5.7      14.9       5.6       10.0      0.0        0.0
Main assumptions:
-41 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
UKRAINE: Private Sector Development
Procurement
General
Project procurement arrangements shall include the procurement of goods and consultants' services and
shall follow latest edition of the Bank guidelines "Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" and
"Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" accordingly. The project
components not financed by the Bank shall be procured in accordance with respective guidelines of the
co-financing institutions.
Procurement under the project shall be managed by the Ukrainian Center for Enterprise Restructuring and
Private Sector Development (UCER) using relevant Bank standard procurement documentation and
Operations Manual, developed by UCER and approved by the Bank.
The project elements, their estimated cost and procurement methods are summarized in Tables A and Al
of this Annex 6. Procurement information, including capacity of the implementing agency, estimated dates
for publication of GPN and the Bank review process is presented in Tables B and B1. Procurement plan
detailing the packaging and estimated schedule of the major procurement actions is presented in Table B2.
1. Procurement of Goods (US$ 0.38 mln)
Procurement of goods shall follow the World Bank Guidelines "Procurement under IBRD and IDA Credits"
dated January 1995, revised January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999.
Goods (US$ 0.38 million) consisting of hardware/software, minor office equipment and furniture, materials
and publications for selected four pilot oblasts are grouped to the extent possible considering project
objectives and encouraging competitive bidding. The following methods of procurement will be followed:
(i) International Shopping (IS) procedures will be used for readily available off-the-shelf goods of
standard specifications estimated to cost less than US$ 100,000 equivalent per contract up to an
aggregate of US $0.279 million. These procedures require to obtain at least three quotations from
qualified suppliers from at least two different Bank-member countries. The ECA Regional sample
format for international shopping "Invitation to Quote" available on the ECA Procurement Web
Site will be applied. International Shopping total packages estimate is about 73% of all goods.
(ii) National Shopping (NS) procedures will be used for small contracts valued under US $50,000
each up to an aggregate amount of US $130,000. Contract awards will be based on comparison of
price quotations obtained from at least three qualified suppliers to assure competitive prices.The
ECA Regional sample format for national shopping "Invitation to Quote" available on the ECA
Procurement Web Site. National Shopping total packages estimate is about 27% of all goods.
2. Selection Procedures for Consultants' Services (US$ 28.82 mln)
Contracts for Consulting Services required for the Project will be awarded following the World Bank
Guidelines "Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated January 1997,
revised September 1997 and January 1999. Contracts will be packaged to include a combination of related
skills and services, in order to make them attractive and increase competition as well as to reduce the
number of contracts to be managed by UCER. The following methods of procurement will be followed:
(i) Quality and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) procedures will be used for 8 consulting services
contracts up to an aggregate amount of US$ 16 million equivalent. QCBS procedure will be used
-42 -



for more than 52 % of all services procured.
(ii) Fixed Budget Selection (FBS) procedures will be used for 10 management training consulting
services contracts up to an aggregate amount of US$ 9 million equivalent. FBS procedure will be
used for more than 30 % of all services procured.
(iii) Least Cost Selection (LCS) procedures will be used for auditing services, and several
contracts on similar assignments of standard or routine nature estimated to cost less than US$
200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount of US$ 500,000 equivalent (less than
2% of all services).
(iv) Selection Based on Consultant Qualifications (CQ) procedures will be used for 4 consulting
services contracts to conduct survey ana research on enterprise restructuring process estimated to
cost less than US$ 100,000 equivalent per contract, as well as for 1 contract of training for
regional staff. Total CQ selection procedure will be up to an aggregate amount of US$ 400,000
equivalent (less than 2% of all services).
(v) Individual Consultants (IC) will be hired under Section V of the Guidelines estimated up to
cost less than US$ 100,000, up to an aggregate amount of US$ 3,000,000 equivalent. Services of
individual consultants constitute approximately 11% of total services amount.
3. Notification of Business Opportunities
A General Procurement Notice (GPN) was published in "Development Business" in July 2001 issue and
will be updated annually. For consultants' contracts above US $200,000 the Requests for Expression of
Interest will be advertised in "Development Business" (in the English language) and in a major local
newspaper (in National language).
4. Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
Scheduling of Procurement. Procurement of goods and services for the project will be carried out in
accordance with the agreed procurement plan. UCER has drafted a Procurement Plan as part of the Project
Operations Manual (see also Table B2). This plan will be updated as necessary and included in the periodic
project management reports for Bank review and comment.
Prior Review by the Bank. The Bank will require prior review for all contracts with firms above US$
100,000 and first two contracts below US$ 100,000, as well as first two contracts for IC and all IC
contracts above US$ 50,000 per contract. Request for Proposals (RFP), Short Lists (SL), terms and
conditions of contracts, evaluation reports and recommendation for award, and negotiated contracts will be
prior reviewed by the Bank for such contracts with firms and with individual consultants.
For procurement of goods the first two contracts for IS and the first two contracts for NS will be subject to
prior review by the Bank. The Bank will prior review a report on comparison and evaluation of quotations
received and a copy of the specifications along with the draft contract.
Post Review by the Bank. Contracts that are not subject to prior review will be post-reviewed by the Bank
prior to delivery to the Bank of first withdrawal application of funds or Special Account replenishment
application in respect of such contract.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
-43 -



Procurement Method
Expenditure Category             ICB              NCB           Other2        N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                              0.00             0.00          0.00          0.00        0.00
(0.00)           (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                              0.00             0.00          0.38          0.05         0.43
(0.00)           (0.00)        (0.38)        (0.00)       (0.38)
3. Services                           0.00             0.00          28.82         6.95        35.77
of Consultants                       (0.00)           (0.00)        (28.82)        (0.00)     (28.82)
4. Incremental Operating              0.00             0.00          0.50           1.00        1.50
Costs
(0.00)           (0.00)        (0.50)        (0.00)       (0.50)
5. Front-end fee                      0.00             0.00          0.30          0.00         0.30
(0.00)           (0.00)        (0.30)        (0.00)       (0.30)
Total                              0.00             0.00          30.00          8.00       38.00
(0.00)           (0.00)        (30.00)        (0.00)     (30.00)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2'Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government
units.
- 44 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Selection Method
Consultant Services
Expenditure Category  QCBS  QBS     SFB     LCS      CQ     Other  N.B.F. Total Cost
A. Firms             16.00    0.00   8.90    0.47    0.36    0.00    4.00    29.73
(16.00)  (0.00)  (8.90)  (0.47)  (0.36)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (25.73)
B. Individuals        0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    3.09    2.95     6.04
(0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (3.09)  (0.00)  (3.09)
Total 16.00    0.00    8.90   0.47     0.36    3.09   6.95     35.77
_  (16.00)  (0.00)  (8.90)  (0.47)  (0.36)  (3.09)  (0.00)  (28.82)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan.
-45 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
The following thresholds are suggested for the prior review by the Bank:
(i) GOODS:
IS     - first 2 contracts;
NS     - first 2 contracts
(ii) CONSULTANTS' SERVICES:
All contracts with firms above US$ 100,000;
First two contracts with firms below $100,000;
First two contracts and all contracts with individual consultants above $50,000
All Termns of Reference
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
Contract Value                                 Contracts Subject to
Threshold               Procurement              Prior Review
Expenditure Category      (US$ thousands)              Method                (US$ millions)
1. Works                     Not Applicable
2. Goods                       below 100                   IS                 first 2 contracts
below 50                   NS                  first 2 contracts
0.3
3. Services of                                           QCBS                 first two contracts
Consultants                                               FBS             regardless of cost, then all
below 100                  LCS             contracts above $100,000
below 100                   IC             first two contracts and all
contracts above $50,000
All Terms of Reference
4. Incremental operating     Not Applicable           Not Applicable           Not Applicable
costs
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  US$ 26 mln
(70% of total project
cost of US$ 38 mln)
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 (supervision mission should
include procurement specialist to conduct post-reviews, especially on numerous contracts for individual
local consultants services) months (includes special procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Table BI: Procurement Information
This Table is prepared in accordance with ECA Regional Procurement Management Guidelines.
-46 -



Section 1: Procurement Review
Goods (G)     ICB       NCB         IS         NS       Minor       Other   Percentage
and Civil                                               Works     methods  of loan
Works (W)                                                                   amount
subject to
prior
review
Procuremen N/A        N/A        G:         G:<        N/A        N/A        85%
t thresholds:                    <$100,000  $50,000
individual                       up to      up to
and                              $0.279 mln $0.101 mln
aggregate
W: N/A     W: N/A
Prior      N/A        N/A        First two  First two
Review                           contracts  contracts
Consultants  QCBS        QBS        Fixed      LCS        CQ        Single   Individuals
Budget                         Source (SS)
Procuremen >$100,000  N/A        >$100,000 <$200,000 <$100,000 N/A           < $100,000
t method
thresholds
Prior        All contracts above US$ 100,000                      N/A        First two
Review       First two contracts below US$ 100,000                           contracts.
All TORs                                                        All
contracts >
$50,000 and
TORs
Ex-post       Explain briefly the ex-post review mechanism: one post-review in every 6 months to
Review        be conducted. 30% of contracts will be ex-post reviewed
Section 2: Capacity of the Implementing Agency in Procurement and Technical Assistance
requirements
Brief statement
UCER as a legal, non-profit entity, created by the Government resolution, shall be responsible for overall
project procurement. Legal and Procurement Unit of UCER shall conduct all procurement in
coordination with its Regional Units and shall monitor all procurement/contract management related
issues. UCER shall procure goods for central and regional capacity building needs, and shall hire the
consultants for enterprise restructuring and management training. UCER has an experience in
implementation of EDAL TA component of the WB loan, continues procuring goods under shopping
procedures and contracting many consultants financed from the Japanese PHRD grant and PPF during
project preparation. UCER has gained certain practical expertise in the Bank procurement. UCER staff
was trained during WB procurement and disbursement workshops. UCER staff is proficient in English,
willing to learn, dedicated and motivated to implement the project. Capacity of UCER and its regional
branches is adequate to conduct and monitor procurement procedures and selection of consultants
without external support.
Country Procurement Assessment Report or Country Are the bidding documents for the
Procurement Strategy Paper status: CPAR was finalized in procurement actions of the first year
November 200 1.                                       ready by negotiations: Yes No X
Section 3: Training, Information and Development on Procurement
- 47 -



Estimated date of Project Date of publication of  Indicate if there is  Domestic  Domestic
Launch Workshop: June  General Procurement   procurement subject to  Preference  Preference
2002                  Notice:                mandatory SPN in     for Goods: for Works,
July 16, 2001         Development Business:  Yes *     if
Yes X                 No X       applicable:
No                               Yes-
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ N o   X
Retroactive financing: Yes No X Explain:     Advance procurement: Yes No X Explain:
Explain briefly the Procurement Monitoring System:
UCER at central level, with only administrative assistance from Regional Units, shall have full
responsibility for preparation of procurement documentation and contract management. Monitoring of 4
major QCBS packages, several LCS, ten FBS, four CQ contracts and more than 300 local individual
consultants contracts will require UCER procurement monitoring system be effective. Existing Financial
Management System includes Procurement Monitoring section, in addition to separate software (MS
project, Sure-track, etc.). Operations Manual details procurement monitoring responsibilities within the
UCER internal structure. It is planned that each Consultant firm shall restructure total about 15
enterprises from two different Regions. As a result two different Consultant firms will be restructuring
different set of enterprises within one Region to ensure competitive output. 4 Regions will be covered at
two consequent phases of two parallel QCBS. UCER will hire local individual consultants who will
work as team leaders in each enterprise under restructuring in collaboration with the selected Consultant
firms. UCER shall be responsible for approval of Consultants reports. Documentation and records shall
be retained with the UCER at central level.
Co-financin : Explain briefly the procurement anrangements under co-financing:
Project components not financed by the Bank shall be procured under respective guidelines of the
co-financiers. National legislation shall apply for procurement in case of any procurement out of state
funds. Contracts between two residents are govemed by the applicable law of Ukraine.
Section 4: Procurement Staffing
Indicate name of Procurement Staff or Bank's staff part of Task Team responsible for the procurement
in the Project:
Name: Alexandre Roukavichnikov, Procurement specialist, ECC10. Ext: 5762+2033
Explain briefly the expected role of the Field Office in procurement:
Procurement service support for whole portfolio and fiduciary functions for given PSD loan. Projects
covered by fiduciary procurement functions were approved by OCSPR memorandum of January 20,
2000 for ECSPF and ECSHD projects below mandatory RPA review thresholds. Delegation
arrangements annually reviewed by RPA.
Table B2: Procurement Plan
The Procurement Plan has been removed from the PAD in accordance with agreements reached at
Negotiations.
Procurement Plan PSD 14.05.01.:
-48 -



Table B3: Summary of Findings and Actions on Procurement Capacity Assessment
This Table is prepared in accordance with ECA Regional Procurement Management Guidelines and serves
as additional information.
UCERCapacityAttachment2.c
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 49 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category        Amount in US$million        Financing Percentage
1. Goods                                  0.32               100% foreign expenditures,
100% local expenditures ex-factory cost
80% other goods procured locally
2. Consulting Services                    28.53                       100%
3. Incremental Operating Costs            0.25                100% until June 30, 2004
90% until June 30, 2005
80% until June 30, 2006
and 0% thereafter
4. Refunding of the Project Preparation   0.60                        100%
Advance
Total Project Costs                       29.70
Front-end fee         0.30
Total                                     30.00
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Loan proceeds will be disbursed under the Bank's established procedures, including Statements of
Expenditure (SOEs) and Summary Sheets.
Use of Statements of Expenditures: Withdrawal applications will be fully documented, except for
expenditures under: (a) contracts for goods valued at less than US $ 100,000 each; (b) contracts for
consulting firms costing less than US $ 100,000 equivalent, and contracts for individual consultants costing
less than US $50,000 equivalent; and (d) all incremental operating costs.
Special account:
The Borrower will open a Special Account in a foreign commercial bank acceptable to the World Bank to
receive the Loan funds. For payments in hard currencies the Special Account may be used directly. To
facilitate local payments in national currency, a separate transit account will be opened in a local
commercial bank acceptable to the World Bank. To minimize potential losses arising from currency
fluctuations, balances in the transit account will be maintained at a level not greater than that required to
meet requirements in national currency for one month.
The Special Account will be audited annually and the results will be available to the Bank.
The authorized allocation of the SA amounts is US $ 1 million equivalent. Upon effectiveness, the Bank
will provide for an advance of US $ 0.5 mln equivalent representing 50% of the authorized allocation.
When the total funds withdrawn from the Loan Account amount to US $ 3 million equivalent million, the
beneficiaries may withdraw the remaining balance amounting to US$ 0.5 mln equivalent. Replenishment
applications should be submitted not later than every three months. These applications would be fully
documented, except in the case where disbursements on the basis of Statements of Expenditure (SOEs) is
permitted, and would be supported by a reconciliation statement and commercial bank statements.
- 50 -



Financial Management
Financial Management Assessment: The financial management capacity within Ukraine has not been the
subject of a detailed review by the Bank. Any weaknesses that may exist in the country's financial
management capacity have been mitigated by the use of a specialized project implementing agency - the
Ukrainian Center for Enterprise Restructuring and Private Sector Development (UCER), for project
preparation and implementation, and drawing upon experience of projects of this nature. The project
satisfies the Bank's minimum financial management requirements. During pre-appraisal, the Bank and
UCER agreed upon a series of measures to strengthen the intemal control environment and to improve the
quality financial reporting; all measures have been implemented by UCER prior to appraisal.
Complete Operations Manual                  Completed
Implement IAS Chart of Accounts (general financial Completed
accounting)
Account Mapping (project account)           Completed
Appoint Finance Manager                     Completed
Input Test Data and Check System Integrity  Completed
Produce FMRs                                Completed
Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs): Management-oriented FMRs will be used for project monitoring
and supervision. The formats of the FMRs, which have been agreed with UCER, are included within the
Operational Manual and have been confirmed during Negotiations. The UCER will produce a full set of
FMRs semi-annually throughout the life of the project beginning not later than the period ending 6 months
after project effectiveness date.
Audit Arrangements: Extemal audits by independent private auditors acceptable to the Bank, and on terms
of reference acceptable to the Bank will be procured by UCER. Annual audited financial statements of
UCER and of the Project will be provided to the Bank within 6 months after the end of each fiscal year and
also at the closing of the project. The contract for the audit may be extended from year-to-year with the
same auditor, subject to satisfactory performance. Terms of reference for the audit of UCER and of the
project financial statements were agreed during negotiations.
- 51 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
UKRAINE: Private Sector Development
Project Schedule                                 Planned                    Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)     24                          28
First Bank mission (identification)            03/09/1998                  03/10/1998
Appraisal mission departure                    10/12/2000                  02/12/2001
Negotiations                                   11/15/2000                  01/28/2002
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  03/01/2001
Prepared by:
Vladimir-Goran Kreacic, ECSPF, Task Team Leader
Preparation assistance:
Gheorghe Efros, Consultant (Executive Director ARIA, Moldova)
Nana Adeishvili, Consultant (Executive Director CERMA, Georgia)
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                    Speciality
Andrei Mikhnev, ECSPF            Projects Officer
Cari Votava, ECSPF               Project processing
Michael Gascoyne, ECSPF          Financial Management
Yevgeny N. Kuznetsov, LCSFR      Institutional analysis and development; monitoring and evaluation
Alexandre Roukavichnikov, ECC I0  Procurement
Nicholay Chistyakov              Disbursement
Claudia M. Pardinas Ocana        Lawyer
- 52 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
UKRAINE: Private Sector Development
A. Project Implementation Plan
Project Implementation Plan on a Proposed Loan in the amount of US$60 million to Ukraine for Private
Sector Development Project
PSD PIP.doc
B. Bank Staff Assessments
*   Country Assistance Strategy for Ukraine, August 16, 2000.
*   TOR, dated 30 March 2000 [for Ira Lieberman, from Paul Siegelbaum]
*   BTO, dated 30 March 2000 [w/Aide Memoire by V. Kreacic]
*   BTO, dated 7 Oct 1999 [w/Aide Memoire by V. Kreacic]
*   Letter, dated March 22, 1999 [from Ukrainian Center for Enterprise Restructuring, RE: Amendment
on PHRD Grant Agreement]
* World Bank Discussion Paper No. 408: Economic Growth with Equity: Which Strategy for Ukraine?
1999. John Hansen (IBRD), and Diana Cook (Intemational Centre for Policy Studies).
*   World Bank Country Study; Ukraine: Restoring Growth with Equity: A Participatory Country
Economic Memorandum, October, 1999.
*   Executive Summary of World Bank Country Study; Ukraine: Restoring Growth with Equity: A
Participatory Country Economic Memorandum, October, 1999.
*   TOR dated Nov 23, 1998 [Pre-Appraisal Mission]
*   PCD dated 8 Nov 1998
*   PID, September 18, 1998
*   PID, March 6, 2001
C. Other
*   The State of Small Business in Ukraine, an IFC Survey of Ukrainian Small Enterprises (May 2001)
IFC Ukraine Biz Survey 2000 Eng.p
* Minutes of Negotiations, January 31 2002
Agreed Minutes.doc
*Including electronic files
- 53 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
UKRAINE: Private Sector Development
06-Feb-2002
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                         disbursements
Project ID   FY    Purpose                                   IBRD        IDA                GEF    Cancel.   Undisb.     Orig   Frm Rev'd
P069858       2002 SF                                            50.21     0.00                0.00      0.00    50.21      0.00      0.00
P035786       2001 LVIV WATERNWW                                 24.25     0.00                0.00      0.00    24.25      0.62      0.00
P055738       2001 SEVASTOPOL HEAT SUPPLY IMPROVEMENT            28.20     0.00                0.00      0.00     28.19     3.50      0.00
POSS739       2000 KIEV PB ENERGY EFFIC                          18.29     0.00                0.00      0.00    17.41      3.82      0.00
P049174       1998 TREASURY SYSTEMS Prject                       16.40     0.00                0.00      0.00     9.24      8.16      0.54
P044728       1998 ODS PHASE-OUT (GEF)                            0.00     0.00               23.20      0.00     9.37     10.44     -4.22
P044832       1998 KIEV DISTRICTHEAT.                           200.00     0.00                0.00      0.00    182.18   101.25     34.95
P044851       1997 EXPORT DEVELOPMENT                            70.00     0.00                0.00      0.00    16.36     15.81      0.00
P038820       1995 HYDROPOWER REHAB                             114.00     0.00                0.00     14.16    25.92     40.08      2.78
Total:     521.35      0.00             23.20       14.16    363.13    183.69     34.06
UKRAINE
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
OCT-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                                Disbursed
IIFC                                    IFC
FY Approval              Company                              Loan     Equity     Quasi     Partic     Loan     Equity     Quasi     Partic
1998                    Creditanstalt Uk                       0.00      2.28      0.00      0.00       0.00      2.28      0.00       0.00
1996                    FUIB                                  0.00       5.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      5.00      0.00       0.00
2000                     MBU                                   0.00      1.70       0.00      0.00      0.00      1.70       0.00      0.00
1994/96                 Ukraine VC Fund                        0.00      1.50      0.00      0.00       0.00      1.15      0.00       0.00
Total Portfolio:               0.00      10.48      0.00       0.00      0.00     10.13       0.00      0.00
Approvals Pending Coimmitment
FY Approval             Company                                  Loan       Equity       Quasi       Partic
2001                    Okean Shipyard                           10.00        0.00         0.00        0.00
2000                    MBU                                       5.00        0.00         0.00        0.00
1998                    Creditanstalt Uk                          5.00        0.00        0.00        0.00
1996                    FUIB                                     10.00        0.00        0.00        0.00
Total Pending Commitment:                30.00        0.00         0.00        0.00
-54 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
UKRAINE: Private Sector Development
Europe &
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          Central     Low-
Ukraine      Asia   Income      Development dlamond'
2000
Population. mid-year (millions)                      49.5      475     2,459                 Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$1                   790      2,010      420
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                     39.3      956     1,030
Average annual growth, 1994-00
Population (%)                                       -0.7      0.1       1.9
Labor force (%)                                      -1.1      0.6       2.4      GNI                            Gross
per                            primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1994-00)                            capita          \            enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national Povefty line)  28
Urban Dopulation (% of total PoDulation)              68        67        32
Life exoectancy at birth (vears)                      68        69        59
Infant mortalitv (per 1.000 live births)              12        21        77
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                                            Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (% of population)  100       90        76
llfiteracy (% of population age tS+)                   2         3        38                  Ukraine
Gross primary enrollment (%of school-age population)  100      100        96
Male                                               100       101       102     I            Low-income group
Female                                             100        99        86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1980     1990      1999     2000
Economic ratlos'
GDP (US$ billions)                            ..     91.3     39.4      35.3
Gross domestic investmentUGDP                 ..     27.5      17.4     18.6                     Trade
Exports of qoods and services/GDP             ..     27.6     53.7      61.5
Gross domestic savinqslGDP                    ..     26.4     23.0      23.0
Gross national savinos/GDP                    ..     35.9     22.6      23.3
Current account balance/GDP                   ..     -5.5      4.0       4.2      Domestic      //smn
Interest pavments/GDP                         ..      ..       1.4       1.7     savings                     Investment
Total debt/GOP                                ..       ..      35.5     35.6     svn
Total debt servicelexoorts                    ..       ,.      17.1     19.3
Present value of debt/GDP                     ..       ..     32.2      32.3
Present value of debt/exports                 ..       ..     72.8      56.3
Indebtedness
1980-90  1990-00    1999      2000   2000-04
(average annual growth)
GOP                                   ..    -9.4     -0.2       5.8      3.5                   Ukraine
GOP per capita                       ..     -8.9      0.6       6.7      4.3                   Low-income group
Exports of goods and services        ..     -3.2     .7.9      13.8      3.6
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980     1990      1999     2000      Growth of Investment and GDP (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                       45
Aqriculture                                          25.6      14.3      13.8     20
Industry                                      ..     44.6      37.7     38.5      0
Manufacturing                                ..     8.5       5.0       4.6
Services                                      ..     29.9      48.0     47.7      0                 7
Private consumption                           ..     57.1      57.2     58.2     as
General government consumDtion                ..     16.5      19.8      18.7                  -G         *  GDP
Imports of goods and services                 ..     28.7     48.2      57.0
1980-90  1990-00     1999      2000     Growth of exports and imports 1%)
(average annual growth)
Aqriculture                                   ..     -5.8      -4.2       5.9   ISO
Industry                                            -11.4       3.0      10.9   I05
Manufacturing                                .    -11.2       5.5      12.8
Services                                      ..    -11.3       0.3      5.5     S 
Private consumption                           ..     -6.6      2.8       5.1 o    0o                     o
General aovernment consumDtion                ..     -5.4     -17.6      -1.9   -s0
Gross domestic investment                     ..    -20.2     -14.4     21.8                  Exports     C  Imports
Imorts of goods and services                  ..     -2.7    -19.1      17.5
Note: 2000 data are preliminary estimates.
* The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv (in boldl comoared with its income-grouD average. If data are missino. the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 55 -



Ukraine
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1980     1990      1999     2000     Inflation (%)
Domestic Prices                                                                                                .
(% chanqe)                                                                     1.500
Consumer prices                              ..       ..      19.2     25.8     o
Implicit GDP deflator                        ..     16.4     27.4      25.3     .  , \
Government rinance
(% of GDP, includes current qrants)                                               o. _-
Current revenue                              ..               33.6     35.6             95   96    97    98   99    oo
Current budqet balance                       ..       ..      -1.9     -0.9           -GOP deflator       *  CPl
Overall surplus/deficit                      ..       ..      -2.0     -1.3
TRADE
(USS millions)                             1980    1990      1999     2000      Export and import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                          ..       ..    13,189   15,722    25,000
Ferrous and non-Drecious metals            ..       ..     4.874    6.468     .0.
Mineral products                                    ..     1.419    1.377     20.00
Manufactures                               ..       ..     1.981    2.584     15.00
Total imports Icif)                          ..       ..    12.945   14.943         *
Food                                       ..       ..       902      908
Fuel and energv                             ..      ..     5.441    6.419     5.000
Capital goods                               ..      ..     2.255    2.625        a
94  99   94   97   98   99  55
Export price index (1995=100)                 ..      ..       95       97
ImDort price index (1995=100)                 ..      ..      113      115                *Expons      *lImports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                    ..       ..       84       84
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(USS millions)                            1980     1990      1999     2000      Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services                 ..      ..    16.960   19,522      .
ImDorts of aoods and services                 .,      .,    15.237   18.116
Resource balance                             ..       ..     1.723    1.406 .
Net income                                    ..      ..     -869     -942      2 .
Net current transfers                        ..       ..      706     1,017
Current account balance                      ..   -5.063     1.560    1.481     2-E         W       E    '99      0
Financinq items (net)                        ..       ..    -1,277   -1.083
Changes in net reserves                      ..       ..     -283     -398     J
Memo:
Reserves including gold (USS millions)       ..       ..     1.094    1.431
Conversion rate (DEC. locallUSS)              .. 1.83E-5       3.3      4.9
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980     1990      1999     2000
(USS millions)                                                                  Composition of 2000 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstandino and disbursed         ..       ..    14.019   12.579
IBRD                                                       1.954    1.991                   G:604    A: 1,991
IDA           ..                                    ..0                0
Total debt service                            ..      ..     2,994    3,914
IBRD                                       ..       ..       96      142               /
IDA                             .           ..     ..         0        0 .
Composition of net resource flows                                                F: 4,895  . .      I    _
Official grants                            ..       ..       38
Official creditors                         ..       ..      287    -1,060
Private creditors                          ..       ..     -130      332                                13:377
Foreign direct investment                  ..       ..      496      750
Portfolio ecuitv                           ..       ..        0       80                           E: 2,639
World Bank program
Commitments                                ..       ..      600       18      A-IBRD                    E-Bilateral
Disbursements                              ..       ..      422      113      8 - IDA  D - Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repaVments                       ..       ..        2       24      C - IMF                   G - Short-term
Net flows                                   ..      ..      420       88
Interest Davments                          ,.       ..       94      118
Net transfers                              ..       ..      326      -29
Development Economics                                                                                            9/501
- 56 -






