                                        Document of
                                     The World Bank




                                                                 Report No: 37580

                         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                             (PPFB-P3780 TF-25596 FSLT-71110)

                                           ON A

                          PROPOSED ADAPTABLE PROGRAM LOAN

                           IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 30 MILLION

                                            TO

                                          UKRAINE

                                           FOR A

                    PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (APL #1)




                                      September 26, 2006




Private and Finance Development Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region

                                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                          (Exchange Rate Effective September 2006)

                                  Currency Unit = UAH (Hryvnia)
                              UAH 1 (Hryvnia) = US$ 0.19113
                                         US$ 1 = UAH 5.23203

                                       FISCAL YEAR
                                  January 1 -  December 31

                           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APL - Adaptable Program Loan
FDI - Foreign Direct Investments
FSU - Former Soviet Union
IFC - International Financial Corporation
IMF - Internationam Monetary Fund
OPCS - Operations Policy and Country Services
PHRD - Policy and Human Resources Development
PPF - Project Preparation Facility
PSD - Private Sector Development
QAG - Quality Assurance Group
SCRPE - State Committee on Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship
SME - Small and Medium Enterprises
SOE - State Owned Enterprises
TA - Technical Assistance
TOR - Terms of Reference
UCER - Ukrainian Center for Enterprise Restructuring and Private Sector Development
WB - World Bank
WTO - World Trade Organization

                                Vice President:    Shigeo Katsu
                              Country Director     Paul Bermingham
                               Sector Manager      Gerardo Corrochano
            Task Team Leader/Task Manager:         Paulo Correa

                                          UKRAINE
                        Private Sector Development Project (APL #1)


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data
2. Principal Performance Ratings
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
6. Sustainability
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
8. Lessons Learned
9. Partner Comments
10. Additional Information
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Annex 4. Bank Inputs
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Project ID: P054966                                                  Project Name: Private Sector Development Project (APL
                                                                     #1)
Team Leader: Paulo Guilherme Correa                                  TL Unit: ECSPF
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: September 29, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: Private Sector Development Project (APL #1)              L/C/TF Number: PPFB-P3780; TF-25596;
                                                                                                     FSLT-71110
   Country/Department: UKRAINE                                                            Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (40%); Sub-national government administration (40%);
                            General industry and trade sector (20%)
                  Theme: State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization (P); Small and medium enterprise support
                            (P); Legal institutions for a market economy (S); Administrative and civil service reform (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 09/15/1998                                     Effective: 04/02/2003                04/02/2003
     Appraisal: 02/01/2001                                         MTR:
      Approval: 03/28/2002                                      Closing: 12/19/2005                 02/09/2006



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          UKRAINE/UKRAINIAN CENTER FOR ENTERPRISE RESTRUCTURING
                                           AND PSD
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Johannes Linn
Country Director:               Paul G. Bermingham                             Luca Barbone
Sector Director:                Fernando Montes-Negret                         Paul J. Siegelbaum
Team Leader at ICR:             Paulo Correa                                   Vladimir G. Keracic
ICR Primary Author:             Hiran Herat


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        HU
                      Sustainability:      HUN
   Institutional Development Impact:       N
                 Bank Performance:         U
            Borrower Performance:          HU


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The development objective of the Private Sector Development Project was to increase competitiveness of
the Ukraine enterprise sector. Following this objective, the Project aimed at laying the groundwork for the
development and expansion of the private sector in Ukraine by:

a.      Creating the demand and political constituency for enterprise restructuring and economic reform
and responding to this demand by creating sustainable institutional capabilities and developing local
capabilities to supply this market, including a market for managerial expertise;

b.      Demonstrating the economic pay-offs resulting from positive restructuring by assuring sufficient
and significant supply response to reforms (including increased sales, exports, investments, FDI of pilot
enterprises); and

c.      Providing incentives to oblasts' administrations (by making progress in business environment as a
precondition for assistance) to reduce administrative costs of doing business.

This approach was intended to demonstrate the benefits that could be expected from successful enterprise
restructuring, training of managers and consultants, and improvements in the legal and regulatory
environment for business activities.


Background

The purpose the Program supported by the Bank Adaptable Program Loan (APL) was to foster private
sector development in Ukraine using a bottom-up approach, which was to focus on the enterprise
adjustment and the creation of a market friendly regulatory environment. The APL was planned as an 8
year Program with two loan phases. The first phase (US$30 million) was to focus on creating baseline
conditions for private sector development and to be initiated in four oblasts. The second phase (US$30
million) was to extend the institutional and restructuring experience acquired to a large number of oblasts
and enterprises.

Ukraine had maintained a relatively stable macroeconomic environment since the 1996-97 successful
stabilization process but the lack of structural reforms and the 1998 Russian financial crisis prevented a
full economic recovery. Relatively cheap labor was a comparative advantage for the Ukrainian economy
but this advantage was eroded by the low quality of products and the high risk of an unstable regulatory
environment. Not surprisingly, Foreign Direct Investments (FDI) as of late 2001 was US $85 per capita,
significantly less than in neighboring Poland and with a negligible impact on the restructuring of the
Ukrainian economy. As a result, Ukraine was "specializing" in "dirty" and energy consuming industries
(such as steel products and raw chemicals) where quality requirements were lower, unaccounted
environmental externalities higher, and where a short-term comparative advantage was possible due to the
depletion of assets installed in Soviet times.

Structural reforms had generally been driven by negative forces (contraction and rent-seeking behavior)
rather than expansion of sub-sectors through green-field investments or serious restructuring at the
enterprise level. The decline in manufacturing in the mid 1990s was even more severe than the average
decrease of GDP, and led to a change in the GDP composition. The service sector had increased from 50%
in 1997 to 53% in 2000 at the expense of industry, agriculture and construction. Base industries (coal,



                                                    - 2 -

energy, ferrous and non-ferrous metallurgy) had survived in relatively better shape than machine-building
and light industries. Privatization was the main visible long-term base for the emerging private sector, both
in terms of going concerns and assets. Privatization of SMEs was practically completed by the end of 1998.
On average, new private companies emerging from state owned enterprises (SOEs) had a better ownership
structure than, for example, their Russian counterparts

In privatizing larger enterprises, Ukraine had succeeded in offering shares of privatized companies through
open auctions to outsiders. Independent shareholder registrars and public disclosure requirements
introduced early in the reform program also made management more accountable to shareholders. In
addition, managers in enterprises privatized through "buyout-through-leasing," were more accountable to
employees than in other FSU republics. Despite these factors, the incentives and skills necessary to
undertake the challenge of the market economy were poor and the number of cases of real enterprise
restructuring was small. The most common scenario was one in which an insider-led reorganization was
usually oriented towards survival and the preservation of jobs, and was achieved by rebuilding old
networks of cooperation. Spinning-off most profitable technological units and creation of small private
trade companies were taking place, although at reduced levels.

Thus, the development of the private sector, particularly of new SMEs, was much slower in Ukraine than
in neighboring Central European countries. For instance, there were only four active SMEs per 1,000
people compared to around 6 in Russia, 25 in Estonia and 35 in Poland. The SME sector was essentially
missing: although more than 650,000 private firms were registered in Ukraine, only some 217,930 were
considered small (less than 50 employees). SME activities differed geographically and had very low impact
on the economy - on average, in 2000, small enterprises delivered 6,9% of total industrial output and
employed 15,1% of the Ukrainian labor force. In the most advanced regions, SMEs contribute no more
than 15 percent of the GDP and employment.

Government's Economic Reform Priorities

The Government's overriding medium term priorities included achieving fiscal sustainability by improving
tax collection and better managing public spending, and economic growth. In this context, the expansion of
a dynamic private sector was expected to play a key role in the achievement of both priorities. On the
negative side, short term priorities associated with the repayment of foreign and domestic sovereign-debt,
constant pressure of overdue budgetary obligations to the social sphere, and lobbying by industrialists for
bail-outs and subsidies were important constraints for the achievements of these objectives.

Despite these unfavorable conditions, systemic reforms were expected to continue, due in part to ongoing
Bank Programmatic Adjustment operation and the IMF's Extended Fund Facility. These reforms include
increased volumes of budget revenues through cash privatization of large infrastructure and other
enterprises, and the effective introduction of international accounting and auditing standards. New business
start-ups were expected to be encouraged by streamlining regulatory processes (deregulation); creating a
simpler, more transparent taxation system; and improving exit mechanisms by the creation of an
appropriate framework and process for bankruptcy.

Some initial steps to improve the business environment had also been taken. These included simplification
of a registration procedure for new entrants, reduction in the number of state inspections for companies,
decreasing the number of licenses needed to do business, and acceleration of cash privatization of large
Ukrainian enterprises. The Government in 2001, canceled almost all the tax privileges to industrial
enterprises (that in previous years reached US$ 4 billion and seriously distorted the competitive
environment).


                                                     - 3 -

The capital markets were expected to be developed to improve corporate governance by increasing
transparency, accountability and facilitating ownership transfer in the secondary markets. It was
anticipated that the success of the PSD Project in training managers, local consultants, and turning around
enterprises would create a strong demonstration effect thereby improving the climate for PSD in Ukraine.

In addition, to accelerate the development of the private sector and to increase the attractiveness of Ukraine
to foreign investors, the project was expected to address the following areas:
·       Lowering business transaction costs (which presently include numerous fees, bureaucratic red tape,
non-commercial risks) in order to encourage domestic and foreign entrepreneurs to start businesses in
Ukraine;
·       Improving the skills, knowledge, and incentives of managers and employees which was a necessary
precursor to functioning as a modern enterprise in a competitive market environment;
·       Strengthening Ukraine's comparative advantage of a relatively inexpensive and well-educated labor
force and a favorable geographical location; and
·       Developing good corporate governance by clarifying and strengthening the rights of external
owners and creditors to make the financing of enterprises an attractive investment.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The original objectives were not revised.


3.3 Original Components:
Project Component 1- Enterprise Restructuring (market adjustment) - US$ 24 million (of which US$
19 million of Bank financing).

(i)     To support and help accelerate Government's reform effort by: (a) providing advisory services
through a local non-profit agency (Ukrainian Center for Enterprise Restructuring and Private Sector
Development - UCER) aimed at improving the profitability, productivity, and general operational, financial
and managerial efficiency of private and privatized enterprises; (b) supporting and facilitating development
of a highly qualified domestic consulting industry, which understood the unique local business and political
climate in the process of economic development and transition; and

(ii)    To strengthen constituency for reform at the oblast level consisting of entrepreneurs, managers,
local academia, consultants and other stakeholders benefiting from enterprise restructuring and
market-friendly business environment.

Project Component 2 - Managerial and Consulting Secondments - US$ 11.5 million (of which US $9
million of Bank financing)

The objective of this component was to expose the managers and consultants to new concepts of
market-oriented management, marketing and production through practical internships in leading firms
abroad. This was to be followed by dissemination of main lessons learned abroad to participating as well as
non-participating firms in Ukraine. This Program was geared to send large numbers of Ukrainian managers
and consultants to advanced companies in developed countries or countries with transition economies that
have successfully restructured their enterprise sector.
Project Component 3 - Monitoring and Project Administration - US$ 1.38 million (of which US$ 0.88
million. of Bank financing)




                                                     - 4 -

The project was to be administered by a non-profit organization, the Ukrainian Center for Enterprise
Restructuring and Private Sector Development (UCER). UCER was to sub-contract restructuring
assistance to be provided to participating enterprises to the best available international, turn-around
consulting firms. UCER had five main functions: (a) Selecting appropriate enterprises, and ensuring
rational implementation of a restructuring framework plan, which would set forth the various obligations
and commitments of the enterprise (with specific targets, dates and deadlines), realistic financing plans, and
agreed sanctions for non-compliance;
(b) Managing the work of consulting teams including: preparation of Terms of Reference (TORs); selection
of consulting firms; supervision of consultants' work progress and deliverables; intermediation between
enterprises and consultants in cases of the conflict; final quality of approval of consultants' work; and
payment for consultants services; (c) Perpetuating continuous and productive dialogue between the
Government and private sector (through the UCER's Supervisory Board), concerning necessary reform
measures to facilitate enterprise adjustment to markets; (d) Selecting, recruiting and training local
specialists that was to team-up with foreign consultants to ensure the advice/resources of foreign
consultants were most effectively utilized and directed where needed; (e) Organizing on-the-job training for
managers of participating enterprises in the leading firms abroad.

Project Component 4 - Improvement of Regulatory Environment-- US 0.82 million (of which 0.82
million of Bank financing)

Assist the Ukrainian Government to provide high power incentives for oblast authorities to improve
regulatory environment. This was to be achieved by:

·       Introduction of performance based incentives into the oblast-level policy process ­ linking and exit
from the project to the improvement of regulatory environment, monitored through bi-annual surveys;
·       Enhancement of institutional capacity of State Committee on Regulatory Policy and
Entrepreneurship (SCRPE) to effectively implement State regulatory policy through its regional offices;
and
·       Empowerment of institutions of Civil Society and especially professional associations in their
relations with local authorities and building local capacity to conduct credible policy research, analyze data
and use it for the policy purposes.
3.4 Revised Components:
The original components were not revised.


3.5 Quality at Entry:
There was no quality at entry review carried out for this project.


4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The objectives that were envisaged at the inception of the project were not met. Overall, very little activity
was carried out under the project. Of the four original components, activities were carried out only on two
components. From its inception, the Project suffered delays due to internal disagreements between
Government departments responsible for the project, frequent changes in the management of the SCRPE
and UCER. The emerging risk of unsatisfactory pace of implementation due to the bureaucratic
disagreement between different departments of the Government and the consequent delays were signaled to
the Borrower as early as 3 months after the Project became effective (a letter from the Acting Country



                                                     - 5 -

Manager to the head of SCRPE dated June 27, 2003). The main reason for delays in disbursements at that
early stage was a dispute between the Ministry of Finance and the SCRPE over the existing procurement
rules. This issue was eventually resolved successfully due to Bank intervention, but the Project
implementation lost much of its original momentum. Also, the early strong support of potential beneficiary
enterprises and oblasts' authorities was seriously damaged by this delay. More broadly, ownership of the
Project by the Government, decreased gradually with a sequence of events that included (i) the Borrower's
Parliament not ratifying the project under its normal procedures; and (ii) the Borrower's failure to provide
counterpart funding for project activities.

After the initial delay, the lack of counterpart funding from the Borrower was one of the main reasons for
additional postponement in project implementation. This problem persisted as far back as March 2002,
prior to Loan Negotiations (for funding of VAT and local taxes under the PPF), a first indication of the
problems to follow. As the problem related to counterpart funding persisted and was affecting project
implementation, the Bank proposed two solutions to the Borrower (letter to the UCER dated October 25,
2004): (i) to exempt the PSD Loan proceeds from local taxes: or (ii) provide budgetary financing for the
coverage of local taxes. Neither solution was accepted and implemented by the Borrower. Instead, for the
first major contract with a consulting firm for restructuring 20 enterprises (Enterprise Restructuring
Component), a cumbersome solution was used to circumvent the payment of local taxes. The solution
consisted of hiring 80 local consultants by UCER (on individual consulting contracts) rather than being
hired by the selected consulting firm, as envisaged in the Project design. In addition, the co-financing
requested from participating enterprises was used for paying VAT for the restructuring services rather
than, as planned, to partially cover costs of restructuring; and to cover part of UCER's operational costs.
This ad hoc solution, however, could not be applied to the next contracts for restructuring services, as it
distorted the incentive system for participating enterprises and for UCER as the project manager. The
UCER submitted a request to the Bank to allow it to use Loan proceeds to finance VAT. Although, the
Bank had the option -- on a case-by-case basis under revised procedures and country financing parameters
-- to grant an exemption, after much discussions, it did not agree with the request. The lack of a systemic
solution to the tax issue also made it impossible to proceed with other components of the Project (including
purchase of equipment for SCRPE).

In addition to the issues described above, project implementation was further hampered in 2004 by the
rapidly deteriorating working relations between SCRPE and UCER, mostly due to the changes in
management of the SCRPE. The newly appointed head of the SCRPE curtailed project implementation by
introducing cumbersome decision-making and reporting requirements for consultants and the UCER. The
role of the SCRPE envisaged originally by the Project was to conduct policy dialogue and overall
supervision of the project, and not of day-to-day implementation of the project (a role attributed to the
UCER). On many occasions (as recorded in mission aide-memoirs, as late as January 2005) the Bank
raised these issues at the level of the responsible Deputy Prime Minister/Minister of Finance, but no action
was taken by the Authorities.

Apart from the issues described above, other changes that were taking place in the Ukrainian economy
diminished relevance of the original project objectives. These changes included strong export led growth,
the priority of EU integration, the growing importance of the wider investment climate and the growing
availability of extensive technical assistance and training from other sources on a grant basis, including the
IFC.

In early 2005, the Bank reviewed the status of project implementation based on all the above mentioned
factors. It became evident to the Bank that, three crucial aspects for the successful implementation of the
project were lacking. These were: (i) the Borrower's inability to mobilize its own financing ($4 million) as


                                                     - 6 -

agreed in the Loan Agreement due to lack of commitment on their part; (ii) UCER's inability to build its
capacity in the critical areas of project promotion and monitoring due to interference from the SCRPE one
year after it had been established; and (iii) the changes in the Ukrainian economy. These factors had a
negative impact on the implementation of the project and as a result, the Borrower violated several Loan
and Project Agreements, namely:

1.      Failure of the Government to solve the financial issues breached the covenants of Article III,
Section 3.01. of the Loan Agreement, which states among others that the Borrower will "take or cause to
be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or
appropriate to enable UCER to perform its obligations".

2.      The performance of the SCRPE and the lack of tangible actions by the Government to find
appropriate remedies constitute a breach of the Article III, Section 3.01 (a) of the Loan Agreement that
SCRPE will "not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance" [i.e. UCER to perform in accordance with the Project Agreement]; and that it made it
impossible for UCER to fulfill its obligations under the Article II Section 2.01 (a) of the Project
Agreement, namely that UCER "shall carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency".

3.      The combination of highly unsatisfactory performance with outdated specific objectives of the
Project justifies the remedies of the Bank triggered by Article V Section 5.01 (c) of the Loan Agreement
that "A situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or significant part
thereof, will be carried out". This would be particularly valid for the envisaged next stages of the phased
Project (APL) as declared in the Recital (A) of the Preamble of the Loan Agreement.

Based on the above, in mid 2005, the Bank decided to inform the Borrower, that unless drastic actions were
taken to rectify the prevailing situation within three months, the Bank would be forced to suspend
disbursements, cancel the remaining Loan amount and close the project. While outdated specific objectives
were not fatal for a well performing project, the combination of outdated specific objectives and poor
performance due to the failure of the Borrower to support the project in a tangible way, led the Bank to
believe that the achievement of the development objectives were very slim. The three month period elapsed
and the Borrower had not presented measures satisfactory to the Bank to rectify the situation. As a result,
the Bank was forced to suspend disbursements in June 2005, cancel the remaining Loan amount of
US$27.9 million and close the Project as of February 9, 2006.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Enterprise Restructuring (market adjustment)

The objective of this component was to (i) support and help accelerate Government's reform effort by: (a)
providing advisory services through - UCER) aimed at improving the profitability, productivity, and
general operational of private and privatized enterprises; (b) supporting and facilitating development of a
highly qualified domestic consulting industry; and (ii) to strengthen constituency for reform at the oblast
level consisting of entrepreneurs, managers, local academia, consultants and other stakeholders benefiting
from enterprise restructuring and market-friendly business environment.

Initial work on enterprise restructuring was carried out under a PHRD Grant, between1999-2001. During
this period, four enterprises were restructured and ninety local consultants were trained. Funds from the
Project Preparation Facility (PPF), which was in force between 2000-2002, were used to provide TA to the
four selected Oblasts. As a result, eight enterprises received restructuring services. In addition, sixty local
consultants and ten managers were trained, mostly through on-the-job training, supervised by a team of



                                                     - 7 -

international consultants. Training was provided in the areas of restructuring techniques, marketing,
finance, accounting, human resource management and general management.

The project was approved in late 2002. The first phase of the project was expected to provide business
advice to about 200 enterprises, and to be piloted in four selected oblasts, namely Chernovtsy,
Khmelnitsky, Volvn and Zhitomir. However, due to the delays experienced in project implementation,
these oblasts did not participate and were replaced by other oblasts.

After much delay, a consulting contract was signed to provide assistance to Lugansk and Kharkiv oblasts,
covering 20 enterprises. The assignment was split into four phases: (i) Selection and training of local
consultants; (ii) Selection and diagnostic analysis of enterprises; (iii) Implementation of enterprise
restructuring plans; and (iv) Organization of study/benchmarking visits. The selected consulting firm ran
into problems with selecting 20 enterprises for participation in the Project, which were contracted only 7
(seven) months after the Contract was signed. This delay may have been caused in part by poor contract
design. The Center brought to the attention of the World Bank the need to consider the possibility of
amending it and applying a lump-sum contract in this and in future cases.

With all the related problems, the Bank team was satisfied with the progress made towards the
implementation of this component. The enterprises showed strong commitment and were eager to move
ahead with the restructuring plans, which were discussed and agreed with them. The diagnostic phase was
completed in May of 2005 and restructuring plans were prepared for the 20 enterprises. The findings were
discussed with the enterprise management and restructuring plans agreed upon. However, by this time the
Bank had decided to suspend Disbursements and cancel the Loan, including the subcomponent financing of
the existing contract with the consultants. As a result, phase three was not implemented.

In 2006, the Bank interviewed five randomly selected enterprises from among the twenty that benefited
from the program. The enterprises presented a very positive opinion about the program and stated that they
benefited from the technical assistance provided. Complaints were made against the project implementation
unit (UCER) in reference to their lack of competence and qualified personal, lack of decision-making
powers, cumbersome procurement and reporting procedures and significant delays in payment of the both
the international and local consultants. Recommendations were also made by the enterprises for: (i) the
consultants to be more accommodating of local tradition and experience; and (ii) to conduct some type of
an information campaign among SME managers before launching consulting or training modules in order
to educate them about the potential benefits of such projects. However, within its competence the Center
took numerous steps to deal with problematic issues, such as covering the taxes that arose during the
procurement of goods and services. In particular, jointly with the State Committee for Regulatory Policy
and Entrepreneurship, an updated concept of the Project was drafted which was presented to the
Government and the World Bank and addressed most of the problems and necessary amendments to the
design of the Project.


Managerial and Consulting Secondments

The objective of this component was to expose the managers and consultants to new concepts of
market-oriented management, marketing and production through practical internships in leading firms
abroad. No activities were carried out under this component and no funds were disbursed.

Monitoring and Project Administration




                                                     - 8 -

The project was to be administered by a non-profit organization, the UCER. UCER was to sub-contract
restructuring assistance to be provided to participating enterprises to the best available international,
turn-around consulting firms. Initial capacity building for the UCER was carried out under a PHRD Grant
between 1999 and 2001. Additional assistance was provided to strengthen the UCER under the PPF
between 2001 and 2003. However, the UCER was never staffed as originally envisaged and was delegated
to the role of a project implementation unit, dealing with procurement and financial management activities.
This was mainly due to the deteriorating working relationship between SCRPE and UCER. The main task
of selecting appropriate enterprises for restructuring, managing the work of consulting firms, perpetuating
continuous and productive dialogue between the Government and the private sector and selecting and
training local specialist were limited to an unsatisfactory minimum. This had a major negative impact on
the implementation of the other three components.

Improvement of Regulatory Environment

This component was to assist the Ukrainian Government to provide high power incentives for oblast
authorities to improve the regulatory environment. No activities were carried out under this component and
no funds were disbursed.


4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable.


4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.


4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project had no institutional development impact, apart from the establishment of the UCER.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The project had a long gestation period from the time the Concept Note was prepared in 1998 to the time
the project became active, only in late 2003. During this period and through the time that disbursements
were suspended in mid 2005, extensive changes were also taking place in the Ukrainian economy. After a
long period of economic collapse during project preparation, Ukraine's economy grew more than 50%
between 2000 and 2004, and the 12.1 percent rate recorded in 2004 was the highest in Europe.
Improvements in fiscal management and sustained export-led growth enhanced Ukraine's external position
and lowered public and publicly guaranteed debt from 67% of GDP in 1999 to 25% in 2004. Apart from
the strong export-led growth, other positive factors included the priority of EU integration and growing
availability of TA and training from other sources on a grant basis. These factors to a large extent made
the original project objectives outdated. The country also went through important political changes, which
altered the support for the project and its implementation.


5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The project was approved by the Bank's Board in March 2002 and declared Effective in April 2003. The
Borrower's Parliament did not ratify the project under their usual procedures, but under a modified



                                                     - 9 -

procedure, only in September 2003 (back-dated to April 2003). This was mostly due to the often changes
in the government, and political turmoil in the parliament leading to non-ratification of the project. The
factors that were under the control of the Government and led to the unsatisfactory performance of the
project and its subsequent cancellation was the lack of ownership by the Government, after the project
became effective. This manifested itself in: (i) the refusal of the Government to provide counterpart
funding; and (ii) hindering effective project implementation by undermining the role of the UCER, via the
SCRPE.


5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The main role of the UCER as the implementing agency was for: (i) selecting enterprises for restructuring;
(ii) managing the work of consultants; (iii) perpetuating continuous and productive dialogue between the
Government and the private sector: and organizing on-the-job training for managers of participating
enterprises. However, their role was undermined by the SCRPE and was delegated to that of handling
procurement, financial management and reporting, which was handled as best as possible, under difficult
circumstances.


5.4 Costs and financing:
Out of the original loan amount of $30 million, $27.9 million was cancelled. Local contributions came in
the form of fees collected from the participating enterprises. The Government contributions of $4 million,
estimated at appraisal never materialized. The financial management aspect of the project was satisfactory
throughout the life of the project, with all audit reports submitted on time and with un-qualified opinions.


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The Project was conceived to foster private sector development in Ukraine using a bottom-up approach,
which was to focus on enterprise adjustment and the creation of a market-friendly regulatory environment.
Given the lack of ownership by the Borrower and changes in the economic environment, the sustainability
of this approach is unlikely unless, serious institutional changes are made at the central level of
administration. The project showed that there was a strong commitment to the general objective of the
project at the levels of local authorities (oblasts) and participating enterprises. Based on five random
interviews of the beneficiaries (from among the 20 enterprises that participated in the diagnostic phase)
carried out by the Bank, and its own observations during supervision, it is quite evident that the enterprise
sector desperately needs technical assistance and funding for investments. Any further Bank assistance to
the private sector would require prior improvement in the counterpart behaviour at the central level.


6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Since only very few activities were carried out under the project and the project cancelled transition
arrangements are not applicable. The twenty enterprises that received TA and restructuring plans were
unable to move forward due to lack of funding.


7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's overall performance in the identification, preparation and appraisal of the project was


                                                      - 10 -

unsatisfactory. There was a time lag of almost four years between the time the Concept Note was prepared
and when the project was approved by the Board. This lengthy gestation period may have contributed to
some of the concepts as originally envisaged to become obsolete. In addition, the project design did not
provide the flexibility to make changes to fit the current requirements. The Bank was perhaps too tolerant
with recurrent delays and seems not to have fully explored the available instruments to reduce the
preparation time and increase effectiveness of preparation funds. For example, the Bank was aware that
capacity had to be built up to implement the project and a PHRD Grant was available for project
preparation. The PHRD funds could have been used more effectively to reduce preparation time and
leverage project preparation funds. Apart from the timing and design issues, the total preparation costs of
the project to the Bank largely exceeded the expected amount for this type of an operation.


7.2 Supervision:
Supervision missions were carried out regularly and included the involvement of bank experts and the local
staff who closely monitored project's activities. But the project encountered implementation problems since
its inception, a circumstance that made project supervision a non-trivial activity. Essentially, the bank
team failed to fully assess the key project implementation bottlenecks and to propose, within an adequate
timeframe, the necessary actions to overcome the existing obstacles. Overall, the Bank seems not to have
been pro-active enough, and within the appropriate time-horizon, to overcome the existing implementation
impasses. In this context, the Bank supervision is rated unsatisfactory.

In particular, the Bank team failed to recognize indications of decreasing ownership for the project. The
fact that it was approved under different procedures -- and not ratified by the Borrower's parliament -- as it
was originally expected, was a first sign. It has to be noted, that the project failed to be ratified due to the
unrelated political turmoil in the parliament, and the government in power believed that effectiveness of the
project based on the government opinion (without ratification) would be the best available solution.
Retrospectively, it is possible to say that the government which followed was much less supportive and that
the solution did not work. A second sign was the inaction in providing an effective solution to the VAT
problem. Besides possible initial misunderstandings regarding the responsibility of VAT payment, the size
of the amounts involved and the fact that the issue was really trivial from the point of view of Bank
procedures, should have prompted a quicker solution, if the Government had the inclination to move ahead
with project implementation.

With the benefit of hindsight, it seems that the Bank could have acted faster to address some of the latent
problems with implementation. Several alternatives could have been considered earlier on. For example,
amending the project design in order to factor in the new country financing parameters would have helped
to address the counterpart funding problem. Increasing bureaucratic problems imposed on the
implementation agency could have also been addressed by the Bank team, quicker and more effectively.
Finally, the Bank team could have better coordinated its efforts with the IFC program in the Ukraine,
especially with respect to changing the project components that were never implemented.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The overall Bank performance was unsatisfactory. The three main issues that contributed to the poor
implementation and subsequent cancellation were the long gestation period of the project, poor project
design and the increasing lack of ownership by the Borrower. In the first two cases, the Bank had some
control over the problem and did not effectively pursue a solution. In the third case, the Bank team failed to
recognise this issue at an early stage. These experiences should be used in designing of future operations of
this nature.




                                                     - 11 -

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower worked closely with the Bank in the preparation phase. However, its performance was not
satisfactory, due to its Parliament not ratifying the Loan according to the regular procedure, which led
ultimately to a lack of ownership by the Borrower.


7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government's implementation performance was highly unsatisfactory. The Borrower did not provide
the required contributions to implement the various components and also hindered project progress by
introducing cumbersome procurement and approval procedures that hindered implementation.


7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the UCER was unsatisfactory. It should be noted that the UCER was not staffed as
originally envisaged and its authority was curtailed. Only a core group was recruited to handle
procurement, financial management and daily project implementation activities. Selecting appropriate
enterprises, managing the work of consultants, and carrying out productive dialogue between the
Government and the private sector were to be performed by qualified consultants. These individuals were
not hired by the UCER. In addition, the head of the UCER was changed four times during project
implementation, which led to further disruption of implementation.


7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall Borrower performance was highly unsatisfactory, for the reasons mentioned above.


8. Lessons Learned

There are three lessons that have emerged from this project that can be used to avoid similar circumstance
in the future:

1.       Keep the project cycle consistent with the opportunity offered by a favourable constituency
and the project's economic/social relevance in a given context. The long time period between the
approval of the project concept note and project effectiveness could have had an impact on project
implementation as well. The Bank should have made a better effort to shorten this time period. Also,
during the long gestation period (almost four years), the political and economic environment changed
significantly for the better, making the project less relevant for the country and affecting its political
support. The original concepts were not satisfactorily revised to suit the new context at appraisal. From the
perspective of the current situation in the Ukraine economy, the overall objective of the project ­ increased
competitiveness of the enterprise sector ­ is still valid, but the specific narrower objectives of the Project
and the activities leading to their fulfilment became partly outdated.

2.       As the economic and political environment changes, the Bank needs to adjust fast and
effectively, benefiting from the flexibility given by operational rules. The flexibility given by Bank
policy in the past, however, may not be enough to prompt an effective project restructuring. As has been
long recognized by OPCS, projects designs tend to be excessively rigid, making adaptation too complex.
Project restructuring entails a cumbersome process at both legal and operation levels. Despite potential
benefits of full restructuring, those who must do it--both on the Borrower and Bank sides--bear heavy



                                                    - 12 -

costs and reap few rewards. Not surprisingly, most project changes are "informal" or tend to happen at the
margin, normally not reaping the gains that could be had from a full restructuring of a project. The Bank
estimates that no more than 3 percent of its total projects is restructured in a given year while the QAG
team estimates that at least 3 informal restructuring takes place for each two that goes through the formal
process. The current project seems a typical case in which Bank incentives were insufficient to trigger
adequate adjustment. (See "Making Projects Easier to Restructure and More Adaptable". Operations Policy and
Country Services. Presentation to ECA/MNA/SAR -- Project Implementation Workshop. February 2, 2005)

  3.    Building ownership for project implementation and project sustainability requires
broad-based consensus building. Support of key high-ranking officials may be enough for project
approval but is insufficient for implementation and the sustainability of results, particular in institutionally
unstable countries, such as Ukraine. The fact that the project was not ratified by Parliament and approved
under different procedures was an indication that this broad-based consensus was missing. A deeper
analysis to identify the extent of ownership across different government institutions in Ukraine might have
helped to identify the key stakeholders of the project at an earlier stage, increasing the chances of successful
project implementation. This may be particularly important in a country with a fragmented political
structure and new institutions, as was the case of Ukraine. Stronger consensus building would also have
helped to solidify full-support for project implementation and sustainability within the Ukrainian
government and the Regions (Oblasts).


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
In November 2002, Ukraine and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development signed Loan
Agreement # 7111-UA, which provided the legal basis for Private Sector Development Project
implementation.

        The project's budget totaled US$ 38 m, including US$30 m in the WB loan. The implementation
period: 11.07.2002 ­ 06.30.2007.

        The project's objective was defined as establishing a strong and competitive private sector through
creation of a climate conducive to the growth of entrepreneurial activity, reactivation of production,
promotion of promising businesses, creation of new jobs and improvement of performance of the
restructured enterprises.

        This objective was planned to achieve by way of restructuring (The concept restructuring in the
context of this Project means market adjustment.)160 enterprises and training 600 consultants and 350
managers of enterprises.

        The State Committee of Ukraine for Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship (SCRPE) was
designated as principal executing agency and key administrator of budget funds under the Project.

        Under Loan Agreement # 7111-UA of 11.07.2002, the Ukrainian Center for Enterprise
Restructuring and Private Sector Development was appointed as implementing agency. The UCERPSD
had been set up pursuant to Regulation of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine #1736 of 11.03.98 to
provide organizational and financial support to the private sector development programs in the framework
of arrangements between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and international financial institutions.




                                                    - 13 -

         The problems associated with the Project implementation were caused by systemic errors that had
been built into the Project from the outset: (i) the absence of ratification of the Loan Agreement by the
Ukrainian Parliament, (ii) failure to identify the necessary sources of financing of taxes and other
impositions that occur in procuring goods (works, services) for Project implementation. (Report on the Audit
of the Main Inspection and Auditing Department of Ukraine Efficiency of Utilization of Budget Funds in Carrying
Out the Activities under the National Program of Promotion of Small Businesses in Ukraine and Private Sector
Development in 2002-04, that was conducted in March-April of 2005.)

         It will be noted that, due to the length of the procedures for putting the Loan Agreement into effect
and adjustment of procurement procedures under the Project, its implementation did not commence, in point
of fact, until September of 2003, i.e. almost a year after the signing of the Loan Agreement.

         Also, frequent changes in the government and related staff transfer became the main adverse factor
that could not but affect the performance of the implementing agency and hence the Project.

         In early 2005, the Project got a second wind following stepping up the activities in Kharkiv and
Lugansk oblasts (regions) and signing partner financing contracts with the enterprises involved in the
Project. Activities on the second group of oblasts (Odesa and Mykolayiv), which were previously put on
hold, were recommenced and appropriate recommendations for stepping up work on the Project were made.
Since early 2005, certain changes for the better have taken place in streamlining the interface between the
executive bodies concerned and the UCERPSD under the Project, which the World Bank has noted on
several occasions.

         Due to concerns about the slow pace of the Project and for the purpose of eliminating the related
shortcomings, the SCRPE developed a modernized Project Concept in conjunction with the executive
bodies concerned, social and professional organizations, and independent experts. The Concept's key areas
included: (i) enhancing the viability and competitive capacity of domestic industries so as to minimize the
likely short-term negative impact of Ukraine's WTO accession, (ii) improving the regulatory environment
in priority industries and sectors of the economy, (iii) developing the national consulting market, (iv)
transfer of advanced management knowledge and technologies, (v) assisting national enterprises' entry into
external markets.

         The draft Concept was brought before a Cabinet of Ministers meeting (August, 2005), following
which more consultations were held with the WB on ways of addressing the problems associated with
Project implementation.

         The following was attained in the course of the project:
-        Databases of enterprises and individual consultants were created, which formed a basis for
identifying the enterprises and consultants to be involved in the Project in          Lugansk, Kharkiv,
Odesa and Mykolayiv oblasts;
-        The economic climate and regulatory environment in the Project oblasts were surveyed;
-        Representative offices were opened in Lugansk, Kharkiv, Odesa and Mykolayiv oblasts;
-        20 enterprises were selected on the first group of the Project oblasts ­ Kharkiv, Lugansk (the
enterprises employ some 6,000 people, the volume of production by the                 results of 2004 is over
UAH 395 m per year, with exports amounting to UAH 150 m) At the time of termination of the Project, 20
enterprises of the first group of           oblasts were under restructuring, at which diagnostic analyses had
been carried out and restructuring plans developed, with the related activities completed by
         approximately 30%;
-        A tender for restructuring 20 enterprises in Lugansk and Kharkiv oblasts was held, a contract was



                                                      - 14 -

put together and awarded to the winning bidder;
-        A requirements specification for restructuring (market adjustment) 32 enterprises in Mykolayiv and
Odesa oblasts was developed and approved;
-        Consultants were selected and tested in the regions;
-        83 local consultants received training under a 50 hours program, which included the following
modules: Consulting Basics, Methodology of Development and                              Implementation of
Strategic Changes, Analysis of Externalities, Company Performance Analysis, SWOT Analysis, Financial
Analysis and Financial Function Analysis,                    Policy Plan Preparation, Marketing Principles
and Marketing Function Analysis, Strategic Planning Principles; work in teams was conducted and
presentations were                 prepared;
-        Local consultant teams were formed and their contracting carried out to conduct a diagnostic
analysis at enterprises, develop restructuring plans and implement them at enterprises in Lugansk and
Kharkiv oblasts;
-        The issue of participating enterprises` contribution (as the amount of Ukraine's partner financing
of the Project) was addressed and the relevant agreements signed;
-        Diagnostic studies were conducted at the enterprises participating in the Project in Lugansk and
Kharkiv oblasts;
-        Presentations of the diagnostics were made to management and owners of enterprises, plans of
restructuring of participating enterprises were developed;
-        Work on implementation of the restructuring plans, etc. was started.

         According to the WB's letter of December 20, 2005, the Loan will be closed following
disbursement of proceeds against withdrawal applications that are with the WB. By its letter of
02.16.2006, the WB notified of cancellation of the Loan balance and closing the Project on February 9,
2006.

         Given the importance of the objectives of the Project and that its termination should not have a
negative impact on fulfillment of the government's assignments relating to the Ukrainian economy's
integration into the European and world's economic systems, the efforts toward raising the efficiency of
domestic enterprises and improving the management skills of entrepreneurs must go on.

         A project like this is essential for Ukraine, as the requirements of modern market management and
course for integration into the EU and WTO call for a marked improvement in the performance of private
businesses. With the State Budget being predominantly socially orientated, Ukraine will in the last year
lack the funds to carry out comprehensive systemic reforms in private sector development. Therefore, the
real way of addressing the funding of such large-scale transformations is the World Bank's loan. At that,
Project implementation will require appropriate political support.

        The Project was launched in 2002. Although it has not received full financing, the work done by
now is proof of its efficiency and benefit both for the enterprises and the economy of the regions. Thus, in
spite of the fact that the objectives of the Project have not been achieved in full, what has been attained to
date allows the State to have a certain fiscal effect due to increased tax revenues that come from not
completely restructured enterprises, decreased expenditures for unemployment benefits and so on.
Considering the partial completion of activities on the restructuring of the enterprises involved in the
Project, it will be noted that the said fiscal effect does not allow for fully offsetting the expenses connected
with the WB Loan and paying for disbursed proceeds. At the same time, the results achieved serve as a
catalyst for developing the local consulting services markets and will eventually produce a certain
multiplicative effect in the industries/sectors of the economy of the regions. Proof of this is that the
enterprises continue to use on a contract basis the services of consultants trained under the Project. Also,


                                                       - 15 -

the State will receive a certain economic effect from increased exports of goods, capitalization and higher
competitive capacity of the enterprises involved in the Project, pay rises at these enterprises, creation of
new jobs, etc.

         Under the Project, there were developed and tried out in local conditions certain procedures of
enterprise restructuring and models of their successful development that can be used on a large scale,
including with the help of the UCERPSD, at small and medium-sized private businesses in Ukraine as well
as at state-owned enterprises, especially those that are subject to privatization. There were also tested some
regulatory climate evaluation approaches on the regional level, which are to be updated and replicated
across Ukraine for the purpose of creating a favorable regulatory and investment climate.

         Implementation of a new, adapted to the current political and economic conditions, project may
produce more important results, which is borne out both by the increased volume of production and tax
allocation of enterprises in Lugansk and Kharkiv oblasts, where restructuring activities were carried out,
and by the experience of similar projects in Moldova and Georgia.

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                                     - 16 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                           1
               Indicator/Matrix                        Projected in last PSR             Actual/Latest Estimate
Rate of growth of SMEs in                    None projected                     None projected
pilot oblasts;
Rate of growth of output of                  20%                                0%
private sector in pilot
oblasts; and
Value/added per employee in restructured     None projected                     None projected
enterprises




Output Indicators:
                                                                           1
               Indicator/Matrix                        Projected in last PSR             Actual/Latest Estimate
The number of restructured enterprises;      160                                None
The number of created SMEs; the number of None                                  None
trained managers, and
The number of trained consultants. (60 under 143                                143
the PPF and 83 under the project)


1End of project




                                                             - 17 -

  Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

  Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                        Appraisal        Actual/Latest       Percentage of
                                                                         Estimate          Estimate             Appraisal
                            Component                                   US$ million       US$ million
  Enterprise Restructuring (market adjustment)                             24.00                 1.05                     4
  Managerial and Consulting Secondments                                    11.50                 0.00                     0
  Monitoring and Project Administration                                     1.38                 0.81                   59
  Improvement of Regulatory Environment                                     0.82                 0.00                     0

  Total Baseline Cost                                                      37.70                 1.86
    Physical Contingencies                                                  0.00
    Price Contingencies                                                     0.00
                               Total Project Costs                         37.70                 1.86
                                                 Front-end fee              0.30                 0.30              100.00
                       Total Financing Required                            38.00                 2.16
  Note: US$27.9 million was cancelled from the Bank Loan.

  Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

  Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                   1
                                                         Procurement Method
       Expenditure Category                ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                               Other
  1. Works                                 0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
  2. Goods                                 0.00               0.00              0.04             0.00              0.04
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.03)            (0.00)           (0.03)
  3. Services                              0.00               0.00              1.57             0.00              1.57
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.52)            (0.00)           (1.52)
  4. Incremental Operating                 0.00               0.00              0.25             0.00              0.25
  Costs
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.25)            (0.00)           (0.25)
  5. Front End Fee                         0.00               0.00              0.30             0.00              0.30
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.30)            (0.00)           (0.30)
  6. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
      Total                                0.00               0.00              2.16             0.00              2.16
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (2.10)            (0.00)           (2.10)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.

                                                          - 18 -

Note: US$27.9 million from the Bank Loan was canceled.




                                               - 19 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not applicable.




                                      - 20 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                    Month/Year  Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               09/15/1998


 Appraisal/Negotiation
               01/29/2001
               01/28/2002

 Supervision
               09/10/2002                 4   TTL (1); CONSULTANT (3)
               10/08/2003                 2   TTL (1); CONSULTANT (1)               S               S
               10/10/2004                 3   TTL (1); CONSULTANT (2)               U               U

 ICR
               04/10/2006                1     TTL                                  U               U



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                    No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                                               500
  Appraisal/Negotiation                                                235.071
  Supervision                                                          550.125
  ICR                                                                  16.900
  Total                                                               1302.096




                                               - 21 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 22 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 23 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1.   Project Appraisal Document
 2.  Supervision Reports and Correspondence.
 3.  Sample Enterprise Survey




                                            - 24 -

- 25 -

