Report No. PID6857
Project Name                     Ukraine-Private Sector Development APL (@)
(PHASE #1)
Region                           Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                           Industrial Adjustment
Project ID                       UAPE54966
Borrower(s)                      UKRAINE
Implementing Agency
Address
State Committee of Ukraine on Regulatory
Policy and Entrepreneurship
27 Kominterna St., Kyiv 01032, Ukraine
Contact Person: Alexandra Kuzhel
Tel: (380 44) 226 7679
Fax: (380 44) 227 0194
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                February 15, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         February 9, 2001
Projected Board Date             September 2001
1. Country and Sector Background
Following successful stabilization between 1996 and 1997, Ukraine has
maintained a relatively stable macroeconomic environment. However, lack of
structural reforms and the Russian financial crisis prevented a full
economic recovery. Highlights of recent macroeconomic performance
are:Inflation reduced to between 10 - 20 percent.Real GDP decline is
bottoming out: a 3t decline recorded in 1997 was followed by a 1.7w
decline in 1998, and a smaller 0.4w decline in 1999. An increase of 2 W in
GDP is currently projected for the year 2000, based on continued revival
of industrial production (initially metals and metallurgy and more
recently light and food industry) and some recovery of agricultural
production after a 5.4w decline in 1999.The trade and current account
balance have improved, due to real devaluation and a drop in real income.
The NBU has recently estimated the former current account deficit (which
remained virtually unchanged at $1.3 billion in 1997 and 1998), has turned
into a $500 million surplus for 1999. These estimates, however, must be
taken with caution due to the volatile nature of invisibles (net transfers
and net factor incomes).The cash deficit of the general government has
been reduced from 5.6w of GDP in 1997, to 2.8w in 1998 and 2.4w in 1999. A
further reduction in the cash budget deficit to 1.7w (or 09 after
privatization revenues) is expected in the year 2000 based on improved
budget discipline, tighter expenditure controls, elimination of budget
offsets, and cuts in tax privileges and social subsidies, while lowering
tax burdens on the business sector. The development of the private sector,
particularly of new SMEs, has been much slower in Ukraine than in
neighboring Central European countries. There are only three active SMEs
per 1,000 people compared to around 6 in Russia, 25 in Estonia and 35 in
Poland. Although more than 650,000 private firms have been registered,
only some 150,000 are small (less than 50 employees). SME activities



differ geographically and still have very low impact on the economy - on
average, in 1998, small enterprises delivered 8 percent of total
industrial output and employed only 5t of the Ukrainian labor force. In
the most advanced regions, SMEs contribute no more than 15 percent of the
GDP and employment. FDI per capita is US$ 52 or 7 times less than in
neighboring Poland and has had a negligible impact on restructuring of the
Ukrainian economy. Relatively cheap labor could be a comparative
advantage for the Ukrainian economy. This advantage is, however, eroded
by the low quality of products and the high risk of an unstable regulatory
environment. As a result, Ukraine is "specializing" in "dirty" and energy
consuming industries (such as steel products and raw chemicals) where
quality requirements are lower, unaccounted environmental externalities
higher, and where a short-term comparative advantage is possible due to
the depletion of assets installed in Soviet times.The decline in
manufacturing has been even more severe than the average decrease of GDP,
and has led to a change in the GDP composition. The service sector has
increased from 50- in 1997 to 53t in 1999 at the expense of industry,
agriculture and construction. Base industries (coal, energy, ferrous and
non-ferrous metallurgy) have survived in relatively better shape than
machine-building and light industries. The emerging sub-sectors pattern
is that some enterprises within a given sector are struggling to survive
while others have stopped their activities altogether. Structural reforms
have generally been driven by negative forces (contraction and
rent-seeking behavior) rather than expansion of sub-sectors through
green-field investments or serious restructuring at the enterprise level.
However, serious steps to improve the business environment were taken by
the new government appointed in December 1999. These included
simplification of a registration procedure for new entrants, reduction in
the number of state inspections for companies, decreasing the number of
licenses needed to do business, and acceleration of cash privatization of
large Ukrainian enterprises. The new government has canceled almost all
the tax privileges to industrial enterprises (that last year reached USD 4
billion and seriously distorted the competitive environment).Privatization
is the main visible long-term base for the emerging private sector, both
in terms of going concerns and assets. Privatization of SMEs was
practically completed by the end of 1998. On average, new private
companies emerging from state owned enterprises (SOEs) have a better
ownership structure than, for example, their Russian counterparts. In
privatizing larger enterprises, Ukraine succeeded in offering shares of
privatized companies through open auctions to outsiders. Independent
shareholder registrars and public disclosure requirements introduced early
in the reform program also make management more accountable to
shareholders.   In addition, managers in enterprises privatized through
buyout-through-leasing," are more accountable to employees than in other
FSU republics. Despite these factors, the incentives and skills necessary
to undertake the challenge of the market economy are poor and the number
of cases of real enterprise restructuring are still too small. The most
common scenario is one in which an insider-led reorganization is usually
oriented towards survival and the preservation of jobs, and is achieved by
rebuilding old networks of cooperation (mostly in the form of barter
transactions). Spinning-off most profitable technological units and
creation of small private trade companies continues, although at the
reduced level. Searching for foreign investors is a part of the agenda but
the fear of losing control on assets is a serious limitation (although
this is decreasing due to the rapidly deteriorating conditions of
- 2-



enterprises). Government's Economic Reform PrioritiesThe Government's
overriding medium term priorities include achieving fiscal sustainability
by improved tax collection and better management of public spending, and
economic growth. The development of a dynamic private sector plays a key
role in the achievement of both priorities. However, the Government
presently operates within an ultra-short time horizon with its decisions
determined by the repayment of foreign and domestic sovereign debt,
constant pressure of overdue budgetary obligations to the social sphere,
and often successful lobbying by industrialists for bail-outs and
subsidies.Despite these unfavorable conditions, systemic reforms are
expected to continue, due in part to ongoing Bank adjustment operations
and the IMF's Extended Fund Facility. These reforms include increased
volumes of the budget revenues through cash privatization of large
infrastructure and other enterprises, and the effective introduction of
international accounting and auditing standards. New business start-ups
will be encouraged by streamlining regulatory processes (deregulation);
creating a simpler, more transparent taxation system; and improving exit
mechanisms by the creation of an appropriate framework and process for
bankruptcy. The capital markets will be developed to improve corporate
governance by increasing transparency, accountability and facilitating
ownership transfer in the secondary markets. It is hoped that the success
of the PSD Project in training managers, local consultants, and turning
around enterprises will create a strong demonstration effect and a lobby
for PSD at the local level, thereby improving the climate for PSD in
Ukraine from the 'bottom up'.
2. Objectives
The development objective of the first phase of the PSD Program is to lay
the groundwork for the development and expansion of the private sector in
Ukraine by: a. Creating demand for restructuring and constituencies for
reform at the enterprise and oblast level and responding to this demand by
creating sustainable institutional capabilities, creating a market for
managerial expertise and developing local capabilities to utilize and
supply this market; b. Demonstrating the economic pay-offs resulting from
positive restructuring by assuring the sufficient and significant supply
response to reforms (including increased sales. exports, investments, FDI
of pilot enterprises); andc. Providing incentives to oblasts'
administrations (by making progress in business environment a precondition
for assistance) to reduce administrative costs of doing business. This
approach is intended to demonstrate the benefits that can be expected from
successful enterprise restructuring, training of managers and consultants,
and improvements in the legal and regulatory environment for business
activities.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank's experience with successful post-privatization restructuring of
enterprises and development of managers' skills (Moldova, Georgia) and the
experience of other countries in the region (Poland, Slovenia, Hungary,
and Slovakia) can provide a powerful demonstration effect for the
Ukrainians. Furthermore, synergies will be created with the Bank's
on-going adjustment operations, and provide strong policy and financial
support to the reformist element of the Government in undertaking
difficult measures. The project will consolidate and strengthen a variety
of donor activities already in place by using donor supported business
centers (e.g. created by the IFC TA projects. See Box 1), and intensify
- 3 -



the work on accounting reform and capital market development already begun
under other Bank and donor funded programs. The project can leverage the
training and business advisory work that has been done by the business
centers in the regions by following up with on-site assistance to
enterprises. The Netherlands Government has committed NLG 5 million
(approximately USD 2.05 million) for the PSD activities supported by this
Loan. The discussions on possible cooperation with other donors - like EU
(TACIS) and USAID are proceeding. The project strengthens and expands, in
a hands-on way, the reforms supported by the Bank's adjustment lending for
private sector development and deregulation through the First and Second
EDAL, and the Programmatic Adjustment Loan. Lastly, the Bank will use
consultants from Moldova and Georgia that were involved in the
implementation of similar programs in their own countries, and are experts
in the areas of enterprise restructuring and management training.Box
lComplimenting its core investment activity, IFC has provided major
technical assistance and consultation to the Government of Ukraine since
1993. The focus of this assistance is in privatization and corporate
sector development. Currently, the IFC is working on three technical
assistance projects in Ukraine:Unfinished Construction Site Divestiture -
aimed at the creation of a new class of private owners, the development of
small and medium-sized businesses, the formation of a competitive
environment in this field on the basis of unfinished construction
objects. It also helps to divest unproductive assets as a
pre-restructuring activity at 6 enterprises involved in the PSD Loan
preparation;Corporate Governance - targeted at improvement of the
investment climate in Ukraine by laying a solid foundation for
incorporation of effective corporate governance practices at newly
privatized Ukrainian enterprises that will complement the successful
enterprise restructuring provided under the PSD Loan.Business Development
- focused on providing assistance in overcoming obstacles to the
development of small-scale and medium-scale businesses through creation of
the business-centers throughout Ukraine. In addition, the project advised
central government officials on policy issues.
4. Description
Component #1:  Enterprise Restructuring (market adjustment)(i) To support
and help accelerate Government's reform effort by: (a) providing advisory
services through the implementing agency, the Ukrainian Center for
Enterprise Restructuring and Private Sector Development (UCER) aimed at
improving the profitability, productivity, and general operational,
financial and managerial efficiency of private and privatized enterprises;
(b) supporting and facilitating development of a highly qualified domestic
consulting industry which thoroughly understands the unique local business
and political climate in the process of economic development and
transition; and (ii) To strengthen constituency for reform at the oblast
level consisting of entrepreneurs, managers, local academia, consultants
and other stakeholders benefiting from enterprise restructuring and
market-friendly business environment.
Component #2: Management Training ("Marshall Plan")
To expose managers and consultants to new concepts of market-oriented
management, marketing and production through practical internships in
leading firms abroad.
Component #3: Monitoring and Project Administration
- 4 -



i. Selecting appropriate enterprises, and ensuring rational
implementation of a restructuring framework plan, which sets forth the
various obligations and commitments of the enterprise (specific targets,
dates, deadlines) , realistic financing plans and agreed sanctions for
non-cpompliance;
ii. Managing the work of consulting teams, including preparation of Terms
of Reference (TORs), selection of consulting firms, supervision of
consultant work progress and deliverables, intermediation between
enterprises and consultants, quality control of consultant work, and
payment for consultant services;
iii. Perpetuating continuous and productive dialogue between the
Government and private sector (through the UCER Supervisory Board)
concerning necessary reform measures to facilitate enterprise adjustment
to markets;
iv. Selecting , recruiting and training local specialists that will
team-up with foreign consultants to ensure the advice and resources of
foreign consultants are most effectively utilized and directed where
needed; and
v. Organizing on-the-job training for managers of participating
enterprises in leading firms abroad.
Component #4: Improvement of Regulatory Environment
To assist the Ukrainian Government and provide high power incentives for
oblast authorities to improve the regulatory framework of the private
sector by:
i. Introduction of performance-based incentives into the oblast-level
policy process - linking exit from the project to real improvements in the
regulatory environment which will be monitored through the use of
bi-annual surveys;
ii. Enhancement of institutuional capacity of the State Committee on
Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship (SCRPE) to effectively implement
State regulatory policy through its regional offices; and
iii. Empowering institutuion of Civil Society and especially regulatory
associations in their relations with local authorities and building local
capacity to conduct credible policy research, analyze data and use it to
improve the policy making process.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
GOVERNMENT 10
IBRD 30
MIN. OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS / MIN. OF DEV. COOP. - NETHERLANDS 2
Total Project Cost 42
6. Implementation
The project minimizes the dependence on the central government
administration. A Working Group established by the Government for the
proposed PSD Loan, and chaired by a First Deputy Prime Minister, is to be
- 5-



used for policy dialogue and intervention only when necessary. The
project will be implemented on a day-to-day basis by the Ukrainian Center
for Enterprise Restructuring and Private Sector Development (UCER) which
is a specially created non-governmental non-profit agency that will also
serve as the project implementation unit. UCER will delegate many of the
implementation functions to its regional branches to minimize the
potential impact of national political turbulence on project
implementation. The project is to be started in four pilot oblasts
(Khmelnitsky, Chernovtsi, Zhitomir and Volin), which were selected because
their potential for reform has been demonstrated by: (1) commitment of
local authorities (reduction of bureaucratic obstacles to PSD, in-kind and
financial support to implementing agencies);     (2) commitment of visited
enterprises to participate in the project; and (3) existence of a robust
business community. The project will also work with and support a variety
of non-governmental organizations, self-regulating organizations (SROs) of
managers and consultants, training organizations, and independent research
groups. The oblast administration achievements will be monitored
regularly through the surveys that assess the cost of doing business.
Financial ManagementFinancial Management Assessment: The responsibility
for financial management of the project will rest with UCER, the project
implementation agency. A financial management specialist (accountant) has
been employed in UCER since its establishment as a legal entity managing
Bank-financed private sector development program in Ukraine in November
1998. During project appraisal, the Bank assessed the financial
management capacity of the PSD Center and confirmed that its financial
financial management capacity and systems satisfy Bank requirements.
Project Management Reports (PMRs): Management-oriented PMRs will be used
for project monitoring and supervision. The Cash Model PMR format has
been included in the draft Operational Manual and will be confirmed during
Negotiations. UCER will produce a full set of PMRs each calendar quarter
throughout the life of the project beginning with the period ending 18
months after project effectiveness date. However, the PMRs showing the
project's sources and uses of funds (PMR 1A) and the project's Special
Account Statement (PMR 1E) will be produced from project effectiveness and
the four procurement management reports (PMRs 3A, 3B, 3C and 3D) will be
produced within six months of project effectiveness. Disbursements:
Project funds will be initially disbursed under the Bank's established
procedures, including Statements of Expenditure (SOEs). A move to
PMR-based disbursements will be made at the mutual agreement of the
Government and the Bank and will be considered once the PIU is familiar
with the project's monitoring aspects and is considered able to produce
sufficiently timely and reliable project management information. A change
to PMR-based disbursements will be considered by the project's mid-term
review.Audit Arrangements: External audits by independent private
auditors acceptable to the Bank, and on terms of reference acceptable to
the Bank will be procured by UCER through Least-Cost Selection and the
selection of the project's auditors is a condition of Board presentation.
Annual audited financial statements of the Project will be provided to the
Bank within 6 months after the end of each fiscal year and also at the
closing of the project. The contract for the audit will be extended from
year-to-year with the same auditor, subject to satisfactory performance.
The cost of the audit will be financed from the proceeds of the Loan.
7. Sustainability
UCER should be sustainable after five years of operation (operational
- 6 -



costs exclude the costs of foreign consultants). Restructured enterprises
are expected to cover follow-up costs that may occur relating to
continuous adjustment, finding investors and external financing, and
training of staff. Even if progress on the project is deemed
unsatisfactory to move to the second phase of the APL, the program will be
successful because the training and assistance provided in the Phase One
TA portion of the loan will leave behind a critical mass of trained
Ukrainian managers, turnaround specialists, and restructured enterprises.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Extensive work is necessary to ensure that both the government, local
officials and politicians clearly understand the merits of spending public
resources on TA to privatized enterprises to build the skills of managers.
The importance of study tours so that senior Government officials see
first-hand the success of similar projects in nearby transition countries,
and view how the projects are implemented and working, in order to improve
political support for the project. The importance of training local
consultants who will participate in the project in nearby transitional
countries which have already implemented the project. The importance of a
strong World Bank staff located in-country for extensive project
preparation and intensive project supervision. The importance of
establishing a highly qualified locally staffed non-governmental agency as
the implementing unit, which has strong local leadership.The importance of
requiring demonstrated up-front commitment of participating regions, which
have demonstrated their commitment by supporting the restructuring of 3-4
restructured during the project preparation phase.Ensuring that
expectations for success take into account realistic time frames,
including that this project is a bottom-up (or grass-roots) approach which
involves massive (re)education and training of many political leaders,
stakeholders, interest groups and individuals; and for this type of
project to have a demonstrated "trickle up" effect on the economy will
take time.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     Y
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        The project will have no direct impact on the
environment. The Project does not deal with enterprises with severe
problems (including environmental ones), which cannot be solved without
large investments. For the purposes of Operational Directive 4.01, the
project has, therefore, been placed in Category C and does not require an
environmental assessment.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Vladimir G. Kreacic
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Tel: 5256+260
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
-7-



1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending March 9, 2001.
- 8 -



