Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7111-UA 
 
Project Agreement 
 
(Private Sector Development Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
and 
 
UKRAINIAN CENTER FOR ENTERPRISE RESTRUCTURING 
AND 
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT  
 
Dated November 7, 2002 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7111-UA 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT,  dated November 7, 2002, between INTERNATIONAL BANK 
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and UKRAINIAN 
CENTER FOR ENTERPRISE RESTRUCTURING AND  PRIVATE SECTOR 
DEVELOPMENT
 
(UCER). 
 
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between 
UKRAINE (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the 
Borrower an amount equal to thirty million Dollars ($30,000,000), on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that UCER agree to 
undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement; 
 
(B) 
by a Subsidiary Grant Agreement to be entered into between the MOF 
and SCRPE, on behalf of the Borrower, and UCER, the proceeds of the loan provided for 
under the Loan Agreement will be made available to UCER on the terms and conditions 
set forth in said Subsidiary Grant Agreement; and 
 
WHEREAS UCER, in consideration of the Bank’s entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. 
Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as 
so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth, and the following additional 
terms have the following meanings: 
 
(a) 
“Beneficiary Enterprises” means the enterprises receiving technical 
advisory services under the Project; and 
 
(b) 
“Operational Manual” means the manual adopted by UCER on June 23, 
2001 containing, 
inter alia
,
work plans, training plans and procedures, and accounting 
and financial management, and procurement procedures, to be used for the purpose of 
implementation of the Project, and such term includes any schedules to the Operational 
Manual. 
Page  3
-
2
-
ARTICLE II 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 2.01. 
(a)  UCER declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering, management and private sector practices, and shall 
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and UCER shall otherwise agree, UCER shall carry out the 
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement.
 
Section 2.02. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. 
(a) UCER shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use 
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement and the Project. 
 
(b) 
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, UCER  shall: 
 
(i) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the Borrower and the Bank not later than six (6) 
months before the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Bank and UCER, a plan for 
the future operation of the Project; and 
 
(ii) 
afford the Borrower and the Bank a reasonable opportunity to 
exchange views with UCER on said plan. 
 
Page  4
-
3
-
Section 2.04. 
UCER shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Grant Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, UCER shall not take or 
concur in any action which would have the effect of assigning, amending, abrogating or 
waiving the Subsidiary Grant Agreement or any provision thereof. 
 
Section 2.05. 
(a)  UCER shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with 
the Bank with regard to progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under 
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Grant Agreement, and other matters relating to 
the purposes of the Loan. 
 
(b) 
UCER shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes 
or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the 
purposes of Loan, or the performance by UCER of its obligations under this Agreement 
and under the Subsidiary Grant Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Management and Operations of  UCER  
 
Section 3.01. 
UCER shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, management and private sector 
practices, under the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by 
competent staff in adequate numbers. 
 
Section 3.02. 
UCER shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, 
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, 
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound 
engineering, financial and management  practices. 
 
Section 3.03. 
UCER shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in 
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. 
(a) UCER shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, all in accordance with 
accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, adequate to reflect its 
operations and financial condition and to register separately the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project. 
 
Page  5
-
4
-
(b) UCER 
shall: 
 
(i) 
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each Fiscal Year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;  
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year: (A) certified 
copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, for such year as so audited: and (B) an opinion on 
such statements and report of such audit, by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records, accounts and financial statements, and the audit thereof, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
 
Section 4.02.  (a)  Without li
mitation upon UCER’s progress reporting 
obligations specified in paragraph 2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, UCER shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank a financial monitoring report (FMR), in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, 
showing separately funds provided under the Loan, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned uses of 
such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as of 
the end of the period covered by said report. 
 
Page  6
-
5
-
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) 
days after the end of the first semester after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period 
from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first 
semester; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) 
days after each subsequent semester, and shall cover such semester.  
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension 
 
Section 5.01. 
This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date 
upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective. 
 
Section 5.02. 
This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of UCER 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify UCER thereof. 
 
Section 5.03. 
All this provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Miscellaneous Provisions 
 
Section 6.01. 
Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly 
given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or 
facsimile to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such 
party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have 
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. Deliveries 
made by facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by mail.  The addresses so 
specified are: 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, NW 
 
Washington, DC 20433 
 
United States of America 
Page  7
-
6
-
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423 (MCI) or 
(1-202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
For UCER: 
 
Ukrainian Center for Enterprise Restructuring and 
 
Private Sector Development 
 
14b, Dymitrova St. 
 
Kyiv, 01030 
 
Ukraine 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(380-44) 227-1097 
 
Section 6.02. 
Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of UCER may be 
taken or executed by its Executive Director or such other person or persons as the 
Executive Director shall designate in writing, and UCER shall furnish to the Bank 
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such 
person. 
 
Section 6.03. 
This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument. 
 
Page  8
-
7
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By  /s/  Luca Barbone 
Director 
Ukraine, Belarus and Moldova 
Europe and Central Asia  
 
UKRAINIAN CENTER FOR ENTERPRISE 
RESTRUCTURING AND PRIVATE 
SECTOR DEVELOPMENT CENTER 
 
By  /s/ Kostyantyn Gryshchenko 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  9
-
8
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Procurement and Consultants' Services 
 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods
Part A
:
General
Goods shall be procured by UCER in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by 
the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule. 
 
Part B
:
Procurement Procedures
1. 
International  Shopping
Except as otherwise prescribed in paragraph 2 below, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
 
2. National 
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $130,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
 
Part C
:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any request for quotations for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of 
said paragraph 1. 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
2. Prior 
Review
With respect to: (i) the first two (2) contracts to be procured in accordance with 
the procedures referred to in paragraph 1 of Part B of this Section I, regardless of the cost 
thereof; and (ii) the first two (2) contracts to be procured in accordance with the 
procedures referred to in paragraph 2 of Part B of this Section I, regardless of the cost 
thereof, the following provisions shall apply: 
 
(a) 
prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping procedures, UCER 
shall provide to the Bank a report on the comparison and evaluation of quotations 
received; 
 
(b) 
prior to the execution of any contract procured under shopping 
procedures, UCER shall provide to the Bank a copy of the specifications and the draft 
contract; and 
 
(c) 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured by UCER in accordance with the 
provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and 
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in 
January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule. 
 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-
based selection of consultants. 
 
Page  11
-
10 -
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
Services under Part B of the Project which are estimated to cost $100,000 
equivalent or more per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $9,000,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. Least-cost 
Selection
Services under Parts C and D of the Project estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
3. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services under Parts C and D of the Project estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $400,000 equivalent, 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
4. Individual 
Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines and estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $3,200,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for 
its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 
to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with 
the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
Page  12
-
11 -
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
providing services estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures 
set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to the first two (2) contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms providing services estimated to cost less than the equivalent of 
$100,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph 
of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(c) 
With respect to: (i) the first two (2) contracts for the employment of 
individual consultants providing services, regardless of the cost thereof; and (ii) each 
contract for the employment of individual consultants providing services estimated to 
cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference 
and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior 
review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall 
have been given. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Page  13
-
12 -
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Implementation Program 
 
1. 
UCER shall implement the Project in accordance with the Operational Manual, 
and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the UCER shall not amend or waive any 
provision thereof if, in the opinion of the Bank, such amendment or waiver may 
materially and adversely affect the implementation of the Project. 
 
2. UCER 
shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Bank, the 
carrying out of the Project and the measures included in the Program, and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Borrower and the Bank, on or about June 1, 2004, a report integrating the results of 
the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the Program, and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Borrower and the Bank, by July 1, 2004, or such later 
date as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and 
the Program and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter. 
 
3. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, no Beneficiary Enterprises shall 
be considered for receiving advisory services, unless the Beneficiary Enterprises 
are selected in accordance with the following criteria:  
 
(a) 
the percentage of the Beneficiary Enterprise’s shares which is privately 
owned, and the degree to which shareholder commitment to real restructuring with the goal 
of increased profitability and efficiency of the enterprise is demonstrated;  
 
(b) 
the willingness of management to collaborate with the external 
consultants, to permit access to all necessary company information/data, and to contribute 
to the costs of such advisory services (including in kind support);  
 
Page  14
-
13 -
(c) 
the degree to which profitability improvements can be reasonably 
achieved within the constraints of existing equipment and technology, through 
managerial, organizational, accounting, financial and marketing improvements, 
and require little or no initial capital investment; and 
 
(d) 
the degree to which Beneficiary Enterprises are not subject to State 
control, such as price control, restrictions on sales, dependence on monopoly 
state-owned supplier. 
 
4. 
Without limitation to the criteria specified in paragraph 3 above, and 
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, no Beneficiary Enterprises shall be 
considered for receiving advisory services, unless such enterprises have made 
arrangements to: (i) vest the new management team with appropriately broad 
authority to sell assets, reduce the workforce, cut costs, renegotiate debts, enter 
into new contracts and discontinue unproductive contractual relations with 
suppliers and buyers; (ii) provide consultants with all requested information and 
data; and (iii) implement the turnaround program recommended by the consultant 
and agreed with UCER, or sell assets to cover payments for overdue tax 
obligations in accordance with the Borrower’s legislation. 
 
Page  15
-
14 -
M:\BACKUP\UKRAINE\W-1823NegotiatedPA.doc 
3/21/2002 6:19 PM 
 
M:\BACKUP\UKRAINE\W-1823NegotiatedPA.doc 
2/27/2002 1:59 PM
 
