Page  1
March 25, 1999
Mr. Roman Shpek
Chairman, National Agency for 
Development and European Integration
Bohadana Khmelnytskoho
Kyiv, 252030, Ukraine
Re:
Japanese Grant Agreement for Preparation of a Private Sector
Development Project - Grant No. TF 025596 - Amendment
Dear Mr. Shpek:
I am referring to the above Japanese Grant Agreement, dated January 8, 1999, and 
countersigned on behalf of Ukraine on February 2, 1999, and to the letter of the 
Director General of the Center for Enterprise Restructuring and Private Sector 
Development, requesting to amend the Agreement to add more procedures for the 
procurement of consultants services.
I am pleased to inform you that we agree to the above request for amendment. 
Therefore, we propose to amend the above Japanese Grant Agreement as follows:
1.
Under Part B of Attachment I (Procurement), the existing paragraph 3 is 
re-numbered as paragraph 5, and the following new paragraphs 3 and 4 are added thereto 
to read as follows:
"3.
Contracts for consultants’ services costing the equivalent of less than 
$100,000, may be procured: (a) on the basis of consultants' qualifications in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultants 
Guidelines; or (b) with the Bank's prior agreement and up to a total number of 
3 
contracts, on the basis of single source selection in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.8 and 3.11 of the Consultants' Guidelines.
4.
The contract for audit services in connection with the Grant may be 
procured on the basis of least-cost selection procedures, in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultants’ Guidelines."
The above amendment shall become effective upon countersignature as of the date 
of February 2, 1999.
Please indicate your agreement to the above amendment by signing and dating the 
two copies of this letter and returning one of them to us.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
   AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Paul Siegelbaum
Country Director
Ukraine and Belarus Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
AGREED
UKRAINE
By /s/ Roman Shpek
Date:  [undated]
Page  2
