                                         CONFORMED COPY


                                   LOAN NUMBER 7111-UA




      Loan Agreement
      (Private Sector Development Project)


                    between


                  UKRAINE

                      and


INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
           AND DEVELOPMENT




            Dated November 7, 2002
                                                              LOAN NUMBER 7111-UA


                                 LOAN AGREEMENT

        AGREEMENT, dated November 7, 2002, between UKRAINE (the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(the Bank).

         WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter dated March 21, 2002, from the
Borrower describing a phased program (the Program) designed to strengthen its private
sector, and to lay the institutional foundation for the long-term sustainability and
development thereof, and declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the implementation of
the said Program;

       (B)     the Borrower has requested the Bank’s support in the execution of the
Program through a series of loans up to an aggregate amount of sixty million Dollars
($60,000,000) over a period of approximately eight (8) years, to be utilized by the
Borrower for implementing the Program;

         (C)     the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of
the first phase of the Program (the Project) described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;

         (D)    the Borrower intends to contract from the British Department for
International Development (DFID) and the Netherlands Minister for Development
Cooperation (the Minister) (collectively the Cofinanciers) grants (respectively, the DFID
Grant and the Minister Grant) in an aggregate amount equivalent to about four million
Dollars ($4,000,000) to assist in financing, respectively, part of the cost of Parts A.1 and
B.2 of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in agreements (respectively, the
DFID Grant Agreement and the Minister Grant Agreement) to be entered into between
the Borrower and each of the Cofinanciers;

        (E)      the Project will be carried out by the Ukrainian Center for Enterprise
Restructuring and Private Sector Development (UCER) with the Borrower’s assistance
and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make the proceeds of the loan provided
for in Article II of this Agreement (the Loan) available to UCER, as set forth in this
Agreement; and

        WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to
extend the Loan to the Borrower in support of the first phase of the Program upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the agreement of even date
herewith between the Bank and UCER (the Project Agreement);

        NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                          -2-


                                      ARTICLE I

                           General Conditions; Definitions

        Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank, dated September 1, 1999 (the General
Conditions), with the modification set forth below, constitute an integral part of this
Agreement:

        Paragraph (c) of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions is modified to read as
follows:

                “(c)     Not later than six (6) months before the Closing Date or such
                later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and
                the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of
                such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the
                execution and initial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits
                derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and
                the Bank of their respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and
                the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.”

        Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:

       (a)     “Fiscal Year” means the twelve-month period corresponding to any of
the Borrower’s fiscal years, which period commences on January 1 and ends on
December 31 in each calendar year;

        (b)     “MOF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance;

        (c)    “Ordinance 1736” means the Ordinance No. 1736 of the Borrower’s
Cabinet of Ministers, dated November 3, 1998, establishing UCER;

        (d)      “Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and UCER
of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time; and such term
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;

        (e)     “Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance
granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to the letter agreement signed on behalf of
the Bank on February 22, 2001, and on behalf of the Borrower on April 23, 2001;
                                           -3-


        (f)      “SCRPE” means the Borrower’s State Committee on Regulatory Policy
and Entrepreneurship which acts as the agency responsible on behalf of the Borrower on
matters related to Project implementation;

        (g)     “Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of
this Agreement; and

         (h)    “Subsidiary Grant Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into
between MOF and SCRPE, both acting on behalf of the Borrower, and UCER pursuant to
the provisions of Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from
time to time; and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Grant Agreement.

       Section 1.03. Each reference in the General Conditions to the Project
implementation entity shall be deemed as a reference to UCER.


                                      ARTICLE II

                                        The Loan

        Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to thirty million
Dollars ($30,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this
Agreement.

         Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and in respect of the front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this
Agreement.

        (b)     The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in
Dollars a separate special deposit account in a foreign commercial bank (the Special
Account) on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate
protection against set-off, seizure and attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of,
the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.

        (c)    Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount required to
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
                                           -4-


balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be
canceled.

       Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2007, or such later date as the
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.

        Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount
equal to three hundred thousand Dollars ($300,000). The Borrower agrees that on or
promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount of such fee.

         Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to:
(i) eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and
(ii) seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter.

        Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General
Conditions.

         Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually
in arrears on April 15 and October 15 in each year.

       Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

       Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:

                (i)     a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the
                        principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an
                        Approved Currency;

                (ii)    a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion
                        of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a
                        Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and
                                            -5-



                (iii)    the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any
                         portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
                         outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or
                         Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate.

         (b)     Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01
(7) of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.

         (c)     Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, the
Borrower and the Bank hereby agree that unless otherwise notified by the Borrower in
accordance with the provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate basis
applicable to the aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn during each Interest
Period shall be changed from the initial Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate for the full maturity
of such amount in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions
and of the Conversion Guidelines.


                                      ARTICLE III

                                 Execution of the Project

        Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of
the Project, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall, through SCRPE: (i) cause UCER to
perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of
UCER therein set forth; (ii) take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of
funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable UCER
to perform such obligations; and (iii) not take or permit to be taken any action which
would prevent or interfere with such performance.

       (b)     The Borrower, acting through MOF, shall make, through SCRPE, the
proceeds of the Loan available to UCER on a grant basis under the Subsidiary Grant
Agreement, under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank.

       (c)      The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Grant
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to
accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Grant Agreement or
any provision thereof.
                                           -6-


       Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the
goods and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project
Agreement.

         Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating
to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports,
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project shall be carried
out by UCER pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.


                                     ARTICLE IV

                                  Financial Covenants

        Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower,
through SCRPE, shall:

                  (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound
                        accounting practices, records and separate accounts reflecting
                        such expenditures;

                (ii)    ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
                        and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are retained
                        until at least one (1) year after the Bank has received the audit
                        report for the Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal from the
                        Loan Account was made; and

                (iii)   enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records.

        (b)     The Borrower, through SCRPE, shall:

                  (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of
                        this Section and those for the Special Account for each Fiscal
                        Year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
                        consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
                        Bank;

                (ii)    furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later
                        than six (6) months after the end of each such year the report of
                        such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as
                        the Bank shall have reasonably requested, including a separate
                        opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                                          -7-


                        expenditure submitted during such Fiscal Year, together with the
                        procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation,
                        can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals; and

                (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said
                        records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from
                        time to time reasonably request.


                                     ARTICLE V

                                Remedies of the Bank

        Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the
following additional events are specified:

        (a)    UCER shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the
Project Agreement.

       (b)     As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable
that UCER will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.

      (c)       A situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that the
Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.

        (d)     The Ordinance 1736 shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of UCER to
perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.

        (e)      The DFID Grant Agreement and the Minister Grant Agreement shall
have failed to become effective by January 1, 2004, or such later date as the Bank may
agree; provided, however, that the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that adequate funds for the Project
are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with
the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.

        (f)     (i)     Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, the right of the
                        Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the DFID Grant or the
                        Minister Grant shall have been suspended, canceled or
                        terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms,
                        respectively, of the DFID Grant Agreement or Minister Grant
                        Agreement providing therefor.
                                          -8-


                (ii)    Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the
                        Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that: (A)
                        such suspension, cancellation or termination is not caused by the
                        failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
                        such Agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the Project are
                        available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and
                        conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under
                        this Agreement.

       Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the
following additional events are specified:

        (a)     The event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.

        (b)     The event specified in paragraph (d) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement
shall occur.


                                     ARTICLE VI

                             Effective Date; Termination

        Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the
General Conditions, namely, that the Subsidiary Grant Agreement has been executed.

        Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 12.02(c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or
opinions to be furnished to the Bank:

        (a)     that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or approved by
                UCER, and is legally binding upon UCER in accordance with its terms;
                and

        (b)     that the Subsidiary Grant Agreement has been duly authorized or
                approved by the Borrower and UCER and is legally binding upon the
                Borrower and UCER in accordance with its terms.

        Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                                         -9-


                                     ARTICLE VII

                       Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

        Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.

        Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section
11.01 of the General Conditions:

       For the Borrower:

               Ministry of Finance
               12/2 Hrushevsky St.
               Kyiv, 01008
               Ukraine

                                       Telex:                  Facsimile:

                                       131450                  (380-44) 293-8243

       For the Bank:

               International Bank for
                Reconstruction and Development
               1818 H Street, N.W.
               Washington, D.C. 20433
               United States of America

               Cable address:          Telex:                  Facsimile:

               INTBAFRAD               248423 (MCI) or         (1-202) 477-6391
               Washington, D.C.         64145 (MCI)
                                         - 10 -


        IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.



                                        UKRAINE




                                        By /s/ Kostyantyn Gryshchenko
                                                            Authorized Representative



                                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                                        RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT




                                        By /s/ Luca Barbone
                                                                               Director
                                                          Ukraine, Belarus and Moldova
                                                               Europe and Central Asia
                                         - 11 -


                                    SCHEDULE 1

                         Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.      The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                                       Amount of the
                                       Loan Allocated                  % of
                                        (Expressed in              Expenditures
       Category                           Dollars)                to be Financed

(1)   Goods                                 324,000               100% of foreign
                                                                  expenditures,
                                                                  100% of local
                                                                  expenditures
                                                                  (ex-factory cost)
                                                                  and 80% of local
                                                                  expenditures for
                                                                  other items procured
                                                                  locally

(2)   Consultants’                      28,526,000                100%
      services

(3)    Incremental Operating                250,000               100% until
       Costs                                                      June 30, 2004;
                                                                  thereafter, 90% until
                                                                  June 30, 2005;
                                                                  thereafter, 80% until
                                                                  June 30, 2006, and
                                                                  0% thereafter

(4)   Refunding of                          600,000               Amounts due
      Project Prepara-                                            pursuant to
      tion Advance                                                Section 2.02 (c)
                                                                  of this Agreement

(5)   Fee                                   300,000               Amount due under
                                                                  Section 2.04 of this
                                           ________               Agreement

            TOTAL                         30,000,000
                                             - 12 -


2.      For the purposes of this Schedule:

         (a)      the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;

      (b)       the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and

         (c)      the term “Incremental Operating Costs” means expenditures incurred to
finance reasonable and necessary operating expenses of UCER in respect of its operations
and administration of activities under the Project, and which are payable on account of
the cost of rent and utilities, office equipment and supplies, maintenance, communication,
and transportation, but excluding the salaries of the Borrower’s civil services.

3.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.

4.       The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) goods, under contracts costing
less than $100,000 equivalent each, excluding those referred to in paragraphs 2 (a) (i) and
2 (a) (ii) of Part C of Section I of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement; (ii) services of
consulting firms, under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each, excluding
those referred to in paragraph 2 (b) of Part D of Section II of Schedule 1 to the Project
Agreement; (iii) services of individual consultants, under contracts costing less than
$50,000 equivalent each, excluding those referred to in paragraphs 2 (c) (i) and 2 (c) (ii)
of Part D of Section II of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement; and (iv) incremental
operating costs, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower.
                                           - 13 -


                                      SCHEDULE 2

                                Description of the Project

          The objectives of the Project, which supports the first phase of the Program, are
to: (i) create demand for restructuring and constituencies for reform at the enterprise and
oblast level, and respond to this demand by creating sustainable institutional capabilities;
(ii) create a market for managerial expertise and develop local capabilities to utilize and
supply this market; (iii) demonstrate the economic pay-offs resulting from positive
restructuring by assuring the sufficient and significant supply response to reforms; and
(iv) provide incentives to oblasts' administrations to reduce administrative costs of doing
business.

        The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such
objectives:



1.      Provision of technical advisory services to improve the profitability, productivity,
and general operational, financial and managerial efficiency of private and privatized
enterprises.

2.      Provision of technical advisory services to facilitate the development of a highly
qualified domestic consulting industry, which thoroughly understands the unique local
business and political climate in the process of economic development and transition.

3.       Strengthening of constituency for reform at the oblast level consisting of
entrepreneurs, managers, local academia, consultants and other stakeholders benefiting
from enterprise restructuring and market-friendly business environment, through the
training of about 600 business consultants who will provide business advisory services to
about 160 enterprises.



1.      Design, subcontract and supervision of in-house training courses for selected
candidates, including study of one major commercial language, computer skills, and basic
management and business communication skills.

2.     Enhancing the secondment of selected candidates to selected foreign firms to see
how skills, organization and technology are combined to respond to the continuously
changing market demands.
                                           - 14 -




          Provision of technical advisory services and equipment to SCRPE and UCER to
facilitate: (i) the selection of appropriate enterprises, and rational implementation of a
restructuring framework plan, which sets forth the various obligations and commitments
of the enterprise, realistic financing plans, and agreed sanctions for non-compliance;
(ii) the management of the work of consulting teams including preparation of Terms of
Reference, selection of consulting firms, supervision of consultants' work progress and
deliverables, intermediation between enterprises and consultants in cases of the conflict;
final quality of approval of consultants’ work, and payment for consultants services;
(iii) the continuous and productive dialogue between the Borrower’s agencies and private
sector concerning necessary reform measures to facilitate enterprise adjustment to
markets; (iv) the selection, recruitment and training of local specialists that will team-up
with foreign consultants to ensure the resources of foreign consultants are most
effectively utilized and directed where needed; and (v) the organization of on-the-job
training for managers of participating enterprises in the leading firms abroad.



1.       Provision of technical advisory services and equipment to: (i) introduce
performance based incentives into the oblast-level policy process, linking and exit from
the project to the improvement of regulatory environment, monitored through bi-annual
surveys; (ii) enhancement of institutional capacity of SCRPE to effectively implement
State regulatory policy through its regional offices; and (iii) empowering institutions of
Civil Society and especially regulatory associations in their relations with local
authorities and building local capacity to conduct credible policy research, analyze data
and use it for the policy purposes.

2.      Carrying out of regular monitoring of the quality of regulatory environment in
the regions, through the use of indicators measured by the survey-based research and
analysis.

                                           ***

             The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2006.
                                          - 15 -


                                      SCHEDULE 3

                                 Amortization Schedule

1.        The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment
Date (Installment Share). If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by
multiplying: (i) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of
the first Principal Payment Date; by (ii) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment
Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.

                                                               Installment Share
        Payment Date                                          (Expressed as a %)

        On each April 15 and October 15
        Beginning on April 15, 2010 through April 15, 2021           4.17%

        And on October 15, 2021                                      4.09%

2.      If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:

         (a)      To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule.

         (b)     Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by
a fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date,
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
                                         - 16 -


3.       (a)    Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following
the date of withdrawal.

         (b)     Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3,
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such
billing system.

4.       Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period,
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component
of the Screen Rate.

5.      If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
                                             - 17 -


                                      SHEDULE 4

                                    Special Account

1.      For the purposes of this Schedule:

         (a)      the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (3) set forth
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

       (b)      the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

        (c)     the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to
$1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule; provided, however, that unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount
equivalent to $500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account
plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the
equivalent of $3,000,000.

2.     Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.

3.     After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:

        (a)     For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.

        (b)     (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall
                       furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account
                       at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.

                (ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall
                        furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required
                        pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                        payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the
                                           - 18 -


                         basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
                         Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the
                         Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have
                         requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and
                         other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for
                         eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by
                         the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible
                         Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall
                         have been justified by said documents and other evidence.

4.       For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.

5.      Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:

        (a)     if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a)
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;

        (b)      if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the
records and accounts for the Special Account;

        (c)    if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or

        (d)     once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized
in making payments for eligible expenditures.
                                         - 19 -


6.       (a)    If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or,
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the
case may be.

         (b)    If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to
the Bank such outstanding amount.

        (c)      The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.

        (d)      Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
                           - 20 -


M:\BACKUP\UKRAINE\W-1823NegotiatedLA.doc
3/21/2002 6:14 PM
M:\BACKUP\UKRAINE\W-1823NegotiatedLA.doc
2/27/2002 12:45 PM
