Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 14280-XO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
WEST BANK AND GAZA
EDUCATION AND HEALTH REHABILITATION PROJECT
MAY 23, 1995
Human Resources Division
Country Department II
Middle East and North Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of May 1, 1995)
Currency Unit - New Israeli Shequalimn (NIS)
US$1.00 =  NIS 2.95
WEIGHTS AND MIEASURES
Im   =   1.09 yd
I m2  =  10.76 sq. ft.
I km   =  0.62 mi.
I km2 =  0.38 sq. mi.
ABBREVIATIONS
ERP          -      Emergency Rehabilitation Project
HF           -      Hoist Fund
IAPSO        -      Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office
ICB          -      International Competitive Bidding
IDA          -      International Development Association
IAPSO        -      Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office
IMF          -     International Monetary Fund
NCB          -      National Competitive Bidding
MEHE         -      Ministry of Education & Higher Education
MOH          -      Ministry of Health
NGO          -      Non-Governmental Organization
NIS          -      New Israeli Shequalim
PCU          -      Project Coordinating Unit
PECDAR       -      Palestinian Economic Council for Development and
Reconstruction
PLO          -      Palestine Liberation Organization
PA           -      Palestinian Authority
SA           -      Special Account
SOE          -      Statement of Expenditures
TATF         -      Technical Assistance Trust Fund
TFG          -      Trust Fund for Gaza
UNESCO       -      United Nations Education, Scientific and Cultural
Organization
UNRWA        -      United Nations Relief and Works Agency
WBG          -      West Bank and Gaza
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31



WEST BANK AND GAZA
EDUCATION AND HEALTH REHABILITATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
- Table of Contents -
Page No.
BASIC DATA.    .................................... iii-
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY   . ..............................  -iv -
I. BACKGROUND . ....................................- 1 -
A. WBG Background  .....................................- 1 -
Regional Differences ....................................  1 -
B. Sectoral Background and Issues  . ..............................  1 -
The Education Sector  ...................-   -
The Health Sector  ....................................- 3-
C. Development Strategies  ....................................- 5 -
II. PROGRAM  AND PROJE,CT DESCRIPTION  ........................... 6-
A. Program Objectives .....................................- 6-
B. Program Components and Description ........................... 6-
The Education Sector  ...................................  7-
The Health Sector  ....................................- 7-
C. The Project . ....................................- 7-
D. Project Components and Description  .       ...........................- 8-
The Education Sector ................................... 8-
The Health Sector  ....................................- 8-
E. Experience with Past Lending ................................ 8-
III. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENTS ..... -9-
A. Cost Estimates ................................- 9 -
B. Financing ....... ......................................  10 -
C. Procurement ..........................................- 10 -
D. Disbursements ............ 11 -
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited the West Bank and
Gaza in February/March 1995. The team was led by Vasilios Demetriou (MN2HR), and
consisted of the following members: Sue Berryman (Senior Education Specialist, EMTHR), Jan
Drozdz (Environmental Specialist, EMTIE), Egbe Osifo (Health Specialist, MN2HR), Melhem
Salman (Sr. Operations Officer, MN2HR), Eluned Schweitzer (Human Resources Specialist,
ESP), Cecilia Valdivieso (Principal Operations Officer, ESP), and consultants: Frances Kanach
(Public Health Specialist), David Lewis (Architect), and Julian Watson (Publishing/textbooks
Specialist). The report was put together by Iqbal Kaur. Peer reviewers are Albert Aime (Senior
Education Planner, SAlPH), and Salim Habayeb (Senior Public Health Specialist, SA2PH). The
Division Chief is Jacques Baudouy (Chief, MN2HR) and the Department Director is Inder Sud
(MN2DR).



- ii -
WEST BANK AND GAZA
EDUCATION AND HEALTH REHABILITATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
- Table of Contents - (contd/....)
Page No.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMEINTATION  ................................ . 12 -
A. Project Management Arrangements ........         ....................  12 -
The Education Sector . ..................................  13 -
The Health Sector .....................................  13 -
B. Accounting, and Auditing ...................................- 13 -
C. Supervision Requirements and Monitoring ......       ..................- 14 -
V. SUSTAINABILITY, ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT, AND GENDER ISSUES .... - 14 -
VI. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS  .            ..............................- 15 -
VII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION ........................ 16-
ANNEXES
1.    Management Structure of the MEHE
2.    Number of Students by Managing Authority and Region
3.    Supplementary Reading Materials
4.    Management Structure of the MOH
5.    Selected Health Cornponents
6.    Program/Project Costs by Component and by Expenditure Category
7.    Detailed Project Cost Tables
8.    Project Components; and Financing
9.    Procurement Arrangements
10.   Project Management Framework
11.   Credit Proceeds/Disbursement Forecast
12.   Implementation Schedule and Indicators of Project Progress
13.   Supervision Plan
14.   Physical Facilities, Education Component
15.   Physical Facilities, Health Component
16.   Environmental Analysis
17.   Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
MAP  IBRD 26919



- iii -
WEST BANK AND GAZA
EDUCATION AND HEALTH REHABILITATION PROJECT
Basic Data Sheet
Description                                       Figure     Year
A. General Country Data
WBG Area, thousand km2                             6,000
GNP per capita $US for WBG                         1,715      1993
West Bank                                  2,293
Gaza                                       1,216
GDP per capita $US for WBG                         1,515      1993
Total Population                               2,238,987      1992
West Bank                               1,450,084
Gaza                                     788,903
Population Growth Rate per Annum                              1992
West Bank                                    4.7
Gaza                                         5.6
Population Density (inhabitants/km2)                         1991
West Bank                                    267
Gaza                                       2,225
Infant Mortality (per 1,000)                         41       1991
Life expectancy at birth                             65       1991
B. Education Data
Student/teacher ratio                                30       1991
Enrollment by level in Govt.schools                          1994
West Bank, Basic and Secondary           299,651
Gaza, Basic and Secondary                116,641
%of enrollment in Govt. schools, female              48
C. Health Data
Crude Birth rate                                     43       1991
Total. fertility Rate (births per woman)             7.3
Hospital beds (per 1,000)                            1.4
Child Mortality 1-4 years (per 1,000)                 10
Note:
The above data is known to be of variable quality and can be contested.
It is based on data from the World Bank, UNICEF, UNRWA, WHO,
UNESCO, the Israeli Civil Administration, the Planning and Research Center,
Gaza, and other sources.



I



- iv -
WEST BANK AND GAZA
EDUCATION AND HEALTH REHABILITATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                   Palestinian Economic Council for Development and Reconstruction
(PECDAR)
Implementing Agencies:      Ministry of Education and Ministry of Health
Beneficiaries:              Ministry of Education and Ministry of Health
Poverty Category:           Program of Targeted Interventions. Specific project activities with a
poverty-reduction focus include: (a) rehabilitation of schools in the most
dilapidated condition (and therefore, likely to be in the poorest areas);
and (b) upgrading of primary health care facilities which are more
accessible to the poor.
Credit Amount:              US$20.0 million equivalent
Terms:                      IDA credit terms with 40 years maturity, including 10 years grace
Financing Plan:
Local        Foreign      Total
----------------US$ million--------------
Palestinian Authority        12.0'           -          12.0
Trust Fund for Gaza          13.4           6.6        20.0
Total Project                25.4           6.6        32.0
Economic Rate of Return:   Not applicable
Environment Rating:         "B"
Map No.:                    IBRD 26919
Staff Appraisal Report:     14280 XO
Project ID No.:             35996
1/ Representing the value of land (40,000 M2) provided by the PA for seven new schools in Gaza.



I



WEST BANK AND GAZA
EDUCATION AND HEALTH REHABILITATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. BACKGROUND
1.1      The Agreement on the Gaza Strip and Jericho Area signed in May 1994, and the
Agreement on Preparatory Transfer of Powers and Responsibilities, signed in August 1994 gave full
responsibility to the Palestinian Authorities (PA) for all public services in Gaza and the Jericho Area,
and for selected services, including education and health, in the West Bank. Since August 1994,
programs have been developed by the Ministry of Education and Higher Education (MEHE) and the
Ministry of Health (MOH) to deliver priority services in the education and health sectors in Gaza and
the West Bank and plan for future needs. Both Ministries are demonstrating commitment to the
development of leadership and technical skills in their respective sectors.
A. WBG Background
1.2      The combined area of the West Bank and Gaza (WBG) is approximately 6,000 square
kilometers. The 1993 estimated combined population was about 2.3 million, of which 65 percent
resides in the West Bank. More than 50 percent of the combined populations are 15 years old or
younger. High birth rates, relatively low mortality rates and changing population migration patterns
are contributing to a rapid rise in population in both areas.
1.3      Re ional Differences. The West Bank and Gaza differ in demographics, infrastructure and
economic status. Most of the West Bank is highly urbanized, with a rural population dispersed
among 422 towns and villages at a population density of 267 persons per square kilometer. The Gaza
Strip, with its dense population of 2,225 persons per square kilometer, has only 16 towns and
villages. Registered refugees represent 32 percent of the West Bank population, of which slightly
more than one-quarter live in refugee camps. In Gaza, 72 percent of the population are registered
refugees, of which about 55 percent live in camps. GNP per capita is significantly lower in Gaza.
Gaza was previously administered by Egypt, while the West Bank was unified with Jordan. This
resulted in differences in service provision, such as the use of different school curricula.
B. Sectoral Background and Issues
The Education Sector
1.4      Background. MEHE has proved motivated and efficient in its initial operations. Although
it inherited the school system only three days before the schools were scheduled to open for the 1994-
95 academic year, it opened them on time; rapidly arranged for textbooks publication and distribution;,
filled top positions with competent individuals; fulfilled complex arrangements for paying their
salaries; and located suitable office premises. Immediate priorities for the MEHE are to continue
operations and repair and maintain the system's physical and human capital. MEHE also has to begin
to redesign the system so that it becomes financially sustainable, supports the development of a
Palestinian identity among WBG children and youth, and promotes the high standards of knowledge
and skill required for the economic development of WBG.
1.5      Size and Structure. Education in WBG is divided into preschool (ages 3-5); primary (ages
6-11); preparatory (ages 12-14); secondary (ages 15-17); and post-secondary (ages 18 +). Only
primary and preparatory schooling are compulsory. There are no separate preparatory schools;
primary schools covering either grades 1-6 or 1-9 and secondary schools cover grades 7-12 or 10-12.
The secondary level includes academic and vocational education, the latter sometimes being offered in
separate schools and sometimes incorporated into academic schools. Annex 1 shows the structure of



- 2 -
the MEHE and the division of management responsibility for the education sector. Annex 2 shows
school statistics.
1.6      In 1993 there were reported to be a total of 1,282 primary and secondary schools in WBG,
accommodating close to 590,000 students in grades 1-12. About 80 percent of these schools (1,044)
are located in the West Bank, and the rest are in the Gaza Strip. Around 25 percent (321 schools)
offer secondary education; most of these secondary schools also provide accommodation for basic
students.
1.7      Management and Financing. Operating responsibilities for WBG schools fall under (i) the
PA (73 percent of all schools); (ii) UNRWA (14 percent); and (iii) the private sector (13 percent).
Current operating responsibilities are based on a combination of pre- and post-autonomy structures.
The new education authority (MEHE) has two regional divisions; one for Gaza and one for the West
Bank. Within the regional divisions, there are district offices which essentially ran the schools under
the Israeli Civil Administration--they admitted students, appointed/transferred teachers, trained
teachers, built and maintained schools, collected data for management purposes, provided textbooks
and school furniture, supervised the educational process, supervised and licensed private schools.
Allocation of responsibility between administrative levels has not yet been fully developed by the
MEHE. District offices collect student fees ($20.00 for basic education and $27.00 for senior
secondary students) and apportion them among the schools, MEHE, and the district itself. Additional
revenues are generated from the proceeds of school canteens, community contributions to school
building and maintenance, and through municipal taxes. The MOH has made substantial progress in
initial steps towards cost recovery, including a health insurance scheme and the collection of local
taxes. Both sectors are actively seeking ways to become financially viable.
1.8       Education Sector Issues. The sector faces five inunediate issues, with long-term
implications: (a) rapidly increasing enrollments; (b) inadequate and poorly maintained facilities; (c)
shortage of teaching materials and inadequately trained teachers; (d) unmet needs of disadvantaged
groups; and (e) lack of experience in sector policy and management.
(a)  Enrollments. Given the very young demographic profile of the WBG population, each year
an estimated 18,000 new student places' need to be created. The existing facilities cannot
accommodate these large numbers and budgetary constraints severely limit the number of
new schools that can be constructed. To keep expenditures at a manageable level, the
Ministry would in the near future need to consider policy changes that would optimize the
use of its school facilities. At present the majority of schools in Gaza operate on a double
shift system, whereas most of the West Bank schools operate on single shift basis.
(b)  Inadeguate Facilities and Maintenance. UNRWA and the Israeli Civil Administration
rationalized school locations relative to their jurisdictions, but not relative to WBG as a
single service area. As a result, locations of schools do not always match the residential
catchment area of school children, causing some students to walk as far as six kilometers
each way to attend classes. Many schools built in the 1950s-1960s were poorly designed
and constructed. About 1,400 classrooms (17 percent) of 8,200 classrooms in West Bank
are using rented houses, resulting in uneconomically small classes, wasting teacher
resources. Finally, many schools are dilapidated because of lack of preventive
maintenance.
(c) Shortage of Teaching Materials and Inadequate Teacher Training. The West Bank is using
a revised Jordanian curriculum while Gaza is at present using an Egyptian curriculum. It
1/  This translates roughly into 450 classes and 450 teachers assuming a teacher/student ratio of 1:40.



has been decided that this arrangement will continue until a unified Palestinian curriculum
is developed. Teachers will need to be trained in the use of this curriculum. Around 30
percent of teachers are teaching in fields for which they are not trained. In particular,
some 37 percent of those teaching science have no formal or major training in this field.
Results of the 1991 International Assessment of Education Progress (IAEP II) student
assessment pointed to overall poor pedagogical skills in science and mathematics teaching.
Schools also lack supplementary reading materials, libraries, science equipment and
laboratories and basic equipment such as globes, maps and other teaching aids. Annex 3
describes supplementary reading needs.
(d) Unmet Needs for Disadvantaged Groups. There are several educationally disadvantaged
groups with differing needs: (a) high school students who could not sit for their
baccalaureate exam because of the Intifada; (b) students still in the school system whose
education was interrupted during the Intifada, facing educational and emotional
difficulties2; and (c) the developmentally disabled. There are few trained staff and no
programs designed to meet the needs of these groups.
(e) Sector Policy and Management. Reliable data on which to base policy decisions are
lacking, and few staff have experience in education system management. In the long-term,
the Ministry would need to prepare for merger with the UNRWA system, and address
related issues, including the variation between MEHE and UNRWA teacher salaries.
The Health Sector
1.9      Background. In 1991 while still under the Israeli Civil Administration, health expenditures
for Gaza and the West Bank represented approximately $US200 million3. Compared to other
countries in the region, health care expenditures in WBG were relatively high per capita. Life
expectancy was 65 years; infant mortality rate was estimated at 40-60 per 1,000 births. Health care
facility and personnel ratios were barely adequate: 1. 1 physicians, 0.9 nurses and midwives, and 1. 1
beds per 1,000 population. Resources were unevenly distributed and quality varied greatly. Gaza
and the most remote areas of the West Bank were and continue to be disadvantaged in terms of health
facilities and personnel.
1.10     Size and Structure. UNRWA (restricted to registered refugees), NGOs, and the private
sector also provide health care services. These agencies provide primary care as well as hospital
care, directly through their own facilities or through contracts. The public sector operates 205
primary health care facilities, UNRWA operates 41, and NGOs, 192. The West Bank has 15
hospitals of which 9 are public, 6 are run by NGOs, and I by UNRWA. There are five hospitals in
Gaza, 4 public and one NGO. A new UNRWA hospital is under construction in Gaza. There is also
a sizeable private health care sector. There are two public sector psychiatric hospitals, one in the
West Bank and one in Gaza which provide some community based outpatient services. Mental health
services are also provided by a range of NGOs.
2/ An internal UNRWA assessment of Gazan schools for 1989/90 found significant losses of school time
during the Intifada. The surprisingly poor performance of West Bank eighth graders on the 1993 IAEP,
even relative to Jordanian children who had the same curriculum, seems at least partly attributable to the
cumulative effects of lost educational time.
3/  This represented about 7 percent of Gross National Product, or about 9 percent of Gross Domestic
Product, a per capita expenditure of about $USI 10.0 per year. This is high for countries of comparable
income.



1.11     Management and Financing. Following the assumption of complete responsibility for all
public sector health services in WBG, MOH has rapidly begun to operationalize essential policies
outlined in the Palestinian Health Plan. MOH maintains its primary office in Gaza City while the
Deputy Minister's office is located in Nablus in the West Bank. Annex 4 shows the organizational
structure of the MOH. The existing PA health insurance scheme is compulsory for PA employees
and voluntary for others. Employees pay 5% of basic salary up to a maximum of NIS 73.00 per
month. In 1994, about 45 % of the population in Gaza was insured and it is expected that estimated
health insurance revenue will cover 41 % of the anticipated public sector health expenditures for Gaza
in 1995.4 Efforts are being made to extend coverage. Registered refugees have access to UNRWA
clinics and hospitals and also have access to public sector facilities if living outside refugee camps.
There is a growing private sector providing a wide range of services including maternity and
specialist diagnostic services. About US$25.0 million was spent in 1991 on health through private-
for-profit or private MDs, and clinics. There are two main private insurance companies providing
health insurance to about 10,000 households.
1.12     Health Sector Issues. There are five principal issues: (a) inadequate infrastructure; (b)
variability in quality of and access to services; (c) weak sector management; (d) unmet needs of
special populations and (e) lack of sector policy development.
(a)  Inadeguate Infrastructure. The 14 hospitals and 205 primary health care clinics
administered by the MOH in the WB and Gaza have suffered from two decades of serious
under investment. Facilities have become increasingly inadequate to serve the rising
population dependent on them - particularly in Gaza. Physical facilities, which in many
cases date from the British mandate and, in some, from the years of Turkish
administrators, have deteriorated from neglect of necessary maintenance. In many - if not
most - locations: electrical installations are outdated, unreliable and sometimes hazardous
(providing for poor lighting, inoperable elevators etc); sanitary facilities are substandard;
and heating is inadequate or non-existent.
(b)  Variation in Quality and Availability of Health Care Services. The quality of health care,
measured by staffing, service volume ratios, as well as the condition of facilities varies
substantially by geographic location and sponsor. In the West Bank, each primary clinic
serves approximately 3,000 persons, contrasted with the average clinic in Gaza that serves
11,000; on a comparative basis, an UNRWA clinic might perform two to eleven times the
volume of visits as a similarly staffed NGO clinic. In addition, there is no standardization
of services; supervision and management quality vary significantly, and MOH services
suffer from limited training opportunities for staff. There are shortages of para-
professionals and nurses.
(c)  Sector Management. There are few experienced health system administrators and little
accurate data. Management is made more difficult by the different priorities of the West
Bank and Gaza. Gaza needs to increase services to meet the needs of an extremely dense
population, while the West Bank needs to rationalize and improve existing services. The
geographical separation of MOH in Gaza City and the Deputy Minister's office in Nablus
(West Bank) complicates matters further as regular contact between the two areas is
difficult due to obstacles in border crossing and unpredictable telephone services. In
addition, MOH is eventually to assume the added responsibility of providing health services
to the refugee population (1.1 million) that is currently served by UNRWA. In
preparation, steps are being taken to foster compatibility between the two systems.
4/ Annual Report, 1990-94. Palestinian Health Authority, Ministry of Health. April, 1995.



(d)  Special Populations. A cross-cutting issue for the health sector is the further development
and provision of community mental health services to identify and treat those of all ages
who have been adversely affected by the recent upheavals, as well as provide appropriate
long-term services to the general population.
(e)  Sector Policy. Investments strategies should be more consistent with health needs and
expected outcomes. Causes for low sectoral efficiency include: (i) proliferation of very
small hospitals (70 percent of hospitals have under 100 beds); (ii) provision of highly
specialized medical procedures in uneconomical units; (iii) insufficient attention to
preventive activities particularly for women and children. Therefore, not enough attention
has been given to the balance between individual care and public health programs, and to
improving the efficiency of hospital care, the most expensive part of the health system.
The development of effective health investment and financing strategies are priorities for
the sector.
C. Development Strategies
1.13     Ministrv of Education Development Strategv. MEHE strategy has emphasized the
immediate needs of the school system including: curriculum unification; improvement of school
infrastructure; provision of special support to disadvantaged groups; provision of improved learning
materials and textbooks; and improvement of education administration. Longer-term policy
development is being undertaken through initial sector work and technical assistance provided through
cooperative efforts by the Bank, UNESCO and other donors.
1.14     Establishing a financing framework for the system is a high priority. Currently the PA is
highly dependent on donors for recurrent budget support for 1995, a financing gap of US$228 million
has been identified and donors will attempt to finance this deficit. As elsewhere, education
expenditures, particularly wages, consume a large proportion of central budgets. The education
sector lacks senior administrative staff with experience in sector analysis, policy making, and resource
allocation. Reliable baseline data for allocation decisions are often not available. MEHE plans to put
an Education Management Information System (EMIS) in place to collect data and monitor and
evaluate programs. It also plans to improve its budgeting, planning, financial analysis, and policy
development capacities.
1.15      Ministry of Health Development Strategy. The Palestinian Health Plan sets out five
objectives: (a) improve health sector management; (b) develop primary health care including disease
prevention, health promotion and health protection, as well improve basic secondary care; (c) improve
the professional skills of health personnel; (d) emphasize quality of care at all levels; and (e) focus
attention on the special needs of women, children, the poor, and groups disadvantaged by the political
disturbances. As part of the strategy to improve the quality of services, MOH plans to support the
development and use of communication systems, including information collection and transfer, and
human interaction capabilities, such as tele-conferencing.
1.16     Health has taken as its policy centerpiece a commitment to accessible, high quality primary
health care for the Palestinian people, delivered principally through a network of Comprehensive
Health Centers (CHC)5. The strategic location and service capabilities of these centers would allow
them to receive referrals from local health centers, clinics and health posts, and make appropriate
5/   CHCs are a more cost-effective hub for preventive, primary rapid-response services, including normal
deliveries and emergencies not requiring hospitalization, in contrast to hospital-based outpatient services.
Rapid response services would be staffed by a physician-led team and would be available 24 hours, seven
days a week. All other services for children and adults, including preventive, curative, rehabilitative and
chronic care, would be available, for patient convenience, during day-time as well as evening hours.



- 6 -
referrals to hospital-based specialists. The CHCs function as regional centers for staff development
and for public health monitoring and program implementation.
1.17     CHCs can potentially reduce total system expenditures directly, by delivering medical care
with substantially lower unit costs (currently US$4-6 per visit). In contrast, the average expenditure
per patient day for all hospital patients in 1992, was US$94. 17. If well implemented, the MOH
design would successfully constrain capital investments for the expansion of acute hospital beds. It is
envisaged that upgraded CHCs would lessen the need for uneconomical hospital investments. Future
hospital capital investments and development of services would be based on cost effectiveness criteria.
1.18     Bank Group Strategy and Rationale for Bank Involvement. Present Bank policy for the
WBG has four main themes which were identified in close collaboration with the Palestinian
counterpart team in December, 1993 and form the foundation of the "Emergency Assistance Program
for the Occupied Territories": (a) restoring and further developing basic and social infrastructures; (b)
building policy-making and institutional capabilities; (c) supporting the emergence of the private
sector; and (d) sustaining the financial viability of the PA. The Bank has been in the forefront of
institutional efforts to help the PA define a feasible rehabilitation and development strategy. It has
played a prominent role in setting a policy and investment framework with the six-volume study
"Developing the Occupied Territories: An Investment in Peace;" the establishment of the Trust Fund
for Gaza (TFG) in 1993; and its administrator role in the operation of the Technical Assistance Trust
Fund and the Holst Fund (the latter for recurrent cost financing). As the Secretariat for the Ad Hoc
Liaison Committee, the Bank supplies regular information and analysis on aid flows and requirements
to all parties. To participate in the financing of the reconstruction effort, the Bank has set up the
TFG (US$50 million) from its own surplus of which US$30.0 million was allocated to the Emergency
Rehabilitation Project (ERP) and the balance of US$20.0 million is being allocated to this project.
1.19     The Bank has been providing the technical underpinning and framework for the effective
use of emergency relief funds since September 1993. The proposed project supports the objectives of
the Bank's strategy (para. 1.18). The project would also build on the ERP which focused on
rehabilitation and improvement of existing school plant and equipment, provision of textbooks, and
some capacity building. The available level of financing ($20.5 million), was inadequate to address
urgent education sector needs. Furthermore, ERP did not address the needs of the health sector.
Bank involvement in the appraisal of the WBG Education and Health Rehabilitation Program, and in
the financing of this project would be expected to mobilize donor financing for the unfunded portions
of the Program described below.
II. PROGRAM AND PROJECT DESCRIPTION
A. Program Objectives
2.1      The short-term objective of the proposed program is to ensure that essential health and
education services run without interruption. The longer-term objective is to assist both MEHE and
MOH develop sustainable sector strategies and establish themselves as effective institutions. To reach
these objectives, support is needed in three areas: (a) rehabilitation and essential expansion of selected
education and health facilities; (b) improvement in service provision; and (c) capacity building and
institutional development of the education and health ministries. Program investments and activities
have been estimated for a 3-year period.



- 7 -
B. Program Components and Description
The Education Sector (US$78.0 million'):
2.2      Upgrade Physical Infrastructure (US$51.2 million): (a) rehabilitate school facilities, replace
dangerous structures, and replace or repair broken furniture; (b) construct and furnish 28 new schools
(13 in Gaza and 15 in the West Bank) to minimize overcrowding and provide access for under-served
areas; and (c) support community efforts in school construction and maintenance.
2.3      Improve Quality of Service (US$22.6 million): (a) provide school library and
supplementary reading materials; (b) provide textbooks, and teachers guides'; (c) supply a basic
package of teaching equipment to about 183 schools (37 in Gaza and 146 in the West Bank); (d)
provide orientation training to teachers using the new curriculum and materials; and (e) undertake
needs assessment and support for a pilot "catch up" program to help students whose education
suffered during the Intifada.
2.4      Develop Institutional Capacity (US$4.2 million): (a) provide technical assistance to MEHE
to develop its planning, management, financial and policy development capability; (b) provide
technical assistance and staff training for the Project Coordination Unit (PCU); and (c) conduct
special studies to address issues relating to financial sustainability and cost containment, and efficient
use of physical facilities.
The Health Sector (US$48.8 million):
2.5      Upgrade Physical Infrastructure (US$43.3 million): (a) rehabilitate furnish and equip six
Comprehensive Health Centers (CHCs); (b) replace, furnish and equip four Health Centers (HCs); (c)
rehabilitate and furnish Shifa and Khan Younes Hospitals in Gaza8; and (d) rehabilitate and equip
selected hospitals in the West Bank.
2.6      Improve Quality of Service (US$3.7 million): (a) initiate a quality service improvement
program in primary and secondary services; (b) implement a health education program for schools;
(c) support training for community-based mental health and further rationalization of mental health
services; (d) provide training for primary and health care staff in management and modern technical
skills; and (e) conduct a feasibility study on how to improve communication links between Gaza and
the West Bank to maximize medical expertise and enhance the referral system.
2.7      Develop Institutional Capacity (US$1.8 million): (a) provide technical assistance and staff
training for the Project Coordination Unit (PCU); (b) conduct special studies to address financial
sustainability, managed care, and cost containment; and (c) provide technical assistance to develop a
five-year plan for the health sector.
C. The Project
2.8      The Bank has appraised the Program at an estimated total cost of $126.8 million (or
US$151.0 including the value of land donated by communities in the West Bank (US$3.6 million),
and provided by the PA in Gaza (US$12.0 million for seven new schools under the TFG and US$8.6
6/  This and subsequent statements of outlays represent total cost estimates including contingencies.
7/  For the second and third years of the project. Textbook supply in the first year is being financed under
the ERP.
8/  Equipment for Gaza hospitals is being provided by the Japanese government.



- 8 -
million for six new schools expected to be financed by donors). However, the financial requirements
of the Program exceed the currently available financing ($20.0 million from TFG). Therefore, the
PA and the Bank have agreed to proceed with a core project (the Project) funded by the TFG, within
the framework of the larger Program. The Project would cover those priority activities of the
Program for which financing is available under the TFG. This means that the Project would be
limited to activities located in Gaza. As additional financing is obtained prior to or during project
implementation, additional components would be undertaken. Annex 5 provide a brief description of
selected health components. Annex 8 shows all program components (funded by the TFG and
unfunded). This is intended to assist donors identify areas of the Program they wish to support.
Selection of additional components would be based on cofinanciers' preferences and agreement of the
PA. Extensive efforts have been made to contact potential co-financiers and a number have expressed
interest. Discussions are under way with the Arab Fund, ODA, EU, Italy, and Japan for an amount
of about US$45.0 million.
D. Project Components and Description
2.9      The Project would concentrate on upgrading the neglected physical infrastructure in both
sectors, and addressing quality of service and institutional development issues in health9. Institutional
development and some quality aspects in the education sector would be funded by donors'". The
Project would consist of the following components:
The Education Sector (US$12.0 million)
Upgrade Physical Infrastructure (US$12.0 million equivalent):
(a)  rehabilitate facilities, replace dangerous structures and substandard or undersized
classrooms at 24 basic education schools, and replace or repair broken furniture; and
(b) construct and furnish seven new basic education schools in under-served areas.
The Health Sector (US$8.0 million)
Upgrade Physical Infrastructure (US$4.5 million):
(a) upgrade, expand, and furnish two CHCs;
(b) replace, and furnish four CHCs; and
(c) replace, and furnish four HCs.
Improve Quality of Service (US$2.0 million):
(a) initiate a quality service improvement program in primary and secondary services through
technical assistance and training; and
(b) support a health education program for schools.
Develop Institutional Capacitv (US$1.5 million):
(a) provide technical assistance to develop a five-year plan for the health sector;
(b) conduct a feasibility study on communication links between Gaza and West Bank health
facilities to enable exchange of medical expertise and enhance the referral system; and
(c) provide technical assistance, training and operational support for the health PCU.
9/  The MOH is located in Gaza and therefore can be covered by the TFG.
10/ Since the main offices of MEHE are located in the West Bank, it cannot be assisted through the TFG.
However the Bank is working with UNESCO to coordinate the considerable TA currently being offered
by donors, and it is envisaged that program TA for institutional and policy development will have an aid
coordination function.



- 9 -
E. Experience with Past Lending
2.10     To date there have been no Bank Group-assisted education and training projects in West
Bank and Gaza. The ERP includes an education component which addressed some needs
(rehabilitation of schools and provision of textbooks). Due to political and institutional issues,
implementation of the WBG donor assistance program has incurred delays. Border closures,
fluctuations in the numbers of Palestinians working in Israel, as well as the slow pace of capacity
building in general, has led to difficulties in absorbing donor assistance. PECDAR, as the
implementing agency of ERP, has gained experience in project management, international competitive
bidding, and has familiarized itself with IDA procedures. Therefore, it was agreed, that during the
initial twelve months of implementation of this project, PECDAR would jointly manage with MEHE
and MOH all contracts exceeding US$250,000 equivalent. Recognizing that successful project
activities required close and intensive implementation assistance, the IBRD has established a
representative office which is currently delegated with the authority to manage all on-going IBRD and
IDA activities. Also, as experience has shown that frequent field supervision is essential for
successful implementation especially when dealing with new borrowers, resources for intensive
supervision efforts are being requested from management, in conjunction with close follow-up by the
representative office.
mI. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENTS
A. Cost Estimates
3.1      Project costs are estimated at about US$20.0 million equivalent" with a foreign exchange
component of about US$6.6 million equivalent (or 33% of total project costs). The estimated total
cost is net of taxes. Annex 6 summarizes project costs by component and by expenditure category.
The remaining cost tables are presented in Annex 7.
3.2      Unit Costs for civil works are based on construction of schools in West Bank and Gaza
during 1994. The average unit cost for new construction, has been estimated at about US$300 per
square meter. Estimates for rehabilitation maintenance were based on detailed surveys at each site'2.
An amount equivalent to about 10% of civil works costs has been provided for furniture for each
classroom rehabilitated, new, or replaced under the project. Related design costs (where applicable)
were estimated at about 3% of civil works and for supervision services at about 4% of civil works.
3.3      Estimated costs of teaching aids, equipment, and vehicles are based on contracts for similar
purchases made recently by other agencies (UNRWA, UNICEF and IAPSO). The standard package
of teaching aids to be provided to every primary school has been estimated at US$15,000. Costs for
internationally-recruited technical specialists were be based on the cost of salaries, allowances, and
airfares. Many are expected to be recruited from nearby countries. Fellowships abroad for short-
term study trips were based on a 1-2 month visits to other countries. Textbook production costs have
been based on current prices of books in use averaging about US$0.98 per textbook and about
US$0.92 per teacher guide.
3.4      Incremental Recurrent Cost Implications. As the project is oriented toward rehabilitating
the present system--rather than significantly expanding it--the recurrent cost burden of project inputs
should not be a major problem for the PA. Many new schools and clinics are actually replacements
11/ US$32.0 million equivalent including the value of land provided by the PA in Gaza (US$12.0 million
equivalent).
12/ Specifications and estimates have been prepared for each project school.



- 10-
of existing unsuitable facilities (some rented) and are not considered as expansion. Improvements to
education and health facilities are expected to lead to increased internal efficiency and decreased unit
costs; improvements to the administration of both sectors are expected to have a similar impact.
3.5     Incremental recurrent costs associated with the construction component should be minimal.
Most civil works would be the repair or replacement of existing classrooms, which should be cheaper
to maintain than the existing highly dilapidated classrooms. Many new schools identified would
replace existing buildings, although some would expand capacity to relieve overcrowding. The
recurrent cost implications on the human resource side are relatively small. Where classrooms are
rebuilt or replaced, or where new classrooms are built to relieve triple-shifting, no new teachers
would be hired, since the stock of teachers is sufficient. New teachers would be hired only where
entirely new classrooms are to be built, and most of these would be teachers starting at the bottom
end of the salary scale. The situation would be similar for the health sector except where new (but
very modest) PHC facilities are being created. Provision of staffing and operating budgets for these
facilities would be relatively modest and is therefore not expected to be a major burden for MOH.
B. Financing
3.6      The financing plan is given in Table 3.1. The Credit of US$20 million represents about
100 % of the total Project costs. This reflects the inability of the PA to provide counterpart funding
at this point. However, land representing a value of US$12.0 for the six new schools in Gaza is
being provided by the PA. Co-financing of US$106.8 million equivalent is expected to be pledged by
donors. The project has been designed and packaged to permit parallel cofinancing for donors after
Board approval. It is hoped that this project would assist in raising and coordinating further donor
financing. Annex 8 shows TFG & Donor cofinancing by component. To permit MEHE and MOH
to proceed with advanced procurement associated with rehabilitation of schools in Gaza, the health
education program, and equipment for the PCUs, retroactive financing of up to US$1.65 million
equivalent would be provided for payments made for expenditures prior to the date of signature of the
Trust Fund Credit Agreement but after March 1, 1995. The financing plan is detailed in Table 3.1 as
follows:
Table 3.1 FINANCING PLAN
Local       Foreign       Total
----------------US$ million---------------
Palestinian Authority       12.013          -         12.0
Trust Fund for Gaza         13.4           6.6        20.0
Total Project               25.4           6.6        32.0
C. Procurement
3.7      Procurement arrangements for works, goods and services to be financed under the
proposed credit are shown in the Table in Annex 9 together with detailed description of arrangements.
It was agreed that all procurement under the project would be coordinated and monitored by the
MEHE and MOH. However, during the initial 12 months of implementation contracts exceeding
US$250,000 equivalent, would be jointly managed by PECDAR, MEHE and MOH. Annex 10
describes the management framework, staffing and functions of the Project Coordinating Units
131 Representing the value of land (40,000 M2) provided by the PA for seven new schools in Gaza.



- 11 -
(PCUs) under each Ministry and the share of responsibilities between the two Ministries and
PECDAR with respect to the various procurement activities. The PCUs would be assisted by
PECDAR's Project Management and Procurement Consultant, whose contract is fmanced by TATF
would be amended for this purpose. Because of the need to implement the project as quickly as
possible, part of the procurement, particularly for rehabilitation contracts below US$50,000, would be
undertaken through shopping procedures. All equipment, materials, and works to be financed under
the project by the TFG would be procured in accordance with IDA's Guidelines (January 1995).
Consultants and training services would be procured according to IDA's Consultant Guidelines
(August 1981).
3.8      Procurement review. The following procurement review procedures would apply:
(a) by September 30, 1995, IDA would complete a prior review of (i) standard bid documents
for civil works and goods contracts to be awarded under ICB and NCB procedures; (ii)
letters of invitation for consultant services, to determine their conformity with IDA
guidelines. These approved documents would be used as master documents for all future
bidding;
(b) all works and goods contracts valued at or over US$250,000 would be subject to prior
review by IDA;
(c) all consultant contracts above US$100,000 equivalent with firms and US$50,000 equivalent
with individuals, and all TORs for contracts and studies would be subject to prior review
by IDA; and
(d) all other contracts would be subject to ex-post review by visiting IDA missions.
These review arrangements would result in a prior review ratio of 70% of TFG financed
procurement. Taking into account the large number of small contracts, the use of master documents,
and the assistance of the Procurement Consultant, this ratio is acceptable.
D. Disbursements
3.9      The implementation period would be three years, but the credit would be disbursed over a
four-year period. The proceeds would be disbursed at the rate of 100%14 of all expenditures as
indicated in Annex 11.
3.10     Required Documentation. Withdrawal applications for all categories with a contract value
of US$250,000 or more would be supported by full documentation. Disbursements against all
categories with a contract value below US$250,000 would be made against Statements of Expenditure
(SOEs), for which supporting documents would be retained by the PCUs in MEHE and MOH for
review by IDA supervision missions.
3.11     Special Accounts. Two Special Accounts (SA) (one for education and one for health),
would be established and maintained to facilitate implementation. These SAs would be established in
a commercial bank acceptable to IDA. Initial deposits of US$1.0 million and US$0.7 million
representing a four-month expenditure, would be made for education and health respectively. These
SAs would be maintained in US Dollars as separate identifiable accounts to be used exclusively for
project expenditures and all supporting documentation would be retained for ex-post review by IDA
supervision missions. MEHE and MOH would provide IDA with a monthly statement of the special
14/ Reflecting PA's inability to bear a share of project costs at this stage.



- 12 -
accounts. Applications for replenishment would be submitted on a monthly basis, or when the
amounts withdrawn are equal to 30% of the initial deposit, whichever occurs first. The minimum
size of withdrawal applications from the credit account or for issuance of special commitments would
be US$0.2 million equivalent.
3.12     Implementation Schedule. The Project would be implemented over a three-year period
(Annex 12). Project completion is expected around June 30, 1998 and the Credit Closing Date has
been established as June 30, 1999, 12 months after completion of civil works so payments withheld
against defects liability, which are released after 12 months, can be covered. Most technical
assistance inputs (i.e., for institutional development, textbook production, and various education and
health management activities) would be provided during the three-year implementation period and
would be completed in advance of the closing date.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Project Management Arrangements
4.1      PECDAR would be the Borrower while the responsibility for the implementation of specific
sectoral components would rest with the MEHE and the MOH. To expedite project implementation
during the first twelve months, PECDAR will assist both Ministries in the procurement of major civil
works and goods contracts. In this respect, for contracts exceeding US$250,000, PECDAR will assist
both Ministries through joint committees to: (i) review technical aspects; (ii) prepare designs,
specifications and bidding documents; (iii) invite bids; (iv) evaluate and award contracts; and (v)
monitor progress and supervise contract execution. After a period of twelve months, PECDAR and
the two Ministries will review implementation arrangements in consultation with IDA with the aim of
devolving full responsibility for project implementation to the two Ministries. A matrix of functions
and responsibilities (Annex 10) has been prepared in consultation with all three agencies.
4.2      Available resources from the TATF have been used to start building the capacity of the
Education and Health Ministries. Each Ministry has identified members of their staff to form the
nucleus of the Project Coordination Units (PCUs). Under the project, technical assistance would be
provided to relevant MEHE and MOH service units on: (a) planning (sectoral); (b) physical planning;
(c) monitoring and supervision of ongoing projects; (d) procurement planning and contracting (civil
works, furniture and equipment); (e) training; and (f) coordination and administration of technical
assistance activities.
4.3      Due to political and institutional issues, implementation of the ERP and WBG donor
assistance program have incurred delays. Border closures, fluctuations in the numbers of Palestinians
working in Israel, as well as the slow pace of capacity building in general, has led to difficulties in
absorbing assistance. Lessons from ongoing operations in the WBG were used to ensure that this
project is sufficiently flexible, particularly with respect to cofinancing. Components under the TFG
are designed to be self-contained. The project is simple in design, most civil works would use labor-
intensive construction techniques. Detailed working papers have been prepared for each aspect of the
project, in order to give the implementing agencies a blueprint for implementation. Papers not
annexed to this document are available in the project files and an Implementation Volume has been
prepared for the guidance of the Implementing Agencies. In addition, the Supervision Plan (Annex
13) programs intensive supervision throughout the three years of implementation and particular
attention during the first year. The Bank Group is also providing technical assistance in disbursement
and special account management procedures under the Holst Fund. A Bank disbursement specialist
conducted a disbursement workshop for non-governmental organizations and municipalities benefiting
from the Fund, and provided technical assistance to PECDAR on maintaining, controlling and
monitoring accounts and disbursements. The Ministry of Finance is also being assisted to train
appropriate staff (through the Agent employed to monitor procurement and disbursement under the



- 13 -
Holst Fund) and the TATF is providing technical assistance for this Ministry on the establishment of
centralized accounts and internal audit functions"5.
4.4      PECDAR, MEHE and MOH have agreed during negotiations to maintain adequately
staffed Project Coordination Units in the MEHE and MOH, with funding, and functions and
responsibilities satisfactory to the Association. The minimum staffing of the respective PCUs in each
Ministry was agreed as follows: (a) Project Coordinator's Office--a Project Coordinator and a
Secretary; (b) Deputy Coordinator's Office--a Deputy Coordinator and an Administrative Officer
(with an education or health orientation for MEHE and MOH respectively); (c) Procurement Section--
a Procurement Officer and Assistant; (d) Accounting Section--an Accounting Officer, Computer
Operator and a Clerk; and (e) Civil Works Section--an Architect, an Engineer, and two Assistants.
These sections would liaise with PECDAR and IDA and would also have access to their respective
Special Accounts (SA). Hiring of staff that would be required only for special project implementation
services or functions would be on fixed-term contract basis and services would be contracted out as
far as possible to avoid overloading PECDAR and ministerial staff.
The Education Sector
4.5      Where appropriate, District level activities would be coordinated by a District Coordinator
attached to the District Education Offices to: (a) ensure delivery of locally procured equipment to
districts; (b) supervise construction activities in the district; and (c) monitor progress. Annex 14
provides some background on planned civil works for the education facilities and MEHE's strategy
for their implementation.
4.6      At the school level, each school would have a Coordinator who would be either the
principal or head teacher, to coordinate activities and to: (a) minimize the impact of construction on
the learning environment; (b) receive, inspect, and accept shipments of books, materials, and furniture
on behalf of the school; (c) schedule staff training; (d) interact with district, and local authorities to
maximize impact of inputs on education activities; and (e) collect school-level data for use by the
education authorities.
The Health Sector
4.7      The MOH has identified the implementation team members and is developing a training
program to strengthen their project management skills. Health sector civil works components would
be contracted out to private sector firms and would be managed by experienced engineering staff of
the MOH. Site engineers at the district level would also assist in supervision. Engineering and
maintenance staff are available at most hospital and health centers. Annex 15 provides some
background on the planned civil works for the health facilities and MOH's strategy for their
implementation.
B. Accounting, and Auditing
4.8      The Ministries of Education and Health would withdraw the proceeds of the Credit, and
would maintain consolidated accounts satisfactory to IDA for their respective components.
Appropriate accounts for the project would be kept, and all project related expenditures should be
fully documented and aggregated quarterly. Records for the accounts will be kept by the Ministries
and duplicate originals may be forwarded to PECDAR upon request. Copies of supporting
documentation would be consolidated at the PCU offices in West Bank and Gaza to facilitate auditing.
At the level of the PA, accounts would be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to
15/ Not part of the design of this project.



- 14 -
IDA. During negotiations, assurances were given that: (a) project accounts would be audited on a
yearly basis by auditors acceptable to IDA; and (b) certified audit reports would be furnished to IDA
no later than six months after the close of the fiscal year.
C. Supervision Requirements and Monitoring
4.9      The project would be supervised intensively by IDA according to an agreed plan
(Annex 13). Particular attention would be paid to supervision of activities leading to the procurement
of the major facilities (comprehensive health clinics and new schools) to ensure that procurement
starts as soon as possible. In addition, since supervision missions would be expected to provide
substantial technical assistance, mission members would be carefully selected with the requisite skills
needed to respond to issues relating to project activities under implementation.
4.10     Annual and Final Reviews. Implementation progress would be monitored on the basis of
work plans formulated annually, and reports submitted quarterly by the PCUs. During negotiations,
it was agreed that the PA would: (a) by September of every year, commencing September 1995 would
prepare and furnish to IDA an annual work program for the following calendar year; (b) by
December every year, commencing in December 1995 review that program with IDA; and (c)
thereafter, taking into account the Association's comments, implement the program in a manner
satisfactory to the Association. The Annual Review would discuss progress of project implementation
over the preceding twelve months, propose the work plan for the next twelve months, and resolve
project issues.
4.11     Staff of the PCUs in MEHE and MOH would coordinate the preparation of the Annual
Work Program and organize the annual reviews. The Line Ministries would be responsible for all
evaluation-related activities under the project, including: (a) monitoring key project indicators; (b)
collecting information on project achievements; (c) consolidating information received from the
District Offices and from other sources; and (d) summarizing information quarterly for presentation to
the MEHE and MOH, PECDAR, IDA and donors.
4.12     The MEHE and MOH would prepare a plan by not later than September 30, 1995, which
would include proposals for: (a) standardizing data collection according to key monitoring indicators
(to be designed by MEHE and MOH with assistance from IDA); (b) computerizing project statistics;
and (c) undertaking statistical analyses. The information and analyses prepared would be reviewed
with IDA during the Annual Reviews.
V. SUSTAINABILITY, ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT, AND GENDER ISSUES
5.1      Proiect Sustainabilitv. The project aims to support and maintain existing services, while
assisting the PA in developing longer-term strategies for economic sustainability. Technical assistance
would help both MEHE and MOH review and rationalize their finances in the immediate future.
Education in the WBG is not free. Fees of US$20.00 and US$27.00 are paid by students in Grades
1-10 and 11-12 respectively. Although there are some exemptions, revenue from fees is estimated at
about US$8.0 million. The immediate recurrent costs generated by project-financed inputs would be
modest. In the case of education, new classrooms and schools built (40-student capacity) would help
reduce teacher requirements. Many existing schools currently operating in rented facilities (old
houses) where the classrooms are small, are wasting teacher resources. Palestinian society places
very high value on education and the communities have over the years, particularly during the
intifada, built and maintained many schools. Funds are frequently raised by the communities to
upgrade schools. These initiatives would be maximized by the PA through a "matching fund"
program that would build schools in communities that provide contributions (in cash, in kind and
land) ranging from 20% to 80% of the investment. Communities have already donated land for the
construction of new schools representing a value of about US$3.6 million in West Bank. In the



- 15 -
health sector, rationalization and concentration of services at the primary level would reduce
investments and future higher running costs associated with hospitals. Moreover, the rehabilitated
and new facilities would be of a more permanent nature and would require less mainteprance.
Rationalization of facilities and personnel is a major concern for both sectors and technical assistance
to help focus on related issues and cost containment would be provided under the project.
5.2      Environmental Impact. The impact of the proposed project on the environment would be
limited and should be positive. The project has been given an environmental rating of "B".
Construction debris generated, as well as medical and solid wastes from upgraded clinics and
hospitals, would be properly disposed, and waste management procedures would be introduced to
mitigate any negative environmental impact of the proposed project. Controlled landfills are being
developed in Gaza with funding from the European Union and Germany.
5.3        An environmental analysis, carried out at pre-appraisal, recommended a comprehensive
medical waste management study (Annex 16). This study is being financed through the Technical
Assistance Trust Fund (TATF) and contains a survey of medical wastes, recommendations for
awareness and training programs, and management alternatives, including private sector participation
in medical waste management. Schools and medical facilities under the project would receive training
in facility maintenance which is expected to have a positive impact on both the environmental and
public health areas. Health education would directly address environmental issues.
5.4      Resettlement. No resettlement activities are anticipated, as construction would be carried
out at existing sites. New schools would be constructed at vacant sites owned by the PA or donated
to the PA by local communities.
5.5      Gender Issues. The education component of the project would benefit girls in that: (a) it
would provide appropriate and adequate sanitary facilities at school sites (frequently noted as
beneficial to keeping girls in school); (b) develop teaching materials free of gender bias; and (c)
increase appropriate access to schools through the targeting of girls' and co-educational schools. The
health component would ensure equitable allocation of resources to addressing the needs of women
and girls including; (a) strengthening maternal/child health care as part of primary health care
services; (b) training and recruitment of women in professional positions; and (c) health education
targeted to the needs of women and girls. Gender disaggregated data would be collected during
project monitoring.
VI. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
6.1       Benefits. Overall, the project is expected to improve the efficiency and equity of
educational and health services for a population of about one million people in Gaza. Specific
potential project benefits are: (a) improved education facilities to reduce overcrowding and its adverse
effects on teaching and learning; (b) improved health services through more appropriate facilities and
trained health personnel; (c) more efficient mental health services; (d) improved sectoral capacity to
administer and develop education and health programs essential for sustainable development in WBG;
(e) increased employment in the construction industry through the construction activities generated by
the project; and (f) increased economic activity in the local architectural and engineering firms who
would be contracted to provide design and supervision services. The project is also expected to
increase the efficiency of health and education expenditures through more rational resource allocations
and better cost recovery mechanisms. In addition, the project would serve as a catalyst to attract
cofinancing for implementation of the comprehensive Program. Finally, project activities would
contribute to stabilizing the social environment and creating a positive atmosphere for future growth
in the region.



- 16 -
6.2      Risks. All projects in WBG face political risk. Project specific risks are also anticipated
due to: (a) the physical separation between the West Bank and Gaza and border closures; (b) the
significant variations in capacity and needs between the West Bank and Gaza, which are being
addressed through flexibility in project design, and the developrment of unified policies; (c)
institutional weaknesses in MEHE and MOH, which are being addressed through technical assistance
from multiple donors and international agencies as well as under this project; (d) possible lack of
coordination between PECDAR (the Borrower) and the Ministries (the implementing agencies),
which would be minimized by clarifying their respective roles and responsibilities. PECDAR, which
has gained considerable experience and expertise through ERP, would take the lead during the first 12
months of implementation to assist the MEHE and MOH build their project management capabilities
and familiarize themselves with Bank procedures.
VIl. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
7.1      During negotiations. agreement of PECDAR was reached on:
(a) distribution of responsibility among PECDAR, and the MEHE and MOH with respect to
functions relating to procurement, withdrawals, accounting and reporting requirements, and
operation of the special accounts (paras. 4.1 and 6.2);
(b) the creation of core Coordinating Units, one in MEHE and one in MOH, and the
recruitment and appointment of key staff (para. 4.4);
(c) submission to IDA of annual work programs for project activities, joint IDA/Borrower
review of such programs and plans, and their implementation in a manner satisfactory to
IDA (para. 4.10); and
7.2      During negotiations, understanding with PECDAR was reached on:
(a)  implementation plans for the first year of the project as follows: (i) MEHE would
undertake rehabilitation work in basic education schools, and the construction of seven new
schools in Gaza; and (ii) MOH would undertake the replacement of four comprehensive
health centers. In both sectors, training for PCU staff will be initiated, and studies
contracted.
(b) project impact indicators to be developed in tandem with new monitoring and evaluation
systems for the respective sectors, by September 30, 1995. The delegations confirmed
their joint understanding that the progress indicators referred to under Section B (i) of
Schedule 4 of the Trust Fund Credit Agreement are those contained in the Annex to the
Staff Appraisal Report entitled "Implementation Schedule of Key Activities".
7.3      Subject to the above agreements and conditions, the proposed project would constitute a
suitable basis for a Trust Fund Credit of US$20.0 million out of the Trust Fund for Gaza to the
Palestinian Economic Council for Development and Reconstruction (PECDAR).
BUFF3.SAR



Annex 1
Page 1 of 2
WEST BANK AND GAZA
EDUCATION AND HEALTH REHABILITATION PROJECT
Organizational Structure of the Ministry of Education and Higher Education (MEHE)
Council of General            Minister of Education  |         Council of Higher
Education                                                     Education
Deputy Minister of
Education
Assistants of Deputy Minister of
Education
General Directorates
____|__r      ____ _I _
General Education       j                                Public Relations
Administration and Financial Affairs                   I    Training and Qualification
Buildings and Projects    _                              Educational Planning
Technical Education & Community  L                           Curriculum Development
i           Colleges                                    l
Student Affairs        _                          Examinations and Evaluation
District Directorates
West Bank                                   |                                       Gaza
Jenin, Tulkarem, Nablus, Ramallah                              North Gaza, and South Gaza
Bethlehem, Hebron, and Jericho
MEHEORG.XLS



Annex I
Page 2 of 2
WEST BANK AND GAZA
EDUCATION AND HEALTH REHABILITATION PROJECT
Organizational Structure of the MEHE District Offmces
Director
of Education
Education      Technical Director      Chief Clerk        Administrative     Public Relatns
Committee                          Iirector                                      Division
General Education                                             Personnel Division
Division     r_X_                                                          X
Vocational Education                                           Accounts Division
Division
Educational                                                Supplies Division
Technology Division
Student Affairs                                            Examinations Division
Division
Training and                                                School Buildings
Supervision Division                                        L_Division
Councelling and                                              Financial Auditing
Guidance Division                                                 Division
Statistics and Planning
Division
DISTORG.XLS



Annex 2
Page 1 of 2
WEST BANK AND GAZA
EDUCATION AND HEALTH REHABILITATION PROJECT
Number and Percent of Students by Auspices, Level, and Region
Operating Authority (Auspice)
Palestinian
Authority           UNRWA                Private
Total               % by                % by                % by
Number   Number  Auspice   Number  Auspice   Number   Auspice
of        of      and         of      and         of       and
Region and Level     Students  Students    Level  Students    Level   Students       Level
Gaza Total            236,041    116,641     49.4   119,273      50.5       127        0.1
Basic                 218,518    99,245      45.4   119,273      54.6         0         0
Secondary              17,523     17,396     99.3         0         0       127        0.7
West Bank Total       375,196   301,099      80.3    46,536      12.4    27,561        7.4
Basic                 346,660   276,050      79.6    46,536      13.4    24,074        7.0
Secondary              28,536    25,049      87.8         0        0       3,487      12.2
TOTAL                 611,237   417,740      68.3   165,809      27.1    27,688        4.5
STUDNUM.ANX



WEST BANK AND GAZA
EDUCATION AND HEALTH REHABILITATION PROJECT
School Facility Statistics, Requirements and Coverage
Number of Classrooms                       Rehabilitation Needs      Program Coverage *-
Number
of
Schools
Number                                             Number                                            Covered
of                                     Class to    of    Number Number                   As % of   by the
Number Number School                               Number Class- Schools of Class-    of    Number of   Needy            Trust
of       of     Com-                               of      room    Identi-  rooms  Students  Schools    Schools  Fund for
District   Students Schools  pounts  Owned  Rented  Total Classes  Ratio    fled   Affected Affected   Covered   Identified   Gaza**
Jenin         45,653      138      138    1,195      61   1,256    1,256    100%      107      990   34,751          25         23%      -
Tulkarem      13,981      118      117     813       47    860    1,075      80%       95      921   30,275          10         11%      -
Qalqilya      13,380       44      44      391        3    394      394    100%        18      149    4,925          15         83%      -
Nablus        44,680      148      148    1,124     230   1,354    1,354    100%       96      889   28,780          32         33%      -
Rmallah       46,186      150      149     789      378   1,167    1,538     76%       95      757   26,486           5          5%       -
Bethlehem     24,945       69      67      660      104    764      778      98%       51      518   18,415          14         27%       -
Hebron        87,069      212      191    1,741     558  2,299    2,534      91%      158    1,913   63,011          28         18%       -
Jericho        3,294        9        9      86       15    101       101    100%        8      134    3,147           2         25%       -
SubtotalWB | 279,188      888      863    6,799 | 1,396 | 8,195 |  9,030 i   91%1    628 i  6,271 i 209,790 |       131 1       21%|    -
Gaza         116,641      143       96    1,686 |   -  | 1,686 |  2,737 l   62%|       41 |    750 | 42,720 |        24         59%1      24 |
Grand Total  395,829    1,031      959    8,485 | 1,396 1 9,881 | 11,767 |   84%1    669 1  7,021 1 252,510 1       155         23%1      24
Notes:
* Elementary, and secondary schools (Grades 1-12)
Basic education schools (Grades 1-10) only with a few exceptions where schools are mixed                                CD
SCHOOLS.XLS



Annex 3
Page 1 of 4
WEST BANK AND GAZA
EDUCATION AND HEALTH REHABILITATION PROJECT
Supplementary Readers and Libraries for Basic Education
1.    Objectives. The component aims to: (a) to assist children in learning language
and (b) to motivate children to develop reading habits and resourcefulness for creative
work.
2.    Rationale. School libraries in the West Bank and Gaza have suffered from
under funding over the past twenty five years. Where school libraries still operate,
they have antiquated stock. The teachers have had no specialized training in the
running of school libraries, and no provision has been made in the school timetable
for library use. Many schools have the vestiges of a library which has usually long
since ceased to be an integrated part of the education process.
3.    Components. Project components comprise: (a) a survey of existing library
and supplementary reading materials to be carried out by teachers in conjunction with
a local NGO to cover: classification and cataloguing; reference books, SRMs, Science
and technical books as well as graded reading materials; the physical location and
condition of books; staff trained in library and supplementary reading materials use;
record keeping, timetable provision for library use and furniture requirements; and
appropriateness of stock for age range; (b) teacher training in library management to
be organized at District level through NGO mechanisms; and (c) book selection from
a wide number of sources for supplementary reading materials in Arabic from nearby
countries. The Cairo Book Fair and the Bologna Book Fair (the latter exclusively for
children's books) could be visited by a suitable library supplier at his own expense in
order to draw up a list of candidates. A committee appointed by the Minister for
Education could then approve the titles to be purchased. Bulk buying should allow
considerable discounts. For this reason the unit cost per book has been estimated at
the modest sum of US$5.00
4.    Implementing Agency. The project will be implemented under the auspices of
the MEHE through educational NGOs or universities.
5.    Cost Estimates. The expenditure on books and furniture in the first year is in
the order of US$7.3 million, but the capital costs for the subsequent years would be
modest at approximately US$300,000 per annum. Training and technical assistance
costs are minimal at US$150,000 in the first year reducing to US$5,500 in subsequent
years as training will only be necessary at the rate of one teacher for each new
school. The total cost of the component should be approximately US$8.2 million and
should be able to attract a donor to finance it as a single component.



Annex 3
Page 2 of 4
6.    Risks. Risks attached to the component relate to poor training of teachers in
the use of reading materials, loss of books and lack of use of facilities. These depend
on creating an atmosphere whereby quality inputs to the system are utilized
appropriately and enthusiastically.
7.    Sustainability. Teacher training on the use of supplementary reading materials
should eventually be integrated into pre-service training. Training in school
librarianship should also become a specialty in the appropriate faculty. Such training
would ensure that materials were used and cared for. It is possible that this
component, along with that for school equipment, could become of interest to
communities to finance.
READL .ANX



Annex 3
Page 3 of 4
WEST BANK AND GAZA
EDUCATION AND HEALTH REHABILITATION PROJECT
Supplementary Readers in School Libraries
Capital Costs                                     Year 1    Year 2   Year 3   Totals
Book Costs
Public School Enrollment in Basic Education West Bank   317,100   329,784  342,975
Public School Enrollment in Basic Education Gaza  90,200    93,808   97,560
Public School Enrollment Total  407,300   423,592  440,536
Ratio of Books to Students 3 to 1                     3          3        3
Book Requirement West Bank                       951,300    38,052   39,574 1,028,926
Book Requirement Gaza                            270,600    10,824   11,257  292,681
Total Book Requirement 1,221,900    48,876   50,831 1,321,607
Unit cost per book in $                             5.00      5.00     5.00
Book Costs West Bank                           4,756,500   190,260  197,870 5,144,630
Book Costs Gaza                                1,353,000    54,120   56,285 1,463,405
Total Book Cost 6,109,500   244,380  254,155 6,608,035
Furniture Costs
Number of Public Schools West Bank                  889        925      962
Number of Public Schools Gaza                       133        138      144
Total Number of Public Schools    1,022  1,063    1,105
Total Number of Libraries to be supplied    1,022  41       43
Average number of books per school                 1,196
Cost of shelving for 1000 books                      75
Cost of shelving per library  90
Number of chairs per library                         10
Unit cost of chair                                   12
Cost of chairs per library  120
Number of tables per library                          3
Unit cost of table                                  120
Cost of tables per library  360
Total cost of shelving, chairs & tables per library  570  570    570
Total furniture costs for Public Schools  582,203    23,288   24,220  629,710
Total Capital Costs 6,691,703   267,668  278,375 7,237,745
SRM1.XLS



Annex 3
Page 4 of 4
Training & Technical Assistance Costs             Year 1    Year 2   Year 3   Totals
Project Supervisor
Daily fee                                           350       350      350
Daily Allowance                                     200       200      200
Total per diem     550       550      550
1 x 4 weeks designing & implementing research (in day  28
1 x 2 weeks monitoring research (in days)            14
1 x 4 weeks evaluating data & report writing (in days)  28
Total days      70
Sub Total   38,500
1 Air fare                                        2,000
3 Air fares                                       6,000
Car hire for 14 days @ $80 per day                1,120
Petrol @ $350                                       350
Sub Total    7,470
Total Cost of Project Supervisor   45,970
Training Teachers
Teachers to be trained (1 per school)             1,022        41       43    1,106
Teachers per training session                        20
Training sessions (each session is 2 days)           51
Training sessions per week                            2
Weeks of training required                           26         1        1       28
T & A per teacher per day                            20        20       20
2 days teacher training                              40        40       40
Total cost of teachers attending    40,880  1,640    1,720   44,240
Library Trainers
2 x 13 weeks training (in days)                     182
1 x 2 weeks monitoring (in days)                     14
Total Days     196         7        7      210
Sub Total  107,800     3,850    3,850  115,500
1 Air fare                                                  2,000    2,000    4,000
3 Air fares                                       6,000                        6,000
Printed Materials
1500 forms @ $1 per form                          1,500
Total Cost of Printed Materials    1,500                    1,500
Total Training & Technical Assistance Costs  150,180  5,490    5,570  161,240
Overall costs of library component 6,841,883   273,158  283,945 7,398,985



Annex 4
WEST BANK AND GAZA
EDUCATION AND HEALTH REHABILITATION PROJECT
Organizational Structure of the Ministry of Health (MOH)
Minister of Health
Deputy Minister of Health     J
Assistant Deputy Minister of Health
Director General
D.G. Health Services - Gaza                                D.G. Health Services- W.B.
Research & Planning         Primary Health Care              Hospitals                   Finance &
Administration



Annex 5
Page 1 of 3
WEST BANK AND GAZA
EDUCATION AND HEALTH REHABILITATION PROJECT
Special Studies: Managed Care. Cost Containment and Financial Sustainability
1.    Objective. The project aims to support the analysis, identification and adoption of
short-term measures that contribute to the fiscal solvency of the MOH. Among the most
critical cost issues faced by the MOH are: (a) the high cost of treatments abroad, including
services from Israeli hospitals, (b) cost of pharmaceuticals as a proportion of total health
expenditures, and (b) unexplored revenue generating targets.
2.    Rationale. As a complement to the Technical Assistance Trust Fund, the EHRP
special studies are intended to address more immediate solutions to pressing issues of
sustainability. A select set of high cost budget line items are the focus of these studies. An
objective review of current operating activities, in light of potential managed care
application, would guide the rapid adoption of cost containment measure. Application in the
management, as well as patient service arenas is anticipated.
3.    Components. This component would consist of two special studies. One would
address managed care practices and their potential application and adoption. The other
would address data identification and collection to monitor financial sustainability and
monitoring triggers for fiscal corrective actions.
4.    Implementing Agency. In collaboration with the Finance Unit of the MOH, the
special studies would be conducted by local or foreign consultants with expertise int he
subject matter.
5.    Cost Estimates. Each study would cost approximately US$80,000 and would be
conducted during a 6 month timeframe.
6.    Risks. The possibility that the TAFT project addresses and solves either of these
issues during its early work would preclude the necessity of these studies.
7.    Sustainability. As special studies to be conducted in the specified time frame, this
component would not generate recurrent costs for the MOH.



Annex 5
Page 2 of 3
Quality Improvement of Health Services
1.    Objective. The project aims to improve the efficiency and quality of health services
provided in all public sector facilities by responding to consumer preferences and demands.
2.    Rationale. New physical health system infrastructure, specifically in the form of
district-base Comprehensive Health Centers, is substantially more relevant when created as
part of a larger program for system reform, including a new emphasis on quality and
efficiency of resource use. Not only the new facilities, but all public sector facilities, should
incorporate activities of problem identification, team problem solving and solution
implementation in order to advance the operational functioning and management of health
services.
3.    Components. The quality improvement project would be initiated with hospital and
PHC teams though a combination of: (a) training workshops aimed at improving the work
environment of Palestinian health facilities; (b) applied exercises in a variety of field settings
and documentation of results; (c) methods developed for measuring and evaluating
comparative improvement exercises; and (d) dissemination of improvement strategies to
enhance professional communication and stimulate experimentation with corrective measures.
Two important subjects are targeted initially: services--general level of cleanliness, patient
reception, admission procedures, visiting habits, patient satisfaction, waiting times, staff
overwork/underwork, renovation and maintenance problems, overcrowding, poor compliance
with schedules; and information--medical records, appointment systems, sign posing, defining
services provided, regulation and procedures, job description/responsibility/authority,
channels of communication and patient follow-up.
4.    Implementing Agency. The initial workshops would be conducted as a joint project
between the Ministry of Health, the Planning and Research Center, the Quality of Health
Care Unit of the Palestine Council of Health and the Al-Najah University. The Quality of
Health Care Unit would be responsible for the development of the Quality Improvement
project throughout the Palestinian health system.
5.    Cost Estimates. Base cost estimates were based on: (a) thirty man-months of
international specialist services at US$450,000; (b) sixty man-months of local specialist
services at US$120,000; (c) training costs at US$500,000; (d) materials and supplies at
US$179,000; and (e) equipment at US$37,000.



Annex 5
Page 3 of 3
Comrnunication Links for Health System Development
1.    Objective. The project focus is the development of staff and management structures
by improving information transfer, easing communication within and between the medical
communities of Gaza and the West Bank, and using communication technology to provide
more widespread access to training for all levels and types of PHC and hospital staff with
maximum flexibility for use throughout operating hours.
2.    Rationale. Information transfer, and thus communication between Gaza and the West
Bank, is conducted infrequently, constrained as it is by undeveloped communication
infrastructure and travel restrictions. Communication technologies are increasingly serving
as the bridge between distant communities, for example the use of telemedicine for medical
diagnostic conferencing and referral, and accounting and record keeping. Benefits from the
use of communication technologies include: cost recovery potential, re-usable in-service
training and new-staff orientation modules, reduced costs and time of travel for physicians
and patients, an integrated referral system linking all levels of care, selective cost-effective
contracting with specialist physicians, standardizing and unifying medical practice patterns
and a unified records system, for accounting and medical information.
3.    Components. The project would support a feasibility study to document and cost the
potential applications and feasibility of establishing multiple communication links within and
between Gaza and the West Bank. A pilot project to be funded by donors would establish
demonstration sites to test the cost-effectiveness of communication link centers, between
Comprehensive Health Centers, select referral hospitals and relevant public sector offices, for
example the MOH Finance Unit.
4.    Implementing Agencv. In part, the project would extend activities already underway
in the MOH's Health Management Information System Unit with initial donor support and
collaboration.
5.    Cost Estimates. The initial study, estimated at about US$80,000 and to be conducted
in a six-month period, would be funded by the TFG. Infrastructure development costs
(including local communication loop, and building site requirements) are the most complex to
design and estimate. Preliminary base costs for a pilot project are estimated at US$827,000
including, equipment, training and operational costs are expected to be funded by a donor.
6.    Risks. Given the phased nature of the program components, potential risks are
minimized. However, there are two potential problems envisaged: (a) the MOH's ability to
assume recurrent costs related with such a system, particularly its servicing requirements;
and (b) practical limitations of telephone lines and other requirements for communications
which are not in place at present. The latter would be mitigated by improvements in the
telecommunications systems, a process that has started already.
7.    Sustainability. The availability of private sector services, already being piloted, may
reduce the associated capital and operating costs to the MOH, and the services provided
would positively impact the efficient operation of public sector health services.
HLTH3 .ANX



WEST BANK AND GAZA
EDUCATION AND HEALTH REHABILITATION PROJECT
Program/Project Cost Summary by Component
Program                        Project                 %      % Total
(US$ Million)                   (US$ Million)         Foreign    Base
Local   Foreign    Total      Local   Foreign    Total    Exchange   Costs
A. Strengthen the Education Sector
1. Upgrade Physical Infrastructure    31.77  13.23  45.00       7.10      2.96     10.06         29       56
2. Improve Quality of Service     8.54     12.14    20.68        -         -         -            -        -
3. Develop Institutional Capacity  1.76    2.13      3.89       0.38      0.24      0.62         38      3.00
Subtotal             42.07     27.51     69.57       7.48      3.20     10.68         30       59
B. Strengthen the Health Sector
1. Upgrade Physical Infrastructure    19.59  19.82  39.41       2.91      1.21      4.12         29       23
2. improve Quality of Service     1.59      1.83     3.42       0.90      0.97      1.87         52        10
3. Develop Institutional Capacity  0.89    0.75      1.64       0.81      0.58      1.40         42         8
Subtotal             22.07     22.40     44.47       4.62      2.77      7.38         37       41
Total BASELINE COSTS               64.14     49.90    114.04      12.10      5.96     18.06         33      100
Physical Contingencies           4.55      3.07      7.63       0.91      0.43      1.33         32        7
Price Contingencies              2.88      2.28      5.17       0.41      0.19      0.60         32         3
Total PROJECT COSTS                71.57     55.26    126.83      13.42      6.58     20.00         33      111
Figures may not add due to rounding
oC >
5/24/95 SUMCOM1.XLS



WEST BANK AND GAZA
EDUCATION AND HEALTH REHABILITATION PROJECT
Program/Project Cost Summary by Expenditure Category
Program                     Project              %      % Total
(US$ Million)                 (US$ Million)     Foreign    Base
Local  Foreign   Total     Local  Foreign   Total  Exchange  Costs
I. Investment Costs
A. Works                     42.75    18.32    61.07      8.48     3.63    12.12        30      67
B. Furniture                  4.28     1.83     6.11      0.85     0.36     1.21       30        7
C. Equipment                  1.71    15.35    17.06      0.02     0.20     0.23        90       1
D. Textbooks                  3.90     3.90     7.80       -       -         -          -        -
E. Materials/Supplies         2.13     4.96     7.08      0.09     0.21     0.30       70        2
F. International Specialists  0.28     2.52     2.80      0.07     0.65     0.72       90        4
G. Local Specialists          6.05     1.51     7.57      2.02     0.50     2.52        20      14
H. Overseas Training          0.02     0.32     0.34      0.01     0.15     0.16        95       1
I. In-Country Training        2.58     0.64     3.22      0.43     0.11     0.54       20        3
J. Studies                    0.19     0.45     0.64      0.05     0.11     0.16        70       1
K. Operation                  0.18     0.06     0.25      0.03     0.01     0.04       25        -
L. Project Management         0.08     0.03     0.11      0.06     0.02     0.08        25       -
Total BASELINE COSTS            64.14    49.90   114.04     12.10     5.96    18.06       33      100
Physical Contingencies        4.55     3.07     7.63      0.91     0.43     1.33        32       7
Price Contingencies           2.88     2.28     5.17      0.41     0.19     0.60        32       3
Total PROJECT COSTS             71.57    55.26   126.83     13.42    6.58    20.00        33      111
Figures may not add due to rounding                                                                        oQ
54   S1
5/24/95 SUMCAT1 XLS



WEST BANK AND GAZA
EDUCATION AND HEALTH REHABILITATION PROJECT
Expenditure Accounts by Components - Totals Including Contingencies
IDA (US$ Million)
Strengthen the Education Sector          Strengthen the Health Sector
Improve                                Improve
Upgrade     Quality     Develop        Upgrade      Quality    Develop
Physical       of     Institutional    Physical       of      Institutional
Infrastructure  Service    Capacity    Infrastructure  Service    Capacity     Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Works                                    9.74        -                           3.83        -             -   13.57
B. Fumiture                                 0.93        -                           0.38       -              -    1.31
C. Equipment                                   -        -           0.08               -    0.08           0.08     0.24
D. Textbooks
E. Materials/Supplies                          -        -                              -    0.32              -    0.32
F. Intemational Specialists                    -        -              -               -    0.49           0.29     0.78
G. Local Specialists                        0.65        -           0.47            0.27     0.33           1.02    2.74
H. Overseas Training                           -        -           0.08               -       -           0.08     0.17
I. In-Country Training                         -        -              -               -    0.58              -    0.58
J. Studies                                     -        -                              -    0.17              -    0.17
K. Operation                                                                           -       -           0.04     0.04
L. Project Management                          -        -           0.04               -    0.04              -    0.08
Total PROJECT COSTS                           11.33       -           0.67            4.48     2.02           1.51    20.00
Taxes
Foreign Exchange                            3.33        -           0.26            1.32     1.05          0.63     6.58
oC >
EXCMTF.XLS



WEST BANK AND GAZA
EDUCATION AND HEALTH REHABILITATION PROJECT
Expenditure Accounts by Components - Totals Including contingencies
Donors (US$ Million)
Strengthen the Education Sector         Strengthen the Health Sector
Improve                               Improve
Upgrade     Quality    Develop         Upgrade     Quality    Develop
Physical      of      Institutional    Physical      of      Institutional
Infrastructure  Service    Capacity    Infrastructure  Service    Capacity    Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Works                                   34.36       -              -          21.02        -              -    55.38
B. Fumiture                                3.28     0.67              -            1.42       -             -      5.36
C. Equipment                                  -    3.03            0.08           14.96    0.45              -    18.53
D. Textbooks                                  -    8.57               -              -        -             -      8.57
E. Materials/Supplies                         -    7.38               -              -    0.02               -     7.40
F. International Specialists                  -    0.46            1.47              -    0.34               -     2.27
G. Local Specialists                       2.27     0.13           1.53            1.46    0.10              -     5.49
H. Overseas Training                          -        -           0.17              -    0.02               -     0.19
I. In-Country Training                        -    2.36               -              -    0.52               -     2.88
J. Studies                                    -        -           0.25              -        -           0.25     0.51
K. Operation                                       -                  -              -    0.22               -     0.22
L. Project Management                         -        -           0.04              -        -              -     0.04
39.91    22.60          3.54           38.86    1.67           0.25    106.83
Taxes
Foreign Exchange                           11.75    13.29          2.05          20.49     0.92           0.18    48.68
E F
CD >
t i0
EXCMTFD.XLS



WEST BANK AND GAZA
EDUCATION AND HEALTH REHABILITATION PROJECT
Components by Financiers
(US$ Million)
Palestinian                                                                 Local
Authorities         IDA             Donors             Total         For.   (Excl.  Duties &
Amount   %    Amount   %          Amount    %       Amount    %        Exch.  Taxes)   Taxes
A. Strengthen the Education Sector
1. Upgrade Physical Infrastructure        0.00        -   11.33    22.1    39.91      77.9    51.24    40.4   15.08    36.16
2. Improve QualKty of Service             0.00        -       -        -    22.60    100.0    22.60     17.8   13.29     9.31
3. Develop Institutional Capacity         0.00        -    0.67     16.0     3.54     84.0     4.21      3.3    2.30     1.91
Subtotal                                    0.00        -   12.00     15.4    66.04     84.6    78.04    61.5   30.67   47.37
B. Strengthen the Health Sector
1. Upgrade Physical Infrastructure        0.00        -    4.48     10.3    38.86     89.7    43.34     34.2   21.81    21.53
2. Improve Quality of Service             0.00        -    2.02     54.6     1.67    45.4      3.69      2.9    1.97     1.72
3. Develop Institutional Capacity         0.00        -    1.51     85.5     0.25     14.5     1.76      1.4    0.80     0.96
Subtotal                                    0.00        -    8.00     16.4    40.79     83.6    48.79     38.5   24.58    24.20
Total Disbursement                           0.00       -   20.00     15.8   106.83     84.2   126.83    100.0   55.26    71.57
C N
COMFIN.XLS



WEST BANK AND GAZA
EDUCATION AND HEALTH REHABILITATION PROJECT
Expenditure Accounts by Financiers
(US$ Million)
Palestinian                                                                 Local
Authorities         IDA             Donors             Total        For.   (Excl.  Duties &
Amount   %    Amount   %          Amount    %       Amount    %        Exch.  Taxes)   Taxes
I. Investment Costs
A. Works                            0.00        -   13.57     19.7    55.38     80.3    68.94     54.4   20.68    48.26        -
B. Furniture                        0.00       -    1.31      19.7     5.36    80.3      6.68     5.3    2.00    4.67
C. Equipment                        0.00       -    0.24       1.3    18.53     98.7    18.77     14.8   16.89     1.88
D. Textbooks                           -       -        -       -      8.57    100.0     8.57     6.8    4.28     4.28
E. Materials/Supplies               0.00       -    0.32      4.2      7.40    95.8      7.72     6.1    5.40    2.32
F. International Specialists        0.00       -    0.78      25.5     2.27     74.5     3.04      2.4    2.74     0.30
G. Local Specialists                0.00       -    2.74      33.3     5.49    66.7      8.22      6.5    1.64    6.58
H. Overseas Training                0.00       -    0.17      46.8     0.19     53.2     0.36      0.3    0.34     0.02
I. In-Country Training              0.00       -    0.58      16.8     2.88     83.2     3.46     2.7    0.69     2.77
J. Studies                          0.00        -    0.17     25.0     0.51     75.0     0.68      0.5    0.48     0.20
K. Operation                           -       -    0.04      15.0     0.22     85.0     0.26      0.2    0.07     0.20
L. Project Management               0.00       -    0.08      67.8     0.04     32.2     0.12     0.1    0.03      0.09
Total Disbursement                        0.00       -   20.00      15.8   106.83    84.2   126.83    100.0   55.26    71.57
CD
00-
EXPFIN.XLS



Annex 7
Page 5 of 8
WEST BANK AND GAZA
EDUCATION AND HEALTH REHABILITATION PROJECT
Project Components by Year -- Totals Including Contingencies
IDA (US$ Million)
Totals Including Contingencies
95/96    96/97    97/98    Total
A. Strengthen the Education Sector
1. Upgrade Physical Infrastructure         3.47     6.26     1.60    11.33
2. Improve Quality of Service                 -        -        -       -
3. Develop Institutional CapacHty          0.33     0.17     0.17    0.67
Subtotal                                     3.80     6.43     1.77    12.00
B. Strengthen the Health Sector
1. Upgrade Physical Infrastructure         1.05     2.38     1.05    4.48
2. Improve Quality of Service              1.00     0.61     0.41    2.02
3. Develop Institutional Capacity          0.73     0.45     0.33    1.51
Subtotal                                     2.77     3.43     1.80    8.00
Total PROJECT COSTS                           6.57    9.86     3.57    20.00



Annex 7
Page 6 of 8
WEST BANK AND GAZA
EDUCATION AND HEALTH REHABILITATION PROJECT
Project Components by Year -- Totals Including Contingencies
Donors (US$ Million)
Totals Including Contingencies
95/96    96/97    97/98    Total
A. Strengthen the Education Sector
1. Upgrade Physical Infrastructure          2.45    17.40    20.05     39.91
2. Improve Quality of Service               2.31    12.21     8.08     22.60
3. Develop Institutional Capacity           1.49     1.01     1.03      3.54
Subtotal                                      6.25    30.62    29.17     66.04
B. Strengthen the Health Sector
1. Upgrade Physical Infrastructure          0.33    15.20    23.33     38.86
2. Improve Quality of Service               1.04     0.27     0.37      1.67
3. Develop Institutional Capacity           0.25        -        -      0.25
Subtotal                                      1.62    15.47    23.69     40.79
Total PROJECT COSTS                            7.88    46.10    52.86    106.83



Annex 7
Page 7 of 8
WEST BANK AND GAZA
EDUCATION AND HEALTH REHABILITATION PROJECT
Expenditure Accounts by Years -- Totals Including Contingencies
IDA (US$ Million)
Totals Including Contingencies
95196    96/97    97198    Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Works                              3.85     7.60     2.12    13.57
B. Furniture                          0.37     0.73     0.21     1.31
C. Equipment                          0.20     0.05        -    0.24
D. Textbooks
E. Materials/Supplies                 0.11     0.11     0.10    0.32
F. International Specialists          0.38     0.29     0.10    0.78
G. Local Specialists                  1.06     0.85     0.83    2.74
H. Overseas Training                  0.17        -        -    0.17
I. In-Country Training                0.19     0.20     0.19    0.58
J. Studies                            0.17        -        -    0.17
K. Operation                          0.01     0.01     0.01    0.04
L. Project Management                 0.06     0.01     0.01    0.08
Total PROJECT COSTS                     6.57     9.86     3.57    20.00
EAYRT.XLS



Annex 7
Page 8 of 8
WEST BANK AND GAZA
EDUCATION AND HEALTH REHABILITATION PROJECT
Expenditure Accounts by Years -- Totals Including Contingencies
Donors (US$ Million)
Totals Including Contingencies
95/96    96197    97/98    Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Works                             1.57    23.50    30.31    55.38
B. FumRure                           0.73     2.04    2.59      5.36
C. Equipment                         0.34     7.17    11.01    18.53
D. Textbooks                            -    4.14     4.43      8.57
E. Materials/Supplies                   -    6.30     1.10      7.40
F. International Specialists         0.67     0.73    0.87      2.27
G. Local Specialists                 1.64     1.77    2.08      5.49
H. Overseas Training                 0.17     0.01    0.01      0.19
1. In-Country Training               2.01     0.42    0.45      2.88
J. Studies                           0.51        -       -      0.51
K. Operation                         0.22        -       -      0.22
L. Project Management                0.01     0.01    0.01      0.04
Total PROJECT COSTS                    7.88    46.10    52.86    106.83
EAYRTD.XLS



WEST BANK AND GAZA
EDUCATION AND HEALTH REHABILITATION PROJECT
Component and Financier Matrix (Detailed Tables in Project Implementation Volume)
Table  Sector    Location    Description                       IDA    I Donors I Total  I Comment
Costs in US$ Million
Replacement of dangerous structures
and rehabilitation at 24 existing
schools, constructing 7 new schools,
1 Education  Gaza        design/supervision, and furniture  11.33           11.33
Support for Gaza PCU (staff training,
consultants, equipment, and operating
2  Education  Gaza       expenses for project management     0.67            0.67
Replacement of three and expansion
of two Comprehensive Health
Centers, design/supervision, and
3  Health     Gaza       fumiture                            3.46            3.46
Replacement of three and expansion
of four Health Centers,
4  Health     Gaza       design/supervision, and fumiture    1.00             1.00
Quality improvement program,
specialists, training, materials/supplies
5  Health     Gaza       and equipment                       1.40             1.40
Feasibility study on communication
6  Health     Gaza       Links                               0.09             0.09
Support for Gaza PCU (staff training,
consultants, equipment, and operating
7  Health     Gaza       expenses for project management     1.14             1.14
Development of the 5-year Plan (local
8  Health     Gaza       and foreign specialist services)    0.37             0.37
Health Education Program,
consultants, operation, training,
9  Health     Gaza       equipment, and reasearch            0.54             0.54                                            00
DETABI .XLS



Table  Sector    Location    Description                      IDA    Donors iTotal   Comment
Costs in USS Million
Constructing 6 new schools,
10  Education  Gaza       design/supervision, and fumiture           6.18    6.18
Replacement of dangerous structures
and rehabilitation at 131 existing
schools, constructing 15 new schools,
11  Education  West Bank  design/supervision, and furniture         33.73   33.73
Set of school equipment for 37
schools, textbooks and techers'
guides for all schools, supplementary
readers, library furniture and training
12  Education  Gaza       for 133 schools.                           5.79    5.79
Set of school equipment for 146
schools, textbooks and techers'
guides for all schools, supplementary
readers and furniture for libraries for
13  Education  West Bank  889 schools.                              14.07   14.07
New curriculum orientation, training
for administrators, education for the
14  Education  WBG        disadvantaged.                             2.74    2.74
Aid coordination, management,
15  Education  WBG        finance, and policy development.           1.47    1.47
Support for West Bank PCU (staff
training, consultants, equipment, and
operating expenses for project
16  Education  WBG        management                                  1.81    1.81
17  Education  WBG        Studies                                    0.26    0.26
Equipment for primary health care
18  Health     Gaza       centers                                    5.56    5.56
Establishment of six Comprehensive
Health Centers in six Districts,
design/supervision, furniture and
19  Health    West Bank  equipment                                   7.71    7.71
Establishment of 12 Health Centers in
six Districts, design/supervision,                                                              w oo
20  Health     West Bank  furniture and equipment                     5.55    5.55
DETAB1 .XLS



Table Sector    Location    Description                     IDA  I Donors I Total I Comment
Costs in US$ Million
Rehabilitation/expansion of Shifa
21  Health    Gaza       hospital, and design/supervision          6.26    6.26
Rehabilitation of Khan Younes                         To be funded by the Italian
22  Health    Gaza       hospital, and design/supervision          1.06    1.06 Government
Selected hospitals (to be determined),
civil works, furniture, equipment, and
23  Health    West Bank  design/supervision                       12.73   12.73
In-Country training for PHC personnel
in hospital management and medical
records (specially designed
workshops), international and local
24  Health    WBG        specialists (resource persons)     -      0.33    0.33
Community-based mental health
program, equipment, materials and
25  Health    WBG        supplies                           -      0.46    0.46
26  Health    WBG         Pilot project on communication links  -  0.88    0.88
27  Health    WBG         Studies                           -      0.26    0.26
Total                           20.00  106.85  126.85
E Z   I  Core Programs Financed by the Trust Fund for Gaza
DETABI .XLS



Annex 9
Page 1 of 3
WEST BANK AND GAZA
EDUCATION AND HEALTH REHABILITATION PROJECT
Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million)
Procurement Method
Category          ICB          NCB        Other         Total
Civil works             6.14         6.71        0.72        13.57
l__________________    (6.14)       (6.71)      (0.72)       (13.57)
Furniture                           0.66        0.66          1.32
l________________ __________    (0.66)          (0.66)        (1.32)
Equipment                                       0.24          0.24
l __________________  ___________               (0.24)        (0.24)
Materials/Supplies                              0.32          0.32
(0.32)       (0.32)
Specialist Services                             3.51          3.51
(3.51)      (3.51)
Training                                        0.75          0.75
l__________   (0.75)        (0.75)
Studies                                         0.17          0.17
l________    (0.17)        (0.17)
Operation                                       0.04          0.04
l_________    (0.04)       (0.04)
Project Management                              0.08          0.08
l__________  __________    (0.08)        (0.08)
Total                   6.14         7.37       6.49         20.00
l__________________    (6.14)        (7.37)      (6.49)      (20.00)
Note 1:       Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts to be financed by IDA
Note 2:        "Other" includes procurement through international and local shopping,
consulting services and training
Note 3:       The Bank's Consultant Guidelines apply to Technical Assistance (Specialist
Services)
Figures may not add due to rounding.



Annex 9
Page 2 of 3
1.       Civil Works totaling about US$13.57 million equivalent would be procured with IDA
funds under the following procedures:
(a)  International competitive Bidding (ICB) would be used for contracts exceeding US$3.0
million. The only contract envisaged under this category is the one for 7 new schools in
Gaza estimated at about US$6.14 million, if packaged together;
(b)  National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures would be used for other smaller
contracts (rehabilitation and extensions to schools and clinics), ranging from US$50,000
to US$500,000. These contracts are not expected to attract foreign bidders. However, if
any express interest they would be allowed to compete. A copy of the bid evaluation and
the contract for these smaller works would be kept by the Project Coordination Units in
the MEHE and MOH for review and would be retained for random sampling review by
IDA supervision missions. In procurement involving NCB, the relevant sections
(Buildings and Projects) in the MEHE and MOH would be responsible for establishing
bid evaluation and award committees in consultation with PECDAR and thereby
administering the procurement of civil works contracts. The aggregate amount for NCB
would be about US$6.71 million; and
(c)   National Shopping acceptable to IDA would be used for minor works with a contract
value below US$50,000. These contracts would generally be for minor works at schools
and clinics ranging from US$5,000-50,000 equivalent. The aggregate amount for
National Shopping for such works would be about US$0.72 million.
2.       Furniture. Equipment and Materials/Supplies. Furniture totalling about US$1.32 million
equivalent, equipment totalling about US$ 0.24 million equivalent, and materials/supplies totalling
about US$0.32 million equivalent would be procured with IDA funds under the following
procedures:
(a)  NCB would be used for all contracts estimated to exceed US$50,000. Furniture for
schools and health facilities to be procured would be simple and will probably be
manufactured locally as quality is good and prices well below international rates.
Although the type of furniture and the overall scale of procurement make it unlikely that
foreign bidders would be interested in bidding, they would be allowed to compete. In
procurement involving NCB, the Building and Project Units in MEHE and MOH would
be responsible for establishing bid evaluation and award committees and overseeing
procurement; and
(b)  National Shopping procedures would be used for contracts estimated to cost US$50,000
or less. Where local shopping procedures are being employed, furniture may be
purchased by each School Committee. The aggregate amount for local shopping for such
goods would be about US$1.17 million.
(c) Direct Contracting (DC) would be allowed for the procurement of intellectual property
items such as computer software totalling about US$0.05 million.
3.       Consultant Services totalling about US$3.51 million equivalent would be procured with
IDA funds. These services would consist mainly of professional fees for design and supervision of
buildings (architects/engineers) and for the preparation of studies. Their selection and employment



Annex 9
Page 3 of 3
by MEHE and MOH would be carried out in accordance with the Consultant Guidelines of the Bank.
All consultant contracts above US$100,000 equivalent with firms and US$50,000 equivalent with
individuals, and all TORs for contracts and studies would be subject to prior review by IDA.
4.       Overseas and In-country Training totalling about US$0.75 million would consist of in-
country workshops and placement of candidates in short-term courses in-country and overseas.
Placement in specific institutions would be made on the basis of relevance and quality of the
programs or opportunities offered, costs, and prior experience. In-country training would be
organized by the respective training sections of MEHE and MOH. Overseas training would be
arranged by the training sections of MEHE and MOH and would be cleared with IDA.
M:\WBG\35996\PROCAR.ANX



Annex 10
Page 1 of 7
WEST BANK AND GAZA
EDUCATION AND HEALTH REHABILITATION PROJECT
Management Framework - Education Component
1.           For the purpose of controlling, coordinating and supervising the various activities
involved in implementing the education component of the project, the MEHE will establish a Project
Co-ordinating Unit within the Ministry in Ramallah, and a subsidiary unit in Gaza, both organized
and staffed as outlined in the attached Organization Chart.
2.           The functions of the Unit, also referred to on the attached chart, will include inter
alia:
(a)   liaison with IDA regarding withdrawals, the engagement of consultants (e.g.
architects, specialists), submission of reports, documents, plans for review and
clearance, and procurement matters as required under the Agreement;
(b)   liaison with PECDAR on procurement matters in accordance with the agreed
procurement responsibility matrix;
(c)   liaison with departments within MEHE concerning project-related inputs and activities
(e.g. equipment, textbooks, training etc.);
(d)    planning and programming of project implementation activities;
(e)   selection, briefing and supervision of consultants (e.g. architects);
(f)    organization and management of procurement processes (bidding, bid evaluation,
contract award and monitoring) for the construction of building works, furniture,
equipment and textbooks);
(g)   co-ordination of training and fellowship programs;
(h)    monitoring of implementation (construction, goods and services); and
(i)    maintenance of records and preparation/submission of periodic progress reports.
3.           Appointment of key personnel -- who will be assigned either (as indicated) on a full
or part time basis, with the understanding that if part-time, project duties will have priority over any
other responsibilities -- and will be cleared with IDA:
- The Project Co-ordinator
- The Deputy Project Co-ordinator
- The Manager of Construction Section
- The Equipment Procurement Officer
- Project Accounting Officer
- Assistant Manager of Construction for Gaza.
M \WBG\35996\MANAG.ANX



Annex 10
Page 2 of 7
WEST BANK AND GAZA
EDUCATION AND HEALTH REHABILITATION PROJECT
Staffing & Functions of the MEHE Project Coordination Unit (PCU)
Staffing:                                                                    Functions:
Project Coordinator         1           Project Coordinator's             . Overall planning & scheduling
Secretary                   1                   Office                    . Annual workplans & priorities
Total                      2                                              . Coordination of project activities
.  Reviews/approvals
. Progress reporting
*  Project audits (accounts & SOEs)
* Liaison with the Bank & PA
* Supervision of consultant's work
. Budgeting & cost control
Staffing:                                                                    Functions:
Deputy Coordinator 1/       1        Deputy Coordinator's Office          * Backup to the Director
Administrative Officer      1         & General Administration  I            General administration
Total                       2                                             . Overall progress monitoring
. Technical assistance coordination
*  Fellowships coordination
. Technical & scientific support
* Expend./disbursement monitoring
Procurement Section                  Accounting Section                   Civil Works Section
(Equipment& Furniture)n                      ui)
Staffing:                           Staffing:                             Staffing: 2/   Gaza Deputy's Office
Procurement Officer         1       Accounting Officer           1        Architect                  1
Assistant                   1       Computer Operator            1        Engineer                   1
Total                       2       Clerk                        1        Assistants                 2
Total                        3        Total                     4
Functions:                         Functions:                            Functions:
Procurement planning            *  Project accounts                   . Implementation scheduling
*   Drafting model bidding docum.   .  Payments                           * Drafting model bidding documents
Equipment packaging             .  Withdrawal applications            . Supervision of consultants'work 2/
Bidding process & contracting   .  Contract records                   . Bidding process & contracting
*  Coordination of delivery & install.   *  Coordination of Audits        . Monitoring construction progress
.  Expenditure monitoring
Total Number of Staff Employed =    13|
1/ Also Chief Education Adviser
2/ Architectural Firms
PCUS.XLS MOEPCU



Annex 10
Page 3 of 7
WEST BANK AND GAZA
EDUCATION AND HEALTH REHABILITATION PROJECT
Management Framework - Health Component
1.          For the purpose of controlling, coordinating and supervising the various activities
involved in implementing the health component of the project, the MOH will establish a Project Co-
ordinating Unit within the Ministry in Gaza, and a subsidiary unit in Nablus (West Bank), both
organized and staffed as outlined in the attached Organization Chart.
2.           The functions of the Unit, also referred to on the attached chart, will include inter
alia:
(a)   liaison with IDA regarding withdrawals, the engagement of consultants (e.g.
architects, specialists), submission of reports, documents, plans for review and
clearance, and procurement matters as required under the Agreement;
(b)   liaison with PECDAR on procurement matters in accordance with the agreed
procurement responsibility matrix;
(c)   liaison with departments within MOH concerning project-related inputs and activities
(e.g. facility planning, equipment, training, etc.);
(d)   planning and programming of project implementation activities;
(e)   selection, briefing and supervision of consultants (e.g. architects);
(f)   organization and management of procurement processes (bidding, bid evaluation,
contract award and monitoring assisted by PECDAR/Procurement Consultant) for the
construction of building works, furniture, and equipment);
(g)   co-ordination of training and fellowship programs;
(h)   monitoring of implementation (construction, goods and services); and
(i)    maintenance of records and preparationlsubmission of periodic progress reports.
3.           Appointment of key personnel -- who will be assigned either (as indicated) on a full
or part time basis, with the understanding that if part-time, project duties will have priority over any
other responsibilities -- and will be cleared with IDA:
- The Project Co-ordinator
- The Deputy Project Co-ordinator
- The Manager of Construction Section
- The Equipment Procurement Officer
- Project Accounting Officer
- Assistant Manager of Construction for West Bank.
M:\WBG\35996\MANAG. ANX



Annex 10
Page 4 of 7
WEST BANK AND GAZA
EDUCATION AND HEALTH REHABILITATION PROJECT
Staffing & Functions of the MOH Proiect Coordination Unit (PCU)
Staffing:                                                                 Functions:
Project Coordinator       1           Project Coordinator's            . Overall planning & scheduling
Secretary                 1                   Office                   . Annual workplans & priorities
Total                     2                                            . Coordination of project activities
* Reviews/approvals
* Progress reporting
* Project audits (accounts & SOEs)
* Liaison with the Bank & PA
* Supervision of consultant's work
. Budgeting & cost control
Staffing:                        I                                        Functions:
Deputy Coordinator 1/     1        Deputy Coordinator's Office         . Backup to the Director
Administrative Officer    1         & General Administration           * General administration
Total                     2      |                                        Overall progress monitoring
* Technical assistance coordination
|  Fellowships coordination
* Technical & scientific support
* Expend./disbursement monitoring
Procurement Section                 Accounti                            Civil Works Section
Staffing                          Staffing:                            Staffing: 2/    West Bank Deputy's Office
Procurement Officer       1       Coordinator                 1        Architect                  1
Assistant for Equipment   I       Assistant Coordinator       1        Engineer (Civil)          1
Assistant for Furniture   I       Assistant Coordinator       I        Assistants                2
Total                     3       Total                       3        Total                     4
Functions:                        Functions:                           Functions:
* Procurement planning            ^  Project accounts                  * Implementation scheduling
* Drafting model bidding docum.   *  Payments                          . Drafting model bidding documents
* Equipment packaging             *  Withdrawal applications           * Supervision of consultants' work 2/
 Bidding process & contracting   *  Contract records                  * Bidding process & contracting
* Coordination of delivery & install.   *  Coordination of Audits      * Monitoring construction progress
* Expenditure monitoring
Total Number of Staff Employed   14
1/ Also Chief Health Adviser
2/ Architectural Firms
PCUS.XLS MOHPCU



Annex 10
Page 5 of 7
WEST BANK AND GAZA
EDUCATION AND HEALTH REHABILITATION PROJECT
Responsibility Matrix
Activity Description                     PECDAR *  MOHIMEHE
Action
1. Works:
1 Annual plans & scope of works to be undertaken                          prepare
2 Design of major works including bidding documents        prepare **      assist
3 Bids for major works (ICB)                                invite         assist
4 Evaluation committee (ICB)                               participate    nominate
5 Evaluation of bids (ICB)                                  assist        prepare
6 Evaluation report & award recommendations (ICB)          comment        prepare
7 Contract (ICB)                                           comment          sign
8 Supervision of major works                                assist        arrange
9 Bids for medium works (NCB)                               assist         invite
10 Evaluation of bids (NCB)                                  assist        prepare
11 Evaluation report & award recommendations (NCB)           assist        prepare
12 Contract (NCB)                                             assist         sign
13 Supervision of small works                                assist        arrange
14 Payments for ICB and NCB contracts                      make (ICB)    make (NCB)
15 Design of minor works                                        -          prepare
16 Quotations for minor works (shopping)                        -           collect
17 Contracts (shopping)                                         -            sign
18 Payments for minor works                                     -           make
* Through its Project Management Consultant
** Through architectural consultants selected in cooperation with the Ministries
At negotiations it was agreed that to expedite project implementation during the first twelve months,
PECDAR will assist MEHE and MOH in the procurement of civil works and goods contracts
exceeding US$250,000 equivalent, through joint committees to: (a) review technical aspects; (b)
prepare designs, specifications, and bidding documents; (c) invite bids; (d) evaluate bids and award
contracts; and (e) monitor progress and supervise contract execution. After a period of twelve
months, PECDAR and the two Ministries will review implementation arragements in consultation with
[IDA with the aim of devolving full responsibility for project implementation to the two Ministries.
5/23/95 RESPON1.XLS



Annex 10
Page 6 of 7
WEST BANK AND GAZA
EDUCATION AND HEALTH REHABILITATION PROJECT
Responsibility Matrix
Activity Description                   T'PECDAR *  MOHIMEHE
Action
11. Goods: (equipment, furniture, textbooks, materials, supplies)
1 Procurement plan                                          assist        prepare
2Packaging                                                  assist        prepare
3 Specifications and bidding documents                      assist        prepare
4 Bids (ICB)                                                invite         assist
5 Evaluation committee (ICB)                              participate     nominate
6 Evaluation of bids (ICB)                                  assist        prepare
7 Evaluation report & award recommendations (ICB)          comment        prepare
8 Contract (ICB)                                           comment          sign
9 Bids for medium size packages (LCB)                       assist         invite
10 Evaluation of bids (LCB)                                  assist        prepare
11 Evaluation report & award recommendations (LCB)           assist        prepare
12 Contract (LCB)                                            assist          sign
13 Payments                                                     -           make
14 Quotations for minor equipment (Internationa; shopping) (IS)  -         receive
15 Contracts (IS)                                               -            sign
16 Payments for minor equipment contracts                       -           make
17|Clearance of goods from ports                             assist        arrange
* Through its Project Management Consultant
5/23/95 RESPON1.XLS



Annex 10
Page 7 of 7
WEST BANK AND GAZA
EDUCATION AND HEALTH REHABILITATION PROJECT
Responsibility Matrix
Activity Description                     PECDAR *  MOH/MEHE
Action
111. Services: (consultants)
1 Design programs                                     |                   prepare
2 Letter of invitation (LOI)                               comment        prepare
3 Budget                                                   comment        prepare
4 Consultant short list and TOR                            comment        prepare
5 Letter of Invitation                                     comment         issue
6 Proposals                                                    -           receive
7 Evaluation basis (matrix)                                  assist       prepare
8 Evaluation committee                                     participate    nominate
9 Proposal evaluation process                                assist       manage
10 Evaluation report & invitation to negotiate              comment        prepare
11 Invitation to negotiate                                   assist         issue
12 Contract negotiations                                    participate    manage
13 Contract signature/approval                              comment          sign
14 Implementation                                                          manage
15 Progress payments                                                        make
16 Progress reports                                                        prepare
17 Completion report                                         assist        prepare
* Through its Project Management Consultant
5/23/95 RESPON1.XLS



Annex 11
Page 1 of 2
WEST BANK AND GAZA
EDUCATION AND HEALTH REHABILITATION PROJECT
Disbursement Categories
(US$ million)
Category                  Credit          Percent of
Allocation    Expenditure to be
Financed
Works & furniture                                       100%
Education                       9.75
Health                          4.00
Equipment & Materials                                   100%
Education                       0.08
Health                          0.46
Specialists, Training, & Studies                        100%
Education                       1.15
Health                          3.07
Operating Expenditures/ 1                               100%
Education                       0.05
Health                          0.08
Unallocated                            1.36
Total                   20.00             100%
Disbursement Schedule
IDA Fiscal Year
1996        1997        1998         1999
--------------------------- US$ million----------------------
Annual                  3.3/2       8.2          6.7          1.8
Cumulative              3.3         11.5        18.2         20.0
Percentage               17          58          91          100
1/    For project implementation activities of the Project Coordinating Units only.
2/    Includes US$1.7 million initial deposits into the Special Accounts.



Annex 11
Page 2 of 2
WEST BANK AND GAZA
EDUCATION AND HEALTH REHABILITATION PROJECT
Disbursement Forecast
1/       2/                Project
Quar-    Year/           Disbursements
ters   Semester  Absolute   Cumul.    %
2    1996/1         1.7        1.7     9%
4    1996/2         1.6        3.3    17%
6    1997/1         3.3        6.6    33%
8    1997/2         4.9       11.5    58%
10    1998/1         4.9       16.4    82%
12    1998/2         1.8      18.2    91%
3/      14    1999/1          1.8      20.0   100%
1/ From approval date
2/ IDA fiscal years and semesters
3/ Last disbursement
2020
20.0
18.0 --          - - -                    6
16.0-.
14.0-
12.0  ---                      it
10.0        9     - 997/   1            1        1         1
8.0                 -6                             -    -----0L_ _         0 1    _.  
4.0 ,
2.0  0 w    -----   -   -- '-          
j 1996/1   199612    199711    199712   199811    199812   199 911



Annex 12
Page I of 3
WEST BANK AND GAZA
EDUCATION AND HEALTH REHABILITATION PROJECT
Implementation Schedule of Key Activities
Calendar Years                        |CY94   |CY96               CY96   |CY97   |CY98   | CY99 i
Quarters 1  2 3 4  1  2 3 4 1' 2  3 4 11  2  3 4 11  2  3 4 11  2  3  4
IDA Fiscal Yeanr_                               FY94         FY96        FY96        FY97           FY98
Palestinian Fiscal Years              ri  FY 94   | FY95           FY96   | FY97   | FY 98             F F99
ProJe cYears          P-REP        PY-1  11 PY-2           PY-3     PY-CLOSE
Educatian ~  ~       ~             _     Effectiveness __r__    Closing___
Physical Infrastructure                                                     
Rehabilitation of existing schools                                           
Prepare work programs                                 kl          11            
Agree on schedules wfth District Offices 111II  
Bid & award contracts IPIsls
Construction period *IIR  1-tI 
Defects liability period                                          1111-1  i         |    
Replacemewnt of dilapldated structures FT
Prepare work program                                i*             *   
Agree on schedules with District Offices_  1i1
Bid & award contractslil111 w 
Construction period                                                           La  ;-* D*-11
Construction of new Schools T
Select designlengineering consultants           I                      
Design prototype schools and bidding docurrn        1             
bid & award cortracts                 ll1l                           
Construction period                      FI***LaIII
Defects liability period              ll___1   l11    
Schood furnture and desks F    
Prepare schedules                                              m l   il11        1llS 
bid & award contracts   IE*   
Manufacturing period                                                               **La   **1NEW 
Delivery                              ll__Q                             __Q          __|
PhysicallInfrastructure
Upgrading of PHC centers                       p  sdP      Ph se 
Prepare project briefs                ll_ l              i1
Select design/engineering consultants I|         ti *          1*
Prepare designs and bidding documents             l    li   t
Construction period                   ll       ll           |||~| $ -
Defects liabilifty period                                      r      _        ___   
Furniture                               nE       ll                   
Prepare schedulesn       
Prepare standard lists, designs and speciflci n   l        I          
bid & award contracts   1 l1
Manuhsturfing period   U l* *  
DeliveryLL   l1 ;1                                                               5  =   =__
Bank Clearances
mP Beginning of school year



WEST BANK AND GAZA
EDUCATION ANI) HEALTH REHABILITATION PROJECT
Samrne of Selected Indicators of Project Progress
(To be agreed with Clients)
:.-A,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.   .....-.               ...
Aetiidty           Priness~~4  Inktr                                 upt             M-emQurinTieF4ue Sfu
1. Improving the          % of project facilities for which these steps have   Number of    Reduction in number of inappropfiate  6 monthly      Designs
Physical Infrastructure    been taken.                                    schools           and dangerous schools.                               and
- designs completed                            rehabilitated.                                                         tenders
(a)  Replacement of        - tendering completed.                                                                                                underway
dangerous structures                                                 Number of
and rehabilitation of  Number of works in progress as percent of     schools
schools, and         completion.                                     provided with
provision of                                                         fumiture.
furniture.           Responsibility: PCU, Site Managers.                            .
(b)  Construction of new   % of project facilities for which these steps have   Number of new    Reduced number of sub-standard   6 monthly      Sites
schools and          been taken.                                     schools           classrooms.                                          identified,
provision of          - site identified and land acquired            constructed                                                            design
fumiture.             - designs completed                                              A'erage class size of 40.                            tenders
- tendering completed.                         Number of new                                                          underway
schools
Installed fumiture vs. timetable                fumished
appropriately
Abrks in progress as percent of completed
works. (weighted on value)
Responsibility: MEHE PCU and Site
Engineers.
(c)  Replacement of       % of project facilities for which these steps have   Number of    # of people assigned to primary       Yarly by       Designs
Comprehensive        been taken.                                     centers replaced.  health centers/# attending primary   PIU staff,     in
Health Centers        - designs completed                                              health center                         monthly by     process.
(Level IV) and        - tendering completed.                         Number of                                               MOH
Health Centers                                                       centers           4 of emergency consultations to # of                 Sites
(Level Ill), and     Installed fumiture vs. installation timetable   adequately         primary care consultations at PHCs                  identified
expansion of                                                         furnished.        and local hospitals.
Comprehensive        Wbrks in progress as percent of completed
Health Centers, and   works. (weighted for complexity)                                 Client satisfaction.
provision of
fumiture.            Responsibility: MOH, PCU and Site                                  Staff satisfaction.                                                 t'.);
Engineers.                                                                                                                             O 
INDICI ANX



WEST BANK AND GAZA
EDUCMION AND HEAIrH REHABILITWION PROJECT
Sample of Selected Indicators of Proiect Progress
(To be agreed with Clients)
I. Quality Service     - Training sessions designed and   - Number of staff attending    - Improved indicators of quality   Monthly      Under
Provision in Health.      held, by institution, district.  programs.                        health service provision and                  development
management. e.g. reduced                     as part of
(a)  Quality            - Methods of staff recruitment.    - Number of institutions         waiting time, increased client                health
Improvement                                           involved in programs by          satisfaction, improved staff                  management
Program.           - Staff attending by               district.                        morale.                                       information
profession/discipline.                                                                                         system.
- Materials developed and
Responsibility: MOH Project        distributed.
Unit, involved institutions
- Number of recommendations
implemented in institutions
with attending staff.
(b)  Health Education    - Number of teachers and nurses   - Number of participating      - Measures of component          Monthly
Program               recruited, from which districts,    schools, districts involved.  integration into the service
schools and clinics.                                              system, including securing
- Materials developed and          local funding, financial
- Number of courses developed.     distributed.                     continuity.
- Recruitment of research staff    - Special activities for parents by  - Documented changes in health
for study methods and design    type, audience and attendence.    awareness and behavior
of study                                                          patterns.
Responsibility: PCU, program                                      - Improvements in health status
team staff                                                          of target populations.
III. Institutional      - # and duration of training     - Number of managers trained     - Improved capacity of           6 Monthly
Development               courses held by type of trainee.    remaining in MOH              MOH/PCU as measured by
employment.                      status of project activities.
(a)  Training for PCU   - quality of program
staff and for MOH                                                                    - Time taken to accomplish
personnel          Responsibility: PCU, course                                          routine tasks.
trainers                                                                                                                               >
- Eventual # of                                                     m
administrative/non                                                CD
administrative personnel in                                    ox
MOH system.                                                       t 



WEST BANK AND GAZA
EDUCATION AND HEALTH REHABILITATION PROJECT
Field Supervision Plan
Calendar Years       (        CY95                  CY96          I        CY97                  CY98             CY99
Quarters                1     |2    3  1 4  1  1        2    3    4  | 1    2    3 1 4   1  1       2     3 1  4_  1 1     2
IDA FYs                                  FY96                   FY97                  FY98                  FY99
Quarters               3     4     1 [   2    3  | 4    17 |2    33|74    1 1_2    3  | 4    1  | 2    3  | 4
Palestinian FYs               FY95                   FY'96                FY97                   FY'98            FY99
Project Years          rep. Yeari        PY-1                   PY-2                  PY-3              Closing Year
Estimates in Staff-Weeks                                        Totals
Field Supervisions                1/         2/         2/          2/         2/         2/         3/         3/
Task Manager                      2.5        2.0        2.0         2.0        2.0        2.0        2.0        2.0            16.5
Architect                         2.5        2.0         2.0        2.0        2.0        2.0        2.0        2.0            16.5
Education Specialist              2.5        2.0        2.0         2.0        2.0        2.0        2.0        2.0            16.5
Health Specialist                 2.5        2.0        2.0         2.0        2.0        2.0        2.0        2.0            16.5
Procurement Specialist            2.5        2.0                   2.0                    2.0                                  8.5
Technology Specialist                        2.0                    2.0                   2.0                   2.0             8.0
Disbursement Officer   .          2.5              _    2.0         _          2.0                                             6.5
Totals            15.0      112.0  - 10.0  -    12.0  - 10.0             112.0      1 8.01      10.0            89.0
Totals (IDA FYs)                         27.0         |         22.0                  22.0        1         18.0              89.0
Totals (Calendar FYs)         15.0                   22.0                  22.0                  20.0                         79.0
1/ Initial Supervision Mission
2/ Interim Missions
3/ Final Supervision/Completion Mission
SPN1.XLS



Annex 14
Page 1 of 2
WEST BANK AND GAZA
EDUCATION AND HEALTH REHABILITATION PROJECT
Physical Facilities - Education Component
1.         Of the approximately 1,031 schools in the WBG administered by the MEHE (888
in the 8 districts of the WB and 143 in Gaza), 669 (65%) have been identified for upgrading and
are represented in the request for financing their rehabilitation, and expansion of educational
facilities (628 on the WB and 41 in Gaza). Of these, some 72% are basic schools 18% are
secondary schools and 10% are combined basic and secondary schools.
2.          None of the schools for which financial assistance is sought are among the
substantial number of MEHE administered schools being housed in rented premises with all the
disadvantages of such acconmmodation constructed for other than educational purposes (e.g.
rooms often too small for 40 student classes). Most of the "owned" schools for which
rehabilitation or expansion is required have been planned and constructed for use as schools, but
such planning has been undertaken over many years, under different circumstances, different
administrative authorities and even by local communities on a "self help" basis, and are far from
uniform.
3.          Physical facilities for many of these schools have deteriorated as a result of years
of neglect and inadequate funding for routine maintenance. By the time they were inherited by
the MEHE in mid 1994, they were generally in poor, and in places dangerous, condition. The
paucity of financial support over the last two decades has also prevented necessary expansion of
the facilities and led to current overcrowding at many schools (which would only become worse
with continuing enrollment increases), and to inadequate provisions of sanitary facilities and
specialized teaching premises.
4.          Since the establishment of the MEHE, the Director General of Buildings and
Projects (DGBP) has been developing appropriate space norms and building standards for the
necessary expansions and replacements of existing facilities.
5.          The Ministry's program for maintaining, upgrading and developing its education
facilities, in the order of its perceived priority of needs is:
(a)  increasing the capacity of physical facilities to accommodate projected enrollment
increases either (i) by expansion of existing facilities or, where existing sites and
structures do not permit, adequate horizontal or vertical expansion, (ii) by
construction of new schools;
(b)  replacing existing facilities where they are either (i) dangerous or (ii) too
dilapidated for rehabilitation to be economically feasible;
(c)  alleviating current overcrowding by extension of existing facilities or by vertical or
horizontal completion of partially constructed community financed schools;



Annex 14
Page 2 of 2
(d)   extending existing facilities to incorporate such specialized premises as
laboratories, where required to meet curricular needs, and such essential ancillary
facilities as toilet blocks, where not available; and
(e)   preserving existing facilities by rectifying the legacy of neglected maintenance
through rehabilitation and repair of defects.
However, in the implementation process, some or all of these activities would often be
accomplished simultaneously under unified contracts, as many schools feature several or all of
the deficiencies and needs noted.
6.          Consultant architects, selected from the merged PECDAR/UNRWA/UNDP lists of
approved firms, would be engaged in accordance with IDA guidelines for the design of new
buildings at project schools and for the supervision of their construction. The consultants would
be issued by the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) with "architects briefs" incorporating
schedules of required accommodation, construction areas and cost limitations for works at the
schools concerned. For schools requiring only minor construction works (e.g. toilet blocks),
minor non-structural completion of existing structures or comprehensive maintenance, the
construction documents, (specifications and drawings) would be prepared by the Construction
Section of the PCU and site engineers would be hired on a temporary basis to supervise
construction. For schools requiring only comprehensive maintenance work, the construction
documents would be prepared either by (a) the PCU staff or (b) the site engineer hired for
construction supervision at the schools concerned.
7.          Procurement of construction works (as also procurement of equipment, furniture
and textbook needs) would be carried out in accordance with procedures described under Annex
13.
8.          Construction operations would be supervised at several levels. The Construction
Section of the PCU would provide overall control and supervision of all construction operations.
The engineer at each District Education Office would assist in supervising construction works at
schools in his district, by means of periodic visits and the submission of monthly reports to the
PCU. Where the remote locations of a number of construction sites may deter visits by the
district engineer, a supervision manager may be hired on a temporary basis for the periodic
supervision of the group of sites and the provision of interim reports to the district engineer.
Continuous on-site supervision would be provided at each construction site by a site engineer
hired on a temporary basis.
EDFACIL.ANX



Annex 15
Page 1 of 2
WEST BANK AND GAZA
EDUCATION AND HEALTH REHABILITATION PROJECT
Physical Facilities - Health Component
1.          The 14 hospitals and 205 primary health care centers administered by the
MOH in the West bank and Gaza have generally been developed in an apparently piecemeal,
unsystematic manner, without any discernable indication of any standard approach or
adherence to any long-range planning objectives: Hospital infrastructure complexes have, in
the main, evolved over many years: the earliest component buildings dating in some cases
from the years of Turkish administration; others from the British mandate period and some
from post second world war years, the 1940s/50s. Premises for the more recently initiated
primary health care programs are largely ad hoc provisions, many of them makeshift
conversions of, often rented, buildings constructed for other uses from sometimes as long
ago as Turkish times.
2.          These physical facilities have suffered from two decades of serious under
investment. With only minor extensions for capacity increase having been financed, the
institutions have become increasingly inadequate to serve the burgeoning populations
dependant on them. They have also deteriorated as a result of years of neglect through
inadequate funding for routine maintenance: electrical installations are outdated, unreliable
and , in some cases, hazardous (lighting being poor, elevators sometimes inoperable, etc),
sanitary facilities sub-standard and provisions for heating premises inadequate or non-
existent.
3.          Construction proposals for upgrading and expanding West Bank hospitals,
which were partially prepared by Israeli architects during the 1980s, have been handed over
to the MOH by the Israeli civil authorities. They are to be reviewed by qualified consultants
and, if necessary, modified during completion as appropriate for changing Palestinian needs
and limited resources. A technical consultant to the Minister and MOH staff engineers have
developed a prototype implementation schedule, space norms and building standards for the
primary health care centers which are the top priority of the Ministry's program.
4.          The Ministry's program for rehabilitating, upgrading and expanding its health
facilities, in the order of its perceived priority of needs is:
(a)   rehabilitating and expanding existing comprehensive, district-based, primary
health care centers;
(b)   replacing existing comprehensive, district-based, comprehensive health care
centers and existing local community primary health care centers (health posts)
which are too dilapidated for rehabilitation to be economically feasible;
(c)   rehabilitating and furnishing selected hospitals in Gaza;



Annex 15
Page 2 of 2
(d)   rehabilitating, expanding and furnishing selected hospitals in the West Bank;
and
(e)   preserving existing facilities by rectifying the legacy of neglected maintenance
through rehabilitation and repair of defects.
5.          Consultant architects, selected from the merged PECDAR/UNRWA/UNDP
lists of approved firms, would be engaged in accordance with IDA guidelines for the design
of all expanded and new facilities at project institutions and for the supervision of their
construction. The consultants would base their designs on "architects briefs" (incorporating
schedules of required accommodation, areas and cost limitations) issued by the Construction
Section of the MOH Project Coordination Unit (PCU).
6.          Procurement of construction works (as also procurement of equipment and
furniture needs) would be carried out in accordance with procedures described under Annex
13.
7.          Construction operations would be supervised at two levels. The Construction
Section of the PCU would exercise overall administration and control of all construction
operations. The consultant architects engaged for the design of all expanded and new
facilities would supervise their construction on a continuous basis and would submit monthly
reports to the PCU.
m:\wbg\35996\hlthfac.anx



Annex 16
Page 1 of 4
WEST BANK AND GAZA
EDUCATION AND HEALTH REHABILITATION PROJECT
Environmental Analysis
Introduction
1.    The activities to be supported under the proposed project, including rehabilitation and
construction of schools, primary health care centers and hospitals, have been placed in environmental
screening category "B" due to their limited scope and the restricted nature of their potential impacts.
2.    Debris generated from the construction activities, as well as medical and solid wastes from
rehabilitated clinics and hospitals, would be properly disposed, and waste management procedures
would be introduced to mitigate any negative environmental impact of the proposed project. Any
new facilities would require the environmental review by the Bank, Palestinian environmental
authorities and Palestinian archeological authorities. Mitigation and monitoring measures, outlined in
Table 1, are proposed during the implementation and operation of the investment activities.
Existing Situation
Institutions
3.    The leading Palestinian institution involved in the preparation of environmental protection
policies and regulations is the Environmental Planning Directorate of the Ministry of Planning and
International Cooperation (MOPIC). The Ministry of Health (MOH) and the Palestine Council of
Health are responsible for the environmental health issues, including hospital waste handling
procedures.
4.    At the municipal level public health and environment departrnents are involved in the
environmnent related activities. Delivery of solid waste, as well as sanitation services, are the
responsibility of municipalities.
Legal and Regulatory Framework
5.    Environmental legislation is still under development in the West Bank and Gaza. Currently
there are no specific environmental standards regulating solid and medical waste disposal. However,
the MOPIC with the support of the German Technical Cooperation (GTZ) is being prepared specific
guidelines for solid and hazardous waste management, including medical waste.
6.    With regard to rehabilitation and construction of new educational facilities, under ongoing
Emergency Rehabilitation Project (ERP), environmental guidelines are being prepared for educational
support actions.
Waste Disposal
7.    In the absence of explicit environmental standards and procedures, the undisinfected medical
wastes in the West Bank and Gaza are presently collected and co-disposed with household wastes at



Annex 16
Page 2 of 4
uncontrolled dumping sites, creating conditions that may lead to the proliferation of diseases and
groundwater contamination.
8.    Some of medical wastes are burnt on site, contributing to air and soil pollution. Incompletely
incinerated wastes could also present health hazards.
9.    Construction debris are simply dumped on vacant lots and coastline, destroying natural
landscapes, and living and green areas.
10.   Wastewater from hospitals are discharged into municipal sewers or directly into the sea with
no prior treatment. Some of municipalities have wastewater collection sewage systems and the few
wastewater treatment plants that have been constructed have generally failed to operate as designed.
Recent Environmental Activities
11.   Two controlled landfills are being developed in the Gaza Strip with funding from the
European Union and Germany, and the completion of works is scheduled for the end of 1995. The
Gaza sanitary landfill will contain special cells for the disposal of medical and hazardous wastes.
12.   The Spanish Governrment recently donated three medical waste incinerators which will be
installed soon at Shifta and Al-Nasr hospitals in Gaza, and at Nasser hospital in Khan Younes.
13.   Several sewerage and drainage works, and wastewater treatment studies are under way in the
context of the Bank's ERP and other bilateral, and multilateral activities.
Project Related Environmental Issues and Actions
Construction Works
14.   During construction period, several operations could result in locally significant air pollution
from dust, water pollution from improper disposal of lubricants from heavy equipment, and localized
flooding during storms due to the transport of poorly controlled sediment from excavation sites into
drainage system.
15.   Temporary inconvenience due to construction works would be minimized through planning
and coordination with local authorities and contractors. In densely populated areas, noisy or
vibration generating activities would be strictly confided in the day-time.
Construction sites would be fenced off in order to prevent entry of public, and general
construction safety measures would be imposed.
16.   Construction debris would be disposed at selected sites and eventually recycled. Used
concrete blocks could be crushed and used as gravel substitute in the road and construction projects.
17.   Environmental monitoring would be carried out by local authorities in order to ensure that
measures are enforced to minimize construction impacts.



Annex 16
Page 3 of 4
Medical Waste Collection and Disposal
18.   Inadequate handling and disposal of medical wastes from rehabilitated health centers and
hospitals may lead to the transmission of HIV, hepatitis, meningitis and other infectious diseases
through injuries caused by syringe needles contaminated by human blood. The group most at risk
are medical care workers, waste management operators and scavengers.
19.   In order to coordinate ongoing activities related to medical waste, and review and recommend
the optimal collection and disposal arrangement, a comprehensive medical waste management study
would be carried out under the Technical Assistance Trust Fund financing. This study would contain
a survey of medical wastes in the West Bank and Gaza, develop guidelines, awareness and training
programs, investigate technical alternatives, assess environmental impacts and determine management
options, including private sector participation in medical waste management.
20.   Due to an emergency character of the project, the study would, in the first place, develop the
pragmatic, short-term solutions, and then address the medium and long-term strategic plan for the
medical waste management.
Environmental Education and Public Awareness
21.   The management of medical waste requires diligence and care from a chain people, starting
with medical car staff, continuing through collection workers, and finishing with disposal operators.
If any of these are lacking of knowledge and careless in their work, or allow scavengers or children
access to the waste, the chain is broken and dangers of infection follow.
22.   The project would provide training courses for all of hospitals and clinics' staff to make them
aware of hazards from medical waste, especially from infected sharps, and to educate patients and
visitors in hospital hygiene and cleanliness with reference to waste.
23.   Training of personnel would not be solely to explain routine procedures, but would also cover
emergency procedures, such as what action should be taken as a result of a spillage of particular
types of waste, or an injury involving a needle.
24.   The segregation of waste would be introduced in all of rehabilitated hospitals and
clinics, and monitoring procedures would be developed.
25.   Public awareness campaigns would be held at the community level in the West Bank and
Gaza. Both children and adults would be aware of the risks posed by medical waste, so that they
keep away from risks themselves and warn the authorities if they see unacceptable practices.
26.   Environment sensitization courses would be introduced into school's curriculum and
textbooks. The environmental guidelines and training programs, prepared for educational support
actions under ongoing ERP, would be also applied.



Annex 16
Page 4 of 4
Table 1. Environmental Mitigation Plan
ISSUES        ACTIVITIES           IMPACTS          MITIGATION         MONITORING
Construction   Demolition,       Positive impact on   Planning and       MOPIC,
Works         digging, debris    physical            coordination of     archeological and
disposal resulting   improvement of   construction       local authorities
from upgrading    education and       activities with local  supervise
and construction    health facilities  authorities and    construction
of schools and                        contractors         operations
health care       Temporary negative
facilities        impacts from        Site fencing and
increased air      enforcement of
pollution from dust,  construction safety
drainage clogging    measures
by excavation
sediments, noise   Construction debris
and vibration      will be disposed at
selected sites and
eventually recycled
Medical       Comprehensive      Positive impact on   Appropriate        MOPIC, MOH and
Waste         medical waste      health, environment  medical waste     local authorities
Collection    management         quality             collection and     enforce medical
and Disposal  study, including    improvement        disposal procedures  waste procedures
survey of medical                     will be introduced
wastes,           Inadequate          following study's
development of    management of       findings
guidelines and    medical waste may
awareness and     lead to proliferation
training programs,  of diseases and
recommending      groundwater
management        contamination
options
Environment  Training of         Positive impact on                      MOH, MEHE and
Education     hospitai and clinic  public health,                        local authorities
and Public    staff              environment and                        responsible for
Awareness                        education                              training and
Public awareness                                          awareness
campaigns                                                 campaigns
Environment
sensization courses
at schools
ENVANALI .ANX



Annex 17
Page 1 of 2
WEST BANK AND GAZA
EDUCATION AND HEALTH REHABILITATION PROJECT
Selected Documents And Data Available In The Project File
I.    Bargouti, Mustafa and Daibes, Ibrahim, Infrastructure and Health Services in the West
Bank: Guidelines for Health Care Planning, The Health Development Information
Project, 1993.
II.    Birzeit University, Community Health Unit - A Documentation of the Experience of
Self-Organization among physically disabled Palestinians, 1992.
III.   Birzeit University, Community Health Unit - Reflections on Community Participation
in Health promotion Activities in the Israeli-Occupied Territories , by Rita Giacaman,
June 1987
IV.   Birzeit University, Community Health Unit - Nutritional Status of Primary School
Children in a Refugee Camp of the West Bank, by Najwa Rizkallah, 1991
V.   FAFO - Palestinian Society in Gaza, West Bank and Arab Jerusalem, A Survey of
Living Conditions
VI.   Multilateral Working Group on Refugees - Public Health Perspectives for Palestinian
Refugees in a Period of Transition, Rome, 1994.
VII.  Ovensen Geir - Responding to Change: Trends in Palestinian Household economy,
Norway, FAFO, 1994.
VIII.  Palestine Council of Health, Ministry of Health - The Interim Action Plan: Addressing
Immediate Health Needs for Palestinians, June 1, 1994 - May 30, 1996.
IX.   Palestine Council of Health, Nursing Policy Unit - A Strategic Plan For the
Development of Nursing Policy in Palestine (Draft), March 1995
X.    Palestinian Health Authority - Annual Report 1994-5: Health Status of Gaza Strip
Population prepared by Gaza Health Services Research Center, April 1995.
XI.   Palestine Council of Health, The Planning and Research Center (PRC) - The Palestinian
Health Services in the West Bank and Gaza Strip: Facts and Figures, sponsored by
World Health Organization (WHO), August 1994.
XII.  Palestine Council of Health, The Planning and Research Center (PRC) - The Human
Resources Survey in Health, Interim Report No. 2, A Summary of Main Findings,
PRC Publication 1993
XIII.  Planning and Research Center (PRC) - Palestinian Universal Health Insurance:
Questions and Answers, Jerusalem, August 1993



Annex 17
Page 2 of 2
XIV. Planning and Research Center (PRC) - Accounting Framework for Analyzing Hospital
Costs in the Occupied Palestinian Territory, November 1994.
XV.  UNESCO - Primary and Secondary Education in the West Bank and Gaza Strip:
Overview of the system and needs for the development of the Ministry of Education -
Second Draft, March 10, 1995 - Report of a Mission to the West Bank and Gaza Strip
from 23 October 1994 to 13 November 1994.
XVI.  UNICEF - Supply of Pharmaceuticals in the West Bank and Gaza Strip: April 1993,
Jerusalem.
XVII. UNICEF - The Situation of Palestinian Children in the West Bank and Gaza Strip
(Draft), Jerusalem, July 1992.
NI:\WBG&359q6'SELDOC.ANX






OCCUPIED TERRITORIES
WEST BANK AND GAZA STRIP
,,,   EDUCATION AND HEALTH
REHABILITATION PROJECT
,1,, i . <   /  Yo'brjd  if ' '    t                 2            1   AIRPORTS / AIRFIELDS
*i   1   >'   Z  Q.ibrilo  c    j                  MAJOR HIGIIWAYS
TWO OR MORE LANES,
3HARD S[JRFACEL) ROADS
'* - '  /              W                                         Tubos                I             S +  RAILROADS
oSIJ  |   { >>,Tulka,m  'Aopirl    *  )                                        BUILT-UP AREAS
IKTuIkarm                  Noblus           Tollulilull sanmun                    UNRWA REFUGEE CAMPS
jl /   ,/   |   Z  ._  Nablus   t  ~ "   17      *--. s  ISRAELI SETTLEMENTS
!  I1~ ~     , f               . *                - t           -  ARMISTICE DEMARCATION LINES, 1949
.'   '  Jl"QolglyOh      A                                                                   I     NO-MAN'S LAND AREAS,
ARMISTICE DEMARCATION LINE, 1949
-   ,!  |    .L        -                      , /r                                                   JERUSALEM CITY LIMIT, UNILATERALLY
,                    ---- s .   @  -  .-  f  7   --  EXPANDED BY ISRAEL JUNE 1967;
TEL. .VI\t . '    {   .-  W 7   =  _   |   *                   THEN ANNEXED JULY 30 1980
TYAVI,0,                                                                                            -      INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
Lod   .          -                      -            .
A,,.up  o/,,',        ,         ,          W:, E, a,, T........)s  
/ ~     ~    - '  ^_   SANK1,                                                            ol
a                                                                                  . ,                            . MEIERNA            -K
| Hebronid *, ,  , .  Al GhyBirln
, ,  1       ~~~Jerich4o                                          BANK
JERUI
rethleheA .4 ,                                                   ......
11 (  u9 <   /    2                                                             <  9 - ISRAEL 8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GZAISAE
a s t kp 1lus ul u |> 1esx dm~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s r  o oeR  oL \   uO
D1 l          ''EAD  1   l 3MEDITERRANEAN         .
SEA~~~~~E
Hebro -a,Ct 
-                                                           Os,,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D   El B.Ioh,  7
Yottah                                                                    G A4
B                                        S T~~~~~~~/i P ~~~~~ISRAEL
-Zohor                                                                               .     j-
0~~~7                                                                                                                t









IMAGING
Report No:       14280 XO
Type: SAP



