Page  1
CONFORMED COPY      
TF 026065 GZ
Trust Fund Credit Agreement
(Education and Health Rehabilitation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
PALESTINIAN ECONOMIC COUNCIL FOR DEVELOPMENT AND RECONSTRUCTION
(an Agency of the Palestine Liberation Organization)
Dated July 9, 1995
TF 026065 GZ 
TRUST FUND CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 9, 1995, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION, 
acting as administrator (the Administrator) of the Trust Fund for Gaza, established by 
a Resolution of the Board of Governors of the International Development Association 
(the Trust Fund), and PALESTINIAN ECONOMIC COUNCIL FOR DEVELOPMENT AND RECONSTRUCTION 
(the Borrower), an agency established and operating under a Basic Regulation issued on 
May 14, 1994, under a Decree from the Chairman of the Executive Committee of the 
Palestine Liberation Organization (the PLO).
WHEREAS (A) the Board of Governors of the International Development Association, 
acting on the recommendation of its Executive Directors, has decided on November 11, 
1993, to establish the Trust Fund in the amount of fifty million dollars ($50,000,000) 
to be transferred from the surplus of the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development, and to be used for financing rehabilitation projects in the Gaza Strip 
(Gaza);
(B)
the Borrower has been established specifically to coordinate and 
implement programs and projects for the development and reconstruction of the West 
Bank (the West Bank) and Gaza and to be the recipient of funds allocated therefor;
(C)
the Borrower has requested the Administrator to assist in financing the 
project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project);
(D)
under the Agreement on the Gaza Strip and the Jericho Area between the 
PLO and the Government of the State of Israel, dated May 4, 1994, the parties thereto 
Page  2
agreed to the establishment by the PLO of a Palestinian Authority (the Palestinian 
Authority) to perform the powers and functions therein set forth;
(E)
the Palestinian Authority has made certain confirmations to the 
Administrator as to the power of the Borrower to enter into this Agreement and as to 
the succession arrangements to be made with respect to rights and obligations of the 
Borrower in case of its full or partial dissolution, reconstitution or merger; and
WHEREAS the Administrator has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions" set forth in Schedule 1 to the Trust Fund 
Credit Agreement between the Administrator and the Borrower, dated September 7, 1994, 
relating to the Emergency Rehabilitation Project  (TF 026066 GZ), with the following 
modification thereto (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement:
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Administrator and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall 
be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories of any 
country which is not a member 
of the Administrator or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; or 
(b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such 
payment or import, to the knowledge of the Administrator, is prohibited by a decision 
of the 
United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the 
Charter of the United Nations.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"MEHE" means the Ministry of Education and Higher Education of the 
Palestinian Authority;
(b)
"MOH" means the Ministry of Health of the Palestinian Authority;
(c)
"Category" means a category of items to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Credit, as set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; and the term "Categories" means more than one Category;
(d)
"Project Coordination Units" means the two Project coordination units to 
be established pursuant to the provisions of Section A of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement; and "Project Coordination Unit" means either one of the two Project 
Coordination Units;
(e)
"Special Account A” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(f)
"Special Account B" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and
(g)
"Special Accounts" means, collectively, Special Account A and Special 
Account B; and "Special Account" means either Special Account A or Special Account B.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Page  3
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to twenty million dollars ($20,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars two separate special deposit accounts in one or more commercial banks on terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Administrator, including appropriate protection 
against set-off, seizure or attachment. Special Account A shall be used exclusively to 
finance expenditures under Categories (1) (a), (2) (a), (3) (a) and (4) (a) while 
Special Account B shall be used exclusively to finance expenditures under Categories 
(1) (b), (2) (b), (3) (b) and (4) (b) . Deposits into, and payments out of, a Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1999, or such later date as the 
Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Administrator a commitment 
charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate 
to be set by the Administrator as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate 
of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.*
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at 
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Administrator shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Administrator a service charge at 
the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount 
of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2. 06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semi-annually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in 
semi-annual installments payable on each February 15 and August 15 commencing August 
15, 2005, and ending February 15, 2035. Each installment to and including the 
installment payable on February 15, 2015, shall be one percent (1%) of such principal 
amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal 
amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. MEHE and MOH are designated as representatives of the Borrower for 
the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the 
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Page  4
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out Part A of the Project through MEHE and Part B of the Project through MOH, all with 
due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with the Implementation Program set 
forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time by 
mutual agreement of the Borrower and the Administrator.
Section 3.02. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. Without limitation upon the provisions of Article IX of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower shall cause each of MEHE and MOH to:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Administrator, and 
furnish to the Administrator not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date, or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower, on the one 
part, and MEHE and MOH, on the other part, a plan for the future operation of its 
respective Part of the Project;
(b)
afford the Administrator a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
each of MEHE and MOH on said plan; and
(c)
thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and efficiency, and in 
accordance with appropriate practices, taking into account the Administrator's 
comments thereon.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause each of MEHE and MOH to maintain, in 
respect of the Project, records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with 
sound accounting practices, the operations and financial condition of MEHE and MOH.
(b)
The Borrower shall cause each of MEHE and MOH to:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the respective Special 
Accounts for each fiscal year audited, 
in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Administrator;
(ii)
furnish to the Administrator, as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than 
six (6) months after the end of each such 
year, a certified copy of the report of 
such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Administrator 
shall 
have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Administrator such other information concerning 
said records, 
accounts and the audit thereof as the 
Administrator shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall cause 
each of MEHE and MOH to:
(i)
maintain in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, records 
and accounts 
reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Administrator has 
received the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last 
disbursement from the Credit Account 
was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
Page  5
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Administrator's representatives to examine such 
records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to 
in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report 
of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure 
submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Managing Director of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Palestinian Economic Council
   for Development and Reconstruction
c/o Palestinian Authority
Jericho
For the Administrator:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 INDEVAS
197688 (TRT),
 Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Gaza as of  the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ James D. Wolfensohn
President
PALESTINIAN ECONOMIC COUNCIL FOR
Page  6
  DEVELOPMENT AND RECONSTRUCTION
By /s/ Yasser Arafat
Chairman of the Board of Governors
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in 
Expenditures
Category
Dollar Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works
(a)
Under Part A of
   9,750,000
100%
the Project
(b)  Under Part B of
   4,000,000
100%
the Project
(2)
Goods
(a)
Under Part A of the
      80,000
100%
Project
(b)
Under Part B of the
     460,000
100%
Project
(3)
Consultants’ services, studies 
and training
(a)
Under Part A of the
   1,150,000
100%
Project
(b)
Under Part B of the
   3,070,000
100%
Project
(4)
Operating expenditures
(a)
Under Part A of the
      50,000
100%
Project
(b)
Under Part B of the
      80,000
100%
Project
(5)
Unallocated
   1,360,000
    TOTAL
  20,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "operating expenditures" means 
expenditures incurred by MEHE and MOH on account of maintenance and insurance of 
vehicles, fuel, telephone charges and domestic travel.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,650, 000, may be made 
in respect of the Project on account of payments made for expenditures before the date 
of this Agreement but after March 1, 1995.
Page  7
4.
The Administrator may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for goods, works and services under contracts 
not exceeding $250,000 equivalent for goods and works, $100,000 equivalent for 
services with firms, and $50,000 equivalent for services with individuals, under such 
terms and conditions as the Administrator shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project, which consists of activities to be carried out 
exclusively in Gaza, are to assist the Palestinian Authority in (a) upgrading the 
physical infrastructure in the education and health sectors; (b) improving the quality 
of health service delivery; and (c) strengthening the institutional capabilities of 
MEHE and MOH.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Administrator may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Education Sector
1.
Rehabilitation of about twenty-four (24) schools, including reconstruction of 
damaged physical structures and replacement and repair of damaged furniture.
2.
Construction of about seven (7) new schools and the provision of furniture 
therefor.
3.
Technical and operational support to the Project Coordination Unit within MEHE, 
including training of the staff thereof.
Part B:
Health Sector
1.
Upgrading of facilities at about three (3) comprehensive health centers and the 
provision of furniture therefor.
2.
Reconstruction of damaged physical structures at about three (3) comprehensive 
health centers and four (4) health centers, and the provision of furniture therefor.
3.
Carrying out a program to improve the quality of primary and secondary health 
service delivery.
4.
Carrying out a school program on health education.
5.
Preparation of a five-year plan for the development of the health sector.
6.
Carrying out a feasibility study on ways to improve communication links between 
the West Bank and Gaza to facilitate the exchange of medical expertise and enhance the 
medical referral system.
7.
 Technical and operational support to the Project Coordination Unit within MOH, 
including training of the staff thereof.
*     *     *     *     *     *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1998.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Page  8
Administrator in January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this 
Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, works shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
Works to be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 1 of this Part B shall be subject to the following provision, namely, 
that the provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to works to be carried out by domestic contractors from the West 
Bank and Gaza.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost $3,000,000 equivalent or less per contract, and not to 
exceed $6,700,000 equivalent in the aggregate, and goods estimated to cost in excess 
of $50,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of national competitive bidding in accordance with procedures acceptable to the 
Administrator. Said procedures shall ensure, inter alia, that: (i) tenders shall be 
advertised for at least two (2) consecutive days in a local newspaper of wide 
circulation; (ii) prospective bidders shall be allowed a minimum of thirty (30) days 
between the date upon which the notification appears in the newspaper for the first 
time and the date upon which the bid is submitted; (iii) the format of the bidding 
documents shall be consistent with that of the Administrator's standard bidding 
documents, or with the format of bidding documents used by United Nations Agencies 
operating in Gaza; (iv) interested foreign contractors and suppliers shall be allowed 
to bid; (v) bids shall be s
ubmitted in sealed envelopes and shall be accepted whether mailed or hand-carried; 
(vi) all bids shall be opened at the same time in public; (vii) contracts shall be 
awarded to the lowest evaluated bidder; (viii) no bidder shall be requested or 
permitted to modify his, her or its bid after the bid closing date shall have elapsed; 
(ix) price negotiations with the lowest evaluated bidder shall be limited to cases 
provided for under the Guidelines; and (x) postqualification criteria shall, in the 
absence of a prequalification process, be explicitly stated in the bidding documents.
2.
National Shopping
(a) Goods estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or less per contract, and not to 
exceed $1,218,000 equivalent in the aggregate, may be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
(b) Works estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or less per contract, and not to 
exceed $720,000 equivalent in the aggregate, shall be procured under lump sum, fixed 
price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three qualified 
domestic contractors from the West Bank or Gaza in response to a written invitation. 
The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic 
specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to 
the Administrator, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to 
the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who 
has the experience and resources to successfully complete the contract.
3.
Direct Contracting
Goods which are of a proprietary nature may, with the Administrator's prior 
agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the 
Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Administrator of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Page  9
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Administrator for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Administrator, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
 Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods and works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $250,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
1.
Consultants' and training services shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World 
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the 
Administrator in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based 
assignments, such contracts shall be based on the standard form of contract for 
consultants' services issued by the Administrator, with such modifications thereto as 
shall have been agreed by the Administrator. Where no relevant standard contract 
documents have been issued by the Administrator, other standard forms acceptable to 
the Administrator shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Administrator review or approval of budgets, 
short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation 
reports and contracts, shall not apply to (a) contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts 
for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000 
equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior Administrator review shall not 
apply to (a) the terms of reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of 
consulting firms, (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by 
the Administrator, (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to 
contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to 
$100,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
A.
Project Implementation and Coordination
The Borrower shall cause each of MEHE and MOH to establish, not later than 
September 30, 1995, and thereafter maintain, a Project Coordination Unit, with 
competent staff in adequate numbers, to assist each of MEHE and MOH in the 
implementation of its respective Part of the Project.
B.
Progress Reports and Work Programs
The Borrower shall cause each of MEHE and MOH to:
(i)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable each of MEHE 
and MOH to 
evaluate on an on-going basis, in accordance with 
indicators satisfactory to the 
Administrator, the carrying out 
of its respective Part of the Project and the 
achievement of the 
objectives thereof;
(ii)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Administrator, and furnish to 
the Administrator, not later than 
Page  10
September 30 of each year until completion of the 
Project, commencing 
September 30, 1995, a report, integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities, performed pursuant to the provisions of 
paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying 
out of its 
respective Part of the Project during the period preceding 
the date of said report 
and setting out the measures recommended to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of 
its respective Part of the 
Project, and the achievement of the objectives thereof, 
in the course 
of the twelve (12) months immediately following such date; and
(iii)
review with the Administrator, not later than December 1 of each 
year until 
completion of the Project, commencing December 1, 
1995, the report referred to 
under paragraph (b) of this 
Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to 
ensure the 
efficient implementation of its respective Part of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations 
of said report and the Administrator's views on the 
matter.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Accounts
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) (a), (1) (b), (2) 
(a), (2) (b), (3) (a), (3) (b), (4) (a) and (4) (b) set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount to be withdrawn from the 
Credit Account and deposited into a Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of 
this Schedule equivalent, in case of Special Account A, to $1,000,000, and in case of 
Special Account B, to $700,000, provided, however, that unless the Administrator shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation for each Special Account shall be limited 
to an amount equivalent to $400,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account, plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall be 
equal to or exceed the equivalent of $2,000,000 under Part A of the Project and 
$2,000,000 under Part B of the Project, respectively.
2.
Payments out of a Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory to it that a Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation relative to 
said Special Account, and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account, 
shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Administrator a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not 
exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. on the basis of such request 
or requests, the Administrator shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Credit Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the 
Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
 (i) 
For replenishment of a Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the 
Administrator requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals as 
the Administrator shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Administrator the documents and other evidence 
Page  11
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. on the 
basis of each such request, the Administrator shall, on behalf of 
the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been 
shown by 
said documents and other evidence to have been paid 
out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Administrator from the Credit Account 
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of a Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Administrator shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Administrator such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Administrator shall not be required to make further deposits into either Special 
Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Administrator, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Administrator pursuant to said Section 
in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts;
(c)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have notified the Borrower of 
its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make 
withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the 
General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation for Special 
Account A and Special Account B.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Administrator shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Administrator shall have been satisfied 
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in a Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of a Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Administrator, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Administrator: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Administrator may request; 
or (B) deposit into the Special Account in question (or, if the Administrator shall so 
request, refund to the Administrator) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or 
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Administrator shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Admini\1fstrator into either Special Account 
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or 
refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in a Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Administrator, refund to the Administrator such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Administrator, refund to the 
Page  12
Administrator all or any portion of the funds on deposit in either Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Administrator made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and 
(c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal 
or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
