                         E938

 ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
          REPORT




Bangladesh Water Supply Program
            Project




            March 2004




                                  1
CONTENTS




           2
         ABBREVIATIONS

AAN       Asia Arsenic Network
APSU      Arsenic Policy Support Unit
BAMWSP    Bangladesh Arsenic Mitigation Water Supply Project
BBS       Bangladesh of Bureau Statistics
BCSIR     Bangladesh Council of Scientific & Industrial Research
BGS       British Geological Survey
BIDS      Bangladesh Institute of Development Studies
BMDA      Barind Multi-purpose Development Authority
BUET      Bangladesh University of Engineering and Technology
BWSPP     Bangladesh Water Supply Program Project
CBO       Community Based Organization
CIDA      Canadian International Development Agency
DANIDA    Danish International Development Assistance
DCH       Dhaka Community Hospital
DFID      Department for International Development (UK)
DOE       Department of Environment
DPHE      Department of Public Health Engineering
DTW       Deep tubewell
EA        Environmental Assessment
EIA       Environmental Impact Assessment
EMP       Environmental Management Plan
ETV       Environmental Technology Verification
GoB       Government of Bangladesh
GoB-4     The GoB’s fourth national water supply and sanitation program
IAEA      International Atomic Energy Agency
IDA       International Development Association
IEE       Initial Environmental Assessment
IPAM      Implementation Plan for Arsenic Mitigation
ITN       International Training Network
JICA      Japan International Cooperation Agency
LGD       Local Government Division (MLGRD&C)
LGIs      Local Government Institutions
MAC       Mobile Arsenic Center




                                                                   3
MDGs      Millennium Development Goals
M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
mg/L      milligrams per litre
MLGRD&G   Ministry of Local        Government      Rural    Development   &
          Cooperatives
MPO       Master Plan Organization
NAISU     National Arsenic Information Support Unit
NAMIC     National Arsenic Mitigation Information Centre
NEMAP     National Environmental Management Action Plan
NGO       Non-Governmental Organization
NPAM      National Policy for Arsenic Mitigation
NPSWS&S   National Policy for Safe Water Supply and Sanitation
NWMP      National Water Management Plan
NWRC      National Water Resources Council
O&M       Operation and maintenance
OCETA     Ontario Center for Technical Advancement
PBS       Palli Bidyut Samities
PMU       Project Management Unit
PSF       Pond Sand Filter
RDA       Rural Development Academy (Bogra)
REB       Rural Electrification Board
RWH       Rain Water Harvesting
SDC       Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation
SODIS     Solar Disinfection
SPARSSO   (Bangladesh)     Space     Research      and     Remote   Sensing
          Organization
SORAS     Solar Oxidation and Removal of Arsenic
UNICEF    United Nations Children’s Fund
VDC       Village Development Committee
WARPO     Water Resources Planning Organization
WASA      Water Supply and Sanitation Authority
WEF       Water Environment Federation
WHO       World Health Organization




                                                                      4
                               EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
The Bangladesh Water Supply Program Project (BWSPP) is a pilot initiative proposed by the
Government of Bangladesh (GoB). The overall initiative is based on three guiding principles that
will (i) assist Bangladesh Government to move forward in achieving the Millennium Development
Goals for water supply and sanitation by 2015; (ii) scale up measures to provide arsenic and
bacteriological safe water in rural areas and small towns; and (iii) support the decentralization
process initiated by the GoB as part of the water sector reform process.
The project aims to launch the piped water supply scheme in 450 selected villages and 3-5 small
towns and alternative water supply options in 200 villages where piped water supply is not feasible.
The project in due course will identify the specific areas of implementation. This may include flood
plains, coastal areas, small towns and hinterlands in Bangladesh. The project however, will not
cover the Sunderbans nor the big cites.
The project has also been designed to have two software components: a) extensive advocacy and
awareness on environmental sanitation and hygiene promotion issues; and b) providing capacity
building support to local government bodies and NGOs/CBOs in terms of regulatory/institutional
reform for increasing investment efficiency at the community level.
The proposed project management structure consists of a Project Management Unit (PMU) under
the Ministry of Local Government Rural Development and Co-operative (MLGRDC – the
implementing agency) that will be in-charge of the project, and will implement the activities in
partnership with the community user groups, Union Parishads and the private sector.
The report in this section primarily deals with the possible environmental impacts under the project
and its mitigation measures. It analyses the legal and policy frameworks as well as the institutional
and regulatory frameworks that are required for developing an environmental management plan
under the project. The section also describes various environmental legislations and the role of
Ministry of Environment, GoB, in monitoring the possible environmental implications under the
project. The analysis in this report used the existing natural resource base and socio-economic
profile of Bangladesh as the base line information.
The report provides an insight into the environmental challenges that deals with water quality
problems and those related to management of surface and ground water, which are relevant in the
proposed BWSPP. In order to develop a plan for mitigation, the report outlines several types of
risks: capacity building risks of different institutions likely to be involved in the project, enforcement
and contractual risks for private sector participation, tariff rationalization risks, policy reform risks,
environmental risks and risk of coordination among the different stakeholders for a better
operational strategy. However, this section deals with only environmental risks and the adverse
impacts that the project is likely to have due to its execution. The report also suggests various
mitigation strategies and a monitoring plan. The monitoring plan includes an environmental
checklist for both rural and urban areas that can be used as a tool to assess the status of adverse
impacts during the project operation.
The possible environmental impacts in this project are reviewed in regard to the project location,
project construction and project operation. The adverse environmental impacts are analyzed in view
of the different water supply options that could be used under this project. These include
uncontaminated shallow and deep aquifers, treated dug/ring wells, piped water supply schemes
from treated surface water sources, rainwater harvesting, pond-sand filter, arsenic removal units
attached to the contaminated tubewells and domestic filter at the household level.
The possible impact on natural habitat, resettlement and other pollutions (traffic congestion, noise
pollution and drainage problem) anticipated under the project are described in the report.
The report explains the reason for the sudden manifestation of widespread arsenic poisoning
through water. While explaining the arsenic contamination in groundwater, it describes the possible
solutions for availability of arsenic free aquifers that can be tapped under the project for water
supply. At the same time, it highlights the non-availability of mathematical models to predict the



                                                                                                        5
safety of these aquifers from arsenic in the future. Therefore, the environmental management
strategy in this report gives special emphasis on arsenic contamination: its health implications,
arsenic removal technologies, water quality surveillance and arsenic sludge disposal options. The
report indicates the relevant environmental legislations that can be used during the execution of the
project. It also provides a rapid environmental assessment checklist that can be used for both rural
and urban water supply projects.
In brief, the project will have four long-term positive environmental impacts: i.) it will ensure
household water security in 650 (450+200) villages and 3-5 small towns; ii.) the project with the
availability of water is expected to improve hygiene practices, and subsequently improve the health
situation of women and children in the these villages and small towns; iii.) the project with the
proposed partnership and a decentralized management approach will not only build the capacity of
the government agencies and communities but also help in developing a model for public private
partnership with adequate consideration for equity and gender; iv.) the proposed innovative
approach of creating an enabling environment for increasing willingness to pay for the water supply
services (by involving local NGOs/CBOs) may prove to be a way forward for all water supply and
sanitation programs in Bangladesh.




                                                                                                   6
1       PROJECT DESCRIPTION
        The gross coverage of Bangladesh for water supply is greater than 90 percent in rural areas, and
        50 percent for urban areas. The public sector is the main provider. This notable effort in providing
        ‘safe’ water, primarily through the installation of tube-wells, has been undone by the identification of
        unacceptably high levels of arsenic in the groundwater in 61 of the 64 districts of Bangladesh.
        Since this identification in the early 1990’s, significant work has been done in Bangladesh to try and
        address the situation. With millions of hand tube-wells providing water contaminated with high
        levels of arsenic the scale of the problem is enormous, exacerbated by the fact that most of those
        at risk are in rural areas. Even after several initiatives (both GoB or externally funded), the gaps in
        knowledge and scale of the problem means that there still remains much to be done. According to
        the most recent estimates, about 30 million people are exposed to arsenic from well water
        exceeding 50ppb and 49 million to more than 10 ppb.
        Interventions in the water supply sector need to be scaled up because
            •   A considerable part of the population still does not have safe water supply (regardless of the arsenic
                issue), and
            •   Small scale implementation of arsenic mitigation or prevention options, such as commonly shared
                wells actually represent a step backwards in the context of Bangladesh because the rural population
                has become used to a high service level in terms of privately owned hand tube-wells in their yards.
        The GoB has identified the need to scale up the provision of water supply – both in terms of number
        of people served and in terms of level of service. Piped water supply is one of many possible
        solutions. Given the high density of villages and growth centers in Bangladesh, piped water supply
        is a cost-effective solution that provides good levels of water service to populations of more than
        200 households and that could help to quickly scale up safe water service provision in the country.
        Willingness to pay study indicate that communities value and are willing to pay for the convenience
        of piped water supply.
        Currently about 100 piped water supply pilots are being implemented in Bangladesh, 91 by the
        Department of Public Health Engineering (DPHE) and the remaining ones through various NGOs
        as well as donors (SDC and Danida). The World Bank, through BAMWSP and through the Social
        Investment Project, is also promoting such pilots, with a clear emphasis on private sector
        involvement and cost recovery through adequate tariffs.
        Piped water supply has been identified as an important option to support the people of Bangladesh
        in moving towards fulfilling the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) and at the same time
        addressing the need to diminish the population’s exposure to arsenic contaminated water.

1.1     Project Description
1.1.1   Project Objectives
        The development objectives of the Bangladesh Water Supply Program Project are (i) to assist
        Bangladesh move forward in achieving the MDGs in water supply and sanitation by 2015, (ii) scale
        up measures to provide arsenic and bacteriological safe water in rural areas and small towns, and
        (iii) support the decentralization process initiated by the GoB.
        The project design aims at building partnerships with the private sector, including NGOs, and
        community user-groups in financing, operating and maintaining constructed facilities.
        The project aims to launch the piped water supply scheme in about 450 villages, 3-5 small towns,
        and alternative water supply options in 200 villages where piped water supply is not feasible. The
        project in due course will identify the specific areas of implementation. This may include flood
        plains, coastal areas, small towns and hinterlands in Bangladesh.




                                                                                                                    7
1.1.2   Project Components
        Component 1: Piped water supply in villages and growth centers – US$25 million
        This component would expand the experience of pilot water supply schemes undertaken by various
        NGOs and other organizations, and the pilots supported by BAMWSP and the Social Development
        Foundation. In this component, sponsors (entrepreneurs, cooperatives, CBOs, and/or NGOs), in
        close collaboration with communities and local governments, would develop village piped water
        supply schemes. The project would, on a grant basis, provide technical assistance and financial
        support. The grant will cover only a portion of the total cost. The remainder will be provided by the
        sponsor and the community through contributions or loans. An affordability assessment was
        undertaken during preparation to ensure that the private operator would provide safe water service
        to the poor members of the community. Three different options have been developed to ensure that
        all segments of the village will be able to afford clean water (piped supply with multiple house
        connections for wealthier households; yard standpipe for middle-income households; and shared
        standpipes for poor households). The Government, through DPHE and other institutions, will
        regulate key aspects of the operation such as water quality, technical standards and service levels.
        Component 2: Water and Sanitation Services in medium-size cities – US$13 million
        2a) Pourashavas and private-sector involvement in piped water supply
        Water service levels in Bangladesh’s medium-size cities are very poor with levels of coverage of
        only 30-60%, 3-12 hours of service, and the presence of arsenic in some of the water systems. The
        experience of a pilot currently under preparation with BAMWSP support in the city of Chapai
        Nawabganj would be replicated in other medium-size cities. In Nawabganj a private sector operator
        will be invited to restructure and upgrade the system, change the water sources to provide arsenic-
        free water, and manage the water utility under a design-build-operate contract. The proposed
        component will support similar reforms in water service delivery in self-selected municipalities (or
        groups of municipalities) willing to undertake reform of their water supply services. Two interested
        municipalities have been formally identified and six others have informally expressed their interest.
        A total of 3 to 5 pourashavas would be selected to participate in this component.
        Private sector participation options also include management contracts and public-private
        partnerships to provide the services. The component will also provide technical assistance to
        central and local governments in the design, supervision and monitoring of contracts with the
        private sector.
        2b) Pourashavas and NGO involvement in sanitation
        This component seeks to increase the level of adequate sanitation in the urban centers where
        water services will be improved. The component includes hygiene promotion (washing of hands),
        safe use of latrines and awareness on arsenic contamination. NGOs will be hired through a
        competitive system to promote and implement this component in close coordination with the
        pourashavas.
        Component 3: Non-piped arsenic mitigation activities for villages – US$ 4 million
        In small villages of less than 200 households piped water supply is not viable and non-piped
        arsenic mitigation options are necessary. Based on the experience from BAMWSP and other GOB
        and donor initiatives, three options present themselves. These are (i) deep tubewells, (ii) dugwells,
        and (iii) pond sandfilters. This component is designed to address the situation in small villages
        located in arsenic-affected Hot Spot Upazilas (to be defined by appraisal) and to provide
        complementary service in fringe areas of those villages where piped water supply will be supplied,
        but where it will not be feasible, for technical reasons, to cover all households.
        Component 4: Regulations, capacity building and training – US$ 3 million
        4a) Capacity Building and Training




                                                                                                           8
The success of the national program will depend on a limited number of support components
focused on developing and strengthening the capacity of stakeholders to implement mitigation
measures. These components include support to:
    •   Sponsors - for management of community systems, financial management, and treatment
        technologies.
    •   Local private sector for the design, build and operate urban water supply systems
    •   Local and central government officials - for the promotion, support, design and contract regulation of
        piped water supply systems operated by the private sector;
    •   DPHE and pourashavas– for technical and economic regulatory capacity.                  This includes
        benchmarking of operations and investments in urban water supply systems
    •    and support to employees willing to set up private companies to develop rural piped systems; and
    •   Communities and contractors - in areas needed to fulfill their roles.
A capacity assessment was undertaken during preparation to address the different needs of these
various entities.
4b) Regulatory Frameworks
The project will provide Technical Assistance to the development/strengthening of regulatory
frameworks in two key areas: (i) involvement of the private sector (cooperatives, NGOs and private
companies) in rural and urban piped water supply with community participation; and (ii)
groundwater management and administration.
4c) Water Monitoring
This component will seek to strengthen water quality monitoring and capacity at national (DPHE),
union parishad and pourashava levels. Parallel financing by the International Atomic Energy
Agency (IAEA) as well as DFID is expected.
Specific focus will be given to groundwater monitoring and support of the GOB’s efforts in aquifer
mapping, given that groundwater will continue to be one of the main water supply sources in the
country.
Component 5: Development of Local Credit Market for Village Piped Water Supply – US$5
million
This component seeks to develop a local credit market for village piped water supply. With local
banks in Bangladesh generally unable to provide local-currency loans with long-term maturity – a
crucial element in keeping water tariffs charged by private sponsors affordable – and lacking
experience in financing rural piped water supply schemes, this component will make available
funding to eligible sponsors. The chief objective of the component is to illustrate to private banks
that private piped water supply schemes constitute a viable market and that it is worthwhile for them
to offer appropriate lending instruments. The funding mechanism would be administered by IDCOL.
This would complement current efforts to establish Partial Credit Guarantees for private banks
interested in lending for village piped water supply and would constitute a short-term mechanism
until the market developed more broadly.
Component 6: Monitoring and Evaluation – US$ 1 million
Project design is purposefully flexible to encourage a variety of approaches and actors. Given the
large number of villages in Bangladesh and the huge task of scaling up safe water supply in the
country, project design will need to allow for rapid learning and replication. By encouraging
participation of different private-sector entities, and given the entrepreneurial spirit in the country, it
is hoped that the successful experiences will draw in increasingly more investors and that new
schemes will increase. At the same time, it is important to learn as systematically as possible from
these interventions. The M&E component is being designed accordingly. An M&E framework is
currently under development and will be included in the Operational Manual of the project. In a first
phase, it is expected that the framework will require intensive monitoring by the M&E group, but as



                                                                                                            9
        the pilot phase progresses towards a scaled-up program, the M&E framework should focus on key
        information and avoid excessive and costly data collection.

1.1.3   Project Setting
        The project will be implemented across entire Bangladesh.
        Bangladesh is situated on deltas of large rivers flowing from the Himalayas. The population of
        Bangladesh (2001) was 123,151,246, making Bangladesh the world's eighth most populous
        country. The overall density is very high, 856 persons per sq km in 2001. The distribution of the
        population is relatively even, except in the sparsely populated Chittagong Hill Tracts and the almost
        totally uninhabited Sundarbans. Urbanisation in Bangladesh was 23% in 2001.
        Bangladesh is administratively divided in 6 divisions and 64 districts. The total numbers of
        Pourashavas (municipalities) are 223, and the number of villages is 87,319.The urban areas can be
        classified as: (a) Metropolitan cities (Dhaka, Chittagong, Khulna, Rajshahi, Sylhet and Barisal), (b)
        District level secondary towns, (c) Upazila (sub-district) level tertiary towns, and (d) ‘growth centers’
        in rural areas, some of which have already been turned into municipalities.
        The Department of Public Health Engineering (DPHE) is responsible for planning and implementing
        safe water supply and sanitation facilities in the country except cities of Dhaka and Chittagong1. As
        the target of the project is to promote demand-response approach for sustainable water supply with
        direct involvement of the private sponsors, the project will not be limited to any specific areas of the
        country. A sub-project can be implemented in any suitable location of the country fulfilling the
        project criteria. However, the project will avoid overlapping with the areas where other large-scale
        water supply and sanitation activities are ongoing, such as the hill tracts and coastal belt. The
        project will also keep out the naturally protected areas like the World Heritage Site - largest single
        mangrove forest ‘Sundarbans Reserve Forest (SRF)’ and country’s biggest freshwater wetlands
        ‘Tangur Haor’ areas.

1.1.4   Project Period
        The project will be implemented over a period of 5 years during 2004-2009. The major parts of the
        physical infrastructure would be constructed during 3rd year of project implementation.

1.1.5   Institutional Arrangements for the Project
        The project must support institutional and implementation arrangements that would take advantage
        of existing implementation capacity in the public and private/NGO sectors and encourage the
        growth of additional capacity particularly at the local level. Three components of the project would
        provide grant financing for water supply infrastructure: community/union level piped systems in the
        case of component 1; small town water treatment and supply systems in the case of component 2;
        and point sources in the case of component 3. The project, therefore, would provide public funds
        to create public assets that enable consumption of a shared public resource, water.
        DPHE would be the implementing agency of the project, with overall management provided by an
        embedded Project Management Unit (PMU). The PMU would take the lead in communicating the
        eligibility requirements under the three investment components of the project, receiving and
        efficiently appraising investment proposals, and managing and reporting upon disbursements. Local
        institutional arrangements by investment component would be described in full detail in the
        Operational Manual.
        Component 1: Rural Piped Water Supply would involve some or all of the following stakeholders –
        BWSPP, DPHE, private Sponsors, Community-based Organizations, local government institutions
        (specifically Unions), lending institutions, and community members in general, and specifically the
        poor. The form of participation of each of these stakeholders may vary. The specific relationships


        1
                  The responsibility for water supply and sanitation in Dhaka (including Narayanganj town) and Chittagong lies with
        the respective two Water And Sanitation Authorities (WASAs).



                                                                                                                                10
between the stakeholders would be guided by a series of legal agreements to be signed upon
approval of the project proposal.
BWSPP would be responsible, in close coordination with DPHE and other Government agencies as
appropriate, for (a) providing a Project Grant, financing the expenses incurred for the preparation of
the feasibility and project proposals, reviewing the feasibility studies and appraising the pilot project
proposals; (b) promote the exchange of lessons among private sponsors, communities, local
government officials and other stakeholders; and (c) monitor implementation of the project.
Private Sponsors would be responsible for:
    •   Identifying the village where the system would be constructed;
    •   Interacting with the community, ensure community’s involvement in planning and preparing the piped
        water scheme and conducting feasibility study and submitting project proposal to BWSPP for review,
        comments and approval;
    •   Securing funds for the remainder of the capital costs not covered by the Project Grant, from its own
        resources, community contributions and/or a loan from a lending agency;
    •   Billing and collection of water fees, unless the Sponsor delegates these functions to a CBO or make
        alternative arrangements with BWSPP’s approval;
    •   Operating and maintaining the piped scheme for the duration of the Service Agreement;
    •   Obtain licenses/permits from relevant government departments/local government, if required under
        the law to build and operate the piped water supply.
Community-Based Organization (CBO): The community needs to be represented by a CBO. This
CBO can be a specialized Water Users Association, a Consumers Group, or similar association
with legal standing created specifically for purposes of the project. The CBO may have roles and
responsibilities, ranging from: (i) being an interlocutor between the community members and the
Sponsor, to (ii) billing and collection of fees and initial capital contribution from community
members, (iii) operation and basic maintenance of the system, or even (iv) full ownership of the
system and assumption of debt. The roles and responsibilities of the CBO should be clearly defined
in its charter and in the agreements signed with the Sponsor (and possibly BWSPP depending on
the role of the CBO).
If the Sponsor would like to propose an alternative arrangement that achieves the same social
goals of the project without the establishment or use of the CBO, the rationale, advantages and
proposed alternatives will be discussed with BWSPP for approval.
Community: The community is the group of households served by the piped water supply system.
The area to be served by the system can include one or more villages (with one or more water
distribution systems). The share of poor and vulnerable households served by the piped system is
an important parameter for the Sponsor to receive the Project Grant.
The community would make an up-front contribution (or the households may pay a connection fee)
based on discussions with the Sponsor. The Sponsor might collect this up-front contribution by the
CBO or directly. The level of community contribution would vary but this is an important measure of
demand and willingness to pay that the Sponsor may use to reduce its risks. The level of
contribution by the various community members and the timing of its payment would be negotiated
between the Sponsor and the community or the CBO.
The Service Agreement between the Sponsor (and/or the CBO as applicable) and the community
households would clearly define the rights and responsibilities of the community households as
customers, including the tariffs, service levels, up-front contribution to the capital costs of the
system, rights of the Sponsor to disconnect non-paying customers, etc.
DPHE through its local engineers (Sub-assistant engineer at Upazilla level) or other delegated
engineers, would be responsible for:
    •   Providing advice to the Private Sponsor and communities on the overall scheme and proposal during
        preparation;



                                                                                                         11
    •   Reviewing and appraising the technical aspects of the proposal and sending appraisal report to
        BWSPP through respective Executive Engineer;
    •   Visiting in the field and confirming the quality of the construction milestones prior to payment of the
        Project Grant portion;
    •   Periodically visiting the project during operation to provide advice and check the quality of the service;
    •   Submitting monthly progress report to BWSPP through respective Executive Engineer.
The Executive Engineer at district level would facilitate the implementation of the sub-projects and
would be responsible for (a) reviewing the appraisal of sub-projects and sending it to BWSPP with
comments; (b) bi-monthly overall performance of the sub-projects; and (c) submitting monthly
progress report to BWSPP.
Other DPHE staff would be involved and assist the sponsors and communities as appropriate.
Union Parishad Chairman: In some piped water supply schemes, active Union Parishad (UP)
chairmen can actively support the project. For example, the UP chairman would facilitate the
resolution of differences between the community members and the Private Sponsors, and would
support the Private Sponsor in the approval of any required licenses and permits (such as those
defined in local Government (UP) Ordinance 1983, Section 38(i)). The role of the UP chairman
would be clearly defined in the feasibility study and the proposal. Although it is not mandatory, the
Sponsor is encouraged to actively involve the UP Chairman along the process.
Lending Institution: The Sponsor might take out a loan from a commercial bank or any other lending
institution to finance a portion of the capital costs beyond the Project Grant. The lending institution
would review the financial strength of the sponsors, the CBO and/or the communities and appraise
the request for loan.
Component 2: Pourashava Piped Water Supply will also involve the Pouashavas interested in the
project, and committed to rehabilitate and expand its water supply infrastructure in a cost-effective
approach with the support of the Government, DPHE and the private Sector.
Private Sector sponsors will be involved for 3-5 years with a very detailed contract with the
Pourashavas. The competitively selected Private Sector Sponsors will receive payments from the
project linked to successful (a) rapid design and execution of cost-effective works; (b) set-up a
functioning and effective billing and collection system; and (c) improved water and supply services
to the population (especially the poor). Central Government and DPHE will support the
Pourashavas in all stages of sub-project planning and implementation.
Component 3: Non-piped Water Supply would involve the ward arsenic committees and union
parishads (as well as union arsenic committee) in service delivery.
The project would set up or hire a monitoring and evaluation group for each of the 3 components
during its preparation and implementation. The data collected by the M&E group would serve to
confirm that
    •   The conditions and requirements of the Project Grant have been achieved by the Pourashava/Private
        Sponsor or the community, and
    •   The operation of the system is providing safe water with the quality of service defined in the Service
        Agreement.
The M&E group would collect and share experiences from the different pilots to support their
preparation and implementation.




                                                                                                               12
2     BASELINE CONDITIONS
2.1   Geographical Status
      With an area of about 144,000 sq km, Bangladesh is situated between latitudes 20 degrees 34' and
      26 degree 33' north and longitudes 88 degree 01' and 92 degree 41' east. The country is bordered
      by India on the east, west and north and by the Bay of Bengal on the south. There is also a small
      strip of frontier with Myanmar (Burma) on the southeastern edge. Bangladesh is one of the largest
      deltas in the world criss-crossed by numerous rivers, their tributaries and distributaries. The rate of
      water flow through Bangladesh is vast, being second only to that of the Amazon River system in
      South America. In both breadth and total annual volume, the Padma-Lower Meghna River is the
      third largest in the world.

2.2   Demography
      Bangladesh is the most densely populated country in the world. The population is increasing at
      around 2 percent per year. Even if the goal of the two-child family could be reached by 2030, the
      population would be 228 million by that time. The Figures 2.1 to 2.3 show the population figures.

                                40,000,000

                                35,000,000
                                30,000,000
                   Population




                                25,000,000
                                20,000,000
                                15,000,000

                                10,000,000
                                 5,000,000

                                         0
                                              Barisal     Chittagong    Sylhet        Dhaka        Khulna      Rajshahi
                                 Population   8,112,435   23,999,345   7,899,816     38,677,876   14,468,819   29,992,955

                                                                           Division

                                     Figure 2.1: Bangladesh - Population by division, 2001

                                140,000,000
                                120,000,000
                                100,000,000
                   Population




                                  80,000,000
                                  60,000,000
                                  40,000,000
                                  20,000,000
                                              0
                                                          Total                    Rural                Urban
                                         2001        123,151,246            94,342,769              28,808,477
                                         1991        106,314,992            85,442,788              20,872,204

                                                                       Rural and Urban


                                    Figure 2.3: Rural and urban population, 2001 and 1991.




                                                                                                                            13
                                                140,000



                                                120,000




                      Population, Thousand)
                                                100,000



                                                 80,000



                                                 60,000



                                                 40,000



                                                 20,000



                                                       0
                                                           1901     1911     1321     1931     1941     1951     1961     1974     1981      1991      2001

                                              Population   28,928   31,555   33,255   35,602   41,997   41,937   50,840   71,479   87,120   106,313   123,151




                                                           Figure 2.3: Population growth during 1901-2001.

2.3     Physical Features
2.3.1   Physiography
        Bangladesh can be divided into three major physiographic divisions (Figure 2.4):
            •   Tertiary hills
            •   Pleistocene terraces
            •   Recent plains
        The tertiary hills are situated in Rangamati, Bandarban, Khagrachari, Cox’s Bazar, Chittagong,
        Sylhet, Moulavi Bazaar and Habiganj districts. These hills are formed mainly of sandstone, shale
        and clay. The average altitude of these hills is 450m.
        The Pleistocene terraces comprise mainly of the Madhupur Tracts, the Barind Tracts and Lalmai
        Hill area. These terraces were formed 25,000 years ago. The approximate area of the Barind Tract
        is 9,320km2. The average height of the tract from the adjacent flood plains is 6 to 12m. Madhupur
        and Bhawalgarh stretch over 4,103km2 and reach an average height of 30m above the adjacent
        floodplain. The Lalmai Hill area of Comilla district comprises 33.65km2 and is an average of 13.7m
        higher than the adjacent flood plain.
        The recent plains comprise 1,24,266km2 of the country (86 percent). Recent plains can be further
        classified into five types: piedmont plains, flood plains, deltaic plains, tidal plains and coastal plains.
        The five types of plains will be represented collectively in this piece by the common term ‘flood
        plains’.
        The flood plains have an altitude of 0 to 9.2m and are low in relief. The average gradient from the
        northeast to the coast is less than 20cm/km. In south of Dhaka the slope averages 1.6cm/km. The
        area elevation curve shows that 50% of the land area is below 12.5m altitude (height from sea
        level) and 75% of the area lies below 29m.
        The flood plains of Bangladesh are mainly composed of deltaic silt plains, built up from both alluvial
        and marine deposits. Because of the low altitude and relief of the land. Water travels very slowly on
        the plain, and the rivers have a tendency to meander. The recent plains have been developed, and
        are being changed continuously, through the processes of erosion and deposition, and by recurring
        flooding or inundation events.




                                                                                                                                                                14
                                Figure 2.4: Physiographic regions of Bangladesh

2.3.2   Soil Types
        Bangladesh is generally composed of a thick layer of sediment, deposited over tens of thousands of
        years by the flowing rivers. It is estimated that 2.4 billion tons of sediment are transported annually
        through Bangladesh.
        Different types of soil characterize the different phyciographic divisions. The Tertiary hill areas are
        characterized by ‘hill soils’ that are mainly composed of Tertiary rocks and Pleistocene sediments.
        The soil is usually acidic with pH varying from 4.0 to 4.5. The soil texture allows comparatively
        lower infiltration and high porosity allows high moisture content.
        The Pleistocene terraces are composed of ‘old alluvial soils’, which were formed from the alluvium
        of the Pleistocene period. They stand on high land above the flood level. They are clayey in texture
        and reddish to yellowish in color due to presence of iron and aluminum. They are highly aggregated
        and have a high phosphate fixing capacity. The soil is acidic with pH ranging from 6 to 6.5.
        The recent plains are composed of ‘recent alluvial soils’. Since soil composition in the upstream
        area is an important factor in determination of the properties of the downstream soils, variations are
        common in the properties of soils in different river basins. Gangetic alluvium is rich in calcium,
        magnesium and potassium. It also contains free calcium carbonates. The soil is characterized by
        nitrogen and phosphate deficiency as well as by an alkaline condition. The pH ranges is 7.0 to 8.5.
        Teesta silt tract soils are sandy loam in texture, without any developed profile. They are flooded
        every year and as a result, are replenished by fresh deposits annually. The pH varies from 6 to 6.5.
        The coastal saline tract is part of the active flood plain, but is subject to flooding by saline water at
        high tide. A large part of the tract is occupied by mangrove forest, where some soils contain large




                                                                                                              15
        amounts of sulfide in their profile. The soil is generally neutral but generally tends to be on alkaline
        side.

2.3.3   Climate
        Bangladesh has a tropical monsoon climate characterized by marked seasonal variations.
        Abundant rainfall during the monsoon (July-October) is followed by a cool winter period (November-
        February), then a hot, dry summer (March-June). In the hot season, the average maximum
        temperature is 340C and the average minimum is 210C. Average maximum temperature in winter is
        290C and the minimum is 110C.
        The rainfall in the region shows great temporal and spatial variations (Figure 2.5). Seventy to eighty
        percent of the annual rainfall occurs in the monsoon season. After summer, the warm, moist air of
        the monsoon sweeps up the Bay of the Bengal from the Indian Ocean producing some of the
        highest recorded rainfalls in the world. These rain falls largely over the upper catchment area,
        particularly in the Indian states of Meghalaya and Assam and over northeast Bangladesh. The
        average annual recorded rainfall within Bangladesh varies from about 1,100 mm in the extreme
        west to 5,690 mm in the northeastern corner of the country.




                     Figure 2.5: Distribution of Average Annual Rainfall over Bangladesh




                                                                                                             16
2.3.4   Hydrology
        Bangladesh has an exceptional hydro-geographical setting. Three mighty rivers, the Ganges, the
        Brahmaputra and the Meghna, drain a catchment extending over Bhutan, Nepal, India, Bangladesh
        and China (Tibet). The total area of the Ganges- Brahmaputra- Meghna drainage basin is about 1.5
        million km2., of which approximately 63% is in India, 18% in China, 8% in Nepal, 4% in Bhutan and
        8% in Bangladesh.
        In the last hundred km run to the sea, the combined flow of the Ganges, Brahmutra and Meghna
        rivers from a single flow that is two and half times the rate of the Mississippi. Although the total area
        of the South Asian watershed is slightly less than one-half of the central basins of the United
        States, it receives four times the area’s total annual rainfall.
        There are over 250 rivers in Bangladesh. The major rivers can be classified as either ‘unstable’
        such as the Meghna or ‘very unstable’ such as Padma and the Jamuna.
        Bangladesh is prone to three types of flooding:
            •      Flash floods result from heavy rainfall upstream and create a flood wave along a river. River bank
                   erosion, loss of land and severe crop damage are common problems during these events.
            •      Monsoon floods are due to heavy continuous rainfall on impounded or poorly draining areas where
                   precipitation exceeds infiltration. They are an annual, expected event upon which the agriculture of
                   the country has traditionally depended for the replenishment of the soil and for the water required for
                   wet rice and jute cultivation.
            •      Cyclonic floods are the most serious of the flooding events. They can cause serious disasters and
                   occur mainly in the coastal regions.
        Table 2.1 gives different land type- their inundation depths and aerial extents and Figure 2.6 shows
        the generalized inundation land types of Bangladesh.
                        Table 2.1: Different Land Type- Inundation Depths and Serial Extents
                 Land Type        Land Type         Flood Depth        Nature of Flooding   Area (ha)    Proportion (%)
                                    Code                (cm)
                 Highland            F0                0-30               Intermittent      4,199,952         29
                Medium-high          F1                30-90               Seasonal         4,039,724         35
                Medium-low           F2               90-180               Seasonal         1,771,102         12
                 Lowland              F3             180-300               Seasonal         1,101,560          8
             Very Lowland            F4            Greater than            Seasonal/         193,243           1
                                                       300                 Perennial
                                                     Total Soil Area                        12,305,581        85
                                              River, Urban, Homesteads etc.                 2,178,045         15
                                                          Total                             14,483,626        100


2.4     Water Resources
        The main sources of water in Bangladesh are surface water in rivers, reservoirs, lakes, canals and
        ponds and groundwater in shallow and deep aquifers. Both ground and surface water sources are
        dependent on each other. Many streams receive a major portion of their flow from groundwater.
        Elsewhere, water from surface streams is the main source of recharge fro groundwater. In general,
        groundwater flows into the surface water sources in the dry season, and surface water enters into
        ground during the monsoon. The two sources of water are interrelated, and the use of one usually
        affects the water available from the other source. In recent years, large-scale use of groundwater
        for irrigation purposes has lowered the groundwater level and dried up surface water sources.
        Rainwater is an alternative source of water available in adequate quantity in the wet season of the
        year. The average yearly rainfall in Bangladesh is around 2,400 mm, which is a major source of
        water for the replenishment of both surface and ground waters.




                                                                                                                          17
                        Figure 2.6: Generalized Inundation Land Types of Bangladesh

2.4.1   Surface Water Resources
        Surface water may be classified as open surface water (rivers, canals) or closed surface water
        (beel, haor, pond etc.). Closed surface water can be subdivided into natural and man-made water
        bodies.
        Natural surface water bodies
        There are three lakes in Bangladesh. Two are located in the Hill Tracts southeast of the country,
        and one in the Eastern Barind. More numerous are beels which are defined as ‘saucer-like
        depressions, of a marshy character’. During the rainy season, beels look like lakes but transform
        into marshes during the dry season. Beels are used for fishing, as water reservoirs for irrigation and
        domestic purposes, for flood-recession agriculture and transportation. The largest beels are located
        in the districts of Dinajpur, Rangpur and Bogra. Baors are old dried up rivers courses in oxbow
        shape. They can be found in the Moribund Delta. Although the boars are more stagnant than the
        beels they are permanently filled with water. The haor is also characteristic of an entire area around
        Sylhet. It is a bowl-shaped basin in the Sylhet depression that covers 6,000 sq. km. In this haor



                                                                                                           18
        basin there are over 400 haors and beels, which are used for fishing, transportation and irrigation.
        Besides the productive and domestic use of these natural water bodies they also serve as natural
        water storage for excessive rainfall.
        Availability of Surface Water
        Surface water is abundant in the wet season in Bangladesh. An estimated 795,000 million cubic
        meters (Mm3) of surface water is discharged through the Ganges-Barahmaputra system. This is
        equivalent to 5.52m deep water over a land area 144,000km2 of the country. There are other rivers
        discharging surface water into the Bay of Bengal. Each year about one-thirds of Bangladesh is
        submerged in a normal flood, and the area submerged may increase to about two-thirds during
        severe floods. In the dry seasons water scarcity persists in many areas. In this period surface water
        is only available in part of the 2215 km of major rivers, 1922km2 of major standing water bodies and
        about 1475km2 of ponds in the country.
        Major Problems
        Surface water receives pollutants from agricultural, industrial, domestic and municipal sources.
        Concentration of silt content in turbulent water in the monsoon is high. Similarly algal growth in
        stagnant water bodies in the dry season is also very high. Unsanitary practices of people have
        greatly contributed to the deterioration of surface water sources. The fecal coliform concentration in
        most surface sources lies in the range of 500 to several thousand per 100ml. The rivers and other
        surface water sources around densely populated urban areas, depending on water quality
        parameters, are four to ten times more polluted than similar water sources in the countryside. The
        deterioration of water quality is directly related to population density and industrial activities due to
        poor management of domestic and industrial wastewater.

2.4.2   Groundwater Resources
        Groundwater is a precious and the most widely distributed resource of the earth and unlike other
        mineral resources, its gets its annual replenishment. The groundwater is the largest source of fresh
        water on the planet excluding the polar icecaps and glaciers. The amount of groundwater within
        800m from the ground surface is over 30 times the amount in all fresh water lakes and reservoirs,
        and about 3000 times the amount in stream channels, at any one time.
        Availability
        Groundwater is the most important source of water supply in Bangladesh. Except for a few hilly
        regions, Bangladesh is entirely underlain by water-bearing aquifers at depths varying from 0- 20m
        below ground surface. The soil is mostly stratified and formed by alluvial deposits of sand and silt,
        having occasional lenses of clay. The main constituent of the aquifer materials is medium-grained
        sand deposited at the lower reach by the mighty rivers: the Ganges, the Brahmaputra and the
        Meghna and their tributaries. Groundwater can be easily abstracted by installation of wells for the
        development of water supply system. Table 2.2 presents the National Water Plan (Resource
        Potential) for groundwater.
        Groundwater quality
        Physically groundwater is generally clear, colorless with little or no suspended solids and has a
        relatively constant temperature. Groundwater is also free from disease-producing microorganisms,
        which are normally present in the large numbers in surface waters. The slow filtering action of fine-
        grained soil through, which the surface water percolates to join the groundwater removes almost all
        suspended impurities. Moreover, the lack of oxygen and nutrients in groundwater makes it an
        unfavorable environment for disease-producing microorganisms to survive, grow or multiply. On the
        other hand, being a universal solvent, water dissolves many of the minerals present in the earth’s
        crust during its slow travel through the ground. Anaerobic conditions in soils in some flood plains
        and the presence of organic acids and carbon dioxide increase the solubility of water. As a result,
        groundwater may contain minerals in varying concentrations depending on the soil condition.
        Arsenic contamination of groundwater is believed to be the result of such reactions in the adverse
        geo-environment.



                                                                                                              19
              Table 2.2: National Water Plan (Resource Potential for Groundwater)
                                            (Groundwater balance Mm3)
                                                                  Regions                                         Whole
       Resource Potential      Northwest       Northeast      Southeast          South            Southwest      Country
                                                                                 central
        Available recharge          9786            6594           1498           1249              1961         21088
       Present agricultural          3893           2831            630           165               1287          8806
              use
      Domestic & industrial          554            1276            638           257                466          3191
       reserve up to 2010
      Surplus to agriculture        1026             -               -              -                 -             -
       Future use potential          4313           2853            626           977                678          9447
       Unbalanced volume              0             366             396           150                470          1382
      Future use up to 201:
      Deep-set suction mode          2160            0               0             0                 270          2430
            tubewells
         Deep tubewells             1575            2757            373           965                401          6071
              Totals                 3735           2757            373           965                671          8501
      Balance beyond 2010            578             96             253            12                 7           946
              Source: GOB 1999: GOB 1997, Bangladesh Compendium of Environmental Statistics, BBS.



Aquifer Characteristics
The available geological information and related studies have shown that two types of aquifers exist
in Bangladesh. A shallow aquifer, which has been termed as ‘main aquifer’ lies within 100m from
the surface with an overlying clay/silt blanket, which is less than 2m thick in the northwest and
generally increases southward to more than 50m. In the majority of alluvial basins, the thickness of
top clay and silt layers varies between 5-15m. In extreme northwest this layer does not exist, and
silty to fine sand occurs at the surface, while in the Madhupur and Barind Tracts as well as in
Chittagong District, the thickness of this layer is greater than 35m.
There is no common consensus about the definition of deep aquifer. According to academicians,
deep aquifer should not be defined in terms of depth. Deep and shallow aquifers should be
separated by an aquitard or aquiclude. The depth of deep aquifer depends on the local/regional
hydro- geological conditions.
However from practical point of view, deep aquifer is to specify safe Aquifer irrespective of depths.
Approximate depth range should be mentioned as deeper levels of one aquifer system are often
found arsenic uncontaminated. Based on the experience of southern hydro-geological condition of
Bangladesh deep aquifer should be >150 m depth. Table 2.3 gives the characteristics of main
aquifers for different regions.
                 Table 2.3: Characteristics of Main Aquifers for Different Regions
                                                                                    2
                                Thickness, m                     Transmissivity, m /d                 Specific Yield (%)
          Regions              Max.          Min.          Max.           Min.          Typical           Min.     Max.
          Northwest             0            > 60          1000           4500           3000             <2        >15
          Northeast             20           > 60          500            4500           1000             <2        15
          Southeast            10            60            500            1000           650              <2        15
        South central           0            60            500            2500           650              <2        15
          Southwest            10            60            500            2500           650              <2        15
                                                    Source: MPO 1991.




                                                                                                                           20
Problems of Groundwater
The major problems related with the groundwater for drinking purposes are due to following
reasons:
Arsenic in groundwater: Arsenic is a naturally occurring element and usually presents in the form of
compounds with sulfur and with many elements. The presence of arsenic in groundwater of
Bangladesh was first detected in 1993 at Barogharia Union of Chapai Nawabganj district. The
concentration of arsenic in drinking water in excess of permissible limits is toxic to human body. It
can cause dermal changes, kidney and liver disorder, cancer, and ultimately death. A map showing
the intensity of arsenic contamination of groundwater (based on survey results of 201 Upazillas) in
Figure 2.7.




                       Figure 2.7: Arsenic Contamination of Groundwater


                                                                                                  21
There are evidence that the wells with higher than permissible level of arsenic have a direct
relationship with the location and geological age of aquifers. The arsenic distribution map (BGS and
DPHE, 2001) shows that the greater arsenic concentration is within the deltaic and floodplain areas
of the country whereas the Late Pleistocene and older sediment covered areas are not affected.
Excessive dissolved iron: Iron in drinking water has no known physiological effect, but people are
reluctant to drink this water mainly due to its bad taste and appearance (color). Water with high iron
content is also not used for cooking, washing and other domestic purposes. According to survey
conducted in 1993, 1230 unions of Bangladesh have an iron content of more than 5mg/l in
groundwater. A map showing the iron problem areas of Bangladesh is given in Figure 2.8. It may be
observed that dissolved iron in excess of 2mg/l in shallow tubewell water is about 67% (maximum
limit of iron in drinking water is 1mg/l in Bangladesh). However, the iron content in deep tubewell
water is comparatively lower.




                 Figure 2.8: Distribution of Dissolved Iron in Shallow Aquifers
Salinity in the coastal areas: The concentration of dissolved minerals in groundwater is higher than
that of surface water. The coastal belt of Bangladesh, extended over 86 upazillas, is identified as a
salinity problem area where complex hydro-geological conditions and high salinity make water
supply difficult as compared to other parts of the country. Unlike other areas of Bangladesh,
groundwater of acceptable quality at relatively shallow depths, which can be easily withdrawn by
conventional handpump tubewells, is not available in most parts of the coastal area. In some places
low salinity water has been found in deep aquifers. In some locations, pockets or lenses of fresh
water are available in shallow aquifers and very shallow depths usually beneath old ponds.



                                                                                                   22
However, there are still many areas in costal belts where low salinity groundwater is not available
within a depth of 1100 feet. The distribution of salinity in groundwater is shown in Figure 2.9.




              Figure 2.9: Salinity in Shallow Tube Well Water in the Coastal Area
Lowering of groundwater level: Although groundwater in Bangladesh is said to be abundant, a
considerable area of the country faces scarcity of groundwater within suction limits in the dry
season. Due to the over-exploitation of groundwater for irrigation purposes, the water level has
declined, rendering thousands of suction mode No. 6 tubewells inoperable. These areas are
increasing with abstraction of more groundwater for irrigation in dry season.
Rock/stony layers in hilly areas: In the Chittagong Hill Tracts, drilling of tubewells for rural water
supply is difficult due to the presence of hard formations in the subsurface. In most cases
conventional drilling for the installation of handpumps cannot penetrate these hard rock formations.
This situation also prevails in some parts of Chittagong, Cox’s Bazar, Sylhet, in the north of
Mymensingh, Netrokona and in Pachagar districts. To overcome the situation and provide potable
water through handpump tubewells, expensive mechanical drilling rigs are used.




                                                                                                   23
2.5     Water Supply Coverage
2.5.1   Rural Water Supply Coverage
        For generations, people in rural Bangladesh were using surface water from ponds (generally
        protected rainwater fed), lakes and rivers and also shallow groundwater from dug-wells for drinking
        and cooking purposes. Since independence, the efforts of Government, NGOs and donors
        organizations had succeeded in increasing the safe water supply coverage in rural Bangladesh.
        Taking advantage of the shallow water aquifers and aided by a public sector campaign encouraging
        people to shift from surface water to groundwater sources, the introduction of shallow tubewells
        enabled 97% of rural households access to clean drinking water2. The coverage is calculated on
        the basis of number of people served by a tube well. According to DPHE, at present rural water
        supply coverage is 103 persons per tube well. The coverage varies with the seasons, socio-
        economic status and condition of well or pump.
        Arsenic contamination, however, is threatening to undo this success. According to rough estimates,
        between 30-40 million people are potentially at risk of arsenic poisoning from drinking water
        sources. This has been reduced the access to the safe water sources significantly. Households with
        access to drinking water from tubewell/tap/ring well in rural area of Bangladesh, 2000 is shown in
        Figure 2.10.




            Figure 2.10: Households with Access to Drinking Water in Rural Areas of Bangladesh, 2000


        2
                  The use groundwater through handpump for drinking and cooking resulted in the reduction of diarrhoea episodes.



                                                                                                                              24
2.5.2   Urban Water Supply Coverage
        On the other hand, piped water supply and household handpumps constitute the vast majority of
        urban water supply in Bangladesh. According to DPHE (2000), the overall urban water supply
        coverage is 57%. The services are provided by individual house connections, public stand posts
        and hand tubewells (mostly privately owned).
                                       Table 2.4: Urban Water Supply Coverage
                      Types of Areas                Types of Facilities           Population % Covered
                        Core area                   House connection                      27
                        Core area                   Public stand posts                     7
                       Fringe area                   Hand tubewell                        23
                                                       Total =                            57

        District town water supply is predominately groundwater based. The sources of most piped water
        supply (except Rangamati, Sunamganj and Perojpur) are groundwater i.e. abstraction of water from
        deeper aquifers by production wells. The piped water supplies in the Rangamati, Sunamganj and
        Perojpur districts are surface water based. Bagerhat has a system based on both surface and
        groundwater. Twenty-seven district towns have provision for groundwater treatment, principally
        taking the form of iron removal plants.
        A recent study indicates that 41 production wells in 12 Pourashvas out of 390 production wells in
        100are contaminated with arsenic. The highest arsenic concentration was found in Gopalganj (0.38
        mg/l). Only one district town (Manikganj) has an arsenic removal plant whilst three other district
        towns have iron removal plants, which reduce the arsenic concentration. Arsenic removal plants
        will be installed in another district town (Rajbabi) whilst another district town (Gopalganj) will switch
        to surface water soon. The shallow handpumps of many Pourashavas are possibly arsenic affected
        and significant portion of people are continuing with arsenic contaminated water, as these
        handpumps are not yet tested and the low coverage of piped water supply.

2.6     Water Quality Issues
2.6.1   Groundwater Quality
        There is no systematic or comprehensive monitoring of water quality in Bangladesh. Groundwater
        in Bangladesh is generally very fresh and characterized by low total dissolved solids except in the
        coastal regions and few pockets of inland saline/brackish groundwater. Chloride occurs above the
        acceptable limit in deep wells in the coastal areas and also in shallow wells in some saline/brackish
        water pockets inland. However, the occurrence of an excessive amount of dissolved iron has been
        encountered in many places, which is naturally occurring and common for reducing groundwater.
        Before the identification of arsenic, no major water quality problem was encountered nation-wide in
        groundwater.
        Barium, Boron, Manganese, Ammonium, Iron and Sodium in groundwater exceed the Bangladesh
        Drinking Water Standard in a large number of wells. It should be noted that for certain parameters,
        such as Barium, Fluoride, Manganese and Nitrate, the Bangladesh Drinking Water Standard is
        more stringent than the WHO guideline values.
        Sodium exceeds the limit in a significant number of wells, mostly in the deep wells. The WHO lists
        Manganese as a health significant parameter. The WHO has set two limits, one health based (0.5
        mg/l) and one aesthetic (0.1 mg/l). Bangladesh has adopted the aesthetic limit in the drinking water
        standard. A large number of the wells exceed the Bangladesh Drinking Water Standard.
        Apart from Arsenic and Manganese, there are other heavy metals which occasionally exceed the
        Bangladesh Drinking Water Standard and WHO limit – both in shallow and deep groundwater. The
        heavy metals that exceed the limit include Boron, Barium in a wider extent and Uranium to a limited
        extent.
        Secondary microbial contamination has been reported in some occasions.


                                                                                                              25
2.6.2   Surface Water Quality
        The main reason to shift from surface water to groundwater was the poor microbial water quality
        and related waterborne diseases. Few to several thousands fecal coliform and total coliform can be
        present in 100ml of the surface water bodies depending on the types of source, contamination and
        season. According to action research findings of SDC WatSan Partnership Project, counts of fecal
        coliform of raw water varied from 640 to 13,400 cfu (colifom forming unit) per 100ml in pond water,
        while river water had 1,400-3,820 cfu/100ml.
        Presence of cynobacteria in surface water is another water quality problem. Cyanobacteria are
        blue-green algae who can live in freshwater, salt-water or in mixed brackish water. They are
        normally blue-green in color but can also be reddish, violet, yellow or brown. WHO reports a
        pronounced regional difference regarding the abundance of cynobacteria could be observed for the
        ponds sampled in September 2002. Cynobacteria were most frequent in the Mymensingh area,
        somewhat less frequent in the Chandpur and Matlab area, and were only rarely found in ponds
        sampled in the Khulna area.

2.7     Sanitation Facilities, Coverage and Effectiveness
        The progress in sanitation is much slower as compared to water supply coverage in Bangladesh.
        The multiple indicator cluster survey of BBS/Unicef in 2000, the urban, rural and total sanitation
        coverages were 61.2%, 41.3% and 43.4% respectively including simple pit latrine. The distribution
        of households with access to hygiene latrines in rural areas is shown in Figure 2.11.




        Figure 2.11: Households with Access to Hygiene Latrine in Rural Areas of Bangladesh: 2000


                                                                                                        26
The Government of Bangladesh conducted a countrywide extensive survey of existing sanitation
situation throughout the country under National Sanitation Campaign engaging Local Government
Institutions (LGIs). It provides are-wise baseline data. The results of baseline survey of 21.08
million household in 64 districts, 278 Pourashavas (Municipalities) and 6 City Corporations show
only 32% of households use sanitary latrines, 25% unhygienic latrines and 43% uses no latrines. It
has also been found that 31% of the households cannot construct latrine for financial inability and
5% do not have any land to construct latrines.
The sanitation coverage in City Corporation and Pourashavas are comparatively better than rural
sanitation coverage in Bangladesh (Figure 2.12). Sanitation coverage decreases from City
Corporations to Pourashavas and to rural areas.

                                    70

                                    60
                   % of Household




                                    50

                                    40

                                    30

                                    20

                                    10

                                    0
                                            City Corp.     Pourashava         Rural
      Sanitary Latrine                         64              53              29
      Unhygienic Latrine                       33              28              24
      No Latrine                                3              19              47

                                         Figure 2.12: Rural and Urban Sanitation Coverage
Other Health Issues related to Water Supply and Sanitation
No comprehensive data is available on the total impact of inadequacies of water supply and
sanitation on human health in Bangladesh. Arsenic contamination (described in the preceding
sections) and diarrhea are prominent health issues. There is high prevalence of diarrhea among
children in the rural areas of Bangladesh (see Figure 2.13).
Arsenic pollution of groundwater was identified for the first time in 1984 by the Dhaka Community
Hospital where a large number of people began turning up with peculiar skin lesions and
pigmentation. After clinically ruling out genetic and other causes, the illness was traced to the
consumption of arsenic contaminated water from groundwater sources. Since then there has been
a significant increase in the number of people showing clinical symptoms.
Arsenic in drinking water is a new, unfamiliar problem for Bangladesh. Thousands of people have
been affected by consumption of water with arsenic levels far above the maximum safe limit of
50ppb set by the Government of Bangladesh. Many more are at risk. Arsenic-contaminated water
has no characteristic colour, smell or taste. This makes it all the more difficult to distinguish and
isolate it.
Consumption of arsenic-contaminated groundwater poses a serious threat to health. Prolonged
exposure to arsenic results in ‘Arsenecosis’ causing hyper-pigmentation, de-pigmentation, keratosis
and peripheral vascular disorder, which are some of the commonly reported symptoms. Its
implications on child growth and pregnancy also pose a serious concern. Prolonged consumption of
arsenic can result in skin cancer, cardiovascular and neurological diseases and can eventually be
fatal.
In addition, there are severe socio-economic consequences that compound the problem of those
affected. The visible manifestations of Arsenecosis, such as skin lesions, have resulted in social



                                                                                                  27
        ostracization, reduced employment opportunities, layoffs, break-up of family and marriage ties
        and others. At present, the best remedial action for controlling the consequences of this pollution is
        to prevent further exposure to arsenic by providing safe drinking water to the people at risk.




         Figure 3.15: Prevalence of Diarrhea (Children under 5 years) in Rural Areas of Bangladesh
                            during the 15 years Prior to the Data Collection: 2000

2.8     Past Initiatives to Address Water Supply Issues
        Since independence, GoB has taken different programs and project to improve the water supply
        condition with the donor assistance and also with their own funds. Besides the GoB initiatives,
        different national and international NGOs contributed the development of the water supply sector of
        Bangladesh. In this section, the on-going projects under the context of arsenic contamination are
        described. Presently several government and non-government, and national and international
        organizations are involved in arsenic mitigation in the country. The projects and organizations
        shown in Table 2.5 below are working under a coordinated framework, albeit loose, to cover all the
        273 affected upazilas. In addition there are a number of other agencies and NGOs involved in
        research, testing and mitigation of arsenic.

2.8.1   Brief Description of Projects/Programs
        Bangladesh Arsenic Mitigation Water Supply Project
        The Government, World Bank and SDC jointly fund this project. The project initiated nation-wide
        screening, awareness raising and community development. Screening of tube-wells in 189


                                                                                                           28
upazilas and production wells in 100 municipalities is complete. Mitigation activities are on going in
45 upazilas. BAMWSP activities include strengthening of local government institutions, and
building up community capacity to establish and manage rural safe water supply management. The
project also identifies arsenicosis patients by symptoms during the screening of tube-wells.
The strengthen the water quality testing facilities, the project has renovated the four existing DPHE
Laboratories (Rajshahi, Mymensingh, Comilla and Khulna) and installed Hydridfe Generation
Atomic Absorption Spectrophotometer (HGAAS). The project is also setting up three new DPHE
laboratories in Barisal, Rangpur and Sylhet. BAMWSP also installed on HGAAS and renovated on
lab room at BCSIR to support the verification program of chemical based arsenic treatment
technologies.
The project also established the National Arsenic Mitigation Information Center (NAMIC) to store,
evaluate and disseminate the arsenic related information. NAMIC has been processing all the
screening information of BAMWSP and other stakeholders to store in the database server. The
data has also been integrated with GIS database to prepare maps showing in Upazilla, Union and
Mouza wise


       Table 2.5: Organizations/ Projects involved in Arsenic Mitigation in 273 upazilas
        Name of the Project                      Principal Activity                             Funds
    BAMWSP                       Screening, Arsenic mitigation across the country     GOB, IDA, SDC
                                 (189 upazilas)
    DPHE-UNICEF Project          Arsenic Screening and Mitigation (45 upazilas)       GOB, UNICEF

    DPHE-DANIDA Project          Arsenic Screening and Mitigation (In 8 upazilas in   GOB, DANIDA
                                 the coastal area)
    World Vision Bangladesh      Screening, Arsenic Mitigation (In 16 upazilas)       Different international
                                                                                      donors
    Watsan Partnership Project   Screening, Arsenic Mitigation (In 14 upazilas)       SDC
    Asia Arsenic Network         Screening, Arsenic Mitigation in 1 upazila           JICA



DPHE-UNICEF
The mandate of the Water and Environmental Sanitation (WES) Program of UNICEF is improving
access of people to safe water and sanitation. It works with government and its partners with an
integrated approach to screening tube-wells and exploring alternative low-cost, safe water
technology and mitigation options. It works in 45 upazilas (25% of these upazilas have arsenic),
conducts information and awareness campaigns, equips zonal laboratories of DPHE for water
quality testing, trains staff and provides alternate technology options to affected communities. The
technology options the program promotes include PSFs, ring wells, dug wells, tube-well sand filters,
deep tube wells, household and community based arsenic removal units, surface water treatment
plants, piped water supply and rainwater harvesting. The program works closely with BAMWSP
and with other international agencies and NGOs.
DPHE-DANIDA
The DPHE-Danida project works in only 8 upazilas of the coastal areas in the south of the country.
The program includes screening, information and awareness campaigns, capacity building of local
community, research and development and extensive mitigation activities.
SDC WatSan Partnership Project
The Watsan Partnership Project (WPP) is an innovative approach to development that works
through a partnership of three international NGOs, 15 partner NGOs and Village Development
Committees (VDC). The WPP places the VDCs at the centre of planning and implementation of all
interventions. The project has been working with user communities and local government



                                                                                                                29
        institutions in screening tube wells for arsenic and providing mitigation options in 14 upazilas of
        Rajshahi and Chapai Nawabganj. It also identified arsenic patient and has established a referral
        protocol with the upazila health centres. The mitigation options WPP tested and promoted include
        rainwater harvesting, improved dug wells, SODIS, SORAS, Alcan and Shapla filters.
        Asia Arsenic Network (AAN)
        AAN is a Japanese citizens’ association that started working in an upazila in Jessore in 1996 to find
        out alternative sources of safe drinking water to reduce affect of arsenic on victims. It concentrates
        on assessing the actual cause and conditions of arsenic contamination and on taking measures in
        consultation with local research and people. In April 2000, AAN started its “Mobile Arsenic Centre”
        (MAC) comprising a team of medical, chemical, water supply engineering and awareness building
        professionals. Currently MAC works in 13 villages of Jessore, Jhenidah, Sathkira and Chuadanga.
        The measures ANN uses are rainwater harvesting, PSF, dug well and deep tube well.
        NGO Forum for Drinking Water Supply and Sanitation
        NGO Forum has so far undertaken seven projects and programs on arsenic mitigation. It focuses
        on providing alternative arsenic safe drinking source options to the poor and training of trainers in
        147 upazilas and 100 pourashavas. It has established the National Arsenic Information Support
        Unit (NAISU) for NGOs. Stakeholders in the sector appreciate and value the work of NAISU. The
        alternative arsenic safe sources NGO Forum promotes are PSF, rainwater harvesting, arsenic-iron
        removal plants, dug well and piped water supply.
        Bangladesh University of Engineering and Technology (BUET)
        BUET conducts research on different aspects of arsenic in groundwater and its mitigation. It has
        been testing an activated alumina unit in different regions of the country. It has been found efficient
        in removal of arsenic at household level (BAMWSP, DFID and Water Aid Bangladesh 2001). It has
        modified the bucket unit, developed iron coated sand for arsenic removal and is testing a unit in
        rural areas. The arsenic cum iron removal unit is working in different areas and BUET is field
        testing modified PSF. BUET also provides services in testing of arsenic removal technologies in
        laboratory and field conditions. The Danida funded International Training Network (ITN) at BUET
        provides training on different aspects of arsenic.
        Bangladesh Rural Advancement Committee (BRAC)
        BRAC in collaboration with DPHE and UNICEF has been conducting action research on community
        based arsenic mitigation in two upazilas since 1999. The objective of the research is to assess the
        technical viability and social acceptability of alternate arsenic safe water options. BRAC also
        implements a program for screening tube-wells, building awareness, identifying arsenic patients
        and providing medical care. It is also testing the feasibility of low-cost piped water systems.
        Dhaka Community Hospital (DCH)
        DCH was the first healthcare organization to detect arsenic patients in the country. Since then it has
        been involved in arsenic screening and patient identification and management and creating
        awareness among people on the health affect of long-term arsenic ingestion. DCH has also been
        experimenting with a number of alternate arsenic safe technology options including PSF, dug well,
        rainwater harvesting, Safi filter, DPHE-DANIDA filter, Pitcher filter, Bucket sand filter, tube-well filter
        and Sari filter.

2.8.2   Lesson Learnt from Earlier Projects
        The key lesson learnt from different project can be summarized as follows:
            •   Different local government arsenic committees play an important role in execution of arsenic related
                activities.
            •   Genuine participation of users or community is indispensable for the arsenic mitigation activities.
            •   Communities are able to issue contract and implement mitigation activities with required assistance.




                                                                                                                      30
            •   Household arsenic mitigation options require an extensive monitoring program.
            •   Dug-wells are not essentially arsenic-free in all cases. Constructions of dug-wells are not possible in
                every place.
            •   Dug-wells and other options also frequently increase bacteriological health threats.

2.8.3   Other Current Initiatives
        Arsenic Removal Technology Verification
        The Government has appointed the Bangladesh Council of Scientific and Industrial Research
        (BCSIR) as the verification authority for all arsenic removal technologies in a notification issued on
        July 2002, on the basis of which no arsenic removal technology can be marketed in Bangladesh
        without BCSIR verification. The Ontario Center for Technical Advancement (OCETA) is providing
        the necessary technical assistance and training needed by BCSIR for the Environmental
        Technology Verification – Arsenic Mitigation (ETV-AM) program, supported with CIDA financing.
        This program will ensure that arsenic mitigation technologies marketed in Bangladesh are able to
        achieve national drinking water quality standards.
        Risk Assessment Study
        APSU has initiated a risk assessment study of water supply alternatives as for arsenic mitigation
        and to provide an overall framework within which water safety may be secured to the population of
        Bangladesh. ITN Center, BUET is coordinating the study, which is divided into two phases. The first
        phase is on groundwater options and second phase is surface water options and rainwater.




                                                                                                                    31
3       POLICY AND LEGAL FRAMEWORK
3.1     Policy and Legal Requirements of GOB
        There are different rights, policies and guidelines stipulated by the Government of Bangladesh
        (GoB), of which the selected norms that are relevant to the project are discussed in this Chapter.
        The right to drinking water is protected by articles 15(a) and 32 (right to life) in the Constitution. The
        article 18(1) states, “The state shall regard the improvement of environment and public health as
        among the primary duties”.
        There are a number of environmental Laws and Regulations existing (see Table 3.1 and Annex I),
        which are directly or indirectly related to environmental management in the project. The most
        important one for the project is the EIA Guidelines 1997. The project will require environmental
        clearance from the DOE under these guidelines.

3.1.1   Laws governing the Water Supply Issues
        The GoB has clearly defined environmental standards for water quality and has stipulated the
        minimum permissible limits (both chemical and heavy metal) allowed for human consumption. The
        GoB has a National Water Policy, 1999 that states the operational modalities for water supply and
        sanitation (WSS) projects. The same policy also provides adequate provision for private sector
        participation and a sustainable environment management for WSS projects.
        The National Policy for Safe Water Supply and Sanitation (1998) aims to “ensure that all people
        have access to safe water and sanitation services at an affordable cost.” The policy advocates
        participation of private sector and NGOs in service delivery and awareness campaign. This policy
        also provides for building capacity at local level to deal more effectively with water & sanitation; and
        for ensuring proper storage, management and use of surface water and preventing its
        contamination3.
        The National Water Policy 1998 aims to ensure availability of water to all elements of society,
        including the poor and underprivileged, and taking into account the particular needs of women and
        children. The other objectives include (a) decentralized management of water resources and sound
        environmental management. Under this policy, the GOB is committed to protect water quality and
        ensure efficiency of water use. It provides for protect against degradation and resuscitate natural
        water bodies and preservation of natural aquifers.
        The Draft National Water Management Plan 2001 aims at (a) rational management of
        Bangladesh’s water resources, (b) improvement in the citizen’s quality of life by equitable, safe and
        reliable access to water for production, health and hygiene; and (c) providing clean water in
        sufficient and timely quantities for multi-purpose use and preservation of the aquatic and water-
        dependent ecosystems.
        The draft National Policy for Arsenic Mitigation (NPAM) gives priority to alternative water supply
        options, arsenicosis patient identification and management, and identifying and addressing the
        impact of arsenic on the agricultural environment. The policy promotes continued identification of
        the nature and extent of the problem and requires that the water quality (not just arsenic) should be
        tested prior to the commissioning of any new water supply sources.
        As envisaged, the project may use available safe groundwater sources. The utilities involved in the
        project will comply with the guidelines envisaged under the “Groundwater Management Act of
        1985/ Groundwater Management Ordinance of 1985”. As part of this, the utilities will seek


        3
                  It stipulates that there should be routine water quality surveillance (through DPHE, the National Institute for
        Preventative and Social Medicine (NIPSOM), Atomic Energy Commission and the Department for the Environment). For
        urban water supply, monitoring of water quality is to be the responsibility of DPHE, DOE, BSTI, AEC and CBOs who will
        send reports to the water quality committee within LGD.



                                                                                                                              32
permission from the Upazila Parishad who is assigned (under the Ordinance) the responsibility of
issuing clearance to implementing agency in the rural areas under their jurisdiction. In case of
urban areas, utilities will follow the norms stipulated by the Municipal Council and the Town
Improvement (Amendment) Act of 1987.
             Table 3.1: Environmental Laws and Regulations Relevant to the Project
Laws and Regulation                              Description                                    Authority
Environmental Conservation Act of 1995           The Environmental Conservation Act of 1995 MOEF, DOE
                                                 empowered the MOEF to formulate rules
                                                 and guidelines for the management.
                                                 It also designates DOE responsible for
                                                 enforcing the 1997 EIA procedures.
Environmental                                    Air pollution, water pollution, noise          MOEF, DOE
Conservation Rules of 1995
EIA Guidelines 1997                              The EIA Process is categorized into four       MOEF, DOE
                                                 classes: Green, Orange A, Orange B, and
                                                 Red, according to the degree of impacts
Environmental Pollution Control Ordinance        Including national water quality standards     MOEF, DOE
1997                                             according to the WHO guidelines, air quality
                                                 standards, noise, solid waste management
Factories Act 1965                               Air pollution. Occupational health
National Water Policy 1999                       Water pollution, water resources
                                                 management
Non Agricultural Tenancy Act 1947; State         Land use
Acquisition and Tenancy Act 1950; Acquisition
of Waste Land Act 1950; Land Reforms
Ordinance 1984; Land Reform Board Act 1989
Town Improvement Act 1950; Municipality          Land use
Ordinance 1977
Local Government Ordinance 1982                  Land use
Pesticide Ordinance 1971 Amended in 1980;        Toxic and hazardous substance
New Agricultural Extension Policy 1997;
Agricultural Pest Ordinance 1962; Agriculture
and Sanitary Improvement Act 1920
Municipality Ordinance 1977                      Solid waste management
Forest Act 1927 (modified in 1973)               Forest, biodiversity and soil conservation     MOEF, DOE
Wildlife (Preservation) Act 1973                 Wildlife conservation, wetland management,     MOEF, DOE
Amended 1974.                                    biodiversity conservation
Fish Policy 1998; Private Fisheries Protection   Water resources management, biodiversity
Act 1889;                                        conservation
Territorial Water and Marine Zone Act 1974;      Coastal resources management, marine
Ordinance 1983                                   pollution
Irrigation Policy 1998; Policy for Management of Water resources management
Closed Waterbody (Jamahal) 1990; Water
Supply and Sewerage Authority Ordinance
1963 (amended 1989); Embankment and
Drainage Act 1952;
Water Hyacinth Act 1939; IWTA Ordinance          Water resources management
1958; Canals Act 1864; Irrigation Act 1876
Wetland Policy 1997;                             Wetland management, biodiversity
                                                 conservation
Water and Power Development Board Act 1972       Soil conservation




                                                                                                            33
3.1.2   Environmental Policies relevant to the Project
        The Environment Policy, 1992 seeks to maintain the ecological balance in the country, protecting
        the country against natural disasters, regulating polluting industries and ensuring sustainable use of
        the country’s natural resources.
        The Policy components are numerous. The sections that are relevant to water supply are:
            •    Water development, flood control and irrigation: (Paragraph 3.5.6) Ensure sustainable, long-term,
                 environmentally sound and scientific exploitation and management of the underground and surface
                 water sources.
        The Environmental Action Plan 1992 is a list of activities with implementing agencies identified.
        Section 3.1 of this plan deals with supply of clean water in rural and urban areas (implemented by
        LGD, DPHE and Municipal Administration). The Environmental Conservation Act 1995 aims at
        conservation and improvement of environment and control and mitigation of pollution of
        environment. The Department of Environment is given authority through this act to conduct drinking
        water quality surveillance program and submit report and advise, or, in appropriate case direct,
        every person to follow the standard of drinking water.
        The Environmental Conservation Rules 1997 sets the National Environmental Quality Standards
        for ambient air, various types of water, industrial effluent, emission, and noise. It describes the
        requirement for and procedures to obtain environment clearance. Projects are classified into 4
        categories – Green, Orange A, Orange B, and Red. Engineering works with capital investment
        above Taka 1 million; water treatment plant; laying/ relaying/extension of water distribution line or
        sewerage pipelines – are included in the Red category. Detailed descriptions of the rules are in
        Annex-I.

3.1.3   GOB Clearances required for the Project
        According to the Environmental Conservation Rules, 1997, interventions under this project will
        require to obtain environmental clearance. Ordinarily, environmental clearances are obtained in two
        steps. First requirement is to obtain site/location clearance4. The second requirement is to obtain
        Environmental Clearance5. The Department of Environment (DOE) may take up to 60 days to issue
        the site clearance, 60 days to approve the EIA/EMP and 30 more days to issue the Environmental
        Clearance.
        The project will seek environmental clearance for all the proposed sub-projects, as a whole. In light
        of the complex water quality problem in the country, the project will make adequate provision for
        water treatment in all water supply schemes in both rural and urban areas. Both the treatment
        process and the water quality surveillance will comply with the norms stipulated under the
        “Environmental Conservation Act 1997”. The Project Management Unit (PMU) will set up a
        coordination committee (having representatives from DPHE and Department of Environment) to
        provide regular monitoring support to the Utilities and for ensuring that water supply standards are
        followed in all water supply schemes under the project.

3.2     INSTITUTIONAL AND REGULATORY FRAMEWORK
        To improve the health status of people and the environment through access to safe water and
        sanitation facilities, the Ministry of Local Government Rural Development and Co-operative
        (MLGRDC) of GoB has developed various institutional arrangements. Among them, the Department
        of Public Health Engineering (DPHE) is entrusted with the key mandate to provide safe water
        supply and sanitation to both urban and rural areas (except in two metropolitan areas).



        4
                 Based on application along with necessary papers as per requirement, including the Initial Environmental
        Examination (IEE), which shall contain the scope of work of the proposed EIA.
        5
                By submitting the application along with necessary papers and after getting approval on the Environmental Impact
        Assessment Report.



                                                                                                                             34
The statutory responsibility for WSS is vested with the MLGRDC. The Ministry is responsible for
policy formulation and preparation of budget for the WSS, drainage and solid waste management.
However, the functional responsibility of WSS is delegated to the DPHE. The responsibility includes
planning, design and construction of water supply and environmental sanitation services. This
implies that any private sector utility interested to be a partner under this project needs to enter into
a agreement with the DPHE and ensure that the environmental norms are followed as per the
DPHE procedures.
The various organizations and institutions that will be relevant for the project are given in Table 3.2.
         Table 3.2: Organizations relevant for Environment Management of the Project
 Ministry/ Relevant Department         Project Relevance for        Activities
                                       Environmental
                                       Management
 Ministry of Local Government Rural                                 Routine monitoring of water quality at production wells.
 Development & Cooperatives --         YES                          Study and control of arsenic contamination in
 Department of Public Health and                                    groundwater sanitation facilities and the associated
                                                                    hygiene education program
 Engineering (DPHE)
 Ministry of Water Resources                                        Preparation of Participatory
                                       YES                          Water Management Guidelines
 Bangladesh Water Development                                       Monitoring of tube wells. Monitoring of surface water
 Board (BWDB)                          YES                          salinity, suspended sediments Flood forecasting and
                                                                    warning Flood proofing, and disaster management
                                                                    River management
 Water Resources Planning                                           Sampling and analysis of pesticides residues Cyclone
 Organization (WARPO)                  YES                          warning and dissemination
                                                                    Coastal protection
                                                                    Urban protection Water and Flood management Ground
                                                                    water utilization.
                                                                    National Water Management Plan
 Water and Sewerage Authority          YES (although the            Periodic check of production wells
 (Dhaka, Chittagong)                   authority is not operating   Fecal pollution control
                                       in project are, they could   Sanitation facilities and the associated hygiene
                                       still be useful for          education program
                                       bacteriological
                                       surveillance)
 Ministry of Agriculture/ Department                                Groundwater development potential assessment
 of Agricultural                       YES                          Improving Crop Policy (1998)
 Extension                                                          Improving of Irrigation Policy (1998)
 Bangladesh Agricultural               YES                          Fertilizers use
 Development Corporation

The project will comply with the guidelines under the “Local Government Ordinance 1983”. The
utility will obtain the necessary clearance from DPHE and the Union Parishad through its “Standing
Committee for Rural Water Supply and Sanitation” prior to the bidding process for being selected as
an implementing agency.
Under this project, MLGRDC is the implementing agency with overall project management support
provided by PMU. The PMU consists of representatives from DPHE and other Government
Departments, and will manage the entire project. The PMU as the nodal agency will decide
allocation of the core responsibility and ensure coordination between private and public utilities for
better environmental management and mitigation of the adverse impacts. The MLGRDC, as the
implementing agency for the project, is responsible for the overall planning and implementation.
This includes:
    •    Policy formulation for the sub-sector
    •    Ensuring stakeholder participation at the Union level
    •    Maintenance of overall project records and data bases




                                                                                                                               35
          •    Ensuring quality control of the material used under the project
          •    Selection of the local level private utilities and contractors
          •    Supervision of the physical work
      Besides DPHE, the Ministry of Environment and Forest (MoEF) will also play a key-monitoring role.
      The MoEF has two major Departments: the Department of Environment (DOE) and the Department
      of Forest. The Department of Environment is a technical agency that looks after environmental
      planning, management, monitoring and enforcement of the environmental protection measures.
      Recently the Department was given extensive powers on controlling air pollution, protecting
      habitats and conservation of soil, water and other natural resources and setting environmental
      standards. Key responsibilities entrusted to the DOE (and relevant in this project) by the GoB
      include (a) water quality monitoring at regional laboratories, (b) capacity building for environmental
      legislation and policy analysis; (c) strategy for pollution control in river water; (d) helping
      establishing wastewater treatment plants for different industries; (e) promotion of public awareness
      on environmental management; and (f) industrial surveys and pollution control.

3.3   Applicability of the IDA Safeguard Policies
      Owing to the small-scale individual interventions, the project will not have significant irreversible or
      long-term environmental impacts. The potential adverse environmental impacts, primarily related to
      the quality of water supplied, or related to small and local environmental degradation are
      manageable.
                                 Table 3.3: Applicability of the IDA Safeguard Policies
                                  Applic




          World Bank                               The Relevant Issues /               The Process by which the Relevant
                                  ability




       Safeguard Policies                              Explanation                        Issues are Considered in the
                                                                                                     Project
      Environmental                Yes      Water source quality protection;           The borrowers have carried out an
      Assessment                            drainage; local construction-related       Environment Assessment. The relevant
      (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                       impacts; arsenic sludge.                   environmental issues and the processes to
                                                                                       manage or mitigate the environmental
                                                                                       have been identified.
      Natural Habitats             No       Small-scale construction; natural          -
      (OP/BP 4.04)                          habitat areas are avoided.
      Pest Management (OP          No       No procurement or expected increase        -
      4.09)                                 in pesticide use.
      Cultural Property (draft     No       Small-scale construction; ample scope      Chance-find procedures are, otherwise,
      OP 4.11 - OPN 11.03)                  of avoiding any impact on physical         included in the EMP.
                                            cultural properties.
      Involuntary                  No       To be built on public land - no land       Documentation of community donations, or
      Resettlement (OP/BP                   acquisition.                               adequate registration of land will be in
      4.12)                                                                            place.
      Indigenous Peoples           Yes      The majority of the tribal population is   A framework addressing specific issues for
      (OD 4.20)                             not affected by arsenic, but may opt for   the tribal population (at the village level)
                                            piped water supply sub-projects.           will be prepared.
      Forests (OP/BP 4.36)         No       Small-scale construction; location         -
                                            within forest areas will be avoided.
      Safety of Dams (OP/BP        No       No dam or dam-like structures will be      -
      4.37)                                 built.
      Projects in Disputed         No       No sub-project will be located in any      -
      Areas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)                 disputed area.
      Projects on                  No       No sub-project will be located on, or      -
      International Waterways               will affect any international waterway.
      (OP/BP/GP 7.50)




                                                                                                                                 36
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01): Given the small scale of project interventions, no
large-scale, significant and/or irreversible environmental impacts are anticipated in this project. The
potential environmental impacts primarily relate to [a] water source quality protection (including
protection against arsenic, bacteriological and other toxic contamination) [b] ensuring adequate
drainage and avoiding local construction-related impacts and [c] disposal of arsenic sludge if and
when arsenic removal plants were to be implemented.
Managing and ensuring the quality of water supplied will be the major challenge in the project.
Although, groundwater in Bangladesh is fresh and characterized by low total dissolved solids
except in the coastal regions and few pockets of inland saline/brackish groundwater, there are
issues over and above arsenic contamination. These include (i) occurrence of high levels of
chloride in the deep wells in the coastal and some saline/brackish water pockets inland, (ii)
occurrence of an excessive amount of dissolved iron, manganese, ammonium, and sodium in many
deep wells, (iii) heavy metals such as barium and boron, and (limited) uranium both in shallow and
deep groundwater, (iv) secondary microbial contamination in some occasions. Surface water in
Bangladesh has poor microbial water quality. The issues include (i) high levels of fecal coliform
and total coliform, (ii) presence of cynobacteria. The GOB has prepared an EA Report, which
identifies the probable environmental issues in the project; describes the overall plan and
framework to address the environmental issues; and the arrangements of implementing and
monitoring to ensure that the environmental issues are mainstreamed in the planning and
implementation of the program.




                                                                                                    37
4       PUBLIC CONSULTATIONS
        In this project, community consultation is an integral part. The planning approach is bottom-up,
        where communities, local level institutions including the Union Parishads are involved in
        identification, planning, design, implementation, operation and maintenance of the project
        interventions. The project design seeks to build partnerships with the private sector, including
        NGOs, and community user groups in financing, operating and maintaining facilities. Specifically for
        the groundwater-monitoring component, the project will partner with the IAEA and with its local
        counterpart, the Bangladesh Atomic Energy Commission (BAEC) and DFID. During preparation of
        the project, substantial consultations were held with various stakeholders. These consultations are
        described in the following sub-sections.

4.1     Consultations during Concept Stage
4.1.1   Public Demand for the Project
        In 2001, the Water and Sanitation Program of the World Bank initiated a study to assess and
        analyze people’s perceptions of the extent of the arsenic problem and possible solutions. It
        examined people’s willingness to pay for arsenic–free safe drinking water options in rural
        Bangladesh, the factors that influence the demand for these options (particularly the demand for
        piped water supply), and the preferences for various household/community-based arsenic
        mitigation technologies.
        The study used a contingent valuation methodology to assess household preferences and
        willingness to pay for arsenic-free drinking water. Various arsenic mitigation technologies, including
        accessing alternate arsenic-free sources, were discussed with the respondents, and their
        preferences and willingness to pay to access these options evaluated. The results were validated
        using the revealed preference approach, where the costs incurred by households that had shifted to
        alternate safe drinking water sources were compared with the stated willingness to pay.
        In the study, households were divided into sample and control areas. The sample area (2,430
        households) covered the rural areas of three arsenic-affected districts – Chapai Nawabganj (a low
        water table area), Barisal (a coastal area), and Chadpur (a high water table area). These areas are
        representative of available water sources, current levels of water consumption, and related aspects
        of convenience in accessing water in Bangladesh. Three hundred households were surveyed in the
        arsenic-free control areas - 150 from Bolarhat thana in Chapai Nawabganj district and 150 from
        Comilla Sadar thana in Comilla district. In addition, 150 households from Banaripara thana in
        Barisal district, an area marked by a large-scale shift to public tube wells were also surveyed.
        Analysis shows that the demand for piped water in the arsenic-affected areas increases with
        income and declines with an increase in the charges for a piped water supply. The results also
        indicate that the higher the awareness and concern for arsenic contamination (measured by an
        arsenic score constructed from nine arsenic related variables), the greater is the inclination to opt
        for piped water supply. Considerations of convenience and benefits to health were found to be
        significant factors influencing household demand for piped water. Education (above class X) also
        increased the demand for a domestic piped water connection. Further, households where the head
        was a farmer or in business or service were relatively more inclined to opt for piped water supply
        than households where the head was an agricultural laborer or engaged in other types of manual
        work. The results for the control (arsenic-free) area were similar to those for the sample area.
        Household income and the cost of the service were important factors influencing the demand for
        piped water.
        In the arsenic-affected sample area, the estimated mean willingness to pay for the initial capital cost
        was Tk. 960 for a stand-post and Tk. 1,787 for a domestic connection. The monthly estimated
        mean willingness to pay towards recurring costs was Tk. 51 and Tk. 87 respectively. Among poor
        households (monthly income less than Tk. 3,600), the estimated mean willingness to pay was Tk.
        1,401 for a domestic connection. The estimated mean willingness to pay towards the monthly


                                                                                                            38
        recurring costs was Tk. 44 per month and Tk. 68 per month, respectively. Non-poor households
        were willing to pay significantly more than poor households.
        A conclusion to emerge from the study is the strong household preference for piped water systems.
        The density of rural settlements in Bangladesh and the growth of rural incomes over the last two
        decades may have made piped network systems more affordable. Piped water systems, with their
        central treatment facility, are more effective than household-level technologies in addressing
        arsenic contamination as the system can be managed and monitored from a central location. On
        the other hand, Bangladesh’s experience with rural cooperatives managed by Rural Electricity
        Board and service deliver through NGOs in areas as diverse as education and micro credit
        suggests that Bangladesh has local organizations that can play the role of such service providers.
        The study findings were the basis to evolve a framework to address the arsenic crisis. People’s
        response directly showed their preferences for piped water supply and more interestingly these
        preferences for piped water supply is driven more by the factor of convenience than the issue of
        arsenic contamination.

4.1.2   Review of Existing Village Piped Water Supply Schemes under Operation
        The World Bank undertook a study to review the existing village piped water supply schemes under
        operation in mid 2003. The Purpose of the study was to collect technical, institutional, economical,
        operation and maintenance and other related information on the exiting schemes. The study
        covered 12 piped water supply schemes implemented by SDC, RDA, BMDA, NGO Forum with the
        local partners. One scheme with dug-well and rainwater harvesting as water source (only for
        drinking and cooking purposes), 2 schemes with deep tubewell as water source (for domestic
        purposes), 2 schemes with deep tubewell with treatment as water source (for domestic purposes),
        and 7 schemes with deep tubewell as water source (for multipurpose use) were studied.
        The community, CBO/water users body, local NGO, local government bodies, local DPHE officials,
        implementing agencies were consulted in detail to identify the key issues related to community
        mobilization, schemes design, procurement and construction, operation and maintenance,
        expansion of schemes, tariff, billing, flow and management of fund, assets and ownerships,
        agreement and contracts, role of LGI and government agencies etc. An in-depth report was
        prepared.

4.2     Stakeholder Consultation During Project Preparation
4.2.1   Consultation with Government Agencies
        There were several consultation meetings with the officials of the Ministry of Local Government,
        Rural Development and Cooperatives (MLGRD&C), the Department of Public Health Engineering
        (DPHE), the BAMWSP Project Management Unit (PMU). A Core Group was formed with the
        involvement of MLGRD&C, Planning Commission, DPHE, BAMWSP, RDA, REB and the World
        Bank. The project components and concept were reconfirmed and the Core Group was given
        responsibilities to provide oversight of project preparation and to make available information and
        data and time of some of their institutional staff. Action steps and dates were agreed to move
        forward with the project preparation.
        Several consultation meetings were held with the RDA and REB for their involvement in the project.
        Discussions were held with the Rural Development Academy on its comparative advantage in
        accelerating project preparation. It was agreed with the RDA to identify feasible irrigation wells sited
        close enough to the high-density village habitations to also be extended for domestic water supply.
        BWSPP would benefit from both the availability of such wells (which would permit time saving for
        installation and to bring down construction costs) as well as from RDA’s experience in working with
        these communities. It was agreed that RDA would undertake pre-feasibility studies, including
        community motivation and aggregation of users’ preference/choice of service levels, for at least 20
        potential piped water supply schemes to be implemented for fast-track implementation under
        BWSPP. For this purpose, RDA would provide a long-list of potential communities interested in



                                                                                                             39
        such schemes (with functioning irrigation wells). Out of the long-list about twenty communities
        would be chosen for the pre-feasibility studies, based on a careful assessment of technological
        options.

4.2.2   Consultation with Civil Society
        Civil society consultations were held at levels including the lawyers, professional experts, NGO
        leaders to get their views about the water supply sector and as well as the required intervention to
        improve the sustainability of the water supply sector.

4.2.3   Consultation with Development Partners
        Discussions were held with DANIDA, DFID, UNICEF and IAEA about the sector approach and
        current water supply situation. A separate meeting was held with 4 potential contractors (private
        sector) who has experience on construction of similar projects.

4.2.4   Workshop with Potential Sponsors
        Before the inception of the project, BWSPP will get benefit from the initial findings and experience
        of the piloting through BAMWSP. Two workshops were conducted with some of the prospective
        sponsors to explain the proposed approach and receive comments and suggestions.
        Representatives from 17 sponsors (13 NGOs and 4 Private Sectors sponsors) attended the last
        workshop held on 16 February 2004 and there was a general agreement with the proposed
        approach of the project, including the ways safe water would be supplied.

4.2.5   Consultation with Local Government Bodies
        A meeting with Chairmen and Engineers from 17 Pourashava was held on 19 February 2004 to
        present and discuss the Pourashava Water Supply Component and to receive feedback on its
        design. Besides the meeting, consultations were held with the Pourashava Chairman, Engineer and
        other Officials at Manikganj and Chapai Nawabganj Pourashava. Elaborate discussion was held
        with the Chapai Nawabganj Pourashava Authority about the rehabilitation and expansion of the
        present water supply schemes involving private sector in operation and maintenance. The
        experience of the Chapai Nawabganj under BAMWSP would be used in the Component 2 of the
        project (Pourashava Piped Water Supply).

4.2.6   Workshop With RDA Sponsors
        RDA organized a workshop with a group of potential NGO sponsors interested in the multi-purpose
        scheme. It was emphasized that an important element of success in similar existing schemes was
        the provision of credit for small agricultural commercial activities. It was agreed to explore options to
        partner with other institutions for parallel provision of seed funds. The workshop was also
        participated by users group, union parishad chairman, and local upzilla administrator.

4.3     Plan for continued Consultation
        The EA Report is being disclosed. An executive summary of the EA, including a Bangla translation
        of it, has been disclosed by 17 March 2004. There were advertisements in the national newspapers
        on 17 March 2004 (including vernacular newspapers) informing the public that such disclosure has
        taken place, and the interested persons may send their comments to the Project Authorities. These
        comments will be incorporated in the EA and the project, overall.
        The project will continue consultation with all the relevant stakeholders during (a) selection of sub-
        projects, and (b) implementation of the sub-projects. Each target community will be specifically
        consulted, on all relevant environmental issues, including quality of water, health and hygiene, and
        waste disposal. The communities will be involved in overall project monitoring, and specifically
        consulted during the environmental audits planned.




                                                                                                              40
5       PLAN FOR MANAGING ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS
        The project deals with several types of risks: capacity building risks of different institutions likely to
        be involved in the project, enforcement and contractual risks for private sector participation, tariff
        rationalization risks, policy reform risks, environmental risks and risk of coordination among the
        different stakeholders for a better operational strategy. However, this section deals with only
        environmental risks and the adverse impacts that the project is likely to have due to its execution.
        The report also suggests various mitigation strategies and a monitoring plan.
        Based on the risks and impacts predicted, mitigation measures are discussed in this section and an
        Environmental Management Plan (EMP) is recommended. The EMP also identifies the role of
        various agencies in implementation of these measures.
        No major environmental impacts are anticipated due this project. The critical issue will be to ensure
        adequate safety and precautionary measures to minimise impacts during the construction and
        operation phase. However it is to be noted that the project proposal is only in the preliminary stage
        of planning and specific impacts due to priority investments in the project areas need to be
        analysed only after finalisation of associated components.
        Based on the available information, different options have been identified for tapping safe drinking
        water. These include uncontaminated shallow and deep aquifers, treated dug/ring wells, piped
        water supply schemes from treated surface water sources, rainwater harvesting, pond-sand filter,
        arsenic removal units attached to the contaminated tubewells and domestic filter at the household
        level.

5.1     Adverse Impact and Mitigation related to Project Location
        The project has made a conscious attempt to exclude three areas; Sunderban, Chittagong hills, and
        big cities. At the same time the project is yet to identify specific areas for implementation. This may
        include flood plains, coastal area, small towns and any other hinterlands in Bangladesh. While the
        coastal region will have saline intrusion in groundwater as a key environmental concern, water
        supply project location in flood plain would require complex environmental management strategy.
        According to available information, one-third of the Bangladesh gets submerged during regular
        floods and two-thirds of the area tends to get submerged during severe floods. Under such a
        scenario, the location of the project is not only driven by the availability of freshwater sources
        (ground or surface) but also by the mean height and frequency of floodwater. Thus, making the
        water supply project more vulnerable towards bacteriological contamination.

5.1.1   Impact on Ecological Environment
        The role of water for local ecosystem is extremely important – the native plants and animals have
        adapted to the annual variation of hydrological cycle. However, anthropogenic interventions can
        seriously offset the natural equilibrium in most villages. The most obvious way by which this water-
        ecology link is broken is through construction of flood control measures such as embankments,
        check dams and flood gates. Although the specific project locations are yet to be finalized under the
        project, it is clear in the project document that it will not include any such structure that will change
        the local hydrological cycle and subsequently have long-term environmental impact on the natural
        habitat. A detailed site-specific environmental study will be undertaken in all the water supply
        schemes under the project.

5.1.2   Impact on Groundwater
        With a population growth of roughly 2% per year, it is obvious that the groundwater is being
        indiscriminately used without adequate consideration to the process of replenishment. This has led
        to certain general risks and some specific risks. The general risks include: Arsenic in groundwater,
        Salinity in coastal and the southeast and the southwest regions, Iron in the central part of the




                                                                                                               41
        country, Manganese Boron in western, central and northern regions. However, there are several
        specific problems stated below.
        Inadequate disposal of waste from the groundwater treatment plant particularly arsenic sludge may
        cause health risk. The project will take adequate measure for sludge disposal as per the protocol
        defined below – ensuring that leaching of arsenic sludge does not take place.
        Aquifer thickness is another risk that needs to be studied carefully. The earlier concept of an ideal
        location for a deep tubewell with respect to the community convenience was considered a priority
        by the public water utilities. Indiscriminate drilling without understanding the local aquifer dynamics
        will be a serious risk under this project. Adequate assessment will be undertaken to understand the
        aquifer thickness, hydraulic gradient and its recharge capacity prior to the installation of deep
        tubewell.
        Thickness of clay barriers between the aquifers plays an important role in the risk factor for any
        water supply project (be it in rural or urban area). This not only serves as a protective layer against
        contamination by different effluents but also restricts possible bacteriological contamination through
        leaching. The project will ensure to tap those deep aquifers that have a thick clay layer above,
        separating it from the mid aquifer, which are contaminated with arsenic in many parts of
        Bangladesh. The project will also incorporate the lessons learned in the BAMWSP implementation
        process.

5.1.3   Impact on Surface Water
        Low water flow in river may cause additional risk if water treatment cannot handle adequate
        variation in water quality of the source. Bacteriological surveillance needs to be regular and any
        irregularities will result in health risks. Inadequate management of sludge and chemical in water
        treatment facilities may cause health risks. The PMU will ensure that the institutional arrangements
        for waste disposal are finalized before proceeding with the operational arrangements. The project is
        likely to undertake 700 small piped water supply schemes. The PMU in consultation with local
        Government representatives will ensure that each scheme is provided adequate space for waste
        disposal.
        Risks with respect to the concentration of industries need to be assessed and mapped. Major
        industrial sources of surface water pollution in Bangladesh includes; non-ferrous metal, industrial
        chemical production, tanneries, refineries and pharmaceuticals companies. Besides industrial
        waste, lack of environmental sanitation also pollutes surface water sources. This results in high
        levels of nitrate in surface water, eutrophication with serious implication for water-borne diseases.

5.1.4   Impact due to Displacement
        The issue of involuntary relocation and displacement has been studied separately. Refer the R&R
        studies for the project.

5.2     Adverse Impacts and Mitigation related to Project Construction
        The project includes three types of water supply components: (i) Small piped water supply schemes
        for rural areas covering 450 villages, (ii) three to four piped water supply schemes for small towns,
        (iii) non-piped water supply schemes for villages that are already arsenic affected and where piped
        water supply schemes are not feasible. Given the small size of the operation, the project may not
        have serious adverse environmental impacts during the construction. However, the project has
        taken adequate precautionary measures anticipating the following risks.

5.2.1   Impact on Natural Drainage
        It is clear that development of road network, railway lines and irrigation canals are some of the
        major factors for blocking the natural drainage system. The road culverts made for dispersing
        excess rainwater from the depression to the nearest river need to be re-examined in terms of
        carrying capacity and also the silt deposit along the depression. In addition to the poor natural



                                                                                                            42
        drainage already evident, the construction work of the project may cause further congestion.
        However, the project does not intend to create any check dam or big reservoir, therefore, the risk
        will be minimal. The construction work for both installation and distribution network of piped water
        supply system will include carrying concrete materials and dumped in the project area until the
        construction phase is over. This may create temporary water logging risk. The risk will be moderate
        if the construction work continues during the rainy season.

5.2.2   Disruption of Traffic and Temporary Damage to Roads
        The project site may experience little traffic congestion as the machineries and construction
        materials will be parked around the water supply installation sites. This may cause some traffic
        congestion in a small town. However in the rural areas, the impact will be minimal. The project has
        already been assured by the GoB for adequate storage facilities at the individual sites.

5.2.3   Noise pollution during construction
        Primary source of noise levels during construction phase are construction machinery and vehicle
        noise due to material movement to the project site. The overall noise level in this project should be
        insignificant. Despite the minimal noise pollution during project construction, the projects will ensure
        various precautionary measures.
            •   Construction contract should clearly specify use of equipment emitting noise not greater than 90dB(A)
                for the eight hour operation shift.
            •   Noise measurements should be conducted during construction to assess prevailing levels.
            •   Earplugs should be provided to those working very close to noise generating machinery.
            •   Use of demolition machinery such as pneumatic hammers, cutters etc., should be strictly avoided at
                night.

5.3     Adverse Impact and Mitigation related to Project Operation
        The project is likely to encounter few negative impacts during its operation that deals with operation
        and maintenance, environmental sanitation, lack of proper drainage around public stand post or
        water distribution points.

5.3.1   Water Logging around the Common Stand Post
        Wherever piped water supply is available, obviously people are keen to avail the facility to the
        fullest extent. Depending upon the withdrawal capacity and the demand, each public stand post
        need to have a concrete platform at the distribution point. The size of the platform is dependent
        upon the usage. Experience from many pilot projects suggest that 10%-15% (even as high as
        30%) of the water collected will be wasted due to mismanagement. The wastewater (including
        domestic waste from bathing and washing) is generally drained to the surrounding drains. Most
        rural and peri-urban areas often do not have adequate drainage facility for wastewater. As a result it
        gets stagnated around the concrete platform. Apart from bacteriological problem, such stagnated
        water is likely to support aquatic vegetation and algae. Depending upon the size of water logging
        weed infection may come up as a risk. Under extreme cases, these weeds may adversely affect the
        surrounding agriculture crop growth. These weeds and algae also create favorable environment for
        pest and vectors of several epidemiological diseases.

5.3.2   Environmental Sanitation
        The health and sanitation condition of the population in the project areas (rural and small town) is
        expected to improve, after improvement of the water supply system. Improvements of water supply
        levels are expected to increase wastewater generation rates in the town. The absence of efficient
        sewage treatment plant in the project towns is a matter of concern. Hence increased sewage
        quantities if not disposed safely, will pollute surface and ground water resources of the project
        cities. The same needs to be mitigated through adequate sewerage and treatment facilities. The



                                                                                                                  43
        proposed project has incorporated a strong component on advocacy to promote better hygiene and
        environmental sanitation practices in the project area.

5.3.3   Water Contamination through Seepage in Tube Well
        Bangladesh faces an increasingly urgent situation; its groundwater is depleting at a faster rate with
        the growing demand from different sectors. In the absence of a conjunctive water use strategy and
        adequate policy interventions, groundwater seems to be a free option for exploitation. Large
        amount of water is required for various day-to-day activities like human consumption, agriculture
        and industrial purposes.
        Different specifications for water quality have been laid down by national and international agencies
        to meet the different requirements. The big question asked by most sector partners “Who will
        enforce these environmental standards?” and “Who will undertake regular bacteriological and other
        toxic water testing”. The surface and underground water is being contaminated with various toxic
        elements by the untreated discharge of industrial effluent and sewage water contaminating the
        aquifers supply water under this project. In response to these queries, the project has initiated a
        consultative process with the Ministry of Environment that will soon finalize an institutional
        arrangement for regular water quality surveillance.
        Apart from regular monitoring, the project will develop a protocol for water-sample testing within the
        first three months of project execution. Different protocols for water sample testing will be
        developed in accordance with local hydrological constraints. The project will also develop a protocol
        for arsenic sludge disposal (stated in 4.3.7).

5.3.4   Environmental Health Impacts due to Arsenic Contamination
        In early 90s, detection of first cases of arsenecosis in some areas of the country led the
        researchers to quickly verify that many aquifers in Bangladesh are contaminated with arsenic.
        Since then, many efforts are made to increase the knowledge base regarding its occurrence and
        health impacts. According to the recent Government estimate, about 30 million people are exposed
        to arsenic contaminated water exceeding 50 ppb (Bangladesh standard/permissible limit) and more
        than 49 million are exposed to arsenic contaminated water exceeding 10 ppb (WHO permissible
        limit).
        The project will only access the deep (older) aquifers for water supply, which are arsenic free.
        However, there is no mathematical model available at present that can predict about these aquifers
        remaining arsenic free in the future. Therefore, the project intends to assess the health implications
        due to arsenic consumption through drinking water and develop a network with local health
        agencies for regular health surveillance in the project area.
        The health effects from exposure to inorganic arsenic through drinking water vary with the
        conditions of exposure, such as the duration and dose of exposure. The health effects can be
        categorized as acute (short-term) or chronic (long-term). In case of acute health effects, arsenic can
        be critical at high concentrations. Ingestion of ~60 ppm arsenic in water or food can be fatal. Lower
        levels of exposure can lead to nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, abnormal heart rhythm, blood vessel
        damage and a "tingling" sensation in hands and feet.
        Long-term exposure to low levels may or may not be harmful yet, may as well be painful and life-
        threatening after prolonged exposures. However, prolonged exposure to higher levels (at least
        greater than 50-150 ppb) may cause skin pigmentation, keratoses and skin cancers. Other cancers,
        such as lung and bladder cancers, have been observed among people who drank from arsenic
        contaminated wells in Bangladesh, Taiwan and in India.
        The project will develop a comprehensive strategy (through research/study) for all utilities involved,
        which will help them in understanding the leaching characteristics of arsenic rich sludge under
        different conditions and possible contamination from arsenic rich effluent produced by arsenic
        removal technologies. As part of the mitigation strategy the project proposes two types of
        interventions: (a) arsenic removal technologies and their environmental implications, and (b)
        protocols for sludge disposal.


                                                                                                           44
5.3.5   Arsenic Mitigation with respect to Tube Well Installation
        In many areas, groundwater with low arsenic concentration exists in shallow aquifers composed of
        fine sand at shallow depth. This may be due to accumulation of rainwater in the topmost aquifers or
        by dilution of arsenic contaminated groundwater by freshwater recharging process every year. To
        get water through these very fine-grained aquifers, artificial sand packing is required around the
        screen of the tubewell. This packing will increase the tubewell yield and prevent entry of fine sand
        into the screen.
        The project in consultation with DPHE will evolve local specific installation norms that need to be
        followed by the agencies/vendors involved in installation of tubewells. The project will have
        adequate provision to mobilize users for ensuring such quality control measure during the
        installation process.
        The deep aquifers in Bangladesh are considered safe and found to be relatively free from arsenic.
        Impermeable strata separate the deeper aquifers in Bangladesh. The project in consultation with
        DPHE and Ministry of Environment, will undertake feasibility studies in target areas to assess the
        length and the spread of the impermeable strata between the second and third aquifers. The
        feasibility study will be completed before handing over the project to private utilities. The feasibility
        study will also assess the risk of vertical leaching of arsenic through the deep tubewell. Special
        protocol will be developed for preventing vertical leaching.
        The third component of the project intervention will address the drinking water crises in small
        arsenic affected villages, each having less than 200 households. Under this intervention, the project
        will explore various locally accepted arsenic free water harvesting technologies; dugwells and pond-
        sand filter. These water units will require environmental guidelines for source protection, managing
        bacteriological contamination and restricting pesticides and fertilizer residues entering into the
        ponds and dug-wells as run off.
        Rainwater harvesting could be another possibility considered for small villages, which can not be
        covered under the piped water supply schemes. In Bangladesh, rainwater harvesting for drinking
        purposes is practiced on a limited scale. The quality of rainwater is relatively good but it is not free
        from all impurities. Bacteriological contamination is a common problem associated with it.
        Cleanliness of the roof and storage tank is critical in maintaining good quality of rainwater.

5.3.6   Arsenic Removal Technologies
        Removal of Arsenic from contaminated groundwater to the level less than the current Bangladesh
        Standard of 50ppb is achievable using proven technologies. A whole range of treatment options is
        available such as coagulation-filtration process, sorption processes (activated alumina, ion
        exchange, iron-oxide-coated sands and other sorptive media) and membrane processes (reverse
        osmosis and nano-filtration). Pre-oxidation of arsenite to arsenate ( As 3 + → As 5 + ) has been
        found to be helpful in most of the processes. Table 5.1 outlines some of the arsenic removal
        technologies and their impacts.

5.3.7   Protocol for Disposal of Wastes from Arsenic Removal Technologies
        As Arsenic is removed from water by the filtration devices, it is accumulated in the sludge, filter
        media and liquid wastes. When filter media are exhausted, these must be safely disposed off.
        Waste generation by Arsenic removal filters is an important issue for public health. This aspect,
        therefore, needs careful consideration. The present protocol mainly addresses this issue by
        providing guidelines and best practices for achieving disposal of arsenic rich wastes.
        The project will develop specific protocol for arsenic sludge disposal and other waste treatment
        likely to be generated while removing arsenic from groundwater. The protocol will include the
        following steps:
            •   The protocol will be developed in compliance with GoB (Notification: July 20, 2002). This protocol
                applies to household/community size Arsenic Removal Technologies for groundwater treatment,




                                                                                                               45
          approved by the ETV-AM (Environmental Technology Verification Process and Arsenic Mitigation
          established by GOB) process of the GoB for use in Bangladesh.
      •   This protocol establishes general requirements, pollutant limits, management practices, and
          operational standards, for the final disposal of wastes generated by household/community size
          arsenic removal units used to reduce arsenic concentration in groundwater to acceptable levels for
          drinking and cooking purposes.
      •   This protocol is intended to reduce arsenic load on the receiving media (land, water, landfills etc) to
          assimilation levels.
In addition, this protocol includes monitoring requirements when the waste is applied to the land or
placed on a surface disposal site.


            Table 5.1: Arsenic Removal Technologies and Environmental Implications
  Technologies                   Environmental Advantages            Long-Term Environmental Implications
  • Oxidation/Precipitation      • Relatively simple, low cost but   • Often does not remove 100% arsenic.
  • Air Oxidation                  slow removal process.             • Requires careful handling to prevent from
  • - Chemical oxidation         • Oxidizes other impurities and       bacteriological contamination.
                                   kills microbes.                   • Avoid human contact while using chemicals
  • Coagulation/ Co-             • Relatively low capital cost       • Produces toxic sludge and requires proper
    precipitation                • Common chemical used                storage and careful handling.
  • Alum Coagulation             • Pre-oxidation may be required     • Sludge deposal in long run is a major concern.
  • Iron coagulation                                                   Low removal of As(III)
  •   Sorption Technique         • High capital cost.                • Removes 100% As(III)
  •   Activated Alumina          • Media needs to be prepared        • Produces toxic solid waste, can’t be disposed
  •   Iron coated sand             by the specialist – can’t be        easily.
                                   prepared by the villagers with    • Replacement and regeneration required.
  •   Iron Exchange Resin.
                                   training
  •   Other Sorbents                                                 • High technical operation and maintenance
                                 • Well defined technique
                                                                     • Requires high capital cost.
                                 • Requires professional support
                                                                     • Alumina residue may leach and cause serious
                                   for monitoring.
                                                                       environmental concern
  •   Membrane Technique         • Well defined with high            • Very high capital cost and also running cost.
  •   Nanofiltration               removal efficiency.               • High technical operation and maintenance.
  •   Reverse Osmosis            • Capable of removing all other     • Releases toxic waste water and requires
                                   chemical contamination along        treatment before disposing
  •   Electrodialysis
                                   with arsenic.



Disposal of Sludge and Spent Filter Media
Sludge/spent filter media having arsenic content less than 20mg/kg and characterized as non-
hazardous by TCLP and/or anaerobic leaching test can be disposed off on land, into water or in
landfills. Sludge/spent filter media having arsenic content 20 to less than 50 mg/kg and
characterized as non-hazardous shall be crushed into small pieces and dispersed over @ 1 kg/10
m2 of land surface.
Sludge/spent filter media having arsenic 50 to less than 200 mg/kg and characterized as non-
hazardous shall be solidified with a mixture of cement and wastes in the ratio 1:3 and disposed off
on land or in landfills. Sludge/spent filter media having arsenic more that 200 mg/kg and
characterized as non-hazardous can be stored in impermeable corrosion resistant strong closed
container and buried in ground at a depth beyond the reach of normal human activity but not less
than 1m.
Technologies producing sludge/spent filter media characterized as hazardous by TCLP test shall
not be recommended by ETV-AM programme for use in Bangladesh.




                                                                                                                        46
      Disposal of Liquid Wastes
      Regeneration of saturated media and management of liquid waste shall be the responsibility of the
      proponent of technology and supply of active (Fresh or regenerated) media and take away of the
      saturated media shall be covered under a purchase contract of the utilities.
      Conditions for Implementing the Protocol
      The implementation of this protocol for disposal of wastes, both solid and liquid, from arsenic
      removal technologies should be followed according to the Environmental Conservation Act, 1995
      and Environmental Conservation Rules, 1997, for disposal of waste and waste water on surface
      water and land, and the limits set therein.
      Any surface water disposal of waste should not alter the basic water quality significantly, required
      for a designated use, for example, bathing, aqua culture development and others. Land disposal of
      wastes should not alter the soil quality significantly required for existing agricultural practices.
      This protocol for waste disposal would satisfy the above requirements including the regulatory
      provisions of GoB. This protocol is prepared on the basis of best knowledge so far available in the
      area of waste management practices for arsenic removal technologies.
      This protocol would require periodic review, updating and modification on the basis of the situation
      that may develop following its implementation.

5.4   MONITORING PLAN
      Given the complex water quality problem, no mathematical model can correctly predict the possible
      or probable time of contamination of the deep tubewells and surface water sources. In this situation,
      monitoring is the only way to know whether the supplied water is contaminated or not (from both
      point of views: bacteriological and chemical).
      In light of this, a specific monitoring and evaluation component has been designed for the project
      that will systematically monitor the environmental impacts and learn from project interventions.
      Besides, the project has established a partnership with International Atomic Energy Association
      through their local counterpart in Bangladesh – Bangladesh Atomic Energy Commission (BAEC) for
      a comprehensive groundwater monitoring.
      As part of the long term monitoring plan, the project will support the development of a
      comprehensive environmental checklist (see Annex-II) that will be regularly updated.
      Other factors that need to be regularly monitored includes the piezometric level recession needs to
      be monitored with proper drilling station either thana wise or different agro-ecological zone wise.
      A suitable agency will be designated by GOB as soon as possible for monitoring and record-
      keeping of arsenic levels in exposed soil, soil run-off and neighboring water bodies, with
      appropriate frequency as may be deemed necessary on specific area wise. The monitoring
      frequency usually may vary from five to seven years.
      All wastes shall be analyzed for arsenic content adopting standard procedure for extraction and
      determination of total arsenic concentration.
      The spent filter media and sludge shall be subjected to TCLP test and/or anaerobic leaching test to
      assess the toxicity characteristics of the wastes.
      The local Government at the Union Parishad/Upazila Parishad levels will be provided with
      technological and resource support for regular monitoring of the quality and quantity of water
      supplied in their respective areas.
      Finally, the environmental monitoring and evaluation system of the Ministry of Environment as well
      as DPHE will ensure constant learning from the ground realities. The protocols and the
      recommendations made in this report are provisional and should be updated from time to time on
      the basis of monitoring.




                                                                                                        47
48
6   REFERENCES
    ADB (2003): Arsenic Mitigation Review and Strategy Formulation- Current Status and Trends in
    Water Quality, Health, Social Impacts and Government’s Policy and Institutional Frameworks. Draft
    Report (Unpublished).

    Ahmad, J. et. al. (2003): Fighting Arsenic: Listening to Rural Communities- Willingness to Pay for
    Arsenic-Free, Safe Drinking Water in Bangladesh. Water and Sanitation Program, The World Bank.
    Ahmed, M. F. (2001): Water Supply. People’s Report on Bangladesh Environment 2001; Volume I
    Main Report pp 109-118. Unnayan Shamannay & The University Press Limited.
    Bhuiya. M. T. H. (2003): Review of Existing Village Piped Water Supply Schemes under Operation.
    Draft Final Report (unpublished), The World Bank.
    Chowdhury, R. K., et. al. (1999): Pocket Book- Environmental Laws in Bangladesh, Environment
    and Development Alliance, Dhaka.
    DPHE (2000): Data Book 1999 (61 Districts), Urban Water Supply System. Dhaka.
    GoB (2003): Bangladesh Country Paper on Sanitation; South Asian Conference on Sanitation. 21-
    23 October, Dhaka, Bangladesh.
    Huq. M. E. (…): A compilation of Environmental Laws Administrated by the Department of
    Environment. http://www.doe-bd.org/publications_en.html
    Ijjasz-Vasquez, E. J. (2004a): Microsoft PowerPoint Presentation at Workshop with Potential
    Sponsors on Rural Piped Water Supply Component.
    Ijjasz-Vasquez, E. J. (2004a): Microsoft PowerPoint Presentation at Consultation Meeting with
    Pourashava Chairman/Engineers on Pourashava Piped Water Supply Component.
    Khan, M. H. (2001): Bangladesh Environment- The Natural Setting. People’s Report on Bangladesh
    Environment 2001; Volume I Main Report pp 13-23. Unnayan Shamannay & The University Press
    Limited.
    Unicef (2000): Progotir Pathey 2000- Achieving the Goals for Children in Bangladesh.
    World Bank (2003a): Aide Memoire- Bangladesh Arsenic Mitigation Water Supply Project,
    Supervision Mission, April 21- May 13, 2003.
    World Bank (2003b): Aide Memoire- Bangladesh Arsenic Mitigation Water Supply Project,
    Supervision Mission, December 2 to 21, 2003.
    World Bank (2003c): Aide Memoire- Bangladesh Water Supply Program Project, Preparation
    Mission, December 2 to 21, 2003.
    World Bank (2004a): Aide Memoire- Bangladesh Arsenic Mitigation Water Supply Project,
    Supervision Mission, February 7 to 18, 2004.
    World Bank (2004b): Aide Memoire- Bangladesh Water Supply Program Project, Pre-appraisal
    Mission, February 7 to 18, 2004.




                                                                                                    49
                                                                                                  Annex I


Policy and Legal Requirements of GOB
Bangladesh has no national level legislation, rules or regulations that exclusively govern water
supply and sanitation services. However, at the national level, legislation on local government
institutions, government agencies and other sectors have provisions that influence water supply
and sanitation. The different policies and acts of Government of Bangladesh related with the
exploitation of water sources and supply of drinking water are discussed in the chapter.

Environment Policy 1992
The Environment Policy seeks to associate as closely as possible with all international
environmental initiatives and agreement whilst also maintaining the ecological balance in the
country, protecting the country against natural disasters, regulating polluting industries and
ensuring sustainable use of the country’s natural resources.
The Policy components are numerous and specific, relating to agriculture; industry; health and
sanitation; energy and fuel; water development, flood control and irrigation; land; forest, wildlife and
biodiversity; fisheries and livestock; food; coastal and marine environment; transport and
communication; housing and urbanization; and population.
The key elements of the policy are:
    •   Maintenance if ecological balance and overall progress and development of the country through
        protection and improvement of the environment.
    •   Protection of the country against natural disasters.
    •   Identification and regulation of all types of activities, which pollute and degrade the environment.
    •   Ensuring sustainable use of all natural resources.
    •   Active association with all environment related international initiatives.
The sections that are relevant to water supply are:
    •   Water development, flood control and irrigation: (Paragraph 3.5.6) Ensure sustainable, long-term,
        environmentally sound and scientific exploitation and management of the underground and surface
        water sources.
Environmental Action Plan 1992
The Action Plan is a list of activities with implementing agencies identified. The most pertinent
activity is:
    •   3.1 Supply of clean water in rural and urban areas will be ensured (implemented by LGD, DPHE and
        Municipal Administration)
Environmental Conservation Act 1995
The main objectives of this act are:
    •   Conservation and improvement of environment and
    •   Control and mitigation of pollution of environment.
The Powers and Functions of the Director General of the Department of Environment is given
authority through this act to “conduct drinking water quality surveillance program and submit report
and advise, or, in appropriate case direct, every person to follow the standard of drinking water”.
With this authority, power is given to “…take, for the purpose of analysis, samples of air, water, soil,
or substance from any factory, premises or place …”.


                                                                                                               50
Environmental Conservation Rules 1997
These are the first set of rules, promulgated under the Environment Conservation Act 1995. Among
other things, these rules set:
    •   The National Environmental Quality Standards for ambient air, various types of water, industrial
        effluent, emission, noise, vehicular exhaust etc.,
    •   Requirement for and procedures to obtain environment clearance.
    •   Requirement for IEE/EIA according to categories of industrial and other development interventions.
The Act divides the industrial units and projects for purpose of issuance Environmental Clearance
Certificate, “the industrial units and project shall, in consideration of their site and impact on the
environment, be classified into following four categories:
    •   Green;
    •   Orange – A;
    •   Orange – B;
    •   Red.”
The followings are related with the component 1 and 2 of the Bangladesh Water Supply Program
Project, which falls under the category Red.
    •   Engineering works: capital above 10 (ten) hundred thousand Taka.
    •   Water treatment plant.
    •   Water, power and gas distribution line laying/relaying/extension.
    •   Sewerage pipeline laying/relaying/extension.
According to the rules, any project/development intervention, is to obtain environmental clearance
in two steps – first to obtain site/location clearance (based on application along with necessary
papers as per requirement against respective categories, including the Initial Environmental
Examination (IEE) which will contain the scope of work of the proposed EIA and then to obtain
Environmental Clearance (by submitting the application along with necessary papers and after
getting approval on the Environmental Impact Assessment Report, which is to obtained in
between). The Department of Environment (DOE) may take up to sixty days to issue the site
clearance (from the date of receiving the application), sixty days to approve the EIA and thirty more
days to issue the Environmental Clearance.
More specifically the following are the list of documents, which shall be attached with an application
for getting Environmental Clearance Certificate of a Category Red industrial unit or project.
        (i) Report on the feasibility of the industrial unit or project (applicable only for proposed
            industrial unit or project);
        (ii) Report on the Initial Environmental Examination (IEE) relating to the industrial unit or
             project, and also the terms of reference for the Environmental Impact Assessment of
             the unit or the project and its Process Flow Diagram;
        or
             Environmental Impact Assessment report prepared on the basis of terms of reference
             previously approved by the Department of Environment, along with the Layout Plan
             (showing location of Effluent Treatment Plant), Process Flow Diagram, design and time
             schedule of the Effluent Treatment Plant of the unit or project, (these are applicable
             only for a proposed industrial unit or project);
        (iii) Report on the Environmental Management Plan (EMP) for the industrial unit or project,
              and also the Process Flow Diagram, Layout Plan (showing location of Effluent
              Treatment Plant), design and information about the effectiveness of the Effluent



                                                                                                             51
            Treatment Plan of the unit or project (these are applicable only for an existing industrial
            unit or project);
        (iv) No objection certificate of the local authority;
        (v) Emergency plan relating adverse environmental impact and plan for mitigation of the
            effect of pollution;
        (vi) Outline of relocation, rehabilitation plan (where applicable);
        (vii) Other necessary information (where applicable).

Groundwater Management Ordinance 1985
Amongst the laws regulating environment in Bangladesh is a Groundwater Ordinance, passed in
1985 to manage the groundwater resources for agricultural production. This Ordinance states that:
    •   “No tubewell shall be installed in any place without a license granted by the Thana [Upazila]
        Parished”.
    •   This is relevant and potentially important because although the Ordinance states that it relates to
        agricultural production the definition of tubewell is interesting:
    •   “”tubewell” means a deep tubewell, shallow tubewell, suction lift handpumped well or deep set
        handpumped well used for irrigation or water supply.”

National Policy for Safe Water Supply and Sanitation 1998
The goal of this policy is to “…ensure that all people have access to safe water and sanitation
services at an affordable cost.” The document acknowledges the role that the private sector and
NGOs have played in innovative approaches to service delivery and awareness raising. There is
also recognition that provision of physical services alone is not a sufficient pre-condition for
sustainability or for improved health and well-being of the people of Bangladesh. The main relevant
objectives are:
    •   Bring about behavioral changes in relation to water and sanitation and reduce the incidence of water
        borne diseases;
    •   Build capacity at local level to deal more effectively with water & sanitation;
    •   Ensure proper storage, management and use of surface water and preventing its contamination.
Strategy
The main strategy components of the policy are based on the following relevant general principles:
    •   Sector development to take place under a sector development framework;
    •   Development of water supply and sanitation should be through local bodies, public-private sector,
        NGOs, CBOs and women groups and there should be capacity building at the local/community level
        to deal with water and sanitation problems;
    •   The price of water should reflect its economic value but that there should be a safety net for the
        hardcore poor. Local Government institutions/ Pourashavas should bear an increasing share of the
        capital costs of development;
    •   Adoption of water supply and sanitation technology options appropriate to specific regions, geological
        situations and social groups;
    •   Credit facilities should be provided to the poor to bear the costs of water supply and sanitation;
    •   Wherever feasible, safe water from surface water sources should be given precedence over other
        sources;
    •   There should be routine water quality surveillance (through DPHE, the National Institute for
        Preventative and Social Medicine (NIPSOM), Atomic Energy Commission and the Department for the
        Environment).



                                                                                                             52
Rural Water Supply
The key policy elements are broken down into different sections for rural water supply, rural
sanitation, urban water supply and urban sanitation. For rural water supply, the key elements are:
    •   Communities shall be the focus for all water supply activities;
    •   The private sector and NGOs are welcome under the overall leadership of DPHE;
    •   Local government bodies will have a direct role in planning, implementation and maintenance;
    •   Services will be provided on demand and with cost sharing: 50% for hand tubewells in shallow water
        table areas, 25% for hand tubewells in lower water table areas and 20% for deep hand tubewells and
        other technologies for difficult areas;
    •   The rural water supply program shall support a range of technology options;
    •   Emphasis will be given to publicity campaigns and social mobilization through training of volunteers at
        village level;
    •   In each and every village at least one pond will be excavated/re-excavated and preserved for drinking
        water.
Urban Water Supply
The key components of the urban water supply policy are somewhat different from those for rural
areas:
    •   Water to be supplied at cost except for education and religious institutions, with the tariff to be based
        on cost of water production, O&M, administration and depreciation;
    •   In non-WASA urban areas the Pourashavas will be responsible for the service, with the support of
        DPHE, and will be empowered to set tariffs and by-laws and appoint staff;
    •   Targets are set for Pourashavas with 80% of billing and collection to be achieved and unaccounted
        for water to be reduced from 50% to 30%. The allocation of the development grant to Pourashavas
        will take account area and population served, unaccounted for water volumes and increase in
        revenue income;
    •   The private sector is encouraged to participate in billing and collection;
    •   Monitoring of water quality is to be the responsibility of DPHE, DOE, BSTI, AEC and CBOs who will
        send reports to the water quality committee within LGD.
Institutional Arrangements
There is a reemphasize on the increasing role of Local Government Institutions, private sector,
NGOs and CBOs in service provision with further statements supporting the creation of a congenial
atmosphere and support given to enable this to happen.
LGD will take the lead on developing strategies, in line with the policy and with the policies for
water, environment and health, but there is provision for WARPO to have a role in formulating and
implementing strategy.

National Water Policy 1998
The National Water Policy 1998 was prepared by the Ministry of Water Resources with the aim of
providing direction to all agencies working in the water sector. Amongst the specific objectives, the
most relevant are:
    •   To ensure availability of water to all elements of society, including the poor and underprivileged, and
        taking into account the particular needs of women and children
    •   To accelerate the development of sustainable public and private water delivery systems with
        appropriate legal and financial measures and incentives, including delineation of water rights and
        water pricing




                                                                                                              53
    •   To bring institutional changes to decentralize management of water resources and promote the role
        of women in water management
    •   To develop a legal and regulatory environment that will help the process of decentralization, sound
        environmental management and improve the investment climate for the private sector.
There are many aspects of the policy that are not relevant in this context, such as river basin
management, industry, fisheries & wildlife, navigation, hydropower and recreation so these will be
not be summarized here. The main areas of interest relate to planning and management of water
resources, water rights and allocation, public and private involvement, water supply and sanitation
and agriculture.
Planning and Management of Water Resources
The Government has given the Water Resources Planning Organization (WARPO) the
responsibility of delineating hydrological regions of the country and preparing and periodically
updating a National Water Management Plan (NWMP) to be executed by different agencies as
determined by the Government. Under the NWMP Government agencies and local organizations
are required to prepare and implement sub-regional and local water management plans. The role
of local government and communities is stressed. The first sub-regional and local water
management plans are likely to be prepared under an ADB supported project Southwest Area
Integrated Water Resources Management Project. The NWMP is still in draft form at this stage. It
was due to be reviewed and possibly approved by ECNEC in October 2003 but this has been
delayed.
Under this section of the policy, the Government states that it will take steps to protect water quality
and ensure efficiency of its use.
Water Rights and Allocation
The Government states that ownership of water lays with the state, not the individual, and that
Government reserves the right to allocate water to ensure equitable distribution, efficient
development and use and to address poverty. It also reserves the right to redistribute water during
times of natural and man-made disasters (including contamination of groundwater aquifers) that
threaten public health. Amongst the rules for water allocation that are scheduled to be developed
are those for groundwater recharge and abstraction.
The Government states that it may “confer water rights on private and community bodies to provide
secure, defensible and enforceable ownership/usufructuary rights to groundwater and surface water
for attracting private investment”.
Public and Private Involvement
The policy states that water resource management should be guided by the principle that
“…community resources should be managed by the community concerned along with local
government institutions, unless a greater national interest prevails…”. Government investments will
be directed towards creating public goods or addressing specific problems of market failure and
protecting community interests.
Public water institutions are required, wherever feasible, to use private providers of specific water
resources services in carrying out their mandated activities. Emphasis is also given to both public
and private sector in providing information and training. It is also stated here that an enabling
environment will be created for women to play a key role in local organizational management of
water resources.
Water Supply and Sanitation
The policy stresses problems with water quality in both rural and urban areas, with detrimental
consequences for public health, and also emphasizes the lack of drainage and sanitation services,
shortage of water supply and insufficient health and hygiene education as primary causes of
diseases in urban areas in particular. Government policy to help address this includes:




                                                                                                        54
    •   Facilitate availability of safe and affordable drinking water supplies through various means, including
        rainwater harvesting and conservation;
    •   Preserve natural depressions and water bodies in major urban areas for recharge of underground
        aquifers and rainwater management;
    •   Empower, and hold responsible, municipalities and urban water and sewerage institutions to regulate
        the use of water for preventing wastage and pollution by human action;
    •   Mandate local governments to create awareness among the people in checking water pollution and
        wastage.
Water and Agriculture
Public and private sector development of minor/groundwater irrigation is encouraged subject to
regulations that may be developed by the Government and so long as they don’t affect drinking
water supplies. The policy states that the Government will strengthen appropriate monitoring
organizations for tracking groundwater recharge, surface and groundwater use and changes in
surface and groundwater quality.
Water for the Environment
Under this section the Government is committed to develop in line with the National Environmental
Management Action Plan (NEMAP) and the NWMP. It also says that the Government will protect
against degradation and resuscitate natural water bodies (lakes, ponds, beels, khals and tanks)
affected by man-made interventions or other causes. A commitment to stop completely the filling of
publicly owned water depressions in urban areas for preservation of natural aquifers and the
environment is made.
Economic and Financial Management
The policy advocates cost recovery for operation and maintenance (O&M) as a minimum and
proposes that public service agencies should be converted into financially autonomous entities, with
effective authority to charge and collect fees. Specifically, the policy states that:
    •   Relevant public water supply agencies will be gradually given authority to charge for their services;
    •   Recovery of O&M costs will as far as possible be made through private collection means (through
        leasing or similar financial options) with the beneficiaries themselves being given preference;
    •   The pricing structure will match the goals and needs of the water provider and population served and
        will reflect as far as possible the cost of delivery;
    •   Effective beneficiary participation and commitment to pay for O&M will be realized at the project
        identification and planning stages by relevant public bodies.
Institutional Policy
The National Water Resources Council (NWRC) is given responsibility for coordination of all water
resources management activities, with the Executive Committee (ECNWRC) overseeing. WARPO
is the exclusive Government institution for macro-level water resource planning and this includes
setting up and maintaining a National Water Resources Database and Management Information
System.
Legislative Framework
There is a commitment to enact a National Water Code to consolidate laws relating to all aspects of
water resources management.

Draft National Water Management Plan 2001
The draft NWMP was completed in 2001 with three central objectives and setting out 84 different
programs planned over the subsequent 25 years. The central objectives are:
    •   Rational management and wise use of Bangladesh’s water resources




                                                                                                                55
    •   People’s quality of life improved by the equitable, safe and reliable access to water for production,
        health and hygiene
    •   Clean water in sufficient and timely quantities for multi-purpose use and preservation of the aquatic
        and water-dependent ecosystems
The 84 programs are set out across eight sub-sectoral clusters, comprising Institutional
Development, Enabling Environment, Main Rivers, Towns & Rural Areas, Major Cities, Disaster
Management, Agriculture & Water Management and Environmental & Aquatic Water Resources.
Towns and Rural Areas is the main cluster of interest in this context, followed by Agriculture &
Water Management.
The 84 programs are divided into three main categories within each of the eight sub-sectoral
clusters. These are:
    •   Crosscutting programs, which are applicable to all activities within each sub-sector. These include
        institutional development and creation of an enabling environment for activities to be carried out.
        They also include the creation of regulatory bodies in the case of water supply and sanitation and
        place an emphasis on expanding community participation and private sector participation. The legal
        and regulatory framework would be based on a National Water Code.
    •   National-level programs to cover major strategic issues primarily concerning the main rivers of
        Bangladesh.
    •   Regional programs, which may be either generic or region-specific. Many of the generic programs
        concern regional, sub-regional and community managed flood control, drainage and irrigation
        (FCD&I) schemes but they also seek to address the backlog in rural water supply and sanitation and
        overcoming the arsenic problem.
Responsibility for coordination lies with the NWRC with monitoring of progress and impacts lying
with WARPO who will maintain a programs database and a National Water Resources Database.
The regional programs that relate specifically to this activity fall under the Towns and Rural Areas
sub-sector and are:
    •   TR001: Urban Arsenic Mitigation – Pourashavas and CBOs responsible
    •   TR002: Rural Arsenic Mitigation – DPHE and CBOs responsible
    •   TR003: Large and Small Town Water Supply and Distribution Systems – DPHE, CBOs and private
        sector responsible
    •   TR004: Rural Water Supply and Distribution Systems – DPHE, LGIs, CBOs responsible
Implementation of the NWMP would be through close linkage between the NWRC and the Ministry
of Planning to ensure harmonization with the Five Year Plans and Annual Development Programs.

Draft National Arsenic Mitigation Policy
The draft National Policy for Arsenic Mitigation (NPAM) acknowledges that arsenic is
simultaneously a water supply and a health issue, that there is a need for a coordinated response
and that policy should be inline with existing policy, most notably the policies for Water and for Safe
Water Supply and Sanitation. Priority is given to implementation of alternative water supply
options, arsenicosis patient identification and management, and identifying and addressing the
impact of arsenic on the agricultural environment.
The policy promotes continued identification of the nature and extent of the problem and requires
that the water quality (not just arsenic) should be tested prior to the commissioning of any new
water supply sources.
Arsenic Mitigation
NPAM promotes awareness raising on the consequences of ingestion, the alternative water supply
options available, remedial measures and that arsenicosis is not contagious (and that social
exclusion is not justified).



                                                                                                          56
On the issue of alternative water supplies, preference is given to surface water over groundwater, a
requirement is made that protocols for each option should be followed, emergency intervention
should be based on village assessment and seek to provide safe water at a reasonable distance
and every effort should be made to ensure that the poorest have access to safe water. Bangladesh
Standards for drinking water should be followed.
With regard to diagnosis and management of patients, protocols for patient identification should be
followed, training should be given to health service providers at all levels, there should be a referral
chain for complex case management, there should be a mix of preventative and social medicine
and there should be provision in health care centers and hospitals or the treatment and
rehabilitation of seriously affected patients.
Capacity Building
Capacity should be increased such that the following activities can be carried out more effectively:
    •   Government support to local test kit manufacture
    •   Local and community management of mitigation options
    •   Government hydro-geological investigation
    •   Water quality surveillance with suitably equipped laboratories
    •   Ability to assess and monitor arsenic in soil and agricultural products
    •   Government agencies to provide technical assistance to communities
    •   Doctors and health workers at all levels
Institutional Arrangements
There will be a high level overseeing committee with advice from a technical committee, greater
effectiveness and coordination between national government agencies, decentralized planning of
water supply, and greater input from LGIs in mobilization, monitoring and patient registration. A
suitable regulatory mechanism will also be put in place for all activities related to groundwater.
Research and Development
Priority topics are to be identified by the national committee of experts and there will be appropriate
regulatory measures put in place to ensure coordination between researchers and determine the
way that results are communicated to the government or its designated agency.               Centers of
excellence will be developed as will a national reference laboratory.

Draft Implementation Plan for Arsenic Mitigation
The IPAM presents an overall framework for the arsenic mitigation activities in the water supply,
health and agriculture sectors. Coordination is allocated to the Secretaries Committee on Arsenic
with technical support and advice from the National Committee of Experts.
The constraints to arsenic mitigation thus far have been identified as:
    •   Uncertainty about the effectiveness of alternative water supply options
    •   Inappropriate institutional arrangements, and
    •   Confusion over service delivery mechanisms
Screening and Monitoring
Monitoring of 2% of green tubewells is proposed with laboratory confirmation of results at upazilla
level, the laboratories to be in upazilla health centers and upgraded so that they can test for arsenic
and bacteriological contamination. The private sector is encouraged to participate in monitoring
and the National Committee of Experts is requested to advise on methods for test kit evaluation and
local test kit development.




                                                                                                     57
Technology Options
The Plan states that protocols should developed or upgraded to support construction, operation and
maintenance of the various options. Options that are to be promoted with protocols include
improved dug well, surface water treatment (PSFs and large-scale surface water treatment), deep
hand tubewells, and rainwater harvesting.
Arsenic removal technologies will not be allowed on the market until BCSIR have validated them.
Validation will be based on protocols approved by the National Committee of Experts. Following
validation, proponents will have to follow legal procedures accepting liability for any failure or
damage to people or the environment before they can be marketed.
Piped water supplies are the declared long-term goal for both rural and urban areas, preferably with
surface water treatment facilities. Proper piloting will be carried out in the short to medium term.
Provision of Alternative Water Supplies
This provision is set out for the short (or emergency – one year), medium (three years) and long
term.
The emergency supply will be in those villages where more than 80% of wells are contaminated
with arsenic (1400 villages have all wells contaminated) and will be supply driven with the goal of
providing one safe source for every 50 families. The source will either be improved dug wells,
PSFs or safe deep tubewells. There will be no capital cost sharing for the emergency response.
O&M costs will be borne by the communities and a caretaker from a family close to the source will
be appointed. Those organizations currently implementing arsenic mitigation will be required to
follow this procedure. The Union Parishad will oversee the water supply program through the
Union and Ward Arsenic Mitigation Committees. Local administration will carry out random third
party audits to ensure proper management and installation and research organizations like BIDS
and BUET (through ITN) will carry out random checks nationwide.
In the medium term, the approach will be demand-based and cost sharing will be based on ability to
pay and cost of alternative water supply option. All O&M costs will be borne by the communities.
The level of service will be one safe source to between 25 and 30 households. LGIs are
encouraged to play a much more active role.
The long-term response is currently seen as piped water supplies for all affected villages with the
same arrangements as for the medium term.
In the urban areas, screening of hand tubewells will be done (only production wells for the 100
Pourashavas where piped water supplies are in place have so far been screened). Where hand
tubewells are unsafe then piped water supplies will be extended. Where production wells are
contaminated then suitable surface water supplies will be sought. In the remaining 174
pourashavas screening of hand tubewells is soon to be complete. Piped water supplies will be a
priority.




                                                                                                 58
                                                                                                    Annex II

  Environmental Screening Checklist for Sub-Projects


  A         Environmental Checklist Checklist: Rural Water Supply Sub-Projects
SCREENING QUESTIONS                                                 YES/NO   REMARKS
A.        PROJECT SETTING: IS THE PROJECT AREA…
Densely populated?
Heavy with development activities?
Adjacent to or within any environmentally sensitive areas?
Cultural heritage site
Protected area
Wetland
Mangrove
Estuarine
Buffer zone of protected area
Special area for protecting biodiversity
Bay
B.        POTENTIAL ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS
Will the Project cause…
Pollution of raw water supply from upstream wastewater                       May not be significant – but the
discharge from communities, industries, agriculture, and soil                treatment units will ensure safe water
erosion runoff?                                                              supply
Impairment of historical/cultural monuments/areas and
loss/damage to these sites?
Hazard of land subsidence by excessive ground water                          Arsenic may come, project will take all
pumping?                                                                     measure supply arsenic free water
Social conflicts arising from displacement of communities ?                  Not a significant impact
Conflicts in abstraction of raw water for water supply with other            Project will try to develop a conjunctive
beneficial water uses for surface and ground waters?                         water use perspective
Unsatisfactory raw water supply (e.g. excessive pathogens or                 Water treatment will be ensure
mineral constituents)?
Delivery of unsafe water to distribution system?
Inadequate protection of intake works or wells, leading to                   Regular bacteriological and chemical
pollution of water supply?                                                   contamination surveillance
Over-pumping of ground water, leading to salinization and
ground subsidence?
Excessive algal growth in storage reservoir?
Increase in production of sewage beyond capabilities of                      Not known yet, May be a concern in
community facilities?                                                        future
Inadequate disposal of sludge from water treatment plants?
Inadequate buffer zone around pumping and treatment plants
to alleviate noise and other possible nuisances and protect
facilities?



                                                                                                                  59
SCREENING QUESTIONS                                                YES/NO   REMARKS
Impairments associated with transmission lines and access                   May be a problem in few cases
roads?
Health hazards arising from inadequate design of facilities for
receiving, storing, and handling of chlorine and other
hazardous chemicals.
Health and safety hazards to workers from the management of
chlorine used for disinfections and other contaminants?
Dislocation or involuntary resettlement of people
Social conflicts between construction workers from other areas
and community workers?
Noise and dust from construction activities?
Increased road traffic due to interference of construction                  Sometime, it may cause traffic
activities?                                                                 congestion
Continuing soil erosion/silt runoff from construction
operations?
Delivery of unsafe water due to poor O&M treatment                          O&M will be under taken in
processes (especially mud accumulations in filters) and                     consultation with the community. The
inadequate chlorination due to lack of adequate monitoring of               project will ensure that the O&M norms
chlorine residuals in distribution systems?                                 are finalized before the execution of
                                                                            the project.
Delivery of water to distribution system, which is corrosive due
to inadequate attention to feeding of corrective chemicals?
Accidental leakage of chlorine gas?                                         Given the small size of the project it
                                                                            may not be a concern
Excessive abstraction of water affecting downstream water
users?
Competing uses of water?                                                    The project will negotiate with
                                                                            MLGRDC for developing a conjunctive
                                                                            water use perspective
Increased sewage flow due to increased water supply                         In future it may cause some concern.




                                                                                                                 60
 B          Environmental Checklist Checklist: Urban Water Supply Sub-Projects
SCREENING QUESTIONS                                                YES/NO   REMARKS
A.        PROJECT SITTING: IS THE PROJECT AREA…
Densely populated?
Heavy with development activities?
Adjacent to or within any environmentally sensitive areas?
Cultural heritage site
Protected area
Wetland
Mangrove
Estuarine
Buffer zone of protected area
Special area for protecting biodiversity
Bay
B.     POTENTIAL ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS: WILL THE
PROJECT CAUSE…
Impacts on the sustainability of associated sanitation and solid            Extensive advocacy and awareness
waste disposal systems and their interactions with other urban              activities are incorporated in this
services.                                                                   project. However, the project will try
                                                                            and develop a comprehensive
                                                                            environmental sanitation strategy
                                                                            during the second phase
Deterioration of surrounding environmental conditions due to
rapid urban population growth, commercial and industrial
activity, and increased waste generation to the point that both
manmade and natural systems are overloaded and the
capacities to manage these systems are overwhelmed?
Degradation of land and ecosystems (e.g. loss of wetlands
and wild lands, coastal zones, watersheds and forests)?
Dislocation or involuntary resettlement of people
Degradation of cultural property, and loss of cultural heritage
and tourism revenues?
Occupation of low-lying lands, floodplains and steep hillsides              May not be significant in this project
by squatters and low-income groups, and their exposure to
increased health hazards and risks due to polluting industries?
Water resource problems (e.g. depletion/degradation of                      May cause some problem particularly
available water supply, deterioration of surface and ground                 in light of arsenic contamination
water quality , and pollution of receiving waters?)
Air pollution due to urban emissions?
Social conflicts between construction workers from other areas
and local workers?
Road blocking and temporary flooding due to land excavation                 Minimum excavation work during rainy
during rainy season?                                                        season
Noise and dust from construction activities?                                Project will avoid construction work
                                                                            during night
Traffic disturbances due to construction material transport and             May cause some concern in few
wastes?                                                                     selected sites
Temporary silt runoff due to construction?
Hazards to public health due to ambient, household and
occupational pollution, thermal inversion, and smog formation?



                                                                                                                   61
SCREENING QUESTIONS                                         YES/NO   REMARKS
Water depletion and/or degradation?                                  May be a concern depending upon the
                                                                     location – no major impact anticipated
Overpaying of ground water, leading to land subsidence,              May be a concern in few cases
lowered ground water table, and salinization?
Contamination of surface and ground water due to improper            All precautions are taken for sludge
waste disposal?                                                      disposal




                                                                                                            62
