Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER H101-BD 
 
Development Grant Agreement 
 
(Water Supply Program Project) 
 
between 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH  
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated June 30, 2004
Page  2
GRANT NUMBER H101-BD   
DEVELOPMENT GRANT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated June 30, 2004, between the PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF 
BANGLADESH (the Recipient) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
WHEREAS (B) the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth in 
this Agreement; 
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties hereto, hereby, agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through  
October 6, 1999), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:  
(a) 
Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04(a), 3.04(b), 3.05, 6.05 and Article VII, are 
deleted in their entirety. 
(b) 
Wherever used in the General Conditions, the following terms are 
modified to read as follows: 
(i) 
The term “Borrower” is modified to read “Recipient”. 
(ii) 
The term “Credit” is modified to read “Grant”. 
(iii) 
The term “credit” is modified to read “grant”; except that where 
used in Sections 6.02(a)(ii) and 6.02(c)(i), as modified below, 
the term “credit” shall continue to read “credit”.  
(iv) 
The term “Credit Account” is modified to read “Grant Account”. 
(v) 
The term “Development Credit Agreement” is modified to read 
“Development Grant Agreement”. 
Page  3
-
2
-
(c) 
Article IV is modified as follows: 
(i) 
Section 4.02(a) and the heading of Section 4.02 are modified to 
read as follows: 
“Section 4.02 Currencies in which Commitment Charges are 
Payable 
(a) 
The Recipient shall pay the commitment charge on the 
Grant in the currency specified in the Development Grant 
Agreement or in such other eligible currency or currencies as 
may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to 
paragraph (c) or (e) of this Section.” 
(ii) 
Wherever used in Section 4.02(c) and (e) of the General 
Conditions the words “principal and service charges” are 
modified to read “commitment charge”. 
(iii) 
Section 4.03 and its heading are modified to read as follows: 
“Section 4.03 Amount of the Grant. 
The amount of the Grant withdrawn from time to time shall be 
the equivalent in terms of SDR (determined as of the date or 
respective dates of withdrawal from the Grant Account) of the 
value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn.” 
(d) 
Section 6.02 is modified as follows: 
(a) 
The phrase “any other development credit agreement” in  
Section 6.02(a)(ii) is modified to read: “any other development grant 
agreement or any development credit agreement or development 
financing agreement”. 
(b) 
The phrase “any development credit agreement” in 
 
Section 6.02(c)(i) is modified to read: “any development grant 
agreement, development credit agreement or development financing 
agreement”. 
(e) 
The words “The principal of, and any other charges on” in paragraph (a) 
of Section 8.01 are modified to read “The commitment charge on”. 
Page  4
-
3
-
(f) 
Section 12.05 and its heading are modified to read as follows: 
“Section 12.05.  Termination of Development Grant Agreement. 
The obligations of the Recipient under the Development Grant 
Agreement shall terminate on the date 20 years after the date of the 
Development Grant Agreement.” 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“ADP” means the Recipient’s Annual Development Plan furnished to the 
Association pursuant to paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;   
 (b) 
“Beneficiary” means any private enterprise or a non-governmental 
organization, for whose benefit a Sub-project (as hereinafter defined) is being, or 
will be, carried out; 
 
(c) 
“DPHE” means the Recipient’s Department of Public Health 
Engineering 
 
(d) 
“FY” or “Fiscal Year” means the Recipient’s fiscal year 
commencing on July 1 and ending on June 30; 
(e) 
“IDCOL” means the Infrastructure Development Company 
Limited, a body corporate established and existing under the Bangladesh 
Companies Act (1994); 
 
(f) 
“MLGRDC” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Local 
Government, Rural Development and Cooperatives; 
 
(g) 
“Operational Manual” means the Operational Manual to be 
prepared by the Recipient, pursuant to Section 5.01 of this Agreement, for use in 
the carrying out of the Project, as the same may be amended from time to time 
with the concurrence of the Association, and such term includes any schedules to 
the Operational Manual; 
 
(h) 
“PMU” means the Project Management Unit within DPHE, and 
referred to in paragraph 3 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(i) 
“Performance Indicators” means indicators referred to in Schedule 
5
to this Agreement; 
Page  5
-
4
-
(j) 
“Pourashava” means any of the municipalities to be covered by the 
Project;  
 
(k) 
“Procurement Regulations” means the Recipient’s Public 
Procurement Regulations, 2003, satisfactory to the Association, published in the 
Recipient’s Gazette;  
(l) 
 “PWSE” means Pourashava Water Supply Entity, referred to in 
paragraph 8(a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(m) 
“Report-based Disbursements” means the Recipient’s option for 
withdrawal of funds from the Grant Account referred to in Part A.5 of Schedule 1 to this 
agreement; 
(n) 
“Special Account” means the Convertible Taka Special Account referred 
to in Part B of Schedule 1 to this Agreement and described in the Circular dated 
September 2, 1991 as revised on May 4, 1992 and December 24, 1992 of the Finance 
Division of the Recipient’s Ministry of Finance entitled “Procedures for Operation of 
Convertible Taka Special Account (CONTASA) of IDA-Aided Development Projects 
Under Government, Departments, Autonomous, Semi-Autonomous Bodies,” as such 
Circular may be amended from time to time in agreement with the Association; 
(o) 
“Sub-loan” means a loan made or proposed to be made out of the 
proceeds of the Grant, under Part E of the Project; 
(p) 
“Sub-project” means any scheme, activity or service financed, or 
proposed to be financed under Part A or B or C of the Project; 
(q) 
“Taka” means the currency of the Recipient; and 
(r) 
“Upazila” means a sub-district, the lowest administrative unit in the 
territory of the Recipient. 
ARTICLE II 
The Grant 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to twenty-seven million six hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 27,600,000). 
Section 2.02. The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
Page  6
-
5
-
reasonable cost of goods, works, and services to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Grant. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be April 30, 2010, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Recipient of such 
later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Recipient shall pay to the Association a commitment 
charge on the principal amount of the Grant not withdrawn from time to time at a 
rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the 
rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant Account or canceled; 
and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date 
and at such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to 
paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from 
the next date in that year specified in Section 2.05 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Recipient; and (iii) in United States dollars or in such 
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or 
selected pursuant to the provisions of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
Section 2.05. Commitment charges shall be payable semiannually on February 1 
and August 1 in each year. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, and environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services, and other resources required for the Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Page  7
-
6
-
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
good
s, works, and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Recipient shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months before the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Association, a 
plan for the future operation of the Project; and 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Recipient on said plan. 
Section 3.04. In the carrying out of Part B of the Project, the Recipient 
shall:  
(a) enter into an agreement on the amount of grant to eligible Pourashavas and the 
on-lending terms to PWSE for repayment of non-grant element to the Recipient; 
(b) enter into an agreement with Pourashava to promptly act on tariffs as agreed 
upon in the contract with the private operator; and (c) take, or cause to be taken, 
all necessary measures to ensure that its agencies and the Pourashavas promptly 
pay their water supply charges to PWSE.    
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall establish and maintain or cause to be 
established and maintained a financial management system, including records and 
accounts, and prepare financial statements in accordance with consistently applied 
accounting standards acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect the operations, 
resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
(b) The 
Recipient 
shall: 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each Fiscal Year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association) audited, in accordance with consistently applied 
auditing standards acceptable to the Association, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year (or such 
Page  8
-
7
-
other period agreed to by the Association): (A) certified copies 
of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for such year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association) as so audited; and (B) an opinion on such 
statements by said auditors, in scope and detail satisfactory to the 
Association; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts, and the audit of such financial 
statements, and concerning said auditors, as the Association may 
from time to time reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for, or covering, the Fiscal Year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
(ii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
(iii) 
ensure that such statements of expenditure are included in the 
audit for each Fiscal Year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section. 
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Recipient’s progress 
reporting obligations elsewhere in this Agreement, the Recipient shall prepare and 
furnish to the Association a Financial Monitoring Report, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association, which:  
(i)  
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Grant, and explains variances 
between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in implementation of the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned 
implementation of the Project; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
Page  9
-
8
-
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 
days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the 
period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of 
such calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later 
than 45 days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar 
quarter. 
ARTICLE V 
Effectiveness; Termination 
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(b) of the General 
Conditions:  
(a) 
the Recipient has prepared an Operational Manual, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association; and 
(b) 
the Recipient has approved the Project Proforma. 
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Secretary, or the Additional Secretary, or any Joint 
Secretary, or Deputy Secretary, or Senior Assistant Secretary, or Assistant 
Secretary, or Joint Chief, or Deputy Chief, or Senior Assistant Chief, or Assistant 
Chief of the Economic Relations Division of the Ministry of Finance of the 
Recipient is designated as representative of the Recipient for the purposes of 
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of  
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
For the Recipient: 
 
Economic Relations Division 
Ministry of Finance 
Government of t
he
People’s Republic 
 
of
Bangladesh 
Sher-e-Bangla Nagar 
Page  10
-
9
-
Dhaka, Bangladesh 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
BAHIRSAMPAD 
 
 642226 SETU BJ 
88028113088 
 
Page  11
-
10 - 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
INDEVAS 
 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-
6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Dhaka, People’s Republic of Bangladesh, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH  
 
By /s/ Badiur Rahman 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ David Hughart 
Acting Country Director 
Bangladesh  
Page  12
-
11 - 
 
SCHEDULE 1
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant 
A.  
General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Grant to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Grant allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1) Works (under Part C) 
2,140,000 
80% 
 
(2) Sub-projects (under Part A)   
7,030,000 
  50% 
 
(3) Sub-projects (under Part B)  
7,310,000 
  90% 
 
(4) Consultant’s services     
1,660,000 
80% 
 
(5) Training and Studies     
2,070,000 
  80% 
 
(6) Goods  
900,000
 
100% of foreign 
expenditures, 100% 
of local expenditures 
(ex-factory costs) and 
70% of local 
expenditures for other 
items procured locally
 
(7) Service Charge 
280,000 
100% 
(8) Sub-loans under Part E  
3,170,000 
100% 
(9) Operating Costs 
830,000 
85% 
(10) Unallocated 
2,210,000 
 
_________
TOTAL 27,600,000 
 
========= 
Page  13
-
12 - 
 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the 
currency of any country other than that of the Recipient for goods or services 
supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the Recipient; 
 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency 
of the Recipient or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the 
Recipient;  
(c) 
the term “Service Charge” means the financing of the differential-
amount for services identified in a specific contract between the Recipient and a private 
operator selected to provide a number of services in an eligible Pourashava, consistent 
with the Operational Manual, under Part B of the Project; and 
(d)  
the term “operating costs” means costs incurred by the PMU on account 
of the administration of the Project, including the maintenance of equipment, costs of 
consumables, fuel, office rentals, incremental salaries, office utilities and supplies.   
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, (a) no withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of 
this Agreement except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding 
the equivalent of 
 
SDR 350,000 may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before 
that date but after September 30, 2003; (b) no withdrawals shall be made in 
respect of payments made for expenditure under Part B.1 of the Project, unless the 
eligible Pourashava has established a PWSE with separate financial accounts and 
entered into a management contract with private operator for a period of no less 
than 10 years; (c) no withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for 
expenditures for Sub-projects, unless the Sub-projects have been  made in 
accordance with the procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth in the 
Operational Manual; and (d) no withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments 
made for expenditures for Sub-loans, unless the Sub-loans have been made in 
accordance with the procedures referred to in paragraph 10 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement. 
4. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) works under contracts 
costing less than $200,000 equivalent each; (ii) goods under contracts costing less than 
$200,000 equivalent each (iii) services of firms under contracts costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent each; (iv) services of individual consultants under contracts costing 
less than $50,000 equivalent each; (v) training, workshops, seminars; and (vi) Service 
Page  14
-
13 - 
 
Charge, Sub-loans, and Operating Costs; all under such terms and conditions as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient.  
5. 
The Recipient may request withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on 
the basis of reports to be submitted to the Association in form and substance satisfactory 
to the Association, such reports to include the FMR and any other information as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient (Report-based Disbursements). In the 
case of the first such request submitted to the Association before any withdrawal has been 
made from the Grant Account, the Recipient shall submit to the Association only a 
statement with the projected sources and applications of funds for the Project for the six-
month period following the date of such request. 
B. Special 
Account
1. 
The Recipient may open and maintain in Taka a special deposit account, 
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association for carrying out the 
Project. 
2. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Grant Account of amounts to be 
deposited into the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
if the Recipient is not making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and  
 
(b) 
if the Recipient is making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.  
3. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Recipient out of the 
Special Account, the Recipient shall, at such time as the Association shall 
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence 
showing that such payment was made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the 
Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account:  
 
(a) 
if the Association, at any time, is not satisfied that the reports 
referred to in Part A.5 of this Schedule 1 adequately provide the information 
required for Report-based Disbursements;  
Page  15
-
14 - 
 
(b) 
if the Association determines at any time that all further 
withdrawals for payment of Eligible Expenditures should be made by the 
Recipient directly from the Grant Account; or 
 
(c) 
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Association, 
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any 
of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said 
Section in respect of the audit of: (A) the records and accounts for the Special 
Account; or (B) the records and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to 
which withdrawals were Report-based Disbursements or were made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure, as the case may be.  
5. 
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the 
Association shall have notified the Recipient of its intention to suspend in whole or in 
part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions. Upon such notification, the Association shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account may 
be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Recipient of its determination. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of 
the Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible 
Expenditure, or was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the 
Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such 
additional evidence as the Association may request, or deposit into the Special 
Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an 
amount equal to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account 
shall be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such 
deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
(b) 
If the Association determines at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover payments for 
Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following such determination, 
the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the 
Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.  
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) 
or (c) of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Grant Account for subsequent 
Page  16
-
15 - 
 
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of this Grant 
Agreement. 
Page  17
-
16 - 
 
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account  
When Withdrawals Are Not Report-based Disbursements
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means the 
amount of Taka 150,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into 
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex 
provided, 
however, that 
unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited 
to an amount equivalent to Taka 90,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals 
from the Grant Account allocated to Categories (1) through (9) plus the total amount of 
all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to  
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of  
SDR 7,000,000. 
2. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:  
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount 
or amounts, which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation. On the basis 
of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the 
Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall 
have requested.  
 
(b) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall furnish to 
the Association requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals, as the 
Association shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on 
behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Recipient shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by 
the Association from the Grant Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
3. 
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to 
 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of 
the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Grant Account of the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall follow such procedures as the 
Page  18
-
17 - 
 
Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient.  Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures. 
Page  19
-
18 - 
 
Annex B 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Report-based Disbursements 
1. 
Withdrawals from the Grant Account shall be deposited by the Association into 
the Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from 
the Grant Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.  
2. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Grant, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and 
deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so 
requested; and (b) the amount which the Association has determined, based on the reports 
referred to in Part A.5 of this Schedule 1 applicable to such withdrawal application, is 
required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month 
period following the date of such reports. 
Page  20
-
19 - 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is 
to contribute to the Recipient’s efforts to 
achieve the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) in water supply and 
sanitation by 2015, specifically by piloting innovative measures to scale up the 
provision of safe water supply free from arsenic and pathogens in rural areas and 
small towns.  
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Recipient and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives: 
Part A
:
Rural Piped Water Supply
Provision of technical advisory services to private sponsors (including 
NGOs, private companies, cooperatives and community-based organizations) to 
design, implement and operate sustainable piped water supply systems Sub-
projects in rural villages and growth centers and to other stakeholders (including 
Union Parishads and communities) on related operational aspects of piped water 
systems, including the provision of capital construction grants to private sponsors 
for implementation of the Sub-projects.  
Part B
:
Water and Sanitation Services in Medium-size Cities
1. 
Pourashavas and Private-Sector Involvement in Piped Water Supply
(a) 
Improving water supply service in 3 to 5 mid-sized Pourashavas by 
promoting participation of the local private sector as a viable option to design, build, and 
operate the water supply systems, on a pilot basis, including: (i) rehabilitation and 
construction of the Pourashava water supply system; (ii) 24-hour supply of water;  
(iii) provision of arsenic free and bacteriologically safe water by substituting 
contaminated Pourashava production wells and by offering an alternative to households 
relying on contaminated water from hand pumps.  
(b) 
Provision of technical advisory services for the preparation, 
bidding and supervision of construction related to the activities described in 
paragraph (a) above, including the legal instrument and operational manual 
necessary for the design of a water supply entity in the Pourashava. 
(c) 
Strengthening of capacity to raise awareness and understanding of 
private sector participation, including training of central and local staff in the supervision 
and monitoring of contracts with the private operator. 
Page  21
-
20 - 
 
(d) 
Provision of professional services for the technical and financial audit of 
private operator performance. 
2.
 
Urban Sanitation
Carrying out of pre-feasibility studies for urban sanitation, including: 
 
(i) preparation of alternative sanitation options (including condominial sewer systems, 
individual house units and latrines); and (ii) definition of institutional options and 
financial arrangements to operate and maintain public sanitation systems. 
Part C
:
Non-piped Arsenic Mitigation Activities
1. 
Carrying out of arsenic mitigation activities through the communities (wards and 
Union Parishads), on a demand-driven basis, including availing funds to wards for 
implementation of action plans for villages up to 200 households, located in arsenic-
affected Hot Spot Upazilas.  
2. 
Provision of complementary services in fringe areas of those villages where 
piped water supply will be supplied, but where it will not be feasible, for technical 
reasons, to cover all households.  
1. 
Capacity Building and Training
(a) 
 
Provision of technical advisory services, capacity building 
programs, and training and workshops for potential sponsors, communities, Union 
Parishad officials, DPHE staff, and other support entities on issues related to rural 
piped water supply services. 
(b)  
Provision of technical advisory services through experts in 
conversion of municipal water departments to commercially viable entities.  
(c)  
Provision of a series of capacity building programs including: (i) for 
monitoring, planning, implementation and operations of investments; (ii) technical 
assistance, through NGOs-to-Union Parishads and Ward Arsenic Committees to procure, 
implement, monitor and maintain the chosen arsenic mitigation package; and (iii) design 
and implementation of client satisfaction surveys in communities.  
2.   
Regulatory Frameworks
Provision of technical advisory services for the development or the strengthening 
of regulatory frameworks in two key areas: (i) involvement of the private sector 
(cooperatives, NGOs and private companies) in rural and urban piped water supply with 
community participation; and (ii) groundwater management and administration.  
Page  22
-
21 - 
 
3.
 
Water Monitoring
Provision of technical advisory services, equipment or logistical assistance to 
strengthen water quality monitoring routines and capacity at national (DPHE), Union 
Parishad and Pourashava levels including: (i) institutional arrangements to support water 
quality monitoring through DPHE and local governments respectively through 
appropriate capacity building measures; (ii) groundwater monitoring; and 
 
(iii) development and testing of the application of risk-based approaches to water safety 
management 
Part E
:
Development of Local Credit Market and Risk Management Instruments for 
Village Piped Water
Developing local credit market and risk management instruments for village 
piped water supply, including the operation of a funding and financial support 
mechanism, administered through IDCOL or similar financial institution, and provision 
of funds therefor. 
Part F
:
Project Monitoring and Evaluation
Provision of technical advisory services, logistical assistance and 
equipment for the carrying out, through the PMU, of monitoring and evaluation of 
Project activities.    
Part G
:
Project Management
Provision of goods, equipment, technical advisory services and logistical 
assistance required by PMU for the management of the Project. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by October 31, 2009. 
Page  23
-
22 - 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
:
General
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and works to be financed out of the proceeds of this Grant shall be governed by 
the provisions of this Section I. 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
All goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or more per contract and 
works estimated to cost the equivalent of $5,000,000 or more per contract, shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank 
in May 2004 (the Guidelines), and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
 
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a) Prequalification
Bidders for the selection of sponsors under Part A of the Project shall be 
prequalified in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the 
Guidelines. 
(b) 
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and 
Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the 
Recipient.  
(c) 
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the 
procedures applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines. 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
Page  24
-
23 - 
 
All contracts for works estimated to cost less than $5,000,000 equivalent 
per contract, and all contracts goods estimated to cost less than $300,000 
equivalent per contract, may be procured under National Competitive Bidding 
procedures in accordance wi
th the Recipient’s Procurement Regulations. 
2. 
 National Shopping 
All contracts for goods estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent per 
contract, may be procured in accordance with the National Shopping method in 
accordance with the Recipient’s Procurement Regulations. 
3. Direct 
Contracting
All contracts for goods estimated to cost less than $2000 equivalent per 
contract, may be procured under Direct Contracting method, in accordance with 
the Recipient’s Procurement Regulations.  
4. Force 
Account
Procurement related to the tariff gap financing and credit markets may, 
with the Association’s prior agreement, be carried out by force account in 
accordance with the provisions of the Recipient’s Procurement Regulations.  
5. BOT 
Procurement 
(a) 
A Sub-project under Part B of the Project shall be constructed, and 
operated and subsequently transferred under a contract awarded to an 
entrepreneur on the basis of international competitive bidding procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines, subject to the 
provisions of paragraph 3.13(a) thereof. The goods, works and services required 
for the construction of such Subproject shall then be procured in accordance with 
the applicable procedures of said entrepreneur. 
 
(b) 
In those cases where an entrepreneur has not been selected in 
accordance with the procedures set forth in subparagraph (a) hereof, the goods 
and works to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant required for a Sub-
project under Part B to be constructed by such enterprise shall be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding procedures in 
accordance with, respectively, the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines, 
paragraph 3.13(b), and according to Parts C(1) and (2) of this Schedule. 
 
6.  Concession Contract
Page  25
-
24 - 
 
As an alternative to the BOT procurement referred to in paragraph 5 
above,  
Sub-projects under Part B of the Project may be implemented through 
concessioning arrangement, satisfactory to the Association, through an 
entrepreneur on the basis of international competitive bidding procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of 
 
Section II of the Guidelines, subject to the provisions of paragraph 3.13(a) 
thereof. The goods, works and services required for the construction of such Sub-
project shall then be procured in accordance with the applicable procedures of 
said entrepreneur. 
 
(b) 
In those cases where an entrepreneur has not been selected in 
accordance with the procedures set forth in subparagraph (a) hereof, the goods 
and works to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant required for a Sub-
project under Part B to be constructed by such enterprise shall be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding procedures in 
accordance with, respectively, the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines, 
paragraph 3.13(b), and according to Parts C(1) and C(2) of this Schedule. 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2. Prior 
Review
(a)  
With respect to each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $200,000 or more, and each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b)  
Notwithstanding the provision of paragraph (a) above, the Association 
may, at its own discretion, carry out post review of any contract awarded in accordance 
with this Section.  
3. Post 
Review
Page  26
-
25 - 
 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto and the following provisions of 
Section II of this Schedule. 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2. 
The following provision shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph: the short 
list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per 
contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 2.7 and footnote 10 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
All loc
al consultants’ services under the Project, estimated to cost less 
than $200,000, shall be procured in accordance with the Recipient’s Procurement 
Regulations. 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost 
estimates, contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be 
furnished to the Association for its review and approval prior to the issuance to 
consultants of any requests for proposals. Such plan shall be updated every 6 months 
during the execution of the Project, and each such updating shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval. Selection of all consultants’ services shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such selection plan (as updated from time to time) as shall 
have been approved by the Association. 
Page  27
-
26 - 
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the report on the 
comparison of the qualifications and experience of candidates, the qualifications, 
experience terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. The provisions of  
paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall also apply to such 
contracts. 
3. Post 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, 
the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provision of (a) above, the Association may, at its 
own discretion, carry out post review of any contract awarded in accordance with this 
Section.
Page  28
-
27 - 
 
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program 
1. 
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall, in the 
carrying out of the Project, apply the rules, procedures and guidelines, specified in the 
Operational Manual, and shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Operational 
Manual or any provision thereof which, in the opinion of the Association, will materially 
or adversely affect the implementation of the Project. 
2. 
The Recipient shall, by no later than March 31 each year, furnish to the 
Association, for review and comment, an ADP for the following year indicating 
detailed program of activities, including cost, output and performance targets and 
having regard to the budget estimates based on the annual work plan of the 
Project. 
3. 
For the purpose of assisting DPHE in the planning, monitoring and coordination 
of the Project, the Recipient shall promptly establish, and maintain until the completion 
of the Project, a Project Management Unit (PMU), with terms of reference satisfactory to 
the Association, including a level of gender balance reflecting the important role of 
women in water supply management. The PMU, headed by the Project Director of the 
Project, including key staff agreed with the Association, shall implement the Project.     
 
4. 
The Recipient shall carry out the Program in accordance with the agreed 
Environment Assessment Report and ensure that: 
 
(a) 
the Environmental Management Framework, including the 
environmental screening for Sub-projects, is, at all times, consistently and 
satisfactorily applied; 
(b) 
the annual appraisal of the work plans and third party environmental 
audits examine the implementation of environmental management measures, and outputs 
of such appraisal/audit are used to improve the implementation of the Program in the 
subsequent years. 
5.  
(a)  
The Recipient shall:  
 
(i) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor 
and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the 
Performance Indicators set forth in Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement 
of the objectives thereof; 
Page  29
-
28 - 
 
Page  30
-
29 - 
 
(ii) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, 
and furnish to the Association, on or about December 31, 2006, a 
report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to sub-paragraph (i) above, on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the 
period preceding the date of said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of 
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during 
the period following such date; and 
 
(iii) 
review with the Association, by March 31, 2007, or such later 
date as the Association shall request, the report referred to in 
sub-paragraph (ii) above, and, thereafter, take all measures 
required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions 
and recommendations of the said report and the Associati
on’s 
views on the matter.  
(b) 
The mid-term review referred to in (a) above shall, inter alia, cover the: 
(i) Project scope, design and implementation arrangements, and institutional changes;  
(ii) implementation progress against agreed indicators in the annual operational plans; 
(iii) procurement performance; (iv) performance of consultants; (v) fund flows; and  
(vi) lessons learned.    
Criteria for the Selection of Sub-projects under Part A of the Project
6. 
The Sub-projects shall be selected according to the criteria established in 
the Operational Manual.   
7. 
Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no Sub-project shall receive 
a
capital construction grant of more than 50% of the total cost. 
Criteria for the Selection of Sub-projects under Part B of the Project
8. 
Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no Sub-project shall be 
considered eligible if it does not satisfy the following criteria: 
(a) 
the Pourashava has been selected in accordance with criteria 
agreed with the Association, including: (i) presence of arsenic in the water of the 
service area; and 
 
(ii) the Pourashava’s commitment to implement needed reforms to create an 
autonomous Pourashava Water Supply Entity and to contract with a private 
operator the management of these services for at least 10 years; 
Page  31
-
30 - 
 
(b) 
the feasibility study of the proposed Sub-project has included a 
review of the technical, social, environmental and financial aspects of such Sub-
project and confirms that the proposed works are sound;   
(c) 
each proposal clearly indicates: (i) the technical and financial 
viability; (ii) the appropriate phasing of proposed investments, particularly with 
regard to proper sequencing of rehabilitation of existing assets; (iii) the 
institutional reforms required for sustainable operation of those existing assets; 
(iv) proposed design and construction supervision arrangements; (v) institutional 
arrangements for the water supply entity that will ensure ongoing viability, 
including legal status of that entity and its relationship to the Pourashava; (vi) 
explicit measures to be taken to ensure continuing financial viability and separate 
financial accounts for the Pourashava; (vii) provisions for water supply to the 
poor; (viii) terms and conditions of employment for key technical and 
management staff adequate to attract and retain required expertise; (ix) evidence 
of additional financing to be provided from  Pourashava own resources or private 
partners, if applicable; and (x) the water supply agency will contract with a 
private operator the management of its water supply system for a period of not 
less than 10 years; and 
(d) 
50% of the total cost of the rehabilitation and construction of the 
water supply system financed under the grant will be repaid to the Recipient 
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. 
Criteria for the Selection of Sub-projects under Part C of the Project
9. 
Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no Sub-project shall be 
considered eligible if it does not satisfy the following criteria: 
 
(a) 
the Sub-project is located: (i) in one of the three selected Upazilas 
agreed to by the Association; or (ii) adjacent to a Sub-project implemented under 
Part A and due to technical reasons not all households can be connected to piped 
water supply;  
 
(b) 
there is consent by consumers to the location of the proposed point 
source, including a brief analysis of the suitability of the proposed location to 
provide access for all consumers;  
(c) 
there is consent by the consumers to contribute to at least 10% of the 
capital cost of the point source, and to periodic assessments over time payable to the 
union for required maintenance;  
Page  32
-
31 - 
 
(d) 
there are arrangements by the union to maintain transparent, ring-fenced 
water accounts for each source to meet construction costs and meet maintenance costs 
over time; 
(e) 
there are satisfactory design and construction management 
arrangements; and 
(f) 
there is provisions for access by/supply to households that reside beyond 
a
defined distance from the source. 
10. 
For the purpose of channeling Sub-loans to the eligible Beneficiary under 
Part E of the Project, the Recipient shall cause IDCOL or any other financial 
institution, to enter into agreements in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association as a condition for the making of Sub-loans. The terms and conditions 
of each such agreement shall, inter alia: 
 
(a) 
require that the Beneficiary: (i) carries out the activities with due 
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, financial, 
environmental and managerial standards; and (ii) maintains adequate records to 
reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, the operations, resources 
and expenditures relating to the activities carried out from the proceeds of the 
Sub-loan; 
 
(b) 
require that the goods, works and services to be financed from the 
proceeds of the Sub-loan shall be procured in accordance with procedures 
ensuring efficiency and economy; and 
 
(c) 
reserve for the Recipient the right to: 
 
(i) 
inspect by itself, or jointly with the Association, if the 
Association shall so request, the goods, works, sites, and 
construction financed by the proceeds of the Sub-loan, the 
operations thereof and any relevant records and documents; 
 
(ii)  
obtain all information as the Recipient or the Association 
shall reasonably request regarding the administration, 
operation and financial conditions of the Beneficiary; and 
(iii) 
suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary to use the 
proceeds of the Sub-loan upon the failure by the Beneficiary to 
perform any of its obligations under the agreement.   
Page  33
-
32 - 
 
SCHEDULE 5 
Performance Indicators 
1.  Approximately 300 villages provided with functioning piped water supply 
schemes. 
2.  At least 3 Pourashavas provided with improved and functioning water 
supply systems operated through private sector participation. 
3.  Approximately 200 villages (approximately 2,000 point sources) provided 
with sustainable alternative water supply options at sufficiently high service levels 
where arsenic mitigation through piped water supply is not feasible.  
 
