                                  PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID)
                                                  APPRAISAL STAGE
                                                                                                     Report No.: AB781
                                       Bangladesh Water Supply Program Project
 Project Name
 Region                                SOUTH ASIA
 Sector                                Water supply (90%);Sub-national government administration (10%)
 Project ID                            P086661
 Borrower(s)                           BANGLADESH
 Implementing Agency
                                       Department of Public Health Engineering, Bangladesh

                                       Government of Bangladesh
 Environment Category                  [] A [X] B [ ] C [ ] FI [ ] TBD (to be determined)
 Safeguard Classification              [ ] S1 [X] S2 [ ] S3 [ ] SF [ ] TBD (to be determined)
 Date PID Prepared                     March 26, 2004
 Date of Appraisal                     April 5, 2004
 Authorization
 Date of Board Approval                June 17, 2004 (prel)

1.  Country and Sector Background

In the past decades, Bangladesh has made huge achievements in providing its rural population
with access to household water supply, based in part on government and donor investments, but
principally through households' own investments. Due to Bangladesh's generous endowment
with shallow groundwater resources in most of the country, households have been able to access
water by investing in hand pumps for individual supply. In contrast to many other countries,
gross coverage levels for water supply are greater than 90 percent in rural areas, and an estimated
50 percent for piped water supply in urban areas (where the public sector is the main provider).

Thus the country saw significant improvements in access to safe water supply, but availability of
water supply and sanitation has not necessarily translated into improved health. Health statistics
show that mortality rates for infants and under five-year-olds are 77 and 134 deaths per 1,000
live births respectively. Despite improved facilities, water related diseases continue to be a
common occurrence with a large number of deaths due to diarrheal diseases every year.

In addition, in the early 90s, detection of first cases of arsenicosis in some areas of the country led researchers to
quickly verify that many of Bangladesh's aquifers are contaminated with arsenic not only above the WHO guideline
level (10ppb), but also above Bangladesh's national standard (50ppb). In the years since then many efforts have
been made to increase knowledge regarding arsenic occurrence and its health and socio-economic impacts as well as
to develop and implement mitigation activities. These efforts have provided much-needed, if not sufficient,
knowledge about the problem and options to address it. According to the most recent estimates, about 30 million
people are exposed to arsenic from well water exceeding 50ppb and 49 million to more than 10 ppb.

Although arsenic is one major water quality problem in Bangladesh, bacteriological
contamination is also a serious issue. Willingness-to-pay studies indicate that communities value
and are willing to pay for the convenience of piped water supply even more than protection
against arsenic. A national program that allows all communities to participate would tackle
different health problems with a common program.

It has therefore become clear that interventions in the water supply sector need to be scaled up
because (i) a considerable part of the population still does not have safe water supply (regardless
of the arsenic issue), and (ii) small-scale implementation of arsenic mitigation or prevention
options, such as commonly-shared wells actually represent a step backwards in the context of
Bangladesh because the rural population has become used to a high service level in terms of
privately-owned handpumps in their yards.

The current institutional arrangements for water supply and sanitation services are not well coordinated to face the
challenges in the sector. Planning and service delivery are supply driven, government agencies have overlapping
functions and pay insufficient attention to operation and maintenance issues, and user involvement and hygiene
promotion are inadequate. As a result, service delivery mechanisms are weak and lack of ownership by end users
reduces sustainability of water and sanitation services.

2.   Objectives

The development objectives of the proposed project are to contribute to Bangladesh's efforts to achieve the
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) in water supply and sanitation by 2015. Specifically, the project will pilot
innovative measures to scale up the provision of safe water supply free from arsenic and pathogens in rural areas and
small towns.

This will take place by (i) promoting rural piped water supply with private-sector participation, (ii) promoting
private-sector participation in water supply in municipalities (pourashavas), (iii) implementing arsenic mitigation
measures in arsenic-affected villages, (iv) supporting development of adequate regulations, monitoring, capacity
building and training, (v) supporting the development of a local credit market for village piped water supply, and
(vi) implementing a monitoring and evaluation system for the project.

Key Indicators:

     G At least 450 villages provided with functioning piped water supply schemes
     G At least 3 pourashavas provided with improved and functioning water supply systems operated through
          private sector participation
     G At least 200 villages (approximately 2,000 point sources) provided with sustainable alternative water
          supply options at sufficiently high service levels where arsenic mitigation through piped water supply is not
          feasible
     G Regulatory system for decentralized water supply provision in rural areas developed and functioning

The project would contribute to increased health and productivity in Bangladesh, thereby supporting the country's
strife for sustainable growth and poverty reduction. Importantly, the project would be inserted into the GoB's
current efforts at decentralization of decision- making functions to the local level, creating a win-win situation
because the project would be strengthened by clearly defining responsibilities at the village and Union Parishad and
pourashava levels, thereby ensuring strong ownership by beneficiaries and long-term sustainability. At the same
time, the project would help strengthen the decentralization process itself.

3.   Rationale for Bank Involvement

Given the country and sector issues outlined in section 1, the Government of Bangladesh (GoB) has identified the
need to scale up the provision of water supply ­ in terms of the number of people served, the level of service
provided and in terms of rural and urban coverage. It is expected that this emphasis will be reflected in the upcoming
CAS, the GoB's PRSP as well as the Country Water Resources Assistance Strategy, which are all underway.

In rural areas, due to the high density of villages and growth centers in Bangladesh, piped water supply is emerging
as a cost-effective solution that provides good levels of water service to populations of more than 200 households.
Piped water supply investment could help to quickly scale up safe water service provision in the country and has
therefore been identified as an important option to support the people of Bangladesh in moving towards fulfillment

of the MDGs while, at the same time, addressing the need to diminish the population's exposure to arsenic
contaminated water.

Currently about 100 piped water supply pilots are being implemented in Bangladesh, 91 by the Department of
Public Health Engineering (DPHE) and the remaining ones through various NGOs, the Rural Development
Academy (RDA) and donors (Swiss Government and Danida). The Bank ­ through the Bangladesh Arsenic
Mitigation Water Supply Project (BAMWSP) and through the Social Investment Program Project (SIPP) ­ is also
promoting such pilots (6 through SIPP and approximately 15 through BAMWSP), with a clear emphasis on private
sector involvement and appropriate levels of cost recovery through adequate tariffs to support scaling up
investments in the sector and ensure sustainability of the investments. This experience and the know-how derived
from it constitutes a good basis for the Bank to undertake this project.

By being able to provide financing and technical expertise to promote an innovative approach to rural water supply
at a larger scale through this project, the Bank is well poised to support the GOB in providing safe water to
communities and also scale up quickly. At the same, the project contains a component that addresses the needs of
smaller communities where piped water supply is not viable, but which are highly arsenic-affected. This component
has been designed based on experience from the on-going BAMWSP project as well as other on-going projects in
Bangladesh.

As outlined in section 1, the urban sector is also in need of a more effective approach to investment in operation and
maintenance of water supply systems. Given the GoB's emphasis on the development of new approaches to address
the current situation, the urban project component is designed to test private sector participation in the provision of
services in 3 to 5 arsenic-affected pourashavas, (i.e. at a very small scale, given overall needs). The results of the
component could constitute the basis for a broader sector dialog on water supply provision in medium-sized towns
in the future.


4.   Description

Component 1:                Piped water supply in villages and growth centers ­ US$25 million

This component would expand the experience of pilot water supply schemes undertaken by
various NGOs and other organizations, and the pilots supported by BAMWSP and the Social
Development Foundation. In this component, village piped water supply schemes would be
developed by sponsors (entrepreneurs, cooperatives, CBOs, and/or NGOs) in close collaboration
with communities and local governments. The project would provide technical assistance and
financial support on a grant basis. The grant will cover only a portion of the total costs and the
remainder will be provided by the sponsor and the community through contributions or loans. An
affordability assessment was undertaken during preparation to ensure that the private operator
provides safe water service to the poor members of the community. Three different options to
choose from have been developed to ensure that all segments of the village will be able to afford
one (piped supply with multiple house connections for wealthier households; yard standpipe for
middle-income households; and shared standpipes for poor households). The Government,
through DPHE and other institutions, will regulate key aspects of the operation such as water
quality, technical standards and service levels.

Component 2: Water and Sanitation Services in medium-size cities ­ US$13 million

2.a Pourashavas and private-sector involvement in piped water supply

The water service levels in medium-size cities of Bangladesh is very poor with levels of
coverage of only 30-60%, 3-12 hours of service, and presence of arsenic in some of the water
systems. The experience of a pilot currently under preparation with BAMWSP support in the city
of Chapai Nawabganj would be replicated to other medium-size cities. In Nawabganj a private
sector operator will be invited to restructure and upgrade the system, change the water sources to
provide arsenic-free water, and manage the water utility under a design-build-operate contract.
The proposed component will support similar reforms in water service delivery in self-selected
municipalities (or groups of municipalities) willing to undertake the reform of their water supply
services. Two interested municipalities have been formally identified and six further ones have
informally expressed their interest. A total of 3 to 5 pourashavas would be selected to participate
in this component.

Private sector participation options to be considered also include management contracts and
public-private partnerships to provide the services. The component will also provide technical
assistance to the central and local governments in the design, supervision and monitoring of
contracts with the private sector.

2.b) Urban sanitation

The project will finance pre-feasibility studies for urban sanitation. These may include:

        ·   Preparation of alternative sanitation options (condominial sewer systems, individual house units ­
            latrines).
        ·   Definition of institutional options and financial arrangements to operate and maintain public sanitation
            systems.



Component 3: Non-piped arsenic mitigation activities for villages ­ US$ 4 million

In small villages of less than 200 households piped water supply is not viable and non-piped
arsenic mitigation options need to be sought. Based on experience from BAMWSP and other
GOB and donor initiatives, the options developed include provision of (i) deep tubewells, (ii)
dugwells, and (iii) pond sandfilters. This component is designed to address the situation in small
villages located in arsenic-affected Hot Spot Upazilas (to be defined by appraisal) and to provide
complementary service in fringe areas of those villages where piped water supply will be
supplied, but where it will not be feasible, for technical reasons, to cover all households.

Component 4: Regulations, capacity building and training ­ US$ 3 million

4. a Capacity Building and Training

The success of the national program will depend on a limited group of support components
focused on developing and strengthening the capacity of stakeholders to implement mitigation
measures. These components include support to:

    G   Sponsors - on management of community systems, financial management, and treatment
        technologies;

     G    Local and central government officials - on the promotion, support, design and contract
          regulation of piped water supply systems operated by the private sector
     G    DPHE ­ on technical and economic regulatory capacity, and support to employees
          willing to set up private companies to develop rural piped systems, and
     G    Communities and contractors - on areas needed to fulfill their roles.

A capacity assessment was undertaken during preparation to address the different needs of these different entities.

4. b Regulatory Frameworks

The project will provide Technical Assistance to the development/strengthening of regulatory frameworks in two
key areas: (i) involvement of the private sector (cooperatives, NGOs and private companies) in rural and urban
piped water supply with community participation; and (ii) groundwater management and administration.

4.c Water Monitoring

The component will aim to strengthen water quality monitoring routines and capacity at national (DPHE), union
parishad and pourashava levels. It is expected to be supported through parallel financing by the International Atomic
Energy Agency (IAEA) as well as DFID.
It will also specifically focus on groundwater monitoring and support the GOB's efforts in aquifer mapping,
considering that groundwater will continue to be one of the main water supply sources in the country.

Component 5: Development of Local Credit Market for Village Piped Water Supply ­
US$5 million

At present there is no local credit market for rural piped water supply in Bangladesh. This component seeks to help
develop such a market as an essential long-term requirement for successful scaling up of rural piped water provision.
With local banks in Bangladesh generally unable to provide loans with long-term maturity ­ a crucial element in
keeping water tariffs charged by private sponsors affordable ­ and lacking experience in financing rural piped water
supply schemes, this component will make funding available to eligible sponsors. The chief objective of the
component is to illustrate to private banks that private piped water supply schemes constitute a viable market and
that it is worthwhile for them to offer appropriate lending instruments. The primary mechanism to be developed
would be a Partial Credit Guarantee for private banks interested in lending for village piped water supply. If this
mechanism should not be taken up by local banks, funds could then be made available directly to sponsors through
loans administered by IDCOL. In either case, these would be short-term financing mechanisms until the credit
market for piped water supply is developed more broadly and banks would offer direct lending to private sponsors.

The above is currently being developed under the Private Sector Infrastructure Development Project (PSIDP). It is
anticipated that the project component would be activated under this proposed project only if sufficient resources
were not available through PSIDP.

Component 6: Monitoring and Evaluation ­ US$ 1 million

Project design is purposefully flexible to encourage a variety of approaches and actors. Given the large number of
villages in Bangladesh and the huge task of scaling up safe water supply in the country, project design will need to
allow for rapid learning and replication. By encouraging participation of different private-sector entities and given
the entrepreneurial spirit in the country, it is hoped that the successful experiences will draw in ever more investors
and that new schemes will multiply. At the same time, it is important to learn as systematically as possible from
these interventions. The M&E component is being designed accordingly. An M&E framework is currently under
development and will be included in the Operational Manual of the project. In a first phase, it is expected that the
framework will require intensive monitoring by the M&E group, but as the pilot phase changes towards a scaled-up
program, the M&E framework should focus on key information and avoid excessive and costly data collection.

5.   Financing
Source:                                                                                              ($m.)
BORROWER/RECIPIENT                                                                                        5
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION                                                                   40
SUB-BORROWER(S)                                                                                         10
                                                                                        Total           50

6.   Implementation

The project design aims at building partnerships with the private sector, including NGOs, and
community user groups in financing, operating and maintaining constructed facilities.

Specifically for the groundwater monitoring component, the project will partner with the IAEA
and with its local counterpart, the Bangladesh Atomic Energy Commission (BAEC) and DFID.

The Ministry of Local Government, Rural Development and Cooperatives is the implementing
agency for the project. Project Management Unit (PMU), housed within the Department of
Public Health Engineering and reporting to its Chief Engineer will carry out day-to-day
management. The Union Parishads, villages/communities and Pourashavas will be involved in
local project implementation.


7.   Sustainability

Regarding Components 1 and 2, by encouraging participation of different private-sector entities and NGOs and
given the entrepreneurial spirit in the country, it is hoped that the successful experiences will draw in ever more
investors and users associations so that new schemes will multiply. The effort to achieve higher levels of cost
recovery sufficient to, at least, cover operation, maintenance, rehabilitation and small future expansion will also help
to improve the sustainability of the water supply systems.

In the context of Component 3, the streamlined design aims to ensure more efficient project implementation as well
as involvement of local government in rural water supply, so as to provide longer-term sustainability and
strengthening of operation and maintenance responsibilities.


8.   Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector

In defining the project, experience from the on-going World Bank-financed Bangladesh Arsenic Mitigation Water
Supply Project (BAMWSP), the Social Investment Program Project, the Water Supply Program (WSP), the
Municipal Services Project as well as various donor initiatives have been taken into account.

Experience with BAMWSP has shown that a narrow arsenic-mitigation focus on rural water supply in Bangladesh is
not sufficient to address the identified sector issues, which include both arsenic and bacteriological contamination of
water supplies. For this reason a wider approach has been sought that would help support the water supply sector in
Bangladesh move to a higher level of service provision and therewith to health and productivity impacts.

Specifically regarding the piped water supply component Willingness-to-Pay studies and pilot projects (under the
on-going BAMWSP, SIPP, Government, and donor initiatives) have shown that rural households value the
convenience of water supply as much as or even more than the safety of their supplies. The studies have also shown
that there is a sufficient willingness-to-pay in order to make such systems viable for the long term. A significant
number of private entities (entrepreneurs and NGOs) have shown interest in implementing such schemes and
investing their own funds. All of these elements have been reflected in project design.

In addition, experience from BAMWSP has shown that the piecemeal approach to providing arsenic mitigation
options is long-drawn and costly to the government. It does not provide the opportunity to scale up safe water
supply. Thus, while the BAMWSP approach, in an improved form, is needed for small villages, for larger villages
the piped water-supply approach has been chosen.

Given the uncertainty regarding arsenic in Bangladesh (level and scope of contamination; viable options to mitigate
arsenic impacts, etc.) at the time when BAMWSP was conceived, a considerable amount of work was spent during
its lifetime on getting the base information right, and comparatively few investments have been made to actively
provide alternative water supply options. At the same time, BAMWSP experience and that of other donors, has
shown that for small villages where piped water supply is not an option, the service level needs to be increased in
order to have a lasting impact. This improvement in service level, as well as an improved way to involve
communities and NGOs, has been taken into account in the design of Component 3 of the current project.

Regarding the piped water supply pilots, experience from on-going piped water supply experiences in Bangladesh
has been taken into account. In addition, piped pilot schemes are currently under preparation through Bank-financed
projects (BAMWSP and SIPP). These pilots will already incorporate the lessons learned from the on-going schemes
(an assessment of 12 such schemes has been undertaken), which will yield additional valuable insights.

Agency Implementation. Experience with BAMWSP has illustrated that having DPHE as that project's
implementing agency led to weakness in project implementation, but that such weakness was related, inter alia, to
the Project Management Unit (PMU) being set up outside of established structures. In this project, implementation
arrangements are built into existing structures (both within DPHE and LGED).

Experience with the ADB Second Water Supply and Sanitation Project indicates that problems related to land
acquisition can severely delay project execution. Therefore, the project will contain adequate provisions to ensure
that pourashavas take prompt action to provide the required land (water treatment plants and wells).




9.    Safeguard Policies (including public consultation)

  Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project                                                Yes                      No
  Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                                                   [ X]                     [ ]
  Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                                               [ ]                    [ X]
  Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                                   []                     [X ]
  Cultural Property (OPN 11.03, being revised as OP 4.11)                                     [ ]                    [X ]
  Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                                       [ ]                    [ X]
  Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20, being revised as OP 4.10)                                      [ ]                     [ ]
  Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                                                        [ ]                    [X ]
  Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                                                 [ ]                    [X ]
  Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*                                                 [ ]                    [X ]
  Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)                                         [ ]                    [ X]

Owing to the small-scale individual interventions, the project will not have significant irreversible or long-term
environmental impacts. The potential adverse environmental impacts, primarily related to the quality of water
supplied, or related to small and local environmental degradation are manageable. These issues will addressed by the
effective implementation of the environmental management framework prepared by the project.

The piped water systems will be built on public land, so land acquisition is not required. The resettlement policy,
therefore, does not apply. Proper registration will be required if land is donated.




* By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the
disputed areas

The majority of the tribal population resides in the hilly remote areas in a scattered manner and groundwater in these
areas is not contaminated by arsenic. Therefore it is not anticipated that the project would finance activities for the
tribal population. Nevertheless, these communities might opt for piped water supply schemes under Component 1.
For this reason, an appropriate framework will be developed within the Social Framework that will address specific
issues for the tribal population if such villages were to select participate in the project.


10. List of Factual Technical Documents




11. Contact point
Contact: Karin Erika Kemper
Title: Sr Water Resources Mgmt. Spec.
Tel: (202) 473-1995
Fax: (202) 614-1074
Email: Kkemper@worldbank.org

12. For more information contact:
          The InfoShop
          The World Bank
          1818 H Street, NW
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          Telephone: (202) 458-5454
          Fax: (202) 522-1500
          Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop

