Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB781 
Project Name 
Bangladesh Water Supply Program Project 
Region 
SOUTH ASIA 
Sector 
Water supply (90%);Sub-national government administration 
(10%) 
Project ID 
P086661 
Borrower(s) 
BANGLADESH 
Implementing Agency 
 
Department of Public Health Engineering, Bangladesh 
 
Government of Bangladesh 
Environment Category 
[] A   [X] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Safeguard Classification 
[
]
S
1
[X] S
2
[
]
S
3
[
]
S
F
[
]
TBD (to be determined)
 
Date PID Prepared 
March 26, 2004 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
April 5, 2004  
Date of Board Approval 
June 17, 2004 (prel) 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
 
In the past decades, Bangladesh has made huge achievements in providing its rural population 
with access to household water supply, based in part on government and donor investments, but 
principally through households’ own investments. Due to Bangladesh’s generous endowment 
with shallow groundwater resources in most of the country, households have been able to access 
water by investing in hand pumps for individual supply. In contrast to many other countries, 
gross coverage levels for water supply are greater than 90 percent in rural areas, and an estimated 
50 percent for piped water supply in urban areas (where the public sector is the main provider). 
100 out of 250 pourashavas do not have piped water supply at all and citizens use hand pumps. 
 
Though the country has seen significant improvements in access to safe water supply, 
availability of water supply and sanitation has not necessarily translated into improved health.  
Health statistics show that mortality rates for infants and children under five years of age are 77 
and 134 deaths per 1,000 live births respectively. Despite improved facilities, water-related 
diseases continue to be a common occurrence and account for a large number of deaths every 
year.  
 
Additionally, in the early 1990s, detection of the first cases of arsenicosis in some areas of the 
country led researchers to quickly verify that many of Bangladesh’s aquifers are contaminated 
with arsenic at levels not only above the World Health Organization (WHO) guideline level of 
10ppb, but also above Bangladesh’s national standard of 50ppb. Since its detection, many efforts 
have been made to increase knowledge regarding arsenic occurrence and its health and socio-
economic impacts as well as to develop and implement mitigation activities. These efforts have 
Page  2
provided much-needed, if not sufficient, knowledge about the problem and options to address it. 
According to the most recent estimates, about 30 million people are exposed to arsenic from well 
water with contamination levels exceeding 50ppb and 49 million people are exposed to water 
with contamination levels of more than 10 ppb. Although arsenic is one major water quality 
problem in Bangladesh, microbial contamination is also a serious issue. 
 
It has therefore become clear that interventions in the water supply sector need to be scaled up 
because (i) a considerable portion of the population still lacks access to a safe water supply 
(regardless of the arsenic issue), and (ii) small-scale implementation of arsenic mitigation or 
prevention options, such as commonly-shared wells, actually represent a step backwards in terms 
of service delivery in Bangladesh because the rural population has become accustomed to the 
high service level associated with the privately-owned hand pumps in their yards.  
 
Willingness-to-pay studies indicate that communities value and are willing to pay for the 
convenience of piped water supply even more than they value protection against arsenic. A 
national water supply program that allowed all communities to participate would tackle different 
water supply related health problems with a common program. 
 
The current institutional arrangements for water supply and sanitation services are not well 
enough coordinated to face the challenges in the sector. Planning and service delivery are supply 
driven, government agencies have overlapping functions and pay insufficient attention to 
operation and maintenance issues, and user involvement and hygiene promotion are inadequate. 
As a result, service delivery mechanisms are weak and lack of ownership by end users reduces 
sustainability of the water and sanitation services. 
 
2. Objectives 
 
The development objective of the proposed project is to contribute to Bangladesh’s efforts to 
achieve the Millennium Development Goals in water supply and sanitation by 2015. Specifically, 
the project will pilot innovative measures to scale up the provision of safe water supply free from 
arsenic and pathogens in rural areas and small towns.  
 
This will take place by (i) promoting rural piped water supply with private-sector participation, 
(ii) promoting private-sector participation in water supply in municipalities (pourashavas), (iii) 
implementing arsenic mitigation measures in arsenic-affected villages, (iv) supporting 
development of adequate regulations, monitoring, capacity building and training, (v) supporting 
the development of a local credit market for village piped water supply, and (vi) implementing a 
monitoring and evaluation system for the project.  
 
Key indicators: 
 
This is a demand-based pilot project in which communities can choose if they want to participate 
in the project and which options for water supply they prefer. For this reason, the quantitative 
indicators below are estimates only, based on average costs of water supply schemes and 
likelihood of technical options chosen.  
 
Page  3
·
Approximately 300 villages provided with functioning piped water supply schemes 
operated by sponsors; 
·
At least 3 pourashavas provided with improved and functioning water supply systems 
operated through private sector participation; 
·
Approximately 200 villages (approximately 2,000 point sources) provided with 
sustainable alternative water supply options at sufficiently high service levels where 
arsenic mitigation through piped water supply is not feasible.  
·
Functioning Monitoring and Evaluation System, which is used to adapt lessons learned 
during implementation in order to adjust project component design and create the basis 
for future scaling up. 
 
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
Given the country and sector issues outlined in Section 1, the Government of Bangladesh (GoB) 
has identified the need to scale up the provision of water supply 
–
in terms of the number of 
people served, and quality of service provided in rural and urban areas. It is expected that this 
emphasis will be reflected in the upcoming CAS, the GoB’s PRSP, as well as the Country Water 
Resources Assistance Strategy, all of which are underway. 
 
In rural areas, due to the high density of villages and growth centers in Bangladesh, piped water 
supply is emerging as a cost-effective solution that provides good levels of water service to 
populations of more than 200 households.  Piped water supply investments could help to quickly 
scale up safe water service provision in the country and has therefore been identified as an 
important option to support the people of Bangladesh in moving towards fulfillment of the 
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) while, at the same time, addressing the need to 
diminish the population’s exposure to arsenic contaminated water.  
 
Currently about 100 piped water supply pilots are being implemented in Bangladesh, 91 by the 
Department of Public Health Engineering (DPHE) and the remainder through various NGOs, the 
Rural Development Academy (RDA) and donors (Swiss Government and Danish International 
Development Agency - DANIDA). The Bank – through the Bangladesh Arsenic Mitigation 
Water Supply Project
 (
BAMWSP) and through the Social Investment Program Project (SIPP) – 
is also promoting such pilots (6 through SIPP and approximately 15 through BAMWSP), with a 
clear emphasis on private sector involvement and appropriate levels of cost recovery through 
adequate tariffs to support scaling up investments in the sector and ensure sustainability of the 
investments. This experience and the know-how derived from it constitute a good basis for the 
Bank to undertake this project. 
 
By being able to provide financing and technical expertise to promote an innovative approach to 
rural water supply at a larger scale through this project, the Bank is well poised to support the 
GOB in providing safe water to communities and also scale up quickly. At the same time, the 
project contains a component that addresses the needs of smaller communities where piped water 
supply is not viable, but which are highly arsenic-affected. This component has been designed 
based on experience from the on-going BAMWSP project as well as other on-going projects in 
Bangladesh.   
 
Page  4
As outlined in Section 1, the urban sector is also in need of a more effective approach to 
investment in operation and maintenance of water supply systems. Given the GoB’s emphasis on 
the development of new approaches to address the current situation, the urban project component 
is designed to test private sector participation in the provision of services in 3 to 5 arsenic-
affected pourashavas, (i.e. at a very small scale, given overall needs). The results of the 
component could constitute the basis for a broader sector dialog on water supply provision in 
medium-sized towns in the future.  
 
4. Description 
 
Component 1: Piped water supply in villages and growth centers 
–
US$23.1 million 
 
This component will expand the experience of pilot water supply schemes undertaken by DPHE, 
various NGOs and other organizations, and the pilots supported by BAMWSP and the Social 
Development Foundation. In this component, sponsors (entrepreneurs, cooperatives, CBOs, 
and/or NGOs), in close collaboration with communities and local governments, will develop 
village piped water supply schemes. The project will, on a grant basis, provide technical 
assistance and financial support. The grant will cover only a portion of the total cost. The 
sponsor and the community through contributions or loans will provide the remainder. An 
affordability assessment was undertaken during preparation to ensure that the private operator 
would provide safe water service to the poor members of the community. Three different options 
have been developed to ensure that all segments of the village will be able to afford safe water  
(piped supply with multiple house connections for wealthier households; yard standpipe for 
middle-income households; and shared standpipes for poor households). The Government, 
through DPHE and other institutions, will regulate key aspects of the operation such as water 
quality, technical standards and service levels.  
 
Component 2: Water and sanitation services in medium-size towns – US$14.8 million 
 
2.a) Pourashavas and private sector involvement in piped water supply (US$14.53 million)
 
Water service levels in Bangladesh’s medium-size towns are very poor. Only 100 out of 250 
pourashavas have piped water supply and in those, levels of coverage attain only 30-60%, 3-12 
hours of service, and a number are affected by the presence of arsenic in the water systems. The 
experience of a pilot currently under preparation with BAMWSP support in the town of Chapai 
Nawabganj would be replicated in other medium-size cities. In Nawabganj a private sector 
operator will be invited to improve and expand the water supply system and provide arsenic-free 
water, and manage the water utility under a design-build-operate contract. The proposed 
component will support similar reforms in water service delivery in self-selected municipalities 
(or groups of municipalities) willing to undertake reform of their water supply services. Eleven 
municipalities have formally expressed their interest so far. A total of 3 to 5 pourashavas would 
be selected to participate in this component.  
 
Page  5
Under this component the pourashava will create a Pourashava Water Supply Entity (PWSE) 
under its control, to own all assets related to the provision of water supply and to operate and 
maintain this service. The PWSE will contract with a private operator (PO) the management of 
its operations and will be in charge of the supervision of the performance of the PO. The PO will 
be responsible for the preparation of final designs for the rehabilitation and expansion, for the 
construction and rehabilitation of the water system and for its operation for a period of 10 years. 
Responsibility of the operation of the system includes full responsibility for day-to-day 
operations, billing and collection, maintenance and rehabilitation and provision of new water 
connections to meet demand (within the supply capacity of the system). 
 
The GoB will make funds available to finance the rehabilitation and expansion of the water 
system in the pourashava and to cover justifiable cash operating shortages during the first 2-3 
years of operation. The pourashava, through the PWSE will pay back to the government 50 % of 
the grant, under terms and conditions acceptable to IDA.   
 
Also the option of a concession will be explored, but results at appraisal indicated that this may 
not be possible at this point, due to the relative weakness of local investors compared to the 
amount of private financing that would be required. 
 
2.b) Urban sanitation (US$0.22 million) 
 
The project will provide technical assistance to finance pre-feasibility studies for urban 
sanitation. These may include: 
 
·
Assessment of alternative sanitation options (condominial sewer systems, individual 
house units 
–
latrines) and costs; 
·
Identification of potential urban centers where these options could be implemented; 
·
Definition of institutional options and financial arrangements to operate and maintain 
public sanitation systems. 
 
Component 3: Non-piped arsenic mitigation activities for villages 
–
US$4.4 million 
 
In small villages of less than 200 households piped water supply is not viable and non-piped 
arsenic mitigation options are necessary. Based on the experience from BAMWSP and other 
GOB and donor initiatives, several options present themselves, including deep tube wells, dug 
wells, and pond sand filters.  This component is designed to address the situation in small 
villages located in arsenic-affected hot spot Upazilas and to provide complementary service in 
fringe areas of those villages where piped water supply will be supplied, but where it will not be 
feasible, for technical reasons, to cover all households.  
 
Component 4: Capacity building, regulations and training – US$3.2 million 
 
4. a) Capacity building and training 
 
Page  6
The success of the national program will depend on a limited number of support components 
focused on developing and strengthening the capacity of stakeholders to implement mitigation 
measures. These components include support to:  
 
·
Sponsors - for management of community systems, financial management, and treatment 
technologies; 
·
Local private sector for the design, building and operating urban water supply systems; 
·
Local and central government officials - for the promotion, support, design and contract 
supervision (regulation by contract) of piped water supply systems, designed, built and 
operated by the private sector; 
·
DPHE and pourashavas
–
for technical and financial supervisory capacity.  This includes 
benchmarking and follow up of investments and operations, of urban water supply 
systems; 
·
Support to employees willing to set up private companies to develop rural piped systems;  
·
Communities and contractors - in areas needed to fulfill their roles. 
 
The capacity of these different entities has been assessed during preparation to address their 
different needs and to target the development of these training activities. 
 
4. b) Regulatory frameworks  
 
The project will provide Technical Assistance to the development/strengthening of regulatory 
frameworks in two key areas: (i) involvement of the private sector (cooperatives, NGOs and 
private companies) in rural and urban piped water supply; (ii) development and implementation 
of a benchmarking system to promote competition and efficiency by comparison of operational 
performance; and (iii) groundwater management and administration. A benchmarking and 
monitoring framework will be developed during the project that will address quality of service, 
tariff setting, project performance and conflict resolution, based on lessons obtained during the 
first years of implementation. Such a system would necessarily be based on GOB’s desire to 
devolve responsibilities to the local level as well as on the need to retain oversight at the national 
level and will provide the basis for further development of a more formal regulatory framework.  
 
4. c) Water monitoring  
This component will seek to strengthen water quality monitoring and capacity at national 
(DPHE), union parishad and pourashava levels. Parallel financing by the International Atomic 
Energy Agency (IAEA) as well as DFID (United Kingdom Department for International 
Development) is expected. In addition, the sub-component will focus on monitoring and assist 
DPHE in the characterization and monitoring of safe groundwater resources, as groundwater will 
continue to be one of the country’s main sources of supply. 
 
Component 5: Development of local credit market and risk management mechanisms for 
village piped water supply 
–
US$4.9 million 
 
At present there is no local credit market for rural piped water supply in Bangladesh. This 
component seeks to help develop such a market as an essential long-term requirement for 
Page  7
successful scaling-up of rural piped water provision. With local banks in Bangladesh generally 
being unable to provide loans with long-term maturity 
–
a
crucial element in keeping water 
tariffs charged by private sponsors affordable – and lacking experience in financing rural piped 
water supply schemes, this component will make funding available to eligible sponsors. The 
chief objective of the component is to illustrate to private banks that private piped water supply 
schemes constitute a viable market and that it is worthwhile for them to offer appropriate lending 
instruments. The primary mechanisms to be developed would be a Take-Out facility, a Partial 
Credit Guarantee, and/or related financial mechanisms for private banks interested in lending for 
village piped water supply. If these mechanisms were not sufficient to motivate the local banks 
and financial institutions, funds could then be made available directly to sponsors through loans 
appraised and administered by the Infrastructure Development Company Limited (IDCOL), the 
current implementation agency for other Bank-financed projects. In either case, these would be 
short-term financing mechanisms until the credit market for piped water supply is developed 
more broadly and banks would offer direct lending to private sponsors.  
 
The above financial mechanisms are currently being developed under the Private Sector 
Infrastructure Development Project (PSIDP). It is anticipated that the project component would 
be activated under the BWSPP only if sufficient resources were not available through PSIDP.  
 
This component would also support a risk management mechanism to support private sponsors 
against 
force majeur
 situations outside their control. The private sponsors have indicated the 
need for support that would insure them against natural events like floods or tornadoes that could 
damage the infrastructure facilities, or against the appearance of arsenic or other contaminants 
despite detailed engineering analyses conducted during each project preparation that would 
require the installation of additional unplanned treatment facilities. There is no insurance 
industry in Bangladesh that would provide services of this type to private sponsors. This 
component would provide protection to private sponsors against well-defined conditions 
identified in the subproject grant agreement. 
 
Component 6: Monitoring and evaluation 
–
US$ 1.4 million 
 
Project design is purposefully flexible to encourage a variety of approaches and actors. Given the 
large number of villages in Bangladesh and the huge task of scaling up safe water supply in the 
country, project design will need to allow for rapid learning and replication. By encouraging 
participation of different private-sector entities, and given the entrepreneurial spirit in the 
country, it is hoped that the successful experiences will draw in increasingly more investors and 
that new schemes will increase. At the same time, it is important to learn as systematically as 
possible from these interventions. The M&E component is being designed accordingly. An M&E 
framework is currently under development and will be included in the Operational Manual of the 
project. In a first phase, it is expected that the framework will require intensive monitoring by the 
M&E group, but as the pilot phase progresses towards a scaled-up program, the M&E framework 
should focus on key information and avoid excessive and costly data collection. 
 
Component 7: Project management – US$ 3.3 million 
 
The project will be managed by a Project Management Unit (PMU) within DPHE. 
Page  8
5. Financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 5 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
40 
SUB-BORROWER(S) 10 
 Total 
50 
 
6. Implementation 
 
1. 
Partnership arrangements  
 
The project design seeks to build partnerships with the private sector, including NGOs, and 
community user groups for financing, operating and maintaining facilities.  
 
The project will also partner with development partners. Specifically for the groundwater-
monitoring component, the project will partner with the IAEA and with its local counterpart, the 
Bangladesh Atomic Energy Commission (BAEC), and with DFID for the water safety pilot 
activity. The Swiss Development Corporation has indicated its interest in contributing to the 
project through parallel financing by means of a designated trust fund for this project. In 
addition, discussions are on going with DANIDA to align basic project operating rules in such a 
way that a sector wide approach would start to develop.  
 
2. 
Institutional and implementation arrangements 
 
The Ministry of Local Government, Rural Development & Cooperatives is the implementing 
agency for the project. The PMU, within the Department of Public Health Engineering and 
reporting to its Chief Engineer, will carry out day-to-day management.  The Union Parishads, 
villages/communities and Pourashavas will be involved in local project implementation. The 
details of these arrangements are outlined in Annex 6.  
 
3. 
Monitoring and evaluation of outcomes/results 
 
Given the need to systematically monitor and learn from project interventions, a specific M&E 
Component has been designed for the project so that lessons learned can be continuously fed 
back into the project (see Component 6).  
 
This project is designed to specifically address the issue of sustainability of investments in the 
water supply sector in Bangladesh by promoting innovative institutional arrangements. 
Regarding Components 1 and 2, by encouraging participation of different private-sector entities 
and NGOs, and given the entrepreneurial spirit in the country, it is hoped that the successful 
experiences will attract more investors and users associations so that new schemes will multiply.  
Efforts to achieve higher levels of cost recovery sufficient to at least cover operation, 
maintenance, rehabilitation and small future expansion will also help to improve the 
sustainability of the water supply systems. 
 
Page  9
In the context of Component 3, the streamlined design seeks to ensure more efficient project 
implementation as well as involvement of local government in rural water supply so as to 
provide longer-term sustainability and strengthening of operation and maintenance responsi-
bilities. 
 
7. Sustainability 
 
This project is designed to specifically address the issue of sustainability of investments in the 
water supply sector in Bangladesh by promoting innovative institutional arrangements. 
Regarding Components 1 and 2, by encouraging participation of different private-sector entities 
and NGOs, and given the entrepreneurial spirit in the country, it is hoped that the successful 
experiences will attract more investors and users associations so that new schemes will multiply.  
Efforts to achieve higher levels of cost recovery sufficient to at least cover operation, 
maintenance, rehabilitation and small future expansion will also help to improve the 
sustainability of the water supply systems. 
 
In the context of Component 3, the streamlined design seeks to ensure more efficient project 
implementation as well as involvement of local government in rural water supply so as to 
provide longer-term sustainability and strengthening of operation and maintenance responsi-
bilities. 
 
8.  Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector 
 
In defining the project, experience from the on-going World Bank-financed Bangladesh Arsenic 
Mitigation Water Supply Project (BAMWSP), the Social Investment Program Project, the Water 
Supply Program (WSP), the Municipal Services Project as well as various donor initiatives have 
been taken into account.  
 
Experience with BAMWSP has shown that a narrow arsenic-mitigation focus on rural water 
supply in Bangladesh is not sufficient to address the identified sector issues, which include both 
arsenic and bacteriological contamination of water supplies. For this reason a wider approach has 
been sought which would help support the water supply sector in Bangladesh move to a higher 
level of service provision and thereby attain positive health and productivity impacts.  
 
Specifically regarding the piped water supply component, willingness-to-pay studies and pilot 
projects (under the on-going BAMWSP, SIPP, Government, and donor initiatives) have shown 
that rural households value the convenience of water supply as much as or even more than the 
safety of their supplies. The studies have also shown that there is sufficient willingness-to-pay to 
make such systems viable for the long term. A significant number of private entities 
(entrepreneurs and NGOs) have shown interest in implementing such schemes and investing 
their own funds. All of these elements have been reflected in project design.  
 
In addition, experience from BAMWSP has shown that the piecemeal approach to providing 
arsenic mitigation options is long-drawn and costly to the government. It does not provide the 
opportunity to scale up safe water supply. Thus, while the BAMWSP approach, in an improved 
Page  10
form, is needed for small villages, for larger villages the piped water-supply approach has been 
chosen.  
 
Given the uncertainty regarding arsenic in Bangladesh (level and scope of contamination, viable 
options to mitigate arsenic impacts, etc.) at the time when BAMWSP was conceived, a 
considerable amount of work was done during its lifetime on getting the base information 
correct. Comparatively few investments have been made to actively provide alternative water 
supply options. At the same time, BAMWSP experience and that of other donors, has shown that 
for small villages where piped water supply is not an option, the service level needs to be 
increased in order to have a lasting impact. This improvement in service level, as well as an 
improved manner to involve communities and NGOs, has been taken into account in the design 
of Component 3 of the current project.  
 
In terms of piped water supply pilots, experience from on-going piped water supply experiences 
in Bangladesh has been taken into account. In addition, piped pilot schemes are currently under 
preparation through Bank-financed projects (BAMWSP and SIPP). These pilots will have 
already incorporated the lessons learned from the on-going schemes (an assessment of 12 such 
schemes has been undertaken), and this will yield additional valuable insights. 
 
Implementing Agency.
 
Experience with BAMWSP has illustrated that having DPHE as that 
project’s implementing agency led to weakness in project implementation, but that such 
weakness was related, inter alia, to the PMU being set up outside of established structures. In this 
project, implementation arrangements are built into existing structures.  
 
Experience with the ADB Second Water Supply and Sanitation Project indicates that problems 
related to land acquisition can severely delay project execution. Therefore, the project will 
contain adequate provisions to ensure that pourashavas take prompt action to provide the 
required land for the installation of water supply facilities (water treatment plants, storage tanks 
wells and pumping stations). 
 
9.  Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project
 
Yes
 
No
 
Environmental Assessment
(
OP
/
BP
/
GP
4.01) 
[ X] 
[ ] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
4.04)
 
[
]
[
X] 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
)
[] [X 
] 
Cultural Property (
OPN 11.03
,
being revised as OP 4.11)
 
[
]
[X ] 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
4.12)
 
[
]
[
X] 
Indigenous Peoples (
OD 4.20
,
being revised as OP 4.10)
 
[
]
[
]
Forests (
OP
/
BP
4.36)
 
[
]
[X ] 
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
4.37)
 
[
]
[X ] 
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.60)
*
[
]
[X ] 
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.50)
 
[
]
[
X] 
*
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the 
disputed areas
 
Page  11
Owing to the small-scale individual interventions, the project will not have significant 
irreversible or long-term environmental impacts. The potential adverse environmental impacts, 
primarily related to the quality of water supplied, or related to small and local environmental 
degradation are manageable. These issues will addressed by the effective implementation of the 
environmental management framework prepared by the project.  
 
The piped water systems will be built on public land, so land acquisition is not required. The 
resettlement policy, therefore, does not apply. Proper registration will be required if land is 
donated.  
 
The majority of the tribal population resides in the hilly remote areas in a scattered manner and 
groundwater in these areas is not contaminated by arsenic. Therefore it is not anticipated that the 
project would finance activities for the tribal population. Nevertheless, these communities might 
opt for piped water supply schemes under Component 1. For this reason, an appropriate 
framework will be developed within the Social Framework that will address specific issues for 
the tribal population if such villages were to select participate in the project. 
 
10. List of Factual Technical Documents 
 
11. Contact point 
Contact: Karin Erika Kemper 
Title: Sr Water Resources Mgmt. Spec. 
Tel: (202) 473-1995 
Fax: (202) 614-1074 
Email: Kkemper@worldbank.org 
 
12. For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
