                                              Document o f
                                          The World Bank

                                  FOROFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                               ReportNo: 28559-BD




                               PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                                 ONA

                                         PROPOSEDGRANT

                             INTHEAMOUNT OFSDR27.6MILLION
                                (US$40.0 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                                TO THE

                             PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH

                                                FORA

                              WATER SUPPLY PROGRAMPROJECT



                                             May 18,2004




EnvironmentandSocialUnit
SouthAsia Region


This document has a restricted distribution and maybe usedbyrecipients only inthe performance o ftheir
official duties. Its contentsmay not otherwise be disclosed without WorldBank authorization.

                                        CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                                    (Exchange Rate Effective April 21,2004)


                                       CurrencyUnit = Taka
                                               Taka58 = US$1
                                          US$1.4513     = l S D R

                                                  FISCAL YEAR
                                                July 1 - June 30


                                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


ADB Asian DevelopmentBank                                  MOUMemorandumof Understanding
ADP Annual DevelopmentProgram                              NIA notapplicable
BAMWSP BangladeshArsenic MitigationWater Supply Project    NCBNationalCompetitiveBidding
BAEC BangladeshAtomic EnergyCommission                     NGO Non-govemmental Organization
CAS CountryAssistanceStrategy                              OBA Output BasedApproach
CAP CommunityAction Plan                                   PADProject Appraisal Document
CAO Chief AccountsOfficer                                  PCNProjectConceptNote
CBO Community-BasedOrganization                            PIPProject ImplementationPlan
DANIDA DanishIntemationalDevelopmentAgency                 PMUProject ManagementUnit
DALYs Disability Adjusted Life Years                       PO Private Operator
DDO Drawing and DisbursementOfficer                        RDA RuralDevelopmentAcademy
DFIDUnitedKingdomDepartmentfor InternationalDevelopment    RWSGRegionalWater Supply and Sanitation Group
DPHEDepartmentof PublicHealthEngineering                   SDC Swiss Agency for DevelopmentCooperation
ERREconomic Rate of Retum                                  SDR SpecialDrawing fights
FMRFinancialManagement Report                              SIPP Social InvestmentProgramProject
FRFeasibility Report                                       SO SupportOrganization
FY FiscalYear                                              SWAPSector Wide Approach
FRRFinancialRate of Retum                                  TA Technical Assistance
GOB Governmentof the People'sRepublicofBangladesh          TOR Terms of Reference
HHHousehold                                                UNDP UnitedNations DevelopmentProgram
ICB IntemationalCompetitive Bidding                        pg/l Micrograms per liter
IDA InternationalDevelopmentAssociation                    PPB PartsPer Billion
MEA InternationalAtomic EnergyAgency                       UP Union Parishads
IFC InternationalFinanceCommittee                          WAC Ward Arsenic Committee
LGD Local GovernmentDivision                               WASA Water Supply and Sewerage Authority
LGED LocalGovernmentEngineeringDepartment                  WHO World HealthOrganization
LPCD Liters Per CapitaPer Day                              WSS Water Supply and Sanitation
MDGs MillenniumDevelopmentGoals                            WTP WillingnessTo Pay




                                       Vice President:     Praful C. Pate1
                                      Country Director:     Christine I.    Wallich
                                       Sector Manager:      Jeffrey S. Racki
                                    Task Team Leader:      KarinE.Kemper

                                                         FOROFFICIALUSEONLY

                                       BANGLADESH

                                Water SupplyProgramProject

                                 Project Appraisal Document

                                      SouthAsia Region
                                           SASES

  Date: May 18,2004                            Team Leader: KarinE.Kemper
  Country Director: Christine I.Wallich         Sectors: Water supply(90%); Sub-national
  Sector MangedDirector: Jeffrey S. Rack       government administration (10%)
                                               Themes: Water resourcemanagement(P);
                                               Pollutionmanagement andenvironmental
                                               health(P); Ruralservices andinfrastructure (P)
  Project ID: PO86661                          Environmental screening category: Partial
                                               Assessment
  Lending Instrument: Specific Investment      Safeguard screening category: Limited
  Loan                                         impact

  [ ] Loan   [ ] Credit  [XI Grant  [ ] Guarantee    [ ] Other:

  For Loans/Credits/Others:
  Total Bank financing (US$m.): 40.00
  Prnnosedterms:
                                   FinancingPlan (US$m)
                   Source                      Local           Foreign            Total
  BORROWERRECIPIENT                                5.83             --               5.83
  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT                      24.08            15.92             40.00
  ASSOCIATION
  BENEFICIARIES/ SPONSORS                          4.13            5.15              9.28
  Total:                                         34.04           21.07              55.1 1

  Borrower/Recipient:
  People's Republico fBangladesh

  Responsible Agency:
  DepartmentofPublic HealthEngineering
  Dhaka
  Bangladesh



This documenthas a restricteddistributionandmay be used by recipients onlyin
the performance of their official duties. I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.

Does the project depart from the CAS incontent or other significant respects?
Ref: PAD A.3                                                                       [             No
   .I
Does the project require any exceptions from Bank policies?
Re$ PAD D.7                                                                        [ ]Yes [XINO
Have these been approved byBank management?                                         E  ]Yes [ IN0
I s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?                        [ ]Yes [XINO
Does the project include any critical risks rated"substantial" or "high"?
Re$ PAD C.5                                                                         [XIYes [ ]No

Does the project meet the Regional criteria for readiness for implementation?
Re$ PAD D.7                                                                         [XIYes [ ] N o

Project development objective Re$ PAD B.2, TechnicalAnnex 3
The development objective o fthe proposedproject is to contribute to Bangladesh's efforts to
achieve the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) inwater supply and sanitationby 2015.
Specifically, the project will pilot innovative measures to scale up the provision o f safe water
supplyfree from arsenic andpathogens inrural areas and small towns.

Project description: Re$ PAD B.3.a, TechnicalAnnex 4

Component 1:promotion o fprivate-sector participation for rural pipedwater supply

Component 2: promotion o fprivate-sector participation inwater supply inmunicipalities
(pourashavas)

  Component 3:implemention o f arsenic mitigationmeasures insmall arsenic-affected villages

  Component 4: supporting development o f adequate regulations, monitoring, capacitybuilding
andtraining

  Component 5: supporting the development o f a local credit market andrisk mitigation
mechanisms for village pipedwater supply

  Component 6: implementation o f a monitoring and evaluation system for the project.

  Component 7: project management

Which safeguardpolicies are triggered, ifany? Re$ PAD 0.6, TechnicalAnnex 10
OP 4.1 Environmental Assessment: Owingto the small-scale individual interventions, the project
will not have significant irreversibleor long-term environmental impacts. The potential adverse
environmental impacts, primarilyrelated to the quality o fwater supplied, or relatedto small and

local environmental degradation are manageable. These issueswill be addressedbythe effective
implementationo f the environmentalmanagement framework preparedbythe project.

Significant, non-standard conditions, if any, for: none
Re$ PAD C.7
Boardpresentation: June 17,2004

Grant effectiveness: October 31,2004

Covenants applicable to project implementation:
Effectiveness conditions: (i)
                            OperationalManual o fthe project, and (ii) Proforma
                                                                     Project
approved byGOB


                                                     BANGLADESH
                                        Water SupplyProgramProject

                                                        CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                                Page
A.  STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE                                            .................................................................  1
 1.  Country and sector issues....................................................................................................                1
 2.  Rationale for Bank involvement.........................................................................................                      2
 3. Higher level objectives to whichthe project contributes....................................................                                   3

B.  PROJECTDESCRIPTION                       .................................................................................................    3
 1.  Lendinginstrument.............................................................................................................               3
 2. Programobjective and phases.............................................................................................                      3
 3. Project development objective andkey indicators                               ..............................................................  3
 4.  Project components .............................................................................................................             4
 5.  Lessons leamed andreflected inthe project design............................................................                                 8
 6. Altematives considered andreasons for rejection                               ..............................................................  9

C.  IMPLEMENTATION                  ........................................................................................................      10
  1. Partnership arrangements             ..................................................................................................      10
 2.  Institutional andimplementationarrangements ................................................................                                 10
 3. Monitoring and evaluationo f outcomes/results ................................................................                                10
 4. Sustainablhty.....................................................................................................................
           . . .                                                                                                                                  10
  5. Critical risks and possible controversial aspects...............................................................                             11
 6.  Grant conditions and covenants........................................................................................                       13

D APPRAISAL SUMMARY
 .                                         .................................................................................................      13
  1. Economic and financial analysis                  .......................................................................................     13
  2. Technical...........................................................................................................................         15
  3. Fiduciary ...........................................................................................................................        16
  4. Social.................................................................................................................................      16
  5. Environment      ......................................................................................................................      17
  6. Safeguardpolicies -CATEGORY B ...............................................................................                                18
  7. Policy Exceptions and Readiness                   ......................................................................................     19

Annex 1:Country and Sector Background                          ..............................................................................
Annex 2: Major Related Projects Financedby the Bank and/or other Agencies                                                              .................20
                                                                                                                                                       24
Annex 3: Results Framework and Monitoring                             ........................................................................         25
Annex 4: DetailedProject Description
                            ...............................................................................................................
                                                       ......................................................................................          29
Annex 5: Project Costs                                                                                                                                 39
Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements                         .................................................................................          40
Annex 7: FinancialManagement and DisbursementArrangements                                                                                              45
Annex 8: Procurement       ................................................................................................................
                                                                                                              .....................................
                                                                                                                                                       53
Annex 9: Economic and FinancialAnalysis                                                                                                                59
Annex 10: Safeguard Policy Issues               ............................................................................................
                                                                 .............................................................................
                                                                                                                                                       74
Annex 11: Project Preparation and Supervision                                                                                                          82
Annex 12: Documents inthe Project File                      .................................................................................
                                                                         .....................................................................
                                                                                                                                                       84
Annex 13: Statement of Loans and Credits                        ..............................................................................         85
Annex 14: Country at a Glance                                                                                                                          87
MAP(# 33262)  .............................................................................................................................
                                           .................................................................................................
                                                                                                                                                       88

A. STRATEGICCONTEXT AND RATIONALE

1. Countryandsector issues

Inthe past decades, Bangladesh has made huge achievements inproviding its rural population
with access to householdwater supply, based inpart on government and donor investments, but
principally through households' own investments. Due to Bangladesh's generous endowment
with shallow groundwater resources inmost o fthe country, households have been able to access
water by investing in hand pumps for individual supply. In contrast to many other countries,
gross coverage levels for water supply are greater than90 percent inrural areas, and an estimated
50 percent for piped water supply inurban areas (where the public sector is the main provider).
100 out o f 250 pourashavas do not have piped water supply at all andcitizens use handpumps.

Though the country has seen significant improvements in access to safe water supply,
availability o f water supply and sanitation has not necessarily translated into improved health.
Health statistics show that mortality rates for infants and children under five years o f age are 77
and 134 deaths per 1,000 live births respectively. Despite improved facilities, water-related
diseases continue to be a common occurrence and account for a large number o f deaths every
year.

Additionally, in the early 199Os, detection o f the first cases o f arsenicosis in some areas o f the
country led researchers to quickly verify that many o f Bangladesh's aquifers are contaminated
with arsenic at levels not only above the World Health Organization (WHO) guideline level o f
lOppb, but also above Bangladesh's national standard o f 50ppb. Since its detection, many efforts
have been made to increase knowledge regarding arsenic occurrence and its health and socio-
economic impacts as well as to develop and implement mitigation activities. These efforts have
provided much-needed, ifnot sufficient, knowledge about the problem and options to address it.
According to the most recent estimates, about 30 million people are exposed to arsenic from well
water with contamination levels exceeding 50ppb and 49 million people are exposed to water
with contamination levels o f more than 10 ppb. Although arsenic is one major water quality
problem inBangladesh, microbial contamination is also a serious issue.

It has therefore become clear that interventions inthe water supply sector need to be scaled up
because (i)a considerable portion o f the population still lacks access to a safe water supply
(regardless o f the arsenic issue), and (ii) small-scale implementation o f arsenic mitigation or
preventionoptions, such as commonly-shared wells, actually represent a step backwards interms
o f service delivery in Bangladesh because the rural population has become accustomed to the
highservice level associated with theprivately-ownedhandpumpsintheir yards.

Willingness-to-pay studies indicate that communities value and are willing to pay for the
convenience o f piped water supply even more than they value protection against arsenic. A
national water supply program that allowed all communities to participatewould tackle different
water supply related healthproblems with a common program.

The current institutional arrangements for water supply and sanitation services are not well
enough coordinated to face the challenges inthe sector. Planning and service delivery are supply



                                                  1

driven, government agencies have overlapping functions and pay insufficient attention to
operation and maintenance issues, and user involvement and hygiene promotion are inadequate.
As a result, service delivery mechanisms are weak and lack o f ownership by end users reduces
sustainability o fthe water and sanitation services.

2. Rationale for Bank involvement

Given the country and sector issues outlined in Section 1, the Government of Bangladesh (GOB)
has identified the need to scale up the provision o f water supply - in terms o f the number o f
people served, and quality o f service provided in rural and urban areas. It is expected that this
emphasis will be reflected inthe upcoming CAS, the GoB's PRSP, as well as the Country Water
Resources Assistance Strategy, all o fwhich are underway.

Inrural areas, due to the highdensity ofvillages and growthcenters inBangladesh, pipedwater
supply is emerging as a cost-effective solution that provides good levels o f water service to
populations ofmore than 200 households. Piped water supply investments could help to quickly
scale up safe water service provision in the country and has therefore been identified as an
important option to support the people o f Bangladesh in moving towards fblfillment o f the
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) while, at the same time, addressing the need to
diminishthe population's exposure to arsenic contaminated water.

Currently about 100 piped water supply pilots are being implemented in Bangladesh, 91 by the
Department of Public HealthEngineering (DPHE) andthe remainder through various NGOs, the
Rural Development Academy (RDA) and donors (Swiss Government and DanishInternational
Development Agency - DANIDA). The Bank - through the Bangladesh Arsenic Mitigation
Water Supply Project (BAMWSP) and through the Social Investment Program Project (SIPP) -
i s also promoting such pilots (6 through SIPP and approximately 15 through BAMWSP), with a
clear emphasis on private sector involvement and appropriate levels o f cost recovery through
adequate tariffs to support scaling up investments in the sector and ensure sustainability o f the
investments. This experience and the know-how derived from it constitute a good basis for the
Bank to undertake this project.

Bybeingable to provide financing andtechnical expertise to promote an innovative approach to
rural water supply at a larger scale through this project, the Bank is well poised to support the
GOB in providing safe water to communities and also scale up quickly. At the same time, the
project contains a component that addresses the needs o f smaller communities where pipedwater
supply is not viable, but which are highly arsenic-affected. This component has been designed
based on experience from the on-going BAMWSP project as well as other on-going projects in
Bangladesh.

As outlined in Section 1, the urban sector is also in need o f a more effective approach to
investment inoperation andmaintenance o f water supply systems. Given the GoB's emphasis on
the development o fnew approaches to address the current situation, the urbanproject component
i s designed to test private sector participation in the provision o f services in 3 to 5 arsenic-
affected pourashavas, (i.e. at a very small scale, given overall needs). The results o f the




                                                  2

component could constitute the basis for a broader sector dialog on water supply provision in
medium-sized towns inthe future.

3. Higherlevelobjectivesto whichthe projectcontributes

The project would contribute to increased health and productivity in Bangladesh, thereby
supporting the country's goal o f sustainable growth and poverty reduction. Importantly, the
project would be consistent with the GOB'Scurrent efforts aimed at devolving decision-making
authority to the local level. This will create a win-win situation because the project would be
strengthened by clearly defining responsibilities at the village, Union Parishad andpourashava
levels, thereby ensuring strong ownership by beneficiaries and enhancing long-term
sustainability. At the same time, the project would help strengthen the decentralization process
itself.


B. PROJECTDESCRIPTION

1. Lendinginstrument

The project i s a Sector Investment Grant with a total project cost of US$55.1 million. US$40
millionwill be provided through an IDA Grant, US$5.8 million Government financing, and the
remaining US$9.3 million contributions from other sources, as explained in Section 4. The IDA
grant component isjustified because the project is strongly focused on the rural and urbanpoor,
given that they have the least affordable options in terms o f access to arsenic andpathogen free
water insufficient quantities and are the most affected byinadequate supply.

2. Programobjectiveandphases

The project provides an opportunity to supportthe GOBindeveloping its programmatic approach
to the water supply sector. Inthe medium term, both Bank and donor contributions to the water
supply sector could take place within such a programmatic approach. The objective therefore is
to use the lessons leamed from the project as an input to the eventual development of a Sector
Wide Approach (SWAP) in a next phase. The GOB has expressed its interest in other
development partnersjoining the approach piloted under the current project.

3. Projectdevelopmentobjectiveandkeyindicators

Projectdevelopmentobjective:

The development objective o f the proposed project is to contribute to Bangladesh's efforts to
achieve the MillenniumDevelopment Goals inwater supply and sanitationby 2015. Specifically,
the project will pilot innovative measures to scale up the provision o f safe water supply free from
arsenic andpathogens inrural areas and small towns.

This will take place by (i) promoting rural piped water supply with private-sector participation,
(ii)promoting private-sector participation in water supply in municipalities (pourashavas), (iii)



                                                 3

implementing arsenic mitigation measures in arsenic-affected villages, (iv) supporting
development o f adequate regulations, monitoring, capacity building and training, (v) supporting
the development o f a local credit market for village piped water supply, and (vi) implementing a
monitoring and evaluationsystem for the project.

Key indicators:

This is a demand-based pilot project inwhich communities can choose ifthey want to participate
inthe project and which options for water supply they prefer. For this reason, the quantitative
indicators below are estimates only, based on average costs o f water supply schemes and
likelihood o ftechnical options chosen.


    0   Approximately 300 villages provided with functioning piped water supply schemes
        operated by sponsors;
    0   At least 3 pourashavas provided with improved and functioning water supply systems
        operated through private sector participation;
    0   Approximately 200 villages (approximately 2,000 point sources) provided with
        sustainable alternative water supply options at sufficiently high service levels where
        arsenic mitigation through pipedwater supply is not feasible.
    0   Functioning Monitoring and Evaluation System, which i s used to adapt lessons leamed
        during implementation in order to adjust project component design and create the basis
        for fiture scaling up.


4. Projectcomponents

Component1: Pipedwater supply invillages andgrowthcenters-US$23.1 million

This component will expand the experience o f pilot water supply schemes undertaken by DPHE,
various NGOs and other organizations, and the pilots supported by BAMWSP and the Social
Development Foundation. In this component, sponsors (entrepreneurs, cooperatives, CBOs,
and/or NGOs), in close collaboration with communities and local governments, will develop
village piped water supply schemes. The project will, on a grant basis, provide technical
assistance and financial support. The grant will cover only a portion o f the total cost. The
sponsor and the community through contributions or loans will provide the remainder. An
affordability assessment was undertaken during preparation to ensure that the private operator
would provide safe water service to the poor members o f the community. Three different options
have been developed to ensure that all segments o f the village will be able to afford safe water
(piped supply with multiple house connections for wealthier households; yard standpipe for
middle-income households; and shared standpipes for poor households). The Government,
through DPHE and other institutions, will regulate key aspects o f the operation such as water
quality, technical standards and service levels.




                                                  4

Component2: Water and sanitationservicesinmedium-sizetowns-US$14.8 million

2.a) Pourashavas andprivate sector involvementinpiped water supply (US$l4.53 million)

Water service levels in Bangladesh's medium-size towns are very poor. Only 100 out of 250
pourashavas have pipedwater supply and inthose, levels o f coverage attain only 30-60%, 3-12
hours o f service, and a number are affected by the presence o f arsenic inthe water systems. The
experience o f a pilot currently under preparationwith BAMWSP support inthe town o f Chapai
Nawabganj would be replicated in other medium-size cities. In Nawabganj a private sector
operator will be invitedto improve and expand the water supply system andprovide arsenic-free
water, and manage the water utility under a design-build-operate contract. The proposed
component will support similar reforms inwater service delivery in self-selected municipalities
(or groups o f municipalities) willing to undertake reform o f their water supply services. Eleven
municipalities have formally expressed their interest so far. A total of 3 to 5 pourashavas would
be selected to participate inthis component.

Under this component the pourashava will create a Pourashava Water Supply Entity (PWSE)
under its control, to own all assets related to the provision o f water supply and to operate and
maintain this service. The PWSE will contract with a private operator (PO) the management o f
its operations andwill be incharge o fthe supervision o f the performance o f the PO. The PO will
be responsible for the preparation o f final designs for the rehabilitation and expansion, for the
construction and rehabilitation o f the water system and for its operation for a period o f 10 years.
Responsibility of the operation o f the system includes fbll responsibility for day-to-day
operations, billing and collection, maintenance and rehabilitation and provision o f new water
connections to meet demand(within the supply capacity o fthe system).

The GOBwill make funds available to finance the rehabilitation and expansion o f the water
system in the pourashava and to cover justifiable cash operating shortages during the first 2-3
years o f operation. The pourashava, throughthe PWSE will pay back to the government 50 % o f
the grant, under terms andconditions acceptable to IDA.

Also the option o f a concession will be explored, but results at appraisal indicated that this may
not be possible at this point, due to the relative weakness o f local investors compared to the
amount o fprivate financing that would be required.

2.b) Urban sanitation (US$0.22 million)

The project will provide technical assistance to finance pre-feasibility studies for urban
sanitation. These may include:

0   Assessment o f alternative sanitation options (condominia1 sewer systems, individual house
    units - latrines) andcosts;
0   Identification ofpotential urbancenters where these options could be implemented;
0   Definition o f institutional options and financial arrangements to operate and maintain public
    sanitation systems.




                                                  5

Component3: Non-pipedarsenic mitigationactivitiesfor villages-US4.4 million

In small villages of less than 200 households piped water supply is not viable and non-piped
arsenic mitigation options are necessary. Based on the experience fi-om BAMWSP and other
GOB and donor initiatives, several options present themselves, including deep tube wells, dug
wells, and pond sand filters.     This component is designed to address the situation in small
villages located in arsenic-affected hot spot Upazilas and to provide complementary service in
fringe areas o f those villages where piped water supply will be supplied, but where it will not be
feasible, for technical reasons, to cover all households.

Component4: Capacitybuilding,regulationsandtraining-US$3.2 million

4. a) Capacity building and training

The success o f the national program will depend on a limited number o f support components
focused on developing and strengthening the capacity o f stakeholders to implement mitigation
measures. These components include support to:


    0   Sponsors - for management o f community systems, financial management, and treatment
        technologies;
    0   Localprivate sector for the design, buildingand operating urbanwater supply systems;
    0   Local and central government officials - for the promotion, support, design and contract
        supervision (regulation by contract) o f piped water supply systems, designed, built and
        operated bythe private sector;
    0   DPHE andpourashavas- for technical and financial supervisory capacity. This includes
        benchmarking and follow up o f investments and operations, o f urban water supply
        systems;
     0  Support to employees willing to set upprivate companies to develop ruralpiped systems;
     0  Communities andcontractors - inareas needed to fulfill their roles.

The capacity o f these different entities has been assessed during preparation to address their
different needs andto target the development o fthese training activities.

4. b) Regulatoryframeworks

The project will provide Technical Assistance to the developmenthtrengtheningo f regulatory
frameworks in two key areas: (i)     involvement o f the private sector (cooperatives, NGOs and
private companies) inrural andurbanpiped water supply; (ii)      development and implementation
of a benchmarking system to promote competition and efficiency by comparison o f operational
performance; and (iii)groundwater management and administration. A benchmarking and
monitoring fi-amework will be developed during the project that will address quality o f service,
tariff setting, project performance and conflict resolution, based on lessons obtained during the
first years o f implementation. Such a system would necessarily be based on GOB'S desire to
devolve responsibilitiesto the local level as well as on the need to retain oversight at the national
level andwill provide the basis for further development o f a more formal regulatory framework.




                                                  6

4. c) Watermonitoring

This component will seek to strengthen water quality monitoring and capacity at national
(DPHE), union parishad and pourashava levels. Parallel financing by the International Atomic
Energy Agency ( M A ) as well as DFID (United Kingdom Department for International
Development) is expected. In addition, the sub-component will focus on monitoring and assist
DPHEinthe characterization andmonitoring o fsafe groundwater resources, as groundwater will
continue to be one o fthe country's main sources o f supply.

Component5: Developmentof local credit market andriskmanagementmechanismsfor
village pipedwater supply-US$4.9 million

At present there is no local credit market for rural piped water supply in Bangladesh. This
component seeks to help develop such a market as an essential long-term requirement for
successful scaling-up o f rural piped water provision. With local banks in Bangladesh generally
being unable to provide loans with long-term maturity - a crucial element in keeping water
tariffs charged by private sponsors affordable - and lacking experience in financing rural piped
water supply schemes, this component will make funding available to eligible sponsors. The
chief objective o f the component is to illustrate to private banks that private piped water supply
schemes constitute a viable market andthat it i s worthwhile for them to offer appropriate lending
instruments. The primary mechanisms to be developed would be a Take-Out facility, a Partial
Credit Guarantee, and/or related financial mechanisms for private banks interested inlending for
village piped water supply. Ifthese mechanisms were not sufficient to motivate the local banks
and financial institutions, funds could then be made available directly to sponsors through loans
appraised and administered by the Infkastructure Development Company Limited (IDCOL), the
current implementation agency for other Bank-financed projects. Ineither case, these would be
short-term financing mechanisms until the credit market for piped water supply is developed
more broadly andbanks would offer direct lending to private sponsors.

The above financial mechanisms are currently being developed under the Private Sector
Infrastructure Development Project (PSIDP). It is anticipated that the project component would
be activated under the BWSPP only ifsufficient resources were not available through PSIDP.

This component would also support a risk management mechanism to support private sponsors
against force majeur situations outside their control. The private sponsors have indicated the
need for support that would insurethem against natural events like floods or tornadoes that could
damage the infrastructure facilities, or against the appearance o f arsenic or other contaminants
despite detailed engineering analyses conducted during each project preparation that would
require the installation o f additional unplanned treatment facilities. There is no insurance
industry in Bangladesh that would provide services o f this type to private sponsors. This
component would provide protection to private sponsors against well-defined conditions
identified inthe subproject grant agreement.

Component6: Monitoringand evaluation-US$1.4 million

Project design is purposefhlly flexible to encourage avariety of approaches and actors. Giventhe
large number o f villages inBangladesh and the huge task o f scaling up safe water supply inthe


                                                  7

country, project design will need to allow for rapid learning and replication. By encouraging
participation of different private-sector entities, and given the entrepreneurial spirit in the
country, it is hoped that the successful experiences will draw in increasingly more investors and
that new schemes will increase. At the same time, it is important to learn as systematically as
possible from these interventions. The M&E component i s being designed accordingly. An M&E
framework is currently under development and will be included inthe OperationalManualof the
project. Ina first phase, it i s expected that the framework will require intensive monitoringbythe
M&Egroup, but as the pilotphaseprogressestowards a scaled-up program, the M&Eframework
should focus on key information and avoid excessive and costly data collection.

Component7: Projectmanagement-US$3.3 million

Theproject will bemanagedby a Project Management Unit(PMU) within DPHE.

5. Lessonslearnedandreflectedinthe projectdesign

Indefiningtheproject, experience fromthe on-going WorldBank-financedBangladeshArsenic
Mitigation Water Supply Project (BAMWSP), the Social Investment Program Project, the Water
SupplyProgram (WSP), the Municipal Services Project as well as various donor initiatives have
beentaken into account.

Experience with BAMWSP has shown that a narrow arsenic-mitigation focus on rural water
supply inBangladesh is not sufficient to address the identified sector issues, which include both
arsenic andbacteriologicalcontamination o fwater supplies. For this reason a wider approach has
been sought which would help support the water supply sector inBangladeshmove to a higher
level o f service provision and thereby attainpositive healthandproductivity impacts.

Specifically regarding the piped water supply component, willingness-to-pay studies and pilot
projects (under the on-going BAMWSP, SIPP, Government, and donor initiatives) have shown
that rural households value the convenience o f water supply as much as or even more than the
safety o f their supplies. The studies have also shownthat there i s sufficient willingness-to-pay to
make such systems viable for the long term. A significant number o f private entities
(entrepreneurs and NGOs) have shown interest in implementing such schemes and investing
their own finds. All o fthese elements havebeenreflected inproject design.

In addition, experience from BAMWSP has shown that the piecemeal approach to providing
arsenic mitigation options is long-drawn and costly to the government. It does not provide the
opportunity to scale up safe water supply. Thus, while the BAMWSP approach, in an improved
form, is needed for small villages, for larger villages the piped water-supply approach has been
chosen.

Giventhe uncertainty regarding arsenic inBangladesh (level and scope of contamination, viable
options to mitigate arsenic impacts, etc.) at the time when BAMWSP was conceived, a
considerable amount o f work was done during its lifetime on getting the base information
correct. Comparatively few investments have been made to actively provide alternative water
supply options. At the same time, BAMWSP experience and that of other donors, has shown that



                                                     8

for small villages where piped water supply is not an option, the service level needs to be
increased in order to have a lasting impact. This improvement in service level, as well as an
improved manner to involve communities and NGOs, has been taken into account inthe design
of Component 3 o fthe current project.

Interms ofpipedwater supplypilots, experience from on-going pipedwater supply experiences
inBangladesh has been taken into account. Inaddition, pipedpilot schemes are currently under
preparation through Bank-financed projects (BAMWSP and SIPP). These pilots will have
already incorporated the lessons learned from the on-going schemes (an assessment o f 12 such
schemes has been undertaken), andthis will yield additional valuable insights.

Implementing Agency. Experience with BAMWSP has illustrated that having DPHE as that
project's implementing agency led to weakness in project implementation, but that such
weakness was related, inter alia, to the PMUbeing set up outside o f established structures. Inthis
project, implementationarrangements are built into existing structures.

Experience with the ADB Second Water Supply and Sanitation Project indicates that problems
related to land acquisition can severely delay project execution. Therefore, the project will
contain adequate provisions to ensure that pourashavas take prompt action to provide the
required land for the installation o f water supply facilities (water treatment plants, storage tanks
wells andpumpingstations).

6. Alternatives considered and reasons for rejection

Inthe discussion ofalternative designs, acontinuationofthe BAMWSPapproach, whichfocuses
on shared community wells as an arsenic mitigation measure, was considered. This alternative
was discarded due to the fact that (i) investment needs for provision o f safe water are far greater
thanthe government alone couldprovideinareasonableperiodoftime so that additional sources
of fundingwould have needed to be mobilized, (ii)     most rural households are used to individual
hand pumps and therefore willing to pay for piped water supply to maintain the level o f
convenience to which they are accustomed, (iii)        piped water supply will have significant
additional health effects, not only relatedto avoidance o f arsenic intake, especially when coupled
with the sanitation component. Thus, as compared to the shared point source model, the
development impact o f the proposed design is expected to be greater. Nevertheless, shared
community point sources will still be provided as an option for villages with fewer than 200
households as well as such households in villages with piped water supply where for technical
reasons the piped system does not reach.

It was also discussed to include sanitation interventions in the rural piped water supply.
However, given the parallel development o f a Local Government Project, which will specifically
include a Total Sanitation Approach invillages, it was decided to not include such a component
inthis project, so asto avoidduplication andto reduceunnecessarycomplexityofthe project.

Regarding the urbancomponent, it was decidedto take into account possible increased sanitation
needs (due to higher water throughput with expanded access to piped water) by financing
assessments and prefeasibility studies in the piloted pourashavas. Considering the timefiame of



                                                  9

the project andthe expected implementation time for the improvedwater supply andthe absence
o f reliable information on feasible technical options and costs o f sanitation options, these
investments would have to be undertaken as a follow-up.

Another alternative considered was to exclude the urban pilot component. However, given the
current window o f opportunity to introduce an innovative approach to the urbanwater sector in
Bangladesh, and given major needs inthe face o f arsenic contamination o f private tube wells in
urban areas, it was decidedto include this pilot as an input to the GOB'S strategy o f developing a
programmatic approach to water supply inthe country.


C. IMPLEMENTATION

1. Partnershiparrangements

The project design seeks to build partnerships with the private sector, including NGOs, and
community user groups for financing, operating and maintaining facilities.

The project will also partner with development partners. Specifically for the groundwater-
monitoring component, the project will partner with the IAEA and with its local counterpart, the
Bangladesh Atomic Energy Commission (BAEC), and with DFID for the water safety pilot
activity. The Swiss Development Corporation has indicated its interest in contributing to the
project through parallel financing by means of a designated trust fund for this project. In
addition, discussions are on going with DANIDA to align basic project operatingrules in such a
way that a sector wide approach would start to develop.

2. Institutionalandimplementationarrangements

The Ministry o f Local Government, Rural Development & Cooperatives i s the implementing
agency for the project. The PMU, within the Department o f Public Health Engineering and
reporting to its Chief Engineer, will carry out day-to-day management. The Union Parishads,
villages/communities and Pourashavas will be involved in local project implementation. The
details o fthese arrangements are outlined inAnnex 6.

3. Monitoringandevaluation of outcomes/results

Given the need to systematically monitor and learn from project interventions, a specific M&E
Component has been designed for the project so that lessons learned can be continuously fed
back into the project (see Component 6).

4. Sustainability

This project is designed to specifically address the issue o f sustainability o f investments in the
water supply sector in Bangladesh by promoting innovative institutional arrangements.
Regarding Components 1 and 2, by encouraging participation o f different private-sector entities
and NGOs, and given the entrepreneurial spirit in the country, it is hoped that the successful



                                                 10

 experiences will attract more investors and users associations so that new schemes will multiply.
 Efforts to achieve higher levels o f cost recovery sufficient to at least cover operation,
 maintenance, rehabilitation and small hture expansion will also help to improve the
 sustainabilityof the water supply systems.

 Inthe context of Component 3, the streamlined design seeks to ensure more efficient project
 implementation as well as involvement of local government in rural water supply so as to
 provide longer-term sustainability and strengthening o f operation and maintenance responsi-
 bilities.

 5. Criticalrisks and possiblecontroversialaspects
I                                           RiskMitigation Measures           RiskRatingwith
 Risks                                                                        Mitigation
                                    To Droi ct development objectives
 Thisproject is a large-scalepilot aiming   Ensuretransparencyinselecting
 to increase safe water supply in           sponsors and private operators
 Bangladeshinan innovative manner
 through involvement of the private         Ensure conflict resolution
 sector. The mainriski s that conditions    mechanisms at local and central            S

 for the local private sector to engage in  levels
 this activity arenot favorable enough
 (primarily due to governance instability   Involve local, mid- and central
 and weak credit markets) to achieve the    level stakeholdersto create
 desiredscaling-up effect andthat the       transparentinstitutional
 project remains at pilot level.            arrangements and develop
                                            accountability

                                            Close cooperation with the
                                            upcoming LocalGovernment
                                            Project


I



 Capacity.Weak capacity ofthe different Strengthen capacity o f different
 entities involved indeliveringwater        stakeholder groups through
 supply.This goes for the capacity of       training, and developing                   S
 private sponsors to successfully           appropriate institutional
 mobilize communities and generate          arrangements (formal regulatory as
 demand for their services, andto           well as project-related ones)
 adequately operatethe systems
 (includingcontinuous compliance o f
 water quality standards, and source
 protection), the total number o fprivate
 sponsorswilling to engage inwater
 supply, the nationalcredit market to
 provide sufficient credit to the private
 sponsors, the unionparishads to take on



                                                     11

:he responsibility for localwater supply,
mdDPHEto regulate the evolving
landscapeo fprivate water supply
systems inthe country.

Private sector participation inthe sector Training ofpublic andprivate
inBangladeshisinitsinfancyand,            partnersto develop aproductive
therefore, there are risks that boththe   framework to help improve service
public and the private sectors will not   performance and access to services
live up to their contractual              to the whole populationwithin the
zommitments.                              mutual obligations underthe
                                          contract.

                                          lntroducing conflict resolution
                                          mechanisms at local levels, and
                                          introducingtransparency inthe
                                          sponsor selection process.

Many small-scale donor and government     Training the sponsors and the
interventions are implemented without UnionParishads to ensure that
cost recovery; therefore there i s a risk villages make informed decisions.
that communities will not want to pay
for   piped    water     supply systems,
rendering them financially unviable.

Reluctance of pourashavasand the          Ensuringstepwise increasesof
MinistryofLocalGovernmentto               tariffs, starting prior to
authorize timely tariff increasesto       implementationto ensure
achieve the requiredlevels.               commitment. Proceduresfor
                                          review o ftariffs will be
                                          incorporated inthe contract
                                          betweenthe GOB,the Water
                                          SupplyEntity(owned by the
                                          pourashava) andthe private
                                           operator.

Disagreement onthe source of water to     Monitoringand dialogue between          S
implement the project. The ongoing         the Bank and the authorities.
BAMWSP hasbeenhamperedby a
pendingdecision on the use of the old     Ensuringthat the statusofthe deep
(generally deeper) groundwater aquifer     groundwater use is clarified by the
for safer water supply. Giventhat this    beginning of the implementationof
aquifer will be one of the sources to be   the project.
used inall project components, there i s a
riskthat thisprojectcouldalsobe           Ensuringthat the well-drilling
hampered ifthe current uncertainty        protocol i s followed, by training
regardingthis source were not resolved.    drillersandgovernment personnel.

                                           Implementinga strong monitoring
                                           system to detect any change in
                                          water quality once provided


                                                    12

Water quality issues inthe mediumto     Continuous water quality
long term. The contaminationrisks(both monitoringduringthe construction
arsenic and bacteriological) are        and operation periods. Also,                 S
complex. Many sources, earlier           specialized studies will assess and
considered safe, became contaminated    analyzethe long-term
over time (due to a number of           contamination risks.
unforeseen factors).
Overall &sk Rating                                                                   S



6. Grant conditions and covenants

Effectiveness condition:


    0   Operational Manual agreed
    0   Project Proforma (PP) approved


D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY

1. Economicand financialanalysis

An economic and financial analysis has been carried out for three components o f this project,
namely, the rural piped water supply, the pourashava piped water supply and the non-piped
mitigation options in rural water supply. Table 1 summarizes the results o f the economic and
financial analysis. For each component results are presented for various scenarios reflecting
different assumptions invaluingprojectbenefits.

Benefits o f the rural piped water supply component are estimated by valuing the incremental and
non-incremental volume of water supplied by the project as well as by estimating health and
institutional benefits attributable to the project during its expected lifetime. Benefits of the
pourashava piped water supply component are estimated using the same approach as that o f the
rural piped water schemes. Benefits ofthe rural non-piped water supply component are estimated
by valuing potential timesavings and healthbenefits attributable to the project component. The
main costs are related to scaling up measures to provide arsenic and bacteriologically safe water
in rural areas and small towns and include construction and engineering costs and costs of
scheme management, implementation, operationandmaintenance.

The ERR o f the rural piped water supply schemes ranges from 20% to 45% based on the
assumptions used to quantify the benefits. For the most conservative assumptions (Scenario 1)
the NPV is 214 million Tk (see Annex 9 for a detailed summary). For the Pourashava piped
water supply component, ERRs range from 16% to 34%. Scenario 1 for the Pourashava
component results in a NPV o f 291 million Tk. The ERRs for the rural non-piped mitigation
options component range from 20% to 57%, with an NPV'of5,2.30 millionTk. under scenario 1,
inwhich the onlybenefits that arevalued arepotentialtimesavings. The financial benefits for the
rural piped water schemes were calculated assuming a domestic tariff o f 11Tk./m3,a domestic
supply of 40 lpcd, a commercial tariff o f 19 TWm3 and a commercial supply o f 15 m3per day


                                                 13

r      ^1_1        -_._._
Jiuril PipedWater Supply




                             --_    34.34%    2.3 83.921
       -LI   _----
kuru1Non-pipedMithation'Options
                             ~.




                              ."

2. Technical

There are no major technical issues to address for the design o f piped water supply during
preparation. Indeed, experience from BAMWSP, SIPP, various NGOs, and DPHE has shown
that the technical aspect is not the most difficult one to address. The risks involved inthe project
are more evident in the institutional parts o f the project in so far as this will involve the private
sector. Therefore to increase the likelihood o f successhl implementation, the project includes a
strong capacity building component, both technical and institutional, for private sponsors, union
parishads, pourashavas andDPHE.

The project's primary technical approach to piped water supply systems in rural areas is to
provideincentives for private sponsors to select adequate design and construction standards that
provide service levels which households are willing to pay for and at the same time keep
operational costs low while preventing deterioration o f the infrastructure. The fact that private
sponsors will be investing equity shares inthe system and taking out loans for capital costs will
provide incentives for the above-mentioned approach. No up-front restriction on technologies
will be proposed and innovation will be encouraged. The project will promote the provision o f
varying levels o f service (individual householdconnections, yard taps, and shared standposts) to
expand service provision to as manypoor households as possible beyond the minimumcoverage
requirement.

The guidelines for private sponsors will include specific technical standards on keyareas such as
safety, adequate drainage, shared stand posts, environmental protection, and overall quality.
These standards will be designed to promote innovation while protecting the poor and the
environment. One o f the most important aspects o f these standards will be water quality
assurance at the water source evaluationphase andwater quality at the tap duringoperation. The
construction of wells for systems tapping groundwater as source will also be subject to specific
construction standards to prevent possible cross-contamination with aquifer layers containing
highlevelso farsenic.

The Monitoring and Evaluation component will include specific activities to capture and
disseminate lessons on technical issues faced by private sponsors and to identify areas where
theymightneedspecific training on international good practice ontechnical issues.

For all components, the choice o f the source o f water might create some delay and, based on
previous experience of the piped water supply such as the schemes being built under on-going
pilots, this issue will require a flexible approach. The water source may be surface or deep
groundwater. In some places deep groundwater does not exist while in other areas the surface
water is far too polluted and the cost o f water treatment would be far too expensive. Some
altemative options such as surface water infiltration wells will be proposed under the project. It
is preferable to leave some flexibility at this stage o f the project and provide more
criteridrecommendations after the completion o f some pipedwater supply schemes. Inall cases
the water provided should be monitored to ensure that it follows Bangladesh's national standard
for drinkingwater.




                                                  15

3. Fiduciary

Procurement. A procurement assessment was carried out during preparation. Procurement
arrangements are included in Annex 8. Both with regard to procurement and to financial
management, specific staff will have to be hired by the PMU in order to enable the project to
carry out o f these functions ina satisfactory manner.

FinancialManagement.A FinancialManagementassessmentwas carriedout covering a review
of the existing financial management arrangements and capacity of DPHE, the implementing
agency o f the project and identification o f the financial management arrangements that would be
required to be in place at the PMU o f DPHE and at other levels o f implementation involving
communities andpourashavas
Fund Flow and Disbursement arrangement: IDA funds will be channeled to the dedicated
special account upon Withdrawal Requests by the PMU, first as initial advance to the extent o f
the authorized allocation limit and then for claiming replenishments o f payments for eligible
project expenses. IDA and GOB funds will be allocated in the Annual Development Program
(ADP) havingregard to the budgetestimates preparedbyPMUbased on the annual work planof
the project. The PD, PMUwill be the authorized signatory to withdraw IDA Grant proceeds and
Drawing and Disbursement Officer to draw the Government funds. GOB fund allocated in the
ADP, will be released quarterly and the P M Uwill present the bills to the ChiefAccounts Officer
(CAO) o f the ministry for actual disbursement. Appropriate fund flow arrangements with
adequate control have been set for flow o f funds to the providers o f the water supply systems in
urbanandruralareas including CBOs as detailed inannex 7.

Payment o f funds would be monitored closely so that the processing time taken at the PMU
does not adversely affect the execution o f the sub-projects at any level. Service standards
(benchmarks) would be developed to specifically monitor the turn-around time for fund transfers
from PMUto CBOs.

4. Social

A social assessment was carried out to understand the incentives, needs and priorities o f the
different stakeholders, especially vulnerable groups (identified as hardcore poor, physically
challenged, tribal households, and female headed households). A Social Framework and
Guidelines for Sponsors were developed to ensure (i) benefits to the vulnerable groups;
                                                          targeting
(ii)inclusion, participation andvoice - especially of women and vulnerable groups; (iii)
transparent mechanisms for functional, financial and administrative autonomy o f local
communities; (iv) appropriate linkage with local government; (v) criteria for demand driven
initiative and cost sharing; (vi) accountability and transparency in transactions; (vii) technical,
institutional and financial sustainability; (viii) technical, financial and institutional support to the
communities and local government to build their capacity; and (ix) participatory monitoring o f
processes and outcomes.

Social development outcomes include (i)establishment o f inclusive and accountable local
institutions (e.g. village/ward development committee, union parishad and pourashavas) which
are responsive to the needs o f the poor; (ii) empowerment of rural women by givingthem greater


                                                    16

access, choice and voice in decision making; (iii)       improvement in health status by bringing
changes in personal, domestic and environmental hygiene behavior/practices; and (iv) capacity
buildingo flocal government and other institutions.

5. Environment

Given the small scale o f project interventions, no large-scale, significant andor irreversible
environmental impacts are anticipated in this project. The potential environmental impacts
primarily relate to (a) water source quality protection (including protection against arsenic,
bacteriological andother toxic contamination), (b) ensuring adequate drainage and avoiding local
construction-related impacts, and (c) disposal o f arsenic sludge if and when arsenic removal
plants were to be implemented.

Managing and ensuring the quality o f water supplied will be the major challenge inthe project.
Although groundwater inBangladesh is characterized by low total dissolved solids except inthe
coastal regions and a few pockets o f inland salinebrackish groundwater, there are issues over
and above arsenic contamination. These include (i)      occurrence o f high levels o f chloride in the
deep wells in the coastal zone and some salinebrackish water pockets inland, (ii)            localized
occurrence o f an excessive amount o f dissolved iron, manganese, ammonium, and sodium in
many deep wells, (iii) metals such as barium and boron, and (limited) uranium both in
                         heavy
shallow and deep groundwater, and (iv) secondary microbial contamination on some occasions.
Surface water inBangladesh has poor microbial water quality. The issues include (i)       highlevels
o f fecal and total coliform and (ii)presence o f cynobacteria. Water treatment o f urban systems
will ensure the provision o f safe water that meets GOBwater drinking standards and water
quality both at the source and at points o fdelivery which will be monitored.

For sub-projects using deep/old groundwater, the project will make certain to tap those deep
aquifers free from arsenic and bacteriological contamination. The project will also incorporate
the lessons learned inthe BAMWSPimplementationprocess. At the sub-project level, quality o f
water will be ensured through testing during feasibility studies and implementation (testing will
include all parameters stipulated by GOB for drinking water). Although the aim would be to
avoid problematic sources by exploring and tapping safe sources (by location), adequate arsenic
removal plants/technologies and conventional water treatment will be used wherever required.
Adequate assessment will be undertaken to understand the aquifer thickness, hydraulic gradient
and its recharge capacity prior to the installation o f deep tube wells. Safe drilling techniques will
be employed following a protocol specifically being developed for the project in order to
mitigate potential long-term impacts on the deep aquifer. Besides, the project will establish a
partnership with BAEC for comprehensive monitoring o f arsenic-free groundwater. See
Component 4 for details.

The Borrower has carried out anEnvironment Assessment; relevant environmental issues and the
processes to manage or mitigate the environmental have been identified. An environment
management framework has been prepared to address the issues during selection, design,
implementation and operation o f the sub-projects. Regular supervision and periodic
environmental audits will identify residual issues, level o f compliance with the environmental




                                                  17

management framework, and will recommend contingency mitigation measures, wherever
required.

6. Safeguard policies -CATEGORYB

  Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project                                           Yes                    N o
  Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                                               [XI                    [I
  Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                                          [I
                                                                                         ~~

  Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                              [I
  CulturalProperty (OPN 11-03,beingrevised as OP 4.11)                                   [I
  InvoluntaryResettlement (OPBP 4.12)                                                    [I
  IndigenousPeoples (OD 4.20, being revised as OP 4.10)                                  [I
  Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                                                   E[Il
  Safety o fDams (OP/BP 4.37)
  Projects inDisputedAreas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*                                              [I
  Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)                                    E l

Environmental Assessment - OP4.1: Owing to the small-scale individual interventions, the
project will not have significant irreversible or long-term environmental impacts. The potential
adverse environmental impacts, primarily related to the quality o f water supplied, or related to
small andlocal environmental degradation are manageable. These issues will be addressedbythe
effective implementation o fthe environmentalmanagement framework prepared bythe project.

Mechanism for land possession: The piped water systems will be built on public or donated
land, so land acquisition will not be required in the large majority o f cases. Therefore the
Operational Policy on Involuntary Resettlement (OP 4.12) will not be triggered. Bangladesh law
permits voluntary land donation by registering at the District Commissioner's office. All
voluntary land transactions will meet the following criteria: (a) the land in question will be free
of squatters, encroachers or other claims o f encumbrances; (b) verification o f the voluntary
nature of land donations in each case; (c) land transfers will be completed through registration;
land title will be vested in the Union Parishad (rural) and municipality (urban); and (d) a
provisionwill be made for redressal o f grievances.

For those rare cases where the Sponsors will need to purchase land, such purchase will be
undertakenwith the portion of funds providedby the Sponsor andthe landtitle will be vested in
the Union Parishad (rural) and municipality (urban). The PMU in DPHE will examine all cases
o f land purchases, with an independent agency as required, at the time o f proposal submission
and before approving fund transfer for actual physical work. The project will develop the TOR
and identify a suitable agency for ascertaining voluntarism o f all land transfers and purchases
before the signing o f implementation o f contracts. All grievances will be reviewed by a
committee under the chairmanship of the District Commissioner, and including the UP
Chairman, and a PMU representative as its members. This committee will address any issue as
brought out by an aggrieved person and/or as brought out by the external agency's examination
reports.

* By supporting theproposedproject, the Bank does not intend toprejudice thefinal determination of theparties' claims on the
disputed areas


                                                            18

Pipedwater systems for Tribal Population:The majority o fthe tribal populationresides inthe
Chittagong Hill Tracts (CHT) and the hlly northern areas in a scattered manner and groundwater
inthese areasisnot contaminatedby arsenic. Therefore, it isnot anticipated that the projectwould
finance activities insuch areas. Nevertheless, communities inthese areasmightopt for pipedwater
supply schemes under Component 1. Inthe event o f a request for piped water systems from tribal
areas, the sponsor will be required to develop a targeted mechanism for (a) creating enabling
environment by using tribal language awareness kits and tribal workers for informed decision
making by tribal groups, and (b) mobilizing the willing communities to determine the best
approach and the community members' role in the planning, implementation, operation and
maintenance o f the piped water schemes. When the community and sponsor agree on the
community taking an active role in the O&M, as opposed to having a relationship o f customer-
water utility, the sponsor will be required to strengthen the community's capacity to operate and
maintainthe project activitiedfacilities.

7. PolicyExceptionsandReadiness

No policy exceptions havebeen sought.

Readiness:

A procurement planfor the project has beenprepared andis readyfor implementation.




                                                  19

                                     Annex 1:CountryandSector Background
                               BANGLADESH: Water SupplyProgramProject

Bangladesh has made goodprogress inimprovingaccess to safe water. The water supply coverage
has increased bothinthe urbanandthe rural areas. Nearly 96% o fthe ruralpopulationi s served by
over 11 million hand tube wells. Arsenic contamination o f groundwater beyond the permissible
limit o f 0.05 mg/liter in Bangladesh, has affected an estimated 25% of the shallow tube wells
bringing down the safe water coverage to around 75%. The arsenic in groundwater affects an
estimated 35 million people' both in urban and rural water areas. So far between 10,000 and
12,000 cases o f arsenicosis have beenidentified.

On average more than half the urbanpopulation has access to water supply. The four large cities;
Dhaka, Chittagong, Khulna andRajshahi have pipedwater systems that serve 76%, 55%, 51% and
40% o fthe population respectively. However, only 100out o fthe over 250 municipal towns have
pipedwater systems. These primarilyserve the population inthe urbancore. The urbanpopulation
inslums andfringes ofmediumandsmalltowns reliesonhandtube wells.

Gains inrural sanitation coverage have not matched the achievement inwater supply. Sanitation
has consistently laggedbehind. A recent survey puts sanitation coverage at 33%2 inthe rural and
little over 50% inthe urbanareas. The popular technology inrural areas is the pit latrine with or
without water seal.

The sanitation coverage inlarge towns and cities is between 65 and 76%. Pit latrines and septic
tanks are the technology o f choice in urban areas. Poor drainage decreases permeability o f soil
making dense urban areas unfit for onsite sanitation options. Pits fill up too fast and effluent
from septic tanks flows into open drains aggravating environmentalpollution. Only Dhaka has a
water-borne sewerage system that serves around 27% o f the population. The slow progress in
sanitation coverage and poor hygiene habits among people have thwarted expected health gains
from improved access to clean water. Morbidity and mortality rates due to excreta related and
water borne diseases remain high resulting in malnutrition, increased medical cost and lost
income.

The highwater supplycoverage fails to reflect the underlyingproblems o fwater quality (arsenic
and other chemical and biological contamination), the low coverage in terms o f adequate
sanitation and poor hygiene practices. The high incidence o f diarrhea and other water-related
diseases lead to highchild mortality and the loss of 5.75 million Disability Adjusted Life Years
(DALYs), or 61% of total lost D a y s 3 . Treatment o fhygiene-related disease costs 5 billion taka
each year4. As studies from India suggest, linking clean water to sanitation and hygiene
promotion can substantially reduce medical expenditure, DALYs lost and loss o f earnings and
production for poor people, whose physical fitness is their mainproductive asset.

'Arsenic Mitigation in Bangladesh, An outcome of the International Workshop on Arsenic Mitigation inBangladesh, Dhaka, 14-16January
2002, Editors: M.FerozeAhmed, Chowdhury MufadAhmed, Local GovernmentDivision, Ministry of LGRD & Co-operatives, Govemment of
the People's Republic ofBangladesh, September 2002
 Baseline survey conductedprior to the Sanitation Campaign in 2003
 DALY - Disability Adjusted Life Year, a measure of effective loss o flife through both deathand incapacity
 S. A. Ahmed, Water & Sanitation Program, personal communication April 2002, based upon "Health Care Expenditures inBangladesh" in
"Health Situation and HealthCare Expenditures inBangladesh, Evidences from Nationally RepresentativeSurveys", BBS, April 1999



                                                                     20

National Policies. The adoptiono fthe National Policy for Safe Water Supply and Sanitation in
1998 is perhaps the most important development inthe sector. The policy recognizes the many
problems inthe sector and makes provisions to address them. Though the policy does not have
the force o f law, inprinciple all planningand implementation inthe water and sanitation sector
shouldconformto it.

The National Water Policy 1999 o f the Government provides direction to all agencies and
institutions working directly or indirectly with the water sector for achievement o f specified
objectives. The contents o fthe National Water Policy do not conflict with the National Policy for
Safe Water Supply and Sanitation 1998. However, implementation o f both policies requires
institutional reforms, legal interventions and capacity buildingat different levels, something that
thisproject is designed to do.

Sector Planning. Planning and implementation in the sector has been largely a supply-driven,
top-down and target-oriented process. Sector planninglacks a holistic approach and mechanisms
to facilitate participatory planning at the local level. In consequence, planning i s project based
and suffers from duplication, unclear priorities, anduncoordinated development. Agencies prefer
and are geared to meet physical targets rather than to establish and monitor processes for
reaching goals relating to facility operation, management, utilization or maintenance.
Coordination o f sector development should be a government function. Unfortunately there is little
coordination o f activities within the sector andvirtually no coordinationwith other sectors such as
the Ministry o f Health and Family Welfare, NWMP, DOE or WARP0 or MWR that have
implicationson development inthe water andsanitation sector.
Past lessons suggest that goals of sustainability, equity, and efficiency may be met by focusing
on demand-driven planning and implementation, which emphasize identifying and meeting
consumer demands. The success o f future efforts in the WSS sector will rest in making a shift
from a supply-driven to the demand-driven approach o fthe proposedproject.

Institutional framework. There is growing dissatisfaction among stakeholders with the public
service delivery mechanism. The public sector is overly centralized, supply driven and seldom
responds to user needs and demand. The emphasis has been more on construction than on
improving the management o f services. Stakeholders recognize that development of service and
improvement inmanagementhave to go handinhand. They call for institutional changes to give
a greater role to local government institutions and user communities inplanning, implementation
and O&M o f services. The GOB is now determined to bring about concrete action regarding
institutional change.

The statutory responsibility for the water supply and sanitation (WSS) sector lies with the Ministry
o f Local Government, Rural Development and Co-operatives (MLGRD&C).                  The ministry
delegates the functional responsibility to the DPHE, the Local Government Engineering
Department(LGED), the citycorporations (CCs), the municipalities and, inDhakaandChittagong,
to the Water Supply and Sewerage Authorities (WASAs). DPHE i s responsible for planning,
designing and implementing water supply and sanitation services inrural and urban areas except
the cities o f Dhaka and Chittagong.       LGED is responsible for urban and rural infrastructure




                                                 21

development but its activities in drainage, solid waste management and rehabilitation o f water
supply overlap with the responsibilities vested inDPHE.

Provision, operation and maintenance o f water supply are statutory responsibilities o f
municipalities (pourashavas), but they have limited technical competence and rely on DPHE (or
LGED) for design and construction. Provision o f rural water services is channeled through the
Union Water Supply and Sanitation Committee. Allocation o f new tubewells is on the basis o f a
set o f selection criteria. DPHE contractors install the tubewells. Communities participate in site
selection and make cash contributions depending on the type o f water point installed. Operation
andmaintenance o fwater points are the responsibilityo fthe users andcaretakers undertake minor
repairs. Major repairs are done by DPHE or private sector mechanics. The government service
delivery mechanism has been successful in achieving physical targets but the highly subsidized
service provision and the continued public involvement in local level service planning and
implementationjeopardize sustainability.

At the municipal level, DPHE plans and implements water and sanitation schemes. Despite the
presence o f local DPHE offices, the centralized administrative structure o fDPHEcoupled with the
weak managerial, financial, technical and communication skills o f the pourashava has often
resulted in inadequate consultation between DPHE, and municipalities and the local community.
Under these circumstances, municipalities do not identify strongly with the schemes and
subsequently providepoor maintenance andconsumer service.

As per municipal ordinance, municipalities are responsible for water supply and sanitation, but
lack sufficient autonomy to take decisions. LGD approves all-important municipal decisions on
planning, implementation, staffing and tariff. Municipalities have limited capacities in
management, technical competence and finance to operate water systems efficiently or to
undertake community development and social mobilization. Water supply services are organized
as administrative departments o f the pourashavas and not as legally separated entities. Water
revenues and expenses are part o fthe overall budget o fthe pourashava.

UnsustainableCost Recovey. The current rural water supply program i s highlysubsidized. On
an average the user community currently contributes 10% o f the capital cost and bears the total
cost o f operation and maintenance. DPHE village sanitation centers sell sanitary latrine
components at cost price.

Municipal revenues from urban water services are also highly subsidized and insufficient to
cover operation and maintenance costs, and even less to finance investments in system
rehabilitation andexpansion. Collection o f revenues i s also low andhence arrears, particularly to
electricity providers, are high. The limited investments carried out in system expansion are then
dependent on central government subsidies through DPHE. Municipalities may, but rarely do,
initiate water and sanitation projects from their annual government development grants. These
financial policies lead to a rapid dilapidation o f existing infrastructure and to low levels o f
service coverage.




                                                 22

Financial dependence o f local authorities on government or external funding further deepens the
cycle o f dependence and inefficiency. By empowering local governments and encouraging
private sector development, the project aims to break this cycle.

Inequitable service distribution. Average figures conceal the disparity in service access and
distribution. The rural and the urban poor suffer the most. Despite the urban bias in sector
investments, water supply coverage in the urban areas i s lower than in the rural with glaring
inequity inservice access bytowns, socio-economic status andhydro-geologicalregions.

Despite highrural water supply coverage distribution o f services hasbeen inequitable. The ratio o f
persons to deep tube wells varies widely among different hydro-geological areas between 50
persons per tube well and 350. Even in well-served areas there are under-served and un-served
pockets. Arsenic contamination has brought in a new dimension almost wiping out the
achievement in safe water supply coverage in some areas. The water and sanitation service
coverage inthe hill districts i s much lower than the average national figures. Sanitation coverage
has lagged behind water supply. The average coverage in the rural areas is around 35%. Rural
projects in the past have mainly concentrated on increasing service coverage. Despite user
selection criteria for water point allocation, services continue to elude the poor. The policy
emphasizesattention to un-served andunderserved areas but subsidy targeting has not been easy.

Conclusion.The Water Supply and Sanitation Sector faces many inter-related issues pertaining to
technology options, equitable distribution o f water and sanitation services, institutions,
decentralization, finance and mobilization o f resources, capacity in management, planning and
policy analysis and arsenic contamination mitigation measures. This project presents an
opportunity to bring to bear the skill and financial resources of the World Bank to help address
the challenges with an approach that addresses the need for widening the group o f stakeholders
inthe water supplysector, strengthens localandnationalgovernment capacity, andhelpsto scale
upwater supply services inBangladesh.




                                                23

        Annex 2: Major RelatedProjectsFinancedby the Bankand/or other Agencies
                      BANGLADESH: Water SupplyProgramProject

     Sector Issue


Bank Financed
(Piped) water supply/
decentralization




Financial mechanism




Other
Development
Agencies
 ADB


ADB



DANIDA


JICA


                       DrinkingWater to
                       arsenic affected areas in
                       western Bangladesh




                                                 24

                               Annex 3: ResultsFrameworkandMonitoring
                           BANGLADESH: Water SupplyProgramProject

                                             ResultsFramework

                PDO                          OutcomeIndicators              Use of OutcomeInformation

The development objective o f the      Pilot Innovative approaches to water Assess the health andproductivity
proposed project i s to contribute to  supplyprovisionfunctioning and       impacts o fproject intervention
Bangladesh's efforts to achieve the    attracting private sponsors
MillenniumDevelopmentGoals                                                  Assess viability and future prospects
(MDGs) inwater supplyand               Scaling up o frural and small town    for further scaling up o finnovative
sanitation by 2015.                    water supply on-going ina viable      institutional options for pipedwater
                                       manner                               supply
Specifically, the project will pilot
innovative measuresto scale up the     Safe water provided to at least 1.25
provision o f safe water supply free   million people
from arsenic andpathogens inrural
areas and small towns.                 Local government capacity in
                                       providing safe water strengthened
     IntermediateResults                ResultsIndicatorsfor Each              Use ofResultsMonitoring
     One per Component                             Component
ComponentOne:                          ComponentOne:                         ComponentOne:
Enhance quality and quantity o f       Number ofvillages receiving and       Assess the viability and
water supply for at least 300 villages using effectively safe pipedwater     effectiveness o fprivate sponsor
                                       supply inprivate-sponsor              arrangements for village water
                                       arrangements ina technically and      supply
                                       financially sustainable manner
                                                                             Assess options for fiu-therscaling up
                                       Proportion o fpoor households         o f village pipedwater supply
                                       receiving and effectively usingpiped
                                       water supply inservice areas o f
                                       participating villages
ComponentTwo:                          ComponentTwo:                         ComponentTwo:
Enhance quality and quantity o f       a) Pourashavas(piped water supply)    a) Assess the viability and
water supplyfor at least 3                                                   effectiveness o fprivate operator
pourashavas                            Numberofpourashavas with              arrangements for pourashava water
                                       expanded and improved water           supply
                                       supplywith a functioning private
                                       operator arrangement                  Assess options for further scaling up
                                                                             o furbanpipedwater supply with
                                       Proportion o fpoor households         private-sector participation
                                       receiving andusing effectively piped
                                       water supply inservice areas o f
                                       participating pourashavas             b)Provide decisionbasis for
                                                                             possible future investment in
                                       b)Pourashava sanitation               pourashava sanitation

                                       Numbero fprefeasibility studies for
                                       pourashava sanitation
ComponentThree:                        Component Three:                      ComponentThree:
Enhance quality and quantity o f       Approximately 2,000 arsenic safe      Assess increase and effective use in
water supply for approximately 200     point water sources provided         populationusing safe water



                                                         25

villages inarsenic hot spot areas by Average number ofhouseholds
providing safe point water sources   effectively using safe point water
                                     source.
Component Four                       Component Four:                       Component Four:
Enhance capacity o f stakeholders to Share o fpoint sourceswith a water    Assess the safety and sustainability
implementsustainable mitigation      quality assessment uponcompletion     o fproject interventions and correct
measures                             o f water point (inpipedandnon-       interventions ifnecessary.
                                     piped systems)

                                     Share o fpoint sourceswith annual
                                     record o f water quality monitoring

Component Five                       Component Five                        Component Five
Develop a local credit market for    (tlus component will only be          Assess the capacity o f the private
ruralpipedwater supply.              activated underthe conditions         sector for the scaling up o f the pilot
                                     outlined inAnnex 4)                   approach used inthe project.
Component Six                        Component Six                         Component Six
Implementa functioning M&E           Number and quality o f M&E studies    Develop a functioning tool that will
systemfor continuous learning from   duringthe life o fthe project         help scaleup the pilot approach used
project implementation                                                     intheproject andto adjust
                                     One analytical report to measurethe   implementation as necessary.
                                     effective use o fimproved accessto
                                     safe water options and its impact, at
                                     the end o f project.




                                                       26

          9
          Y,
1:I       m
 I:    i  W




          W    g          s
    m     2     P-    -   0 P-




                s           g
          m
          0    0r-    hl    P-


    0
    0
2
a    2          g
          O
          \o    P-




                s
          N
          W     0
                P-




     0
     m




 I  I

I




     s
     0
     00




     s
     00
     0    3




          3




     s
     0
     00   3




     s
     0
     00   3

                           Annex 4: DetailedProjectDescription
                   BANGLADESH: Water SupplyProgramProject


Component1: Ruralpipedwater supply -US$23.1 million

This component will support private sponsors' efforts (including NGOs, private
companies, cooperatives and CBOs) to implement and operate sustainable piped water
supply systems in rural villages and growth centers. The component will provide
technical assistance and a partial capital cost grant (50%) aimed at expanding provision
o f the piped system to serve the poor members o f the community. Inthis component, the
private sponsor and the community (in some cases with the support o f local elected
officials - Union Parishad chairmen) will prepare the feasibility studies and the full
project proposal andengineering designs for review and appraisal by DPHEandits PMU.
Project preparationwill be based on a participatory approach under specific guidelines to
ensure involvement ofthe poor and disadvantaged members o fthe community.

Financing o f the piped systems will include equity contributions from the private
sponsors, loans from local financial institutions, community contributions inthe form o f
connection fees, and a partial capital cost grant provided by the project. The payment o f
this grant will take the form o f an Output-Based Aid (OBA) approach, with
disbursements made upon certified achievements o f project milestones, such as
functioning connections. The main objective o f the OBA grant is to ensure provision o f
water supply to the poor members o f the community. Provision o f water to commercial
andindustrial customers (including insome cases multi-purpose irrigation schemes) will
be promoted to improve the financial viability o f the system but the OBA grant will not
support the capital cost o f these activities. The private sponsor and the communities will
negotiate tariffs and the tariff review mechanism will be made explicit in the Service
Agreement between the parties. The Project Unit will provide independent support to the
communities as requested inthese negotiations. Inaddition, a benchmarking system that
will provide up-to-date information to communities joining the program will be
established for all o f these projects.

The private sponsor will be responsible for operating the piped system for a period o f 15
years under a Service Agreement with a Water Users Association or equivalent group,
and the local government authority (Union Parishad), using formats prepared under the
project. The Service Agreement will define roles and responsibilities o f each party and
lay out clear dispute resolution procedures. The M&E system will closely follow
operation o f these systems and compile lessons during the first two years o f operation to
make a determination about the best approach to ensure prompt resolutions o f disputes.
DPHEwill be responsible for regulation and monitoring o f water quality and quality o f
service.




                                               29

Component 2: Water and sanitation services in medium-size towns - US$ 14.8
million

2.a Pourashavas and private sector involvement in piped water supply - US$ 14.53
million

This component will focus on improving water supply service in 3 to 5 mid-sized
pourashavas by promoting participation o f the local private sector as a viable option to
design, build, and operate the water supply systems. It i s expected that this pilot activity
will improve current water service through (i)rehabilitation and expansion o f the
pourashava water supply system, (ii)   enabling 24-hour supply o f water (as compared to
current 2 to10 hours), (iii) provision o f arsenic free and bacteriologically safe water by
substituting for public contaminated wells and by offering an alternative to the many
households that currently rely on contaminated water from handpumps.

As inthe village pipedwater supplysystem, different levels o fservice will beprovided in
order to ensure affordability to all sections o f the community. Costs will be recovered
through tariffs and hence, no upfront connection fee will be charged to promote a higher
rate o f connections to the water system. This approach was chosen because (i)   connection
fees may represent a major disincentive to connect to the public system, particularly in
the case o f potential customers who have access to their private (often arsenic-
contaminated) handpumps, (ii)     people, especially inperipheral areas, may not own their
homes and therefore be unwillingto invest in a house connection; and (iii)    non-domestic
users with a private water source may also beunwillingto pay a connection fee.

While rehabilitation andconstructiono fthe water system will be 100% financedby IDA,
the pourashavas, through their water supply entity, will be responsible for repaying 50%
o f the investment cost. This will be done through an on lending agreement between the
government and the pourashavas. The terms and conditions o f these loans would be
similar to those used in the Municipal Services Project (20 year repayment period,
including 5 years grace period and 7% interest). The technical assistance under the
project would be transferred to the pourashavas or their water supply entities as grants.

Pourashavas will create and own a Pourashava Water Supply Entity (PWSE) which will
own the assets of the water supply system and be the depository o f all revenues that
accrue from the provision o f water services. This PWSE and the GOB will enter into a
contract with a private operator for the design, rehabilitatiodconstructionand operation
of the water supply for a period o f 10 years and will also be responsible for the
supervision o fthe contract with the private operator.

Selection of the private operator will be made under competitive bidding. The PO will
prepare final design documents to be approved by the PMU and will procure all the
goods and services needed to rehabilitate and expand the water system. Rehabilitation
and construction o f the system will also be supervised by DPHE and the PMU. The
pourashavas will be invitedby the PMU to actively participate in all decisions related to




                                             30

the preparation o f feasibility studies, and procurement, and bid evaluation o f offers by
interested POs.

Contractual obligations o f the private operator during the operation phase include: (1)
managing o f the personnel assigned by the government to the company; (2) full
discretion for procuring (following agreed-upon procedures) goods and services needed
to operate and maintain the water supply system; (3) billing and collection; (4)
rehabilitation works needed to maintain the water system in optimal condition; and (5)
installation o f new water connections and needed extensions and improvements to the
distribution system (consistent with the capacity o f the water system). The private
operator will also be responsible for the forward and timely planningo f the services and
to advise the pourashava on actions needed to expand the system to meet future demand.
Revenues from operations will be deposited in a special bank account owned by the asset
holding company but managed by the private operator. No money from this account can
be used for purposes other than those related to the operation and maintenance o f the
services. The remuneration and productivity bonuses to the operator will be drawn from
this account with the authorization o f the asset holding company. Performance o f the
private operator will be reviewed annually under a technicaVfinancia1 performance audit
to be performedby a specialized private firm. The cost o f this audit will be paid from the
special bank account.

It is likely, during the first 1-3 years o f operation, that the operational cash flow o f the
PWSE could be negative as tariff increases (from the low present levels) are likely to be
inadequate to cover all costs. A project service charge would be established and financed
by the project on a declining basis in order to stabilize the cash flow, provided that the
negative cash flow is not the result o f non-compliance by the Government (tariff
increases and prompt payment o fwater services provided to government agencies) or the
private operator not fulfilling his obligations underthe contract.

Under this component, the preparation o f feasibility studies (which includes preparation
of bidding documents) and the technicaVfinancia1 performance audits will also be
financed.

The option to include a concession arrangement with the Operator (through capital
investment by the Operator himself) will be explored. At appraisal, this option seemed
not viable due to the amount o f local debt financing needed under this arrangement.

Capacity Building component includes technical assistance for project preparation,
biddingand construction supervision. Capacity buildingwill also include actions to raise
awareness and understanding of private sector participation and to train central and local
staff inthe supervision andmonitoring o f the contract with the private operator.

The criteria for pourashava eligibility are:


0   Willingness to introduce reforms to: a) create a municipal company to own the water
    supply assets, accountable to the Chairman, and responsible for the provision o f



                                              31

    services with separate accounts from the municipal govemment; b) transfer to the
    water company o f the assets related to the water supply infrastructure; c) delegate to
    the water company the authority to contract with a private operator the provision o f
    services for ten years; d) delegate to the water company the supervision o f the
    performance o f and dialogue with the private operator and e) pay back to the
    government part o f the project cost (share to be defined) under an on-lending
    agreement (see above).


0   Additional criteria includethe presence o f arsenic inthe area's water supply.

2. b Urban Sanitation US$0.22million
                         -

The project will finance pre-feasibility studies for urban sanitation. These may include:


0   Preparation o f alternative sanitation options (condominia1 sewer systems, individual
    house units-latrines).
0   Identificationo furbancenters where these options could be implemented.
0   Definition o f institutional options and financial arrangements to operate and maintain
    public sanitation systems.

Component 3: Non-piped arsenic mitigation activities -US$4.4 million

Insmallvillages ofupto 200households pipedwater supply isnotviable andnon-piped
arsenic mitigation options need to be sought. Based on experience from BAMWSP and
other GOB and donor initiatives, many mitigation measures have been developed. Some
o fthe lessons learned include:
    0   Dug wells: People's acceptance level seems to be low, and the bacteriological
        quality as well as possible arsenic contamination i s a concern.
    0   Pond Sand Filter: People's acceptance level is low and bacteriological quality i s
        poor.
    0   Rainwater Harvesting: Acceptance seems to be good but there i s a concern about
        the bacteriological quality and availability as this method does not provide water
        year-round.
    0   Household water treatment: There are many techniques such as the Bucket
        Treatment Unit (BTU), tube well attached arsenic removal unit, and three-kolshi.
        Dependingonthe technique, user acceptance varies; neverthelessthese techniques
        may have other contamination problems.
    0   Community water treatment: So far it seems that this technique is accepted and, in
        terms ofbacteriological water quality, it is easier to monitor water quality.
    0   Deep hand tube wells: there is high acceptance by beneficiaries and the risk o f
        poor bacteriological quality is low.

The arsenic mitigation package to be offered will be based on these lessons learned.
Since this component i s also demand driven, it is not possible at this stage to provide a
final estimate o f which option the communities will choose to implement. BAMWSP
experience has shown, however, that most communities prefer deep tube wells.


                                               32

   (a) Small villages located inarsenic-affected Hot Spot Upazilas

   This part of Component 3 will make funding available to serve villages under 200
   households located in 3 Hot Spot Upazilas where more than 60 percent o f household
   tubewells are contaminated by arsenic. It is expected that around 200 villages can be
   covered with arsenic and pathogen safe water sources, according to the following
   base design:

       Support Organizations (SOs) will be contracted to facilitate establishment o f
      Union and Ward Arsenic Committees, develop capacity o f these committees to
      raise awareness on the importance of arsenic safe water, and support development
       o f ward level community action plans (CAP), which will detail the number o f
      point source options per ward, cost sharing mechanisms andO&M procedures;
      Union Parishads (UPS)and Ward Arsenic Committees (WACs) in the selected
       Upazilas will be made aware o f the project and the possible arsenic mitigation
       investments being offeredby the project;
       To ensure that the new source is attractive enough for beneficiaries to use,
       minimum service level for deep tube wells anddug wells is 1for every 10to 15
       households;
       Dugwells will only be offered in areas where no other option is feasible and/or
       where soil conditions permit the digging o f such wells. In addition, provisions
       will bemade for well disinfection.
       UPSand WACs work with villages to develop a request for funding investments
       according to a framework to be outlined inthe Operational Manual;
       Eachcommunity contributes 10%to investment costs;
       Ward Committee contracts for the investments and installations and will, jointly
       with community caretakers, continueto beresponsible for O&M inthe future;
       Participation (at least 30%) o f women and vulnerable groups in ward arsenic
       committees, as outlined inAnnex 10.
       SO will monitor the process of contracting and completion of CAP. SO will also
       provide follow up of O&M activities one year after CAP completion.

   (b) Complementary service infringe areas o fthose villages where pipedwater supply
       will be supplied, butwhere itwill notbe feasible, for technicalreasons, to cover
       all households. Insuch cases, beneficiarieswill contribute 10%o fthe investment.


Component4: Capacitybuilding, regulationsandtraining-US$3.2 million

4. a Capacitybuildingandtraining

For Component 1, the key capacity buildingrequirement will be a package o f assistance
to prospective local private partner/operators. This package should be provided by
organizations familiar with management o f community level piped water systems, and
shouldbe deliveredon an appropriate upazilddistrict level basis. A series o f workshops


                                           33

will be carried out with participants who meet minimum requirements as potential
operatorhponsors (e.g. experience with the management o f community-level enterprises
andor mobilization, knowledge o f water system design and operation, etc.). A roster o f
potential operators should be compiled with specific facilitation assistance provided at
the community level as required.

For Component 2a, Workshops will be held with interested local private operators to
discuss ways to increase competition and to take into account their concerns regarding
the bidding documents. Workshops will also be held to discuss with government
authorities at all levels the policy implications o f participation of the private sector and
the importance o f developing a responsive benchmarking andcontract supervision system
to promote synergy with private operators for the benefit o f all users o f the public water
supply.

For component 2b, experienced consultants will be hired to assess the viability o f the
technical, economic and social viability o f public and non-public approaches to urban
sanitation.

For Component 3, the PMU will facilitate and monitor planning, implementation and
operations o f investments. Inaddition, TA will beprovided to Union Parishads and Ward
Arsenic Committees to procure, implement, monitor and maintain the chosen arsenic
mitigation package. This will take place through qualified NGOs (SOs). In addition, the
design and implementation o f client satisfaction surveys in communities will be
supported through this component. These surveys will be integrated into the project's
M&EandMLGRDCmonitoring systems.

4. b Regulatory Frameworks

The project will provide Technical Assistance to the developmenthtrengthening o f a
basic regulatory framework in two key areas: (i)        involvement o f the private sector
(cooperatives, NGOs and private companies) in rural and urban piped water supply,
increased delegation o f responsibilities to local government and benchmarking o f
operations to introduce competition and accountability; and (ii)   groundwater management
(development, monitoring andregulation).

4. c WaterMonitoring

This component will seek to strengthen water quality monitoring routines and capacity at
national (DPHE), union parishad and pourashava levels. Parallel financing by the IAEA
as well as DFIDi s expected.

(i) Water Quality Monitoring
    0   A water quality monitoring protocol has been developed by BAMWSP and the
        same protocol would be usedto ensure that the water sources used for the BWSPP
        are safe and that information collected would be fed into the National Arsenic




                                              34

        MitigationInformation Center ("IC),          whichwas developed under BAMWSP
         andhas beenfunctioningwell.
        The protocol may also serve as a contribution to the development o f a national
        water quality monitoringprotocol for DPHE.
        Institutional arrangements to support water qualitymonitoring through DPHE and
         local governments respectively and appropriate capacity building measures will
        be developed.

(ii) Groundwater mapping and aquifer characterization

This subcomponent will also focus onmonitoring and assist DPHEinthe characterization
and monitoring o f safe groundwater resources, as groundwater will continue to be one of
the country's main sources o fwater supply.
     Deep (and older) groundwater in the Pleistocene aquifer is generally free o f arsenic
     and a potential source for (piped) water supply schemes. The mapping and
     characterization will confirm its quality and show whether it i s mixedwith younger
     water from the upper (arsenic contaminated)              aquifers. Deep groundwater
     investigations at various locations will contribute to buildingthe knowledgebase and
     provide guidelines for the safe abstraction o f groundwater (well construction
     guidelines to prevent cross flow in the well, monitoring requirements to control the
     possible mixing with younger water from the upper aquifer and regulatory
     requirements for monitoring and control o fthe abstraction rates).
     Discussions are on-going with the IAEAto support deep aquifer characterization and
     mapping by use o f isotope analysis. Such analysis can confirm that the deep
     groundwater at different locations i s o f the same age and whether it i s mixedwith the
     younger water from the upper (arsenic-contaminated) aquifers. Systematic isotope
     data collection from the deep groundwater will build a valuable database o f
     information on the confirmation that this water is from the same age (and origin) and
     different from the water o fthe arsenic polluted aquifers.
     River bank infiltration systems are presently being tested under BAMWSP (in
     Chapai Nawabganj). These systems may provide a safe source o f drinking water if
     designed such that the major portion o f the pumped water originates from the river
     andis bacteriologically safe. The results o fthe current pilot project under BAMWSP
     will be used to assess the feasibility o f similar systems at other locations. Isotope
     analysis will also be a useful tool inthe design o f riverbank infiltration systems and
     to monitor its safe exploitation.

 This sub component supports ongoing activities o f the GOB (including studies carried
 out by Japan Intemational CooperationAgency (JICA) and the United States Geological
 Survey (USGS) in collaboration with Geological Survey o f Bangladesh (GSB) and
 Water Resources Development Board (WRDB) and will promote the use o f a valuable
 tool in developing the knowledge o f the deep aquifer and its safe exploitation and the
 feasibility of development o friver bank infiltration schemes.




                                               35

(iii) Water safety plans

The objective o f this sub-component i s to develop and test the application o f risk-based
approaches to water safety management in Components 1, 2 and 3. It will finance the
development o f pilot projects to implement water safety plans in a selection o f
communities with the objective o f informing the establishment o f national guidelines for
implementing water safety plans inBangladesh that are consistent with an overall water
safety framework. Additional hndingwill beprovided from DFIDvia the Policy Support
Unit(WSU) locatedinthe LocalGovernment Division.

Through this sub-component, water supply managers (local Government, private sector
and/or communities) will be provided with the skills and tools to manage the safety of
their water supply and promote safe water storage and handling. This will include
ensuring that the catchments o f water supplies are reasonably protected, that monitoring
i s targeted on parameters detecting identified risks that infrastructure i s properly
maintained and that good water handling hygiene is promoted. Experience from other
countries has shown that these approaches promote better asset management and
therefore implementing water safety plans is expected to provide an overall benefit in
protecting and maximizing investments. Some tools have been developed in other
developing countries and small-scale pilot activities fimded by the Policy Support Unit
are being developed in Bangladesh to revise and refine these tools. The sub-component
will finance consultant support and training o f water supply managers in developing
appropriate water safety plans and tools for monitoring and corrective action. It is
envisaged that a number o f models o f implementing water safety plans Will be tested,
including contracting o f water safety and supply management by Local Government
Institutions to the small-scale private sector.

5. Developmentof localcreditmarketand risk managementmechanismsfor village
pipedwater supply-US$4.9 million

This component seeks to develop a local credit market for village piped water supply.
With local banks in Bangladesh generally unable to provide local-currency loans with
long-term maturity - a crucial element in keeping water tariffs charged by private
sponsors affordable - and lacking experience in financing rural piped water supply
schemes, this component will make available funding to eligible sponsors. The chief
objective o fthe component is to illustrate to private banks that private pipedwater supply
schemes constitute a viable market and that it is worthwhile for them to offer appropriate
lendinginstruments.

This component would support a facility with a variety o f mechanisms to support private
banksinterested inlending for village pipedwater supply. These instrumentsmay include
a credit line, partial credit guarantee, takeout and interest rate support, and as a last
recourse direct lending to sponsors. The liquidity support or takeout mechanism would
provide a re-financing mechanism to address liquidity problems stemming from the
mismatchbetween tenors o f required lending and average maturity o f available deposits.
The interest rate support mechanism would provide comfort against longer-term interest



                                              36

rate volatility, thereby facilitating the local provision o f fixed rate loans. The direct
lending to sponsors would be a last recourse in case local banks are not interested inthe
initial group of sponsors' proposals. The interest o f local banks confirmed at appraisal is
positive, although there i s interest in the takeout and interest support facilities. The
facilities will be priced appropriately so that commercial lenders with liquiditywould not
require a line o f credit but would be given incentives to extend local currency loans with
the required structure. These facilities would constitute a short-term mechanism untilthe
marketis developed morebroadly. The fundingmechanismwould be administered bythe
Infrastructure Development Company Limited (IDCOL), the implementing agency for
the IDA-financed Private Sector Infrastructure Development Project (PSIDP) and the
GEF grant for the Rural Electrification andRenewable EnergyDevelopment Project. Itis
anticipated that this component would be activated if other altemative support
mechanisms and funding sources, through the above existing projects or other IDA-
supported activities -were not sufficient.

This component would also support a risk management mechanism to support private
sponsors againstforce majeur situations outside their control. The private sponsors have
indicated the needfor support that would insure them against natural events like floods or
tomadoes that could damage the infrastructure facilities, or against the appearance o f
arsenic or other contaminants despite detailed engineering analyses conducted during
each project preparation that would require the installation o f additional unplanned
treatment facilities. There is no insurance industry in Bangladesh that would provide
services o f this type to private sponsors. This component would provide protection to
private sponsors against well-defined conditions identified in the subproject grant
agreement. Based on lessons o f implementation o f this activity, the project will support
the establishment of a more permanent insurance mechanism in coordination with other
Government programs.

6 Projectmonitoringandevaluation-US$1.4 million

An M&E framework for the project is under development. M&E h c t i o n s would be
carried out by a consulting company under the supervision of a specialized subunit within
the PMU. The data collected by the consulting company and its linkage to the databases
managed byN A M I C is being explored.

The objectives o fthe M&E will include:

Component1:
     0   Assist BWSPP inthe collection and analysis o f information relatedto the
         preparationandimplementationo fpipedwater schemes;
    0    Prepare information to disseminate initial lessons to all stakeholders;
    0    Prepare briefing documents that will raise issues andchallenges faced bythe
         pilots to assist BWSPP andthe World Bankwith the necessary modifications to
         the guidingdocuments and overall project framework;




                                              37

   0  Assist BWSPP inthe monitoring o fcompliance by the sponsors and communities
      with the obligations stated inthe Guidelines, ProjectProposals, andlegal
      agreements;
   0  Develop andrefine an M&Esystem that canbe scaled-up to monitor a large-scale
      programo fruralpipedwater supplyschemes that canbe usedbythe Government
      to have up-to-date information onthe sector inorder to refine the overall
      regulatory andsupport framework;
   0  Develop a benchmarking system for pipedsystems supported by the project that
      can also be usedby other programssupportingpiped water supply.

Component2:

   0  Prepare indicators and benchmarking system to monitor performance o f water
      utilities (service, financial, administrative);
   0  Support update o fthe DPHE urbanbenchmarking database;
   0  Monitor project component performance;
   0  PrepareguidelinesAessons learned from project intervention.

Component3:


   0  Prepare indicators for component performance and monitor process, output and
      impact ofnon-piped arsenic project interventions;
   0  Continue evaluation - initiated during BAMWSP - o f non-piped arsenic
      mitigation measures interms o fwater safety and social acceptance.

Projectlevel:

    0 Develop an overall project M&E monitoring framework, assisting BWSPP in
      project process, output and impact and financial monitoring based on indicators
       developed as per above.

Component7: Projectmanagement-US$3.3 million

The project will be managed by a PMU within DPHE. Minimum staffing requirements
are shown inAnnex 6.




                                              38

                                   Annex 5: ProjectCosts
                   BANGLADESH: Water SupplyProgramProject



Project Cost By Component and/or                     Local             Foreign            Total

Activity                                         U S $million        U S $million     U S $million


A. PipedWater SupplyinVillages                              10.66             8.66                19.32
B.Water andSanitation Servicesin
medium-size cities
Pourashavas                                                  6.62             5.78                12.39
Urbansanitation                                              0.16             0.04                 0.20
Subtotal Water and Sanitation Services in                    6.78             5.82                12.60
medium-size cities
C. Non-pipedArsenic MitigationActivities                     2.63              1.13                3.76
for Villages
D.Regulations, Capacity Buildingand                          2.11              0.76                2.88
Training
E.LocalCredit Markets                                        4.31                  -               4.31

F.MonitoringandEvaluation                                    1.01              0.26                1.27
G.Project ManagementUnit                                     1.89              1.05                2.94
Total Baseline Cost                                         29.39            17.69                47.08
Physical Contingencies                                       2.47              1.68                4.16
Price Contingencies                                          2.17              1.70                3.87
                        TotalProjectCosts'                  34.04            21.07                55.11
                 Interest during construction
                                Front-end Fee
                 TotalFinancingRequired                     34.04            21.07                55.11
1Identifiabletaxes and duties are US$ 5.8 million, and the total project cost, net o f taxes, i s US$
49.3 million. Therefore, the share o fproject cost net o ftaxes i s 89.4%.




                                                39

                       Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements
                   BANGLADESH: Water SupplyProgramProject


6.1 SpecificChallenges

Three o f the project's four components provide grant financing for water supply
infrastructure: community/union level piped systems in the case of component 1; small
town water treatment and supply systems in the case o f component 2; and point sources
inthe case ofcomponent 3. Inall three cases, public fbnds-in the forms ofgrants from
GOB-will     finance infi-astructure that allows citizens to gain access to safe drinking
water.

The arsenic contamination crisis in Bangladesh has engendered a wide variety o f
responses to the challenge o f safe drinkingwater supply including top down and bottom
up approaches and a wide variety o f standards and design solutions. Many donors are
supporting solutions through separate instruments in selected areas o f the country.
Significant GOB resources are being deployed through central agencies, notably DPHE.
Thousands o f water systems with widely varying institutional and implementation
arrangements are being delivered around the country.        This multiplicity o f funding
channels, standards and institutional and implementation arrangements has been
necessary andusefulinestablishing effective delivery models.

This project     supports effective delivery through consolidated implementation
arrangements within a sustainable, appropriate institutional framework. A key challenge
i s to align with GOB'S fiscal, jurisdictional, and monitoring systems while still
supporting the most appropriate institutional arrangements for various delivery systems at
the local level. An important aspect o f this consolidation is harmonization of matching
grant terms and conditions across components to achieve a higher level of fiscal
compatibility andminimize transaction costs.

6.2 InstitutionalFramework

DPHE, under the Ministry o f Local Government, Rural Development and Cooperatives
(MLGRD&C), i s the implementing agency, with overall project management provided by
the PMU. The PMU will take the lead in communicating the eligibility requirements
underthe three investmentcomponents o fthe project, receiving andefficiently appraising
investment proposals, and managing and reporting upon disbursements. Local
institutional arrangements by investment component will be described infull detail inthe
OperationalManual, andwill include:

Component 1:

Communities - at ward level - and sponsors will jointly prepare viable piped water
supply system proposals which will be eligible for matching grants o f up to 50% o f
capital costs.


                                             40

These proposals will be vetted by the respective Union Parishad Chairman and will be
submitted-jointly with the Chairman's endorsement letter -to the PMU.

The PMUwill evaluate the proposal. Ifit is accepted, a contract will be signed between
the (i)
      community representative, (ii)   sponsor, (iii) UnionParishad Chairman and (iv) the
PMU.

DPHE, through its Sub-Assistant Engineer (Upazila level) will provide Technical
Assistance to the elaboration o f the proposal andto the supervision o f the carrying out o f
the contract, once it i s signed.

The Union Parishad will carry out the following: conflict resolution, arbitration, as well
as basic regulatory functions, including supervision o f tariffs and quality and quantity o f
service. Adequate capacity strengthening o f the UnionParishads will beprovidedthrough
the Project.

The contract between the 4 signatories will include stipulations in this regard. The
sponsor will be responsible for testing water quality and providing the required
information for monitoring.

The detailed requirements for the proposals to be submittedby sponsors, as well as the
contractual documentation will be includedinthe Operational Manual o f the project.

Component 2: eligible pourashavas that have expressed their interest in participating in
this component will be selected for the implementation o f viable water system
rehabilitatiodexpansion       programs    implemented      under     a    design-build-operate
arrangement with a private sector partner.
Feasibility studies to be undertakenby consultants hiredthroughthe project to prepare:
        Legal and institutional arrangements for the creation o f a Pourashava Water
        SupplyEntity(PWSE) incharge o fthe water supply and owner o f the assets, and
        contractual relations with the private operator
        Feasibility studies for the rehabilitation and expansion o f the water supply system
        andbreakdownandprojections ofcapital andO&M costs
        Preparation o fbiddingdocuments to select a private operator
        Appropriate phasing of proposed investments, particularly with regard to proper
        sequencing of: a) rehabilitation o f existing assets, b) institutional reforms required
        for sustainable operation o f those existing assets, and c) expansion o f the
        networks andhouse connections;
        Design andconstruction standards and supervision arrangements;
        Operational performance targets and bonuses to the private operator for exceeding
        operational targets
        Explicit measuresto be taken to ensure continuing financial viability;
        Provisions for water supply to the poor at affordable rates;
        Terms and conditions o f employment for key technical and management staff
        adequateto attract andretain required expertise;


                                              41

    0  Evidence o f additional financing to be provided from pourashava own resources
       or private partners, ifapplicable.

Component 3: unions/upazilas and wards will act as proponents for villages/communities
inwhichpipedwater supplyis not aviable option(villages with scattered settlements and
below 200 habitations/households). In these cases the local governments at the ward
level will liaise with the appropriate community based organization, water and sanitation
committee, and/or ward arsenic committee to prepare proposals that clearly indicate:
       Consent by consumers to the location o f the proposed point source, including a
       brief analysis o f the suitability o f the proposed location to provide access for all
       consumers;
        Consent by the consumers for contribution to at least 10% o f the capital costs o f
       the point source, and to periodic assessments over time payable to the union for
       requiredmaintenance;
       Arrangements by the Wards and Unions to maintain transparent, ring-fenced
       water accounts for each source to a) meet construction costs and b) meet
       maintenance costs over time;
       Proposed design and constructionmanagement arrangements, to be supervised by
        DPHE technical staff deployed at the uniodupazila level and Support
        Organization at the Ward/scheme level;
        Provisions for access by poor households that cannot afford contribution to the
        capital cost o fthe point source;
        Provisions for access by/supply to households that reside beyond a defined
        distance from the source.

6.3 ImplementationArrangements

In the case of Component 1, implementation arrangements will be proposed and
evaluated for each investment. Grant fbnding will be disbursed on a progress payment
basis, with the combined prepayments o f the consumers and the fee for the operator for
providing initial capital for constructionand O&M service.

Under Component 2, the government will make resources available to 3 to 5 pourashavas
to improve and expand water supply services. The extent of service improvement and
expansion, and the investment costs will be defined in the feasibility study already
mentioned in this annex. The consultants assisting the PMU in preparing the feasibility
study will also assist the pourashavas inthe preparationo f the biddingdocuments for the
transaction with the private operator, which will be selected through a bidding process
according to Bank procurement guidelines.           To be eligible for financing under the
project, the pourashavas, as the entity responsible for the provision o f services will
commit themselves to:

    e   Establish an autonomous pourashava water supply entity (PWSE) to provide the
        water services
    0   Make the PWSE accountable to the Chairmanandthe Board o f the Pourashava


                                               42

       Transfer to the PWSEthe assets relatedto the water supply infrastructure
       Delegate to the PWSEthe authority to provide water services
       Require the PWSE to contract with a private operator the provision o f the services
       for a period o ften years
       Delegate to the PWSE the supervision o f the performance o f and dialogue with
       the private operator
       Set tariffs adequate to cover operation, maintenance, depreciation charges or debt
       service payments, andpayments to the private operator
       Keep in a separate bank account o f the PWSE the revenues collected by the
       private operator
       Delegate to the private operator authority the management o f the PWSE bank
       account underprovisions and safeguards established inthe contract.

The private operator will beresponsible for:


    0  Preparing final designs
    0  Planning system expansion inconsultationwith the water company
    0  Rehabilitating existing infrastructure and carrying out investment in system
       expansion andimprovement
    0  Operating andmaintaining the water supply system
    0  Providing customer services, including billing and collection

Under Component 3, it is anticipated that the PMU will contract Support Organizations
(SOs) for the mobilization o f community, preparation o f Ward Action Plans and
assistance in implementing the plans. Once the scheme i s finalized and endorsed by the
Union Parishad and verified by the DPHE SAE, the matching grants will be disbursed to
the Ward level committee for the implementationo fthe wardactionplan.

Under Component 4, MOUs will be signed with relevant agencies.




                                            43

.

          Annex 7: FinancialManagementandDisbursementArrangements
                   BANGLADESH: Water SupplyProgramProject


The Financial Management assessment o f the Bangladesh Water Supply Program Project
entailed: (1) a review ofthe existing financial management arrangements and the capacity
o f DPHE, the implementing agency o f the project, and (2) identifying the financial
management arrangements required at the PMU and at other levels o f implementation
involving communities and pourashavas.

Project Management: DPHE, under the Ministry of Local Government, Rural
Development and Cooperatives (MLGRD&C), would be the implementing agency, with
overall project management provided by the PMU, headed by a Project Director. The
PMU will evaluate and decide on the eligibility o f the investment proposals for water
supply systems receivedunderthe three investment components o f the project. The PMU
will manage the disbursement in such a way as to ensure fiduciary safeguards while
facilitating smooth implementation o f the project.

Component1 RuralPipedWater Supply
                -
This component will support private sponsors' (including NGOs, private companies,
cooperatives and CBOs) proposals to build and operate piped water supply systems in
approximately 300 rural villages each having more than 200 households. The project's
financing would be in the form o f matching grants o f up to 50 % o f capital costs, the
sponsor financing 50% from its own equity, local bank loans and community
participation. These proposals will be jointly submitted to the PMU by the community
representative andthe sponsor with the endorsement letter o fthe UP chairman.

The PMU will evaluate each proposal. If one i s acceptable, a contract will be signed
between (i)   the community representative, (ii) sponsor, (iii) Union Parishad
                                                   the              the
Chairman and (iv) the PMU. The contract will include the total cost o f the system, the
amount payable as a grant (50%), the lump sum amount payable pertaining to approval o f
the design, the mode of payments o f the remaining grant amount based on progress
achievements that would be certified by the UP Chairman and DPHE's Sub-Assistant
Engineer.The detailed requirements for the proposals are to be submitted by sponsors.
These requirements, as well as the contractual documentation, will be included in the
Operational Manual o f the project.

Component2 UrbanWater SupplyandSanitation
                -
    (a) This component will focus on improving water service in 3 to 5 eligible
        pourashavas     through    the    implementation   o f  viable   water   system
        rehabilitatiodexpansionprograms under a design-build-operate arrangement with
        a private sector partner that will be selected by the PMU through competitive
        procurement procedures, with the active participation o f the respective
        pourashava. Consultants hired through the project will prepare legal and



                                             45

       institutional arrangements for the creation of a Pourashava Water Supply Entity
       (PWSE) that will be responsible for arranging to provide water services, own the
       assets o f the water supply system and enter into contractual relations with the
       government     and the private operator. The PWSE will supervise the
       implementation o f the contract with the private operator and be the depository o f
       all revenues that would be earned from the provision o f water services and will
       provide the fimd for the O&M of the system. While the rehabilitation and
       construction o f the water system will be 100% financed by the project as grants,
       the pourashavas through their PWSE will be in obligated to repay 50% o f the
       investment cost through an on-lending agreement with the government (the exact
       amount will still be finalized as the component i s implemented). Grant funding
       will be disbursed on a progress payment basis to be certified by the PWSE and
       DPHE's designated Engineer.

   (b) Urban Sanitation. The project will finance pre-feasibility studies for urban
       sanitation. These may include preparation of alternative sanitation options
       (condominium sewer systems, individual house units - latrines), identification of
       urban centers where these options could be implemented and definition o f
       institutional options and financial arrangements to operate and maintain public
       sanitation systems.

Component 3 -Non-piped arsenic mitigation activities

   (a) This component will serve about 200 villages, each fewer than 200 households in
       3 Hot Spot Upazilas where more than 60 percent o f household tube wells are
       contaminated by arsenic. The PMUwill contract Support Organizations (SOs) for
       the mobilization o f the community, preparation o f ward level Community Action
       Plans (CAPS, which will detail the number o f point source options per ward, cost
        sharing mechanisms and O&M procedures. Once the scheme is finalized and
       endorsed bythe UnionParishadandverified by the DPHE S A E andthe deposit o f
       the community contribution (10%) i s confirmed through receipt o fthe community
       bank account statement, the matching grants will be disbursedto the community
       bankaccount intwo phases(40%and50%).

    (b) Complementary service infXnge areas o fthose villages where pipedwater supply
       will be supplied, but where it will not be feasible, for technical reasons, to cover
       all households. Insuch cases, beneficiaries will contribute 10%o f the investment

Financial Management Capacity of DPHE: DPHE does not have any central
department or unit to look after its overall financial management. Executive Engineers
posted in each district are the Drawing and Disbursement Officers (DDOs) and single
signatories to checks drawn on a Bangladesh Bank. A Divisional Accountant attached to
each Executive Engineer is assigned by the Controller General o f Accounts to look after
actual disbursements and financial reporting. The Divisional Accountant assisted by three
other staff makes the disbursements after pre-auditing o f the bills. The accountant keeps
the records and prepares the monthly statement o f Receipts and Payments and sends it to
the Chief Accounts Officer (CAO) of the Local Government Division (LGD) who


                                           46

prepares the consolidated statement o f accounts for the DPHE by compiling the
statements received from all o f the Divisional Accountants.            Multiple Project
Implementation Units (PIUs) headed byProject Directors have FMunits to look after the
financialmanagement aspects ofthe various developmentprojects included inthe Annual
Development Plan (ADP). The Chief Engineer, DPHE prepares its non-development
(recurrent) budget on the basis o f inputs from the various DPHE circles. The
Superintending Engineer (SE), Planning Circle, prepares budgets for new development
projects while the Project Directors for the ongoing projects preparetheir own budget on
the basis o f allocations in the ADP. The SE, Planning Circle prepares a consolidated
monthly report on physical and financial progress o f DPHE by compiling the monthly
progress reports received from each division anddevelopment project.

Project FinancialManagement Staffing, AccountingSystem and Functions: Given
                                  -
the inadequate FM capacity of the DPHE, a Financial Management section headed by a
Financial Management Specialist (FMS) will be set up in the PMU to look after the FM
needs o f the project. The FMS will be a qualified Charteremanagement Accountant
with adequate knowledge o f project financial management needs o f IDA and GOB and
proven experience using and customizing computerized accounting systems. The FMS
will prepare a project chart o f accounts that will capture project costs in various
dimensions such as government code o f accounts, Project Proforma (PP) heads, IDA
disbursement categories and IDA project components so that various GOB reports and
FMRs for IDA can be directly produced from the system. A computerized FM system
will be developed to gather, store, and analyze financial information for timely reporting
and decision making. The FMS will be responsible for having a computerized project
accounting system in place by customizing an off-the-shelf accounting software with
limited support from the software vendor or a short-term system specialist. The
recruitment o f the FMS and procurement o f the accounting package software will be
done as soon as possible but prior to the grant effectiveness and the costs will be
available for retroactive financing under the grant. The FMS will be assisted by an
Accounts officer and two accountants in adequately discharging the FM functions of the
project. These three accounting positions will be filled before the first project
disbursement with personnel having qualifications and adequate experience in
accounting, through recruitment from the market or by deputation o f government
officials. The TORSfor filling all FMpositions would need to be cleared by IDA.

The duties of FM staff will include: special account operations and submission of
withdrawal requests; processing the bills for procurement o f works, goods and services;
disbursements under various components; preparation o f an annual budget, revised
budget and quarterly disbursement forecasts; obtaining quarterly fund release for GOB
allocated fund andclaimingthe expenses against the released fund; maintenance o fbooks
andrecords at PMU; monitoring book keepingby CBOs; maintenance o f contract ledger
showing the up-to-date payments andpayable status on all contracts including those with
CBOs, preparation o f Bank Reconciliation Statements; fixed assets management in all
project locations tracking assets procurement; custody, use, disposal and physical
verification; preparation o f annual financial statements and other periodic reports to the
DPHE, the line ministry and other GOB agencies; submission o f quarterly Financial



                                             47

Monitoring Reports (FMRs) to IDA; interfacing with auditors and developingnew fund
flow anddisbursementarrangements as andwhenneeded.

Reporting and Monitoring: The FM section will be responsible for preparing all
monthly, quarterly andannual financial reports for DPHE, CAO, the line ministry, MOF,
IMED and any other GOB agencies, consistent with the government's Project
Accounting Manual. Inaddition, Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) namely Sources
andUses o f Fund, Project Expenditures by components, Procurement Status Report, and
the Project's Physical Performance will be prepared for submission to IDA within 45
days from the end o f each quarter. A quarterly progress monitoring report will be
accepted as the Physical Progress Report of FMRs. Year-end FMRs will also provide a
reconciliation o f expenditure claimed from the Bank with expenditures incurred annually.
The formats o f the reports will be agreed with the borrower duringnegotiations.

Internal Audit: Internal auditing will be carried out in accordance with a specific
auditing plan and reports submitted to the Chief Engineer, DPHE with a copy to the
BWSPP Project Director. Going beyond the financial aspects, the intemal audit would
look into the effective and efficient use o f project resources and an independent appraisal
o f the working o f the PMU and other partners inthe implementation arrangement. Such
activities will be independent from the control of those who are responsible for carrying
out the financial and accounting operations as well as those engaged in the execution o f
services rendered. The key internal audit function will be: (i)    ascertaining whether the
system o f internal checks and controls operating within the organization for preventing
errors and fraud is effective in design as well as inoperation; (ii)  ascertaining reliability
o f accounting and other records as well as seeing that accounting methods provide the
informationnecessary for preparationof correct financial statements; (iii)   ascertaining the
extent to which the project entity's assets are safeguarded from any unauthorized use or
losses; (iv) ascertaining whether administrative and financial regulations o f the
government and instructions issued by the Treasury as well as donors' legal requirements
are followed; and (v) ascertaining the effectiveness o f the system o f internal control
adopted in preventing, as well as detecting waste, idle capacity and extravagance. The
PMU will contract out each year's internal audit function to firms o f Chartered
Accountants with adequate relevant experience under a TOR to be prepared by the FMS
and cleared with IDA. Such TOR should follow the good practices in line with the
standards and guidelines o f the Institute o f Internal Auditors. The findings o f the internal
audit will be acted upon within a month of the report after consultation with the relevant
units.

ExternalAudit: The Foreign Aided Project Audit Directorate (FAPAD) o f C&AG will
audit the project annually. Audited financial statements will be submitted to IDA within
six months fiom the end o f the financial year. The Project Director, PMU will be
responsible for audit follow up andtaking remedial actions with the assistance from FMS
and the PMU program section@) relevant to the objections. A register, known as Audit
Query Register, will be maintained which will be updated at the end o f every month with
particular attention to unattended and serious audit objections. The P M U and DPHEwith
the help o f MLGRD&C will arrange tripartite meetings to resolve outstanding audit



                                              48

objections within three months from the receipt o f audit report and improve the internal
control arrangement to prevent recurrence o f issues that would trigger audit objections.
Fund Flow and Disbursement arrangements: Disbursements of IDA fund shall be
madeunder traditional disbursement method through a Convertible Taka Special Account
(CONTASA), to be opened in a branch o f a commercial Bank having adequate
experience, manpower and computerized environment, inorder to be acceptable to IDA.


FUNDFLOW

FromIDA and Governmentto the PMU: IDAfunds will be channeled to the dedicated
special account upon Withdrawal Requests by the PMU, first as an initial advance to the
extent o f the authorized allocation limit and then for claiming replenishments o f
payments for eligible project expenses.

IDA and GOB funds will be allocated inthe Annual Development Program (ADP) with
regards to the budget estimates prepared by the PMU based on the annual work plan o f
the project. The PD, PMU will be the authorized signatory to withdraw IDA Grant
proceeds and the Drawing and Disbursement Officer to draw the Government funds.
GOB funds allocated inthe ADP will be released quarterly andthe PMUwill present the
bills to the ChiefAccounts Officer (CAO) o fthe Ministry for actual disbursement.

FromPMUto PrivateSponsors (Comp. 1):The sub-project proposals meeting criteria
stated in the Operational Manual and found acceptable upon the PMU's evaluation will
be executed through four-party contracts between (i) Community Representative, (ii)
                                                       the
the Sponsor, (iii) Union Parishad Chairman and (iv) the PMU. The contract will
                    the
include the total cost o f the system, the amount payable as grant (50%), the lump sum
amount payable pertaining to approval o f the design, and the mode o f payments o f the
remaining grant amount based on progress achievements. The private sponsor will claim
each payment through an invoice submitted to the PMU supported by the progress
achievements certified by the UP Chairman and DPHE's Sub-Assistant Engineer. N o
payment o fmatchinggrants will be madebythe P M Uunless 20% o f the subproject costs
i s incurred first by the sponsor from his own equity or community contribution. All
payments will be made bycross checks infavor o fthe sponsor.

From PMU to Private Operator (PO) for Urban Water Supply System (Comp. 2):
Three to five pourashavas will be eligible for project support under this component. The
proposal that would be selected through a competitive process from amongst the pre-
qualified POs with the active involvement o f the respective pourashava, will be
implementedthrough a contract between the PO and the PWSE for design-build and
operation o f the system for at least ten years. The capital cost of the water system will be
100% financed by the project as grants; however, the pourashavas through their PWSE
will be obligated to repay 50% of the investment cost through an onlending agreement
with the government. Grant fundingwill be disbursed on a progress payment basis to be
certified by the PWSE and DPHE's designated Engineer. Progress payment percentage
and the milestones as agreed between IDA and the PMU will be stated in the OM and
also inthe contract. The PO will submit its invoices for progress payments which will be



                                              49

duly certifiedbyPWSE and DPHE's designated Engineer. The invoices approved by the
PDwill be paidbycross checks infavor o fthe P.O.

From PMU to CommunityBased Organizations(CBOs) (Comp. 1): The PMU will
contract Support Organizations (SOs) for: the mobilization o fthe community; preparation
of ward level Community Action Plans (CAP), which will detail the number o f point
source options per ward; cost sharing mechanisms and; O&M procedures. Once the
scheme is finalized and endorsed by the Union Parishad and verified by the DPHE SAE,
the CBOs will be asked to sign a Memorandum o f Understanding with the Chairman,
Union Parishad specifying the total cost o f the scheme, work completion and payment
milestones, and the obligation to maintain simplified books o f accounts and stock
register. CBOs will then confirm the deposit o f community contribution (10%) by
submission o f the evidencing community bank account statement certified by the UP
Chairman. The concerned program unit of the PMU will forward a payment request to
the FMunit for payment o f the lSt  40% o f the matching grant to the CBO. The remaining
50 % will be processed for payment on receipt o f certification from UP Chairman and
SAE, DPHE that the physical progress o f the scheme represents 50% o f the costs. All
payments to the CBOs will be made through Bank Drafts infavor o f the community bank
account.

Payment o f funds would be monitored closely so that the processing time taken at the
PMU does not adversely affect the execution o f the sub-projects at any level. Service
standards (benchmarks) would be developed to specifically monitor the turn-around time
for fundtransfers from the PMUto CBOs.

Financial control at CBOs: The CBOs that would be implementing the small water
supply schemes under component 3 would maintain simple accounting records showing
funds received from all sources and amounts spent for anypurpose. Fundsreceivedfrom
the project, contributions from the members and receipt from any other sources would be
deposited to the community's bank account. Withdrawals from the bank account would
require checks signed by co-signatories. The CBOs will maintain the simplified books
and records as stated below following the formats being used by CBOs under ongoing
Bank funded Bangladesh Arsenic Mitigation andWater SupplyProject:
*  Simple cashhank book providing details of amounts received into the project account

** Register
    and details o fpayments andthe balance available.
            o f contributions receivedfrom members incash (or inlabor and materials).
   Stock Register, showing materials purchased and contributed, use o f materials in the

* A monthly
    works, sale o f any surplus material andthe balance.
               statement o f Receipts andPayments.

CBOs will not be required to maintain any ledgers book. Books and records will be
placed in the Up office and will be available for inspection by designated project staff,
community members and auditors.

FMRisk:OverallFMrisk rating for the project at appraisal is highdue to: (1) the large
numbero fwidely dispersed entities participatinginthe project with limitedFMcapacity;


                                             50

(2) weak FM capacity o f the PMU, and; (3) handling o f project funds by community
organizations. The risk is expected to come down to medium at project startup by
monitoring the staff recruitment process and procurement of the accounting system,
ensuring strict adherence to the internal control and bookkeeping system at community
level. By training up community organizations in book keeping, implementation o f
monitoring and reporting andinstitutingthe internal audit operation, the risk level would
be maintained at mediumlevel ifnot reduced further.

Special Account: For utilization of IDA's share o f project expenditures, a Convertible
Taka Special Account (CONTASA), will be opened in a commercial Bank under terms
and conditions satisfactory to IDA. The authorized allocation in respect o f the Special
Deposit Account will be Tk.150,000,000 (approximately US$ 2.5m) calculated on the
basis o f 3 to 4 months average requirements o f funds; provided, however, that the initial
authorized allocation will be limited to Tk.90,000,000 (approximately US$1.5m) untilthe
total withdrawal from the Grant account reaches the equivalent ofUS$10.2m.

The applications to replenishthe Special Account will be submitted on a monthlybasis or
whenever the withdrawals from the Special Account reaches 50% o f the initial deposit,
whichever occurs first. If there is no expenditure from the Special Account in a given
month, the PMU will be required to submit a copy of the bank statement, without any
withdrawal application. It is expected that all IDA-eligible expenditures shall normally be
made from the Special Account. However, in order to avoid cash flow problems o f the
Special Account, direct payment withdrawal applications may be submitted to IDA
provided, however, that the value o f such individualwithdrawal application is equivalent
to about 25% o fthe authorized allocation to the Special Account.

Disbursement Method: Traditional transaction-based disbursement will be applicable
initially. After the Mid-Term Review, disbursements may be switched over on the basis
o f Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) if the borrower so prefers and IDA finds that
project financial management system i s working satisfactorily and i s generating timely
andreliable (fullset of) FMRswhich are acceptable to IDA.

Use of Statements of Expenditure (SOE): Transaction-based disbursement procedures
will be applicable for withdrawal o f Grant funds. IDAwill require full documentation for
all prior review contracts which exceed the equivalent o f (a) US$200,000 for works; (b)
US$200,000 for goods; (c) US$lOO,OOO for services and training by firms, and; (d)
US$50,000 for services and training by individuals. Expenditures below the above
threshold and all expenditure under incremental operating costs will be claimed on
Statements o f Expenditure (SOE) basis. IDA will make post review o f SOEs to assess to
what extent the funds are utilized for their intended purposes and in accordance with the
agreed terms o f the credit agreement. Any deviations noticed during supervision missions
or independent reviews will be noted for remedy andimprovement.

Retroactivefinancingnot to exceed US$500,000 equivalent will be provided inrespect
o f eligible expenditures on consultants services and incremental operating costs. Inorder
to be eligible for retroactive financing, procedures for procurement, the use of
consultants, and processing and clearance are subject to IDA's Procurement and


                                             51

Consultants Guidelines as applicable to the project. In addition, documentation
requirements for expenditures claimed under retroactive financing are the same as those
for disbursements against payments made after the Development Grant Agreement is
signed and effective. The retroactive financing provision can be used for eligible
expenditures incurred after September 2003.

The disbursements o f IDA grants under the project are expected to be completed over the
implementation period o f five years (FY05-09). The estimated annual phasing of
disbursement and the financing planby source and currencies are presented on page 1o f
this PAD. The categories o f expenditures to be supported under the project and the
percentage o f expenditures to be financed by IDA for various expenditure categories are
indicatedinTable 1below:

                      Table 1: Allocationof GrantProceeds




                                      Amount ofIDA
                                      GrantAllocated % ofExpenditureto
ExpenditureCategory                   (US$ Million)      beFinanced

1.CivilWorks (Component 3)                            3.1                   80.0
2. Sub-Proiects: Rural                               10.2                   50.0
3. Sub-Projects: Urban                               10.6                   90.0
4. Consultant's Services                              2.4                   80.0
5. Training&& tudies                                  3.0                   80.0
6. Goods                                              1.3                    85.0
7. Service Charge                                     0.4                  100.0
8. Credit Markets (Sub-Loans)                         4.6                  100.0
9. Operating Costs                                    1.2                    85.0
10. Unallocated                                       3.2                       -




                                           52

                                  Annex 8: Procurement
                   BANGLADESH: Water SupplyProgramProject

A. General

Procurement for the proposed project would be carried out inaccordance with the World
Bank's "Guidelines: Procurement Under IBRDLoans and IDA Credits" dated May 2004;
and "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers"
dated May 2004, and the Bangladesh Public Procurement Regulation 2003, as per the
provisions stipulated in the Grant Agreement. The general description o f various items
underdifferent expenditure categories are describedbelow.

For each contract to be financed by the grant, the different procurement methods or
consultant selection methods, the need for prequalification, estimated costs, prior review
requirements, and timeframe are agreedbetween the Borrower and the Bank project team
in the Procurement Plan. The Procurement Plan will be updated at least annually or as
required to reflect the actual project implementation needs and improvements in
institutional capacity.

The total value o f the project is US$ 55 million with US$ 40 Million an IDA grant and
the remainder consisting o f contributions from GOB, local communities and private
sponsors. The Bank's Standard Bidding Documents (SBD) and Standard Request for
Proposals (WP) will be used for the IDA-financed ICB goods, works and consultant
services respectively. IDA-financed local procurement of goods, works and services, for
which the shortlist i s comprised o f national consultants, will follow the Government's
Public Procurement Regulation 2003 and be acceptable to the Bank.

The project supports the rural andurbanwater supply sub-projects as described below:

Component1:Ruralpipedwater supplysub-projects

The private sponsors (entrepreneurs, co-operatives, CBOs andor NGOs) in close
collaboration with communities and local governments will develop piped water supply
subprojects inrural areas. The average cost o f each scheme will be around US$ 50,000.
The following procedure has been agreed for the selection o f sponsors. For the selection
o f private sponsors, DPHE will publish REOIs (Request for Expression o f Interest) and
pre-qualify sponsors based on prescribed criteria to be agreed by IDA. Pre-qualified
sponsors will be issued specific guidelines relating to project preparationandcapital costs
and evaluation criteria for selection o f the projects. Pre-qualified sponsors will submit
feasibility reports (FR) and detailed project reports (DPR). DPHEPMUwill review the
Feasibility Reports (FRs)/DPR and recommend to IDA for clearance. Sponsors o f
approved schemes will be free to procure as under their own procedures. Giventhe large
numberofschemes, a largenumber o fSponsors will berequired.

A new Prequalificationprocess will becarriedout half-yearly.


                                             53

Component2: Urbanwater supplysub-projects

Three to five urbanpiped water supply subprojects will be implemented through private
operators which will include repairs and renovation and expansion o f the system where
necessary. Each scheme will cost approximately US$ 3 million. DPHE will engage
consultants for project preparation (technical, financial and cost recovery aspects) to
define project costs and the viable tariff level for sustained operation and bidding and
supervision of the project. The basis o f selection o f the operator (lowest management
fees/ lease operator tariff, etc.) will be worked out andreviewed by the Bank.Based on
biddingdocuments prepared by the consultant, DPHEwill invite bids on a design-build-
operate (DBO) basis (operation initially for a period o ften years), from private operators.
Private operators will be selected through ICB. Operators will be free to procure goods,
works and services from eligible sources usingtheir own procedures.

Component3: Non-pipedruralwater supplysub-projects

This component targets villages too small or too dispersed for piped water supply.
Support organizations will be selected to assist UpazilasKJnion Parishads with costs,
options, and O&M. Union ParishaddWard committees will implement, with the
assistance of SOs, point source options in arsenic affected villages for non-piped water
supply. Procurement o f schemes approved by DPHE will be done by the Ward
committees. Each o f these procurements will cost approximately US$ 20,000 and will
follow NCB/Shopping. Details will be worked out in the procurement plan as
implementation progresses.

ProcurementofWorks:
Works procured under this project would include sub-projects described above. The
procurement will be done using the Bank's StandardBidding Documents (SBD) for all
I C B and National SBD agreed with GOB and satisfactory to the Bank for NCB. The
project will also involve procurementby communities under component 3.


Procurementof Goods:
Goods procured under this project will include, fbmiture, computers, vehicles, lab &
testing equipment, printingetc. The procurement will be done using Bank's SBD for all
I C B andNational SBD agreed with GOB and satisfactory to the Bank for NCB.

Selectionof Consultants:
Consultants will be selected to help develop a legal/ institutional framework, framing
specification, training, and monitoring and evaluation. Shortlists of consultants for
services estimated to cost less than US$ 200,000 equivalent per contract may be
composed entirely o f national consultants inaccordance with the provisions o fparagraph
2.7 o f the Consultant Guidelines. Further services o f Individual consultants, Universities,
Government Research institutions, Training Institutions, NGOs and any special
organizations will be taken as required during implementation and reflected in
Procurement Plan.




                                             54

OperationalCosts:
Salary' rental costs for office/accommodation etc. o f GOBassigned to the project in the
operational phase which will be financed by the project, which will be procured using the
implementing agency's administrativeprocedures under force account.

Others:
The project will support the development o f rural credit market, tariff gap financing in
the initialphase o f operation which will be covered under force account.

B. Assessment of the agency's capacityto implementprocurement

Procurement activities will be carried out by the PMU o f DPHE(under the Secretariat o f
the Ministryo f Local Government, Rural Development and Cooperatives). The agency is
staffed bypersonnel makingpurchases based on GOB procedures andis headedby a staff
at the level o f Executive Engineer.

An assessment o f the capacity o f the Implementing Agency to implement procurement
actions for the project was carried out (on various dates between January 2004 to April
2004 usingstandard questionnaire and discussion with the PMU). Most o fthe issues/risks
concerning the procurement component for implementation o f the project have been
identified and include non-familiarity o f the staff with Bank's procedures, no experience
inprocurement of services, lack oftraining onprocurement andlack ofproject purchase
orientation. However, with Promulgation o f the 2003 Procurement Regulations, which
need to be followed by DPHE in its own purchases, results are expected to show
improvement. But this will take time. The assessment reviewed the organizational
structure for implementing the project and the interaction between the project's staff
responsible for Procurement, i.e. the Procurement Officer, and the other relevant
implementation and finance units. This project i s conceptually innovative and
procurement issues involving selection o f sponsors, evaluation o f sub-projects etc. will be
highlycomplex for DPHE.

The overall risk assessment o f the Project is highdue to the fact that DPHEhas inherent
capacity limitations andimplementation will be highlydecentralized.

StrengtheningProcurementCapacity
Inorder to mitigate procurement-associated risks, strengthen capacity and take advance
procurement actions as a part o f project preparation, the following arrangements need to
be made:
     1. DPHEmust engageaprocurement specialist prior to credit effectiveness;
    2. The GOB must agree to transfer selected staff from BAMWSP to the new PMU;
    3. A core DPHEteam mustbe created and trained on procurement matters urgently.

The overall project risk for procurement is High.




                                             55

C. ProcurementPlan

The PMU, at appraisal, developed a Procurement Plan for project implementationwhich
provides the basis for the procurement methods to be used. This planwas agreed between
the Borrower andthe Project Team on April 22,2004 andis available at WBOD and with
the PMU. It will also be available in'the Project's database and on the Bank's external
website. The Procurement Plan will be updated in agreement with the Project Team
annually or as required to reflect the actual project implementation needs and
improvements ininstitutionalcapacity.

D. FrequencyofProcurementSupervision

Inadditionto the prior review supervision to be carried out from Bank offices, based on
the capacity assessment of the Implementing Agency, half-yearly supervisionmissions to
visit the field to carry out postreview ofprocurement actions is recommended.




                                             56

,
Attachment 1
DETAILSOFGOODS,        WORKS AND SERVICES UNDERINTERNATIONAL COMPETITIVE
BIDDING

1.      Goods and works and non-consulting services.

a) List of contract Packages which will beprocured following ICB andDirect contracting
                                                      -
                                3              4      - 5       6       1  7   1     8      9

            Contract        Estimated Procurement P-        Domestic     Review  Expected Comments
          (Description)        cost         Method     Q    Preference    by       Bid-
                             Million                         (yeslno)    Bank    Opening
                               US$                                       (Prior    Date
                                                      -                  IPost)
      Selection of          US$          ICB           No Yes            Prior
      private operators     12.9
      for pourshavas

     I


b) ICB Contractsestimated to cost aboveUS$200,000 percontract and allDirect
contracting will be subject to prior review bythe Bank.

2.      Consulting Services.

a) List o f Consulting Assignments with short-list of international firms.

            1              2                                        5

      Ref. No.       Descriptionof      Estimated  Selection   Review
                                       ~


                     Assignment         cost       Method      byBank        Proposals
                                                                (Prior I     Submission

                                        Million   I             Post)


                     TA                                         Yes
                     consultancy
                     for urban
                     component
                     Monitoring
                     and
                     Evaluation

b) Consultancyservicesestimatedto cost aboveUS$lOO,OOO per contract andSingle
Source selectionofconsultants(firms) for assignments estimatedto cost above
US$50,000 will be subject to prior reviewbythe Bank.




                                                57

        c) Short listscomposedentirely of nationalconsultants:Shortlists of consultants for
        services estimated to cost less thanUS$200,000 equivalent per contract, may be
        composed entirely o fnational consultants inaccordance with the provisions o fparagraph
        2.7 o fthe Consultant Guidelines.


                                          BangladeshWater Supply ProgramProject
                                                        ProcurementMethods

Procurement Arrangements
(US $ Million)

                                 International National
                                  Competitive Competitive Local            Direct       Force Consulting
                                     Bidding       Bidding     ShoppingContracting Account Services N.B.F. Total

A. CivilWorks                                             2.14     2.14                                      - 4.27
                                                          (1.7)    (1.7)                                        (3.5)
B.SUB-PROJECTS: RURAL                                    22.32                                               - 22.32
                                                        (11.2)                                                 (11.2)
C. SUB-PROJECTS: URBAN                    12.90                                                              - 12.90
                                         (11.6)                                                                (11.6)
D.Consultants                                                                                          1.76  -  1.76
                                                                                                      (1.4)     (1.42
                                                                                                                 1.4)
E. Monitoring andEvaluation                                                                            1.42  -
                                                                                                      (1.1)     (1.1)
F.Trainingand Studies                                                            0.26                  3.65  -  3.91
                                                                                (0.2)                 (2.9)     (3.1)
G. Goods & Equipment                                       1.19     0.18                                     -   1.37
                                                          (1.0)    (0.2)                                        (1.2)
H.Vehicles                                                0.30      0.00                                     - 0.30
                                                          (0.3)    (0.0)                                        (0.3)
I. GapFinancing
  Tariff                                                                             -     0.47              -  0.47
                                                                                           (0.5)                (0.5)
J. CreditMarkets                                                                     -     4.88              - 4.88
                                                                                           (4.9)                (4.9)
K.OperatingCosts                                                                     -      1.50             -   1.50
                                                                                           (1.3)                (1.3)
Total                                     12.90          25.95      2.32         0.26       6.84       6.83
                                         (11.6)          (14.2)    (1.9)         (0.2)     (6.6)      (5.5)  -- 55.11
                                                                                                               (40.0)
         `Figures inparentheses are the amounts to be financedby the Grant. All costs includecontingencies.




                                                             58

                        Annex 9: EconomicandFinancialAnalysis
                    BANGLADESH: Water SupplyProgramProject

9.1 Summary of BenefitsandCosts

The proposed project has six main components (1) Rural Piped Water Supply, (2) Pourashava
Piped Water Supply, (3) Non-piped Mitigation Options for Rural Water Supply, (4) Capacity
Building, Institutional Strengthening, Regulations, (5) Local Credit Markets, and (6) Monitoring
and Evaluation. Component 7 will finance project management.

The primaryproject benefits that are envisaged include:

      Increased availability o f safe water through piped water supply inrural areas and
      small towns and small community arsenic mitigation. Increased availability o f safe
      water is likely to result in significant health benefits and reduced medical
      expenditures for both the rural and urban population in villages and small towns
      served by this project. Potential health benefits, including reductions in morbidity
      andmortality, are expected to be significant for childrenunder 5 years o f age, due
      to a decreased incidence o f diarrhea, as well as for the population currently reliant
      on arsenic contaminated water. Arsenic contamination of groundwater has been
      detected in 59 o f the 64 districts and 249 o f the country's 463 sub-districts.
      Unconfirmed estimates indicated that 30-50 million people out o f a population of
      129 million are potentially at risk o f arsenic poisoning from sources o f drinking
      water.

      Timesavings arising from reduced time spent collecting water. Time savings are
      likely to be significant for households that have shifted from arsenic contaminated
      sources (in close proximity to their homes) to arsenic-free sources located at a
      distance. Timesavings are likely to translate into increased time allocation to
      productive activities andhence increasedhouseholdincomes.

      Institutional strengthening and sustainability achieved by strengthening the
      capacity o f the private sector and NGOs to plan and deliver rural and urbanwater
      supply services and strengthening the regulatory capacity o f local and central
      government.

      Availability o f water for irrigation in multipurpose schemes may also allow
      increases in crop production due to increased crop intensity and changes in crop
      patterns. Availability of larger quantities o fwater may also allow more water use in
      home gardens, small animal husbandry, livestock production and other water-
      requiring activities that increase food consumption or purchasingpower.

The main costs related to scaling up measures to provide arsenic and bacteriologically
safe water inrural areas and small towns are:
(i) Constructionandengineeringcosts.
(ii)    Costs o f scheme management, implementation, operation and maintenance.



                                                59

9.2 EconomicandFinancialAnalysis

An economic andfinancial analysis has been carried out for the first three components of
this project, namely, the ruralpipedwater supply, the Pourashavapipedwater supply and
the non-piped mitigation options inrural water supply. The main assumptions and results
are summarized below.

Populationservedbythe project

Itis envisioned that the project will serve approximately 602,000 ruralresidents through
the delivery o fpipedwater supply to 300 rural communities (with more than 250
households), and 2.5 millionurbanresidents insmall towns through 5 pourashava piped
water supply schemes. Approximately 200 rural communities -apopulation of252,000 -
willbe servedbysmall community arsenic mitigation schemes (approximately 2,000
point sources) duringthe economic life o fthe project.

MainAssumptions

 1. RuralPipedWater Supply Component

 (i)     Benefits o f the rural piped water supply component are estimated by valuing the
         incremental andnon-incrementalvolume o f water supplied by the project as well
         as by estimating health andinstitutional benefits attributable to the project during
         its expected life time.
 (ii)    Two approaches are used to value health benefits drawing on methods suggested
         in recent studies examining the economic costs of arsenic contamination in
         Bangladesh.'
             a. The first method (which will be referred to as method A) uses a variant o f
                the cost o f illness approach and values current health expenditures on
                arsenic-related illnesses as well as the loss of output due to arsenic-related
                morbidity or premature death among the population (Koundouri, 2004).
                Annual arsenic-related healthexpenditures are assumed to be equivalent to
                0.40% o f GDP. These are converted into per-capita expenditures to arrive
                at a value o f arsenic-related health expenditures for each scheme. Output
                lost is calculated as the fraction o f GDP that each person becoming ill
                would produce. It is assumed that 3.76 persons per 10,000 population are
                affected by arsenic-related illnesses each year. The loss o f output per
                capita is assumed to be equivalent to the value-added per agricultural
                worker, which i s estimated at 25,000 Tk. in2004 prices.
             b. The second approach (which will be referred to as method B) is based on
                estimates o f the annual per capita health costs o f arsenic as reported in


 Maddison, D.,R. Catala and D. Pearce. 2004. The Economic Cost ofArsenic Contamination o f
Groundwater inBangladesh. Mimeo. Khoundouri, P. 2004. A Report on the Economics of Arsenic
Mitigation. Mimeo.



                                                 60

             Maddison et al., 2004. Inthis approach the population affected by various
              fatal and non-fatal cancers and other illnesses related to the ingestion o f
              arsenic is estimated by combining epidemiological dose response
              functions with survey estimates o f arsenic concentration in groundwater,
              the number o f households reliant on groundwater for drinking purposes
              andthe mitigation strategies employedbythesehouseholds. Unitvalues of
              health costs of the various arsenic related illnesses are derived ina number
              of different ways. Various non-cancer arsenic-related morbidity impacts
              are valued by predicting willingness-to-pay values from a model relating
              WTP measures with a quality o f well-being index and the duration o f the
              illness. Non-fatal and fatal cancers are valued using results o f existing
              studies adjusted to the Bangladeshi context. Based on results o f the study,
              annual per capita health costs for a concentration o f 28 pg per liter are
              estimated as 140 Tk./capita in2004 current prices.
      Institutional benefits are computed as the difference between the full minimum
      salary that a water supply scheme operator and lineman would earn after the
      project and the (social minimum) salary that they earn pre-project. It is assumed
      that every water supply system creates two new jobs and that each employee has
      a two-year learning curve duringwhich they receive training related to their new
      responsibilities. In year 3 these individuals would have a chance to earn a full
      minimumsalary inthe labor market. It is assumedthat the operator and lineman
      would be paid 150 Tk./day post-project compared to pre-project wages o f 80
      Tk./day. It is assumed that they will be employed for 240 days resulting in an
      institutional benefit of 33,600 Tk. in2004 pricesper scheme.
      Benefits and costs have been forecast over a 20-year horizon from the first year
      o f the project in 2004. Border prices have been estimated by applying the
      standard conversion factor o f 0.9 to all domestic expenditures andbenefits.
      The opportunity cost o f capital is 12% and the weighted average cost o f capital
      (WACC) is assumed to be 10%.
      The inflation rate i s assumed to be 5%.
      Population growth is assumed to be 0.98%.6 The present population served by a
      scheme is assumedto be 300 households.
      It is assumed that 300 rural pipedwater schemes are constructed during the life
      o f the project with 10 schemes completed in year 1, followed by 32 schemes in
      year 2,60 schemes inyear 3,95 schemes inyear 4 and 103 schemes inyear 5.
      The average householdsize is assumedto be 5.5 persons.
      The cost assumptions are based on ruralpipedwater schemes using deep ground
      water sources.
      The capital cost o f a scheme is estimated as 2.5 million Tk. in 2004 prices. It is
      assumed that scheme construction i s completed within the first year of the
      project .
      Annual operation and maintenance costs (O&M) are estimated at 0.20 million
      Tk. per scheme (2004 prices).
      Inorder to quantify the consumer surplus arising fi-om increased availability of
      safe water it is assumed that the cost o f water pre-project is 13 Tk./ m3. It is

World Bank, SIMA database, percent annual ruralpopulation growth in2001.


                                               61

         assumed that rural households spend approximately 22.5 minutes/day/household
         to collect water (20 liters per capita per day (lpcd)), which i s valued at 2.1
         Tk./ho~sehold.~ This translates into a cost o f 13 Tk./m3 for households not
         served by domestic pipedwater.
(xiv) The domestic tariff post-project is estimated as 11 Tk./m3assuming an average
         supplyo f 40 lpcd for domestic consumers andthat the project also supplies non-
         domestic consumers in the village including 10 shops and institutions, 2
         horticulture nurseries, 2 dairy f m s , 2 poultry farms and 5 fish ponds. It is
         assumed that non-domestic connections will pay a tariff that is 1.5 times higher
         than the average domestic tariff. The domestic tariff of 11TWm3translates into
         an average tariff of 188 Tkhouseholdmonth for households with single
         connections with multiple taps; 94 Tkhouseholdmonth for households with yard
         taps that are shared between 2 households and 38 Tkhouseholdmonth for
         households with shared connections where 5-7 households share a tap-stand. It is
         further assumedthat 10%o fhouseholds inthe village opt for single connections,
         40% opt for yard connections andthe remaining 50% opt for shared connections.

2. PourashavaComponent

         Benefits o f the Pourashava piped water supply component are estimated by
         valuing the incremental and non-incremental volume o f water supplied by the
         project andthe expected healthbenefits.
         Benefits and costs have been forecast over a 30-year horizon from the first year
         o f the project in 2004. Border prices have been estimated by applying the
         standard conversionfactor o f 0.9 to all domestic expenditures andbenefits.
         The opportunity cost ofcapital is 12% andthe WACC is 6.6%.
         The inflationrate is assumed to be 5%.
         Population growth is assumed to be 4.2%.'            The present population served by a
         scheme i s assumed to be 32,000 households.
         The average household size is assumed to be 5.5 persons.
         It is anticipated that 10%o f households inthe small towns are connected inthe
         year following construction. The percentage of connections is assumed to
         increase to 40% in year 3. From year 4 onwards it i s assumed that 80% o f
         households are connected.
         The capital cost o f a scheme is estimated as 310 million Tk. in 2004 prices.
          Scheme construction costs are assumed to be distributed over 3 years with 26%
         o f costs incurred in year 1, 45% in year 2 and 29% in year 3. Total scheme
          expansion costs are 58 million Tk. with system expansion taking place from the
          fourth year onwards for each scheme.
         Annual operation and maintenance costs (O&M) increase over the project life as
         the number o f connections increase and are estimated as approximately 35-40
         millionTWyear af'ter completion o f construction(2004 prices).


 These assumptions are based on data collected inthe recent studytitled Willingnessto Payfor Arsenic-
Free Safe, Drinking Water in Bangladesh.

 World Bank, SIMA database, percent annual urbanpopulation growthin2001.


                                                  62

         In order to quantify the consumer surplus arising from increased availability of
          safe water it is assumed that the cost of water pre-project is 11.5 Tk./m3. It is
          assumed that currently approximately 8% o f the population in the Pourashava is
          served by a piped water supply scheme with the remaining 92% relying on
         private or public wells. The population served by domestic piped water
          connections pays 40 Tk./month/household for their water. It is assumed that the
         remaining population spends approximately 22.5 minutes/day/household to
          collect water (20 lpcd), which i s valued at 1.5 Tk./household.'              This translates

         weightedaverage o fcosts results inapre-project cost o f 11.5 Tk./ m .
          into a cost o f 13 Tk.1m3for households not served by domestic pi ed water. A   P
          The    tariff post-project       i s  estimated     as      9 Tk./m3 which is              150
          Tk./household/month assuming water supplied by the project is 100 lpcd. This
          assumption i s based on expected tariffs under a scenario o f a 50% grant and
         reflects the tariff levels in the sixth year after construction when tariff levels are
          expected to stabilized. This tariff level translates into a monthly household tariff
          o f 300 Tk for householdswith a single connectionwith multiple taps, 210 Tk. for
         households with a yard connection and 50 Tk. for households with domestic
         water points sharedbetween 7 households.

3. RuralNon-pipedMitigationOptions Component

(i)       Benefits of the rural non-piped water supply component are estimated by valuing
         potential timesavings and health benefits attributable to the project component
          during its expected lifetime. The health benefits are measured using the same
          assumptions and approaches as inthe ruralpipedwater supply component.
(ii)      This component o f the project will make safe water available closer to homes,
          thereby potentially reducing the time needed to draw water from more distant
          safe sources for drinking and cooking purposes. It is assumed that households
          will continue to use water from their handpumps for bathing as inthe pre-project
          scenario or if they shifts to a new source, the distance to the new source will be
          equivalent to pre-project scenario. Prior to the project it i s assumed that the rural
          population in villages served by this component spend approximately 58.5
          minutes per day collecting water for drinking and cooking purposes (5 lpcd),
          which is valued at 3.5 Tkhouseholdday. This estimate assumes that 70% o f the
          population in the village has shifted from arsenic contaminated sources (in close
          proximity to their homes) to arsenic-free sources located at a distance. This 70%
          o fhouseholds spend 27 minutes per day collecting drinkingwater as compared to
          9 minutes per day spent by the remaining 30% o f households." Similarly the
          70% o f households spend additional time collecting water for cooking. Post-
         project, the average time spent per day collecting water i s 22.5 minutes per day



 These assumptions are based on data collected inthe recent study titled Willingness to Payfor Arsenic-
Free Safe, Drinking Water in Bangladesh.

loThese assumptions are based on data collectedinthe recent study titled Willingness to Payfor Arsenic-
Free Safe, Drinking Water in Bangladesh.


                                                  63

         valued at 1.5 Tk./household/day.          This translates into a savings o f 2
         Tk./household/day.
         Benefits and costs have been forecast over a 15-year horizon from the first year
         o f the project in 2004. Border prices have been estimated by applying the
         standardconversion factor o f0.9 to all domestic expenditures andbenefits.
         The opportunity cost o fcapital is 12 %.
         The inflationrate is assumedto be 5%.
         Population growth is assumed to be 0.98%."        The present population served by a
         scheme is assumedto be 200 households.
         The average householdsize is assumed to be 5.5 persons.
         The capital costs for non-piped mitigation options in a village are estimated as
          1.16 million Tk. in 2004 prices.       It is assumed that scheme construction is
         completedwithin the first year o f the project and that there are 10 households per
         point source and eachpoint source costs 58,000 Tk.
         Annual operation and maintenance costs (O&M) are estimated at 0.035 million
         Tk. per village (2004 prices).


SummaryofEconomicandFinancialRatesofReturn

The results of the economic analysis are summarized in the tables below. For each
component results are presented for various scenarios reflecting different assumptions in
valuing project benefits. In all components scenario 1 presents the most conservative
estimates. The economic rates o f return of the rural piped water supply schemes range
from 20% to 45% depending on the assumptions used to quantify the benefits. For the
most conservative assumptions (Scenario 1) the NPV is 214 million Tk. These results are
based on schemes that use deep groundwater sources. In reality there may be several
different types o f schemes including those using deep groundwater, deep groundwater
with treatment, surface water abstraction with treatment and surface water infiltration
systems. As this i s a demand driven project it is not possible a priori to predict the
number o f schemes for each technology.

For the Pourashava piped water supply component, ERRs range from 16% to 34%.
Scenario 1 for the Pourashava component results in an NPV o f 291 million Tk. The
ERRs for the rural non-piped mitigation options component range from 20% to 57%,
with an NPV o f 52.30 million Tk. under scenario 1in which the only benefits that are
valued are potential timesaving. The financial benefits for component 1were calculated
assuming a domestic tariff o f 11 Tk./m3'a domestic supply o f 40 lpcd, a commercial
tariff o f 19 TWm3 and a commercial supply o f 15 m3per day per scheme resulting in a
FRRo f 13%. The assumedtariff for component 2 is 9 Tk./ m3yieldingaFRRo f9%.




l1World Bank, SIMA database, percent annual urbanpopulation growthin2001.


                                                64

  'I'ahle 1: Economic Rates of Return
       - -                                       .
                                 -I
'RuralPipedWater Supply
i..  -                                I  KKK ___
                                               INPVMillions)
                                                - (BDT __


t

Table 7: AffordabilityofUrbanPipedWater Tariffs



                                                                   Monthly average
                                         Monthly Water Bill household income Water Billas % of
                                        (TMHouseholdmonth) (Tk.)                           Income
HighIncome 1/                                                    300               23,000                     1.30
Middle Income 2/                                                 210                 8.000                    2.63




UrbanWater SupplySystems-BusinessModel

The case of Chapai Nawabganj was used to assess the financialviability o fthe proposed
approach to the development o fthe water supply systems inthe Pourashavas to be
included inthe project. This case was selected taking into account the experience o fthe
pilot currently underpreparation with BAMWSP support, andthe results o f the
Willingness-to-Pay Study carried out in2003. The main characteristics o f the market for
services are presented inthe table below.

                                                   Chapai Nawbganj
                                        Marketfor Services and Projected Tariffs




2/ Total to be paid by the seven households per multiple connection
31 Tklmonthlconn-2004prices.
In the table above it i s worth noting that 50% of the households would be served through multiple connections(3,125
connections serving 21,875 families in 2019, followed by yard connections (35% of the households), and single
connections(15% of the households).




                                                           68

        The proposed tariff levels are significantly higher than the current ones in Chapai
        Nawabganj (Tk 40 per connection per month) but similar to the tariffs in other urban
        areas.I2 Inany event, the business model envisages gradual tariffincreases so as to make
        them more acceptable to the customers.

        The predominance o f multiple connections makes it essential for the water supply entity
        to establish adequate procedures to avoid water waste and to enforce bill collection from
        these customers, as they are likely to represent a significant proportion (18%) o f the
        amount billed.

        The base financial scenario under the above market for services and projected tariffs
        shows that the water companies would be able to cover their operation and maintenance
        expenditures, the remuneration o f the private operator, and either the depreciation
        charges or the debt service (see income statement and sources and applications o f hnds
        below). The project investments would be 100% financed by the loan during the years
        2007 thru 2010. The cash deficit envisaged for the first year of the private operator
        (2006) would be financed from the loanproceeds.

                                                        Projected IncomeStatements
                                                             (000 Tk. 2004 prices)




  Net Income Before IncomeTaxes 31                     -4,117   -8,712 -6,392 -3,083     2,476   1,219    3,026    4,946   ~,229 7,578


 verage op. income per hhlmonth                            63       75     94     113      126     148      150      151    151      151
21 From 2006 thru 2010 are considered part of the investmentcosts
3/ The legal and tax situation of the water utilityare not yet known. Taxable income is expectedonly severalyears from now. The feasibility
   studies should consider this item.




         l2The monthly tariff per connection o f %,'inselected urban areas range fromTk 60 inChuadunga, Tk 80
         inJessore, Tk 100inChandpur andShariaptur, andTk 110inManikganj.


                                                                      69

                                                         ProjectedCash Flows




Cash surplusfor year (deficit)                -1,717     -2,112     2,908 -1,484      4,582    -2,907  -1,597     -207  511 1,258
Operationalgrant I/                            1,717      2,112          0      0         0         0       0        0    0     0
Cumul. cashsurplus (deficit)                       0          0     2,908    1,424    6,006     3,099   1,502    1,295 1,806 3,064


I /To cover operational deficits up to the initialthree years of the privateoperator provided that meetscontracttargets

    RuralPipedWater Systems-BusinessModel
           The-base case o f the rural piped water systems business model assumes a capital
           structure where the community contributes 10% o f the total costs, the sponsor has
            10% equity, 30% o f the total cost i s financed through a loan andthe remaining 50%
           is a grant.
            Service standards for a typical village o f 300 households include 30 households with
            single connections with multiple taps, 120 households with yard taps that are shared
           between 2 households and 150 households with domestic water points that are
            sharedbetween 7 households. It i s assumed that households with a single connection
            consume 1001pcd, households with yard connections consume 50 lpcd and low
            income households consume 20 lpcd.
            The base case business models also assumes that the project supplies non-domestic
            consumers inthe village including 10 shops andinstitutions, 2 horticulture nurseries,
            2 dairy farms, 2 poultry farms and 5 fish ponds.
            The tariff paid by users will cover the interest and principal payments o f the debt
            assumed by the sponsor as well as 100% o f the operation and maintenance costs o f
            the scheme. It is assumed that the tariff for commercial connections will be equal to
            1.5 times the base tariff.
            Collection efficiency for the schemes i s assumed to range from 80% to 90%.
            Itis also assumedthat per capitaconsumption grows at 1%per year.
     (vii) The terms o fthe loan are as follows: the loanis a 10-year loan for up to 40% o ftotal
           project costs. There is a 2-year grace period andthe interest rate is assumed as 11%.
     (viii)Construction i s assumed to take 6 months.
     (ix) The total capital cost is 2.5 millionTk. andannual O&M cost is 0.20 million Tk.
     (x) The model assumes a minimumDebt Service Coverage Ratio (DSCR) of 1.2 and a
            dividendpayout ratio o f 15% onthe sponsor's equity.



                                                                    70




                               Annex 10: SafeguardPolicyIssues
                        BANGLADESH: Water Supply ProgramProject


1.EnvironmentalAssessment & Management

DPHE, GOB, is implementing the Water Supply Program Project (BWSSP) to (i)assist
Bangladesh move forward in achieving the MDGs in water supply and sanitation by 2015 and
(ii) upmeasurestoprovidearsenicandbacteriologicalsafewaterinruralareasandsmall
    scale
towns. The current project aims to launch pipedwater supply schemes inabout 300 villages, 3-5
small towns, and alternative water supply options in 200 arsenic-affected villages where piped
water supply is not feasible. As the project will promote demand-driven sustainable water supply
with direct involvement o f private sponsors, sub-projects will be identified on a rolling basis.
These sub-project areas may include flood plains, coastal areas, small towns and any other
hinterlands inBangladesh. While the coastal region will have saline intrusion in groundwater as
a key environmental concern, water supply sub-project location in flood plains would require a
complex environmental management strategy. The project will avoid overlapping with such
areas where other large-scale water supply and sanitation activities are ongoing, such as the hill
tracts and the coastal belt. The project will also keep out o f the naturally protected areas like the
World Heritage Site - largest single mangrove forests of the Sundarbans Reserve Forest (SW)
andthe country's biggest freshwater wetlands `Tangur Haor' areas.

EnvironmentalIssues in the Project:Given the small scale o fproject interventions, no large-
scale, significant and/or irreversible environmental impacts are anticipated in this project. The
potential environmental impacts primarilyrelate to [a] water source quality protection (including
protection against arsenic, bacteriological and other toxic contamination or cross-contamination),
[b] ensuring adequate drainage and avoiding local construction-related impacts, and [c] disposal
o f arsenic sludge ifandwhen arsenic removalplantswere to be implemented.

Managing and ensuring the quality o f water supplied will be the major challenge inthe project.
Over and above arsenic contamination, issues related to water supply include occurrence o f high
levels o f chloride inthe deep wells inthe coastal and some saline/ brackishwater pockets inland;
localized occurrence o f an excessive amount o f dissolved iron, manganese, ammonium, and
sodium inmany deep wells; heavy metals such as barium andboron, and (limited) uraniumboth
in shallow and deep groundwater; and secondary microbial contamination in some occasions.
For surface water, the issues include high levels o f fecal coliform and total coliform; and
presence o f cynobacteria.

As deep tubewells become more and more popular owing to the relative advantages regarding
arsenic andbacteriological contamination, indiscriminate drilling without understanding the local
aquifer dynamics will be a long-term indirect risk. The groundwater monitoring component o f
the project seeks to address this long-term risk by continuing to support the GOBin increasing
the knowledge base regarding the deep/old aquifer. The absence o f efficient sewage treatment
plant in the towns covered in the project is also a matter o f concern, where there would be
possibilities o f additional pollution o f surface and ground water resources. No other long-term
impact is anticipated.




                                                  74

Environmental Assessment in the Project: The Borrower has carried out an Environmental
Assessment. Relevant environmental issues and the processes to manage or mitigate the
environmental have been identified. An Environmental Management Framework (EMF) has
been prepared to address the environmental issues; specifying the implementation and
monitoring arrangements to ensure that the environmental issues are mainstreamed in the
planningandimplementation o fthe project.

Community Consultations: The project design seeks to build partnerships with the private
sector, NGOs, and community user groups in financing, operating and maintaining facilities.
Specifically for the groundwater monitoring component, the project will partner with the IAEA
andwith its local counterpart, the BAEC andDFID.
The project is based on a 2001/2 assessment o f people's perceptions o f the extent o f the arsenic
problem and possible solutions. It examined people's willingness to pay for arsenic-free safe
drinking water      options   in rural     Bangladesh,      and the      preferences   for   various
householdcommunity-basedarsenic mitigation technologies. Duringpreparation o f this project,
the communities, CBO/water users body, local NGOs, local government bodies, local DPHE
officials, and implementing agencies were consulted indetail to identify the key issues related to
community mobilization, schemes design, procurement and construction, operation and
maintenance. Civil society consultations were held in different levels to discuss issues such as
quality o f water and the required intervention to ensure sustainability o f sub-projects.
Consultations with all stakeholders - communities, experts, NGOs and private sector sponsors
will continue throughout the implementationperiod.

MitigationPlans:An EMFhasbeenprepared to address the environmental issues inthe project.
The EMF includes (i)    institutional arrangements; (ii)   screening procedures at the sub-project
preparation and approval stage, (iii)assigned responsibilities o fthe different stakeholders during
implementation and operation stages, and (iv) environmental monitoring and audit. Adequate
implementation o f the EMF (especially environmental screening and periodic environmental
audits) has been included as covenants inthe project agreement.

Environmental screening will be integrated into the bidding and approval of the sub-projects.
Environmental screening will normally result in mitigation andor management plans to be
implemented by the private sector sponsor. The DPHE will ensure that these environmental
mitigation plans are adequately implementedby each o f the sub-project sponsors. At this stage, a
source protectionplan, and a water quality surveillance planwill be agreed with each of the sub-
project sponsors. Depending on site-specific requirements, plans for mitigating any expected air
pollution, soil erosion, land acquisition and traffic diversion (in rural/peri-urban roads) during
construction will be agreed. Based on quick site appraisals by the DPHE, plans for mitigating
anyother environmentalconcern willbe agreedwiththe sponsors.

For sub-projects using gvoundwater, the project will ensure that only those deep aquifers free
from arsenic and bacteriological contamination will be tapped. At the sub-project level, quality
o f water will be ensured through testing during feasibility studies and implementation (testing
will include all parameters notified for GOB for drinkingwater). Although the aim would be to
avoid problematic sources, by exploring andtapping safe sources (by location), adequate arsenic
removal plants/technologies and conventional water treatment will be used, wherever required.
Adequate assessment will be undertaken to understand the aquifer thickness, hydraulic gradient
and its recharge capacity prior to the installation o f deep tube wells. Safe drillingtechniques will


                                                  75

be employed following a protocol specifically being developed for the project. Besides, the
project will establish a partnership with BAEC for comprehensive monitoring o f arsenic-free
groundwater.

Under Project Component 2 and 3, the project will explore various locally accepted arsenic free
water harvesting technologies, including dugwells, pond-sand filters and surface water
infiltration systems. These sub-projects will implement adequate environmental measures for
source protection, managing bacteriological contamination and restricting pesticides and
fertilizer residues entering into the ponds and dug-wells as run off. For sub-projects using
surface water, the project will make provisions for regular bacteriological surveillance, adequate
management o f sludge and chemical from water treatment facilities.

Mitigation of construction related impacts: The project will take adequate precautionary
measures to avoid degradation inlocal environment. The construction work for both installation
and distribution network of piped water supply system will be monitored for adequate materials
management, including transportation, storage and disposal o f construction materials; damage to
local ponds andwater bodies, or local flora.

Mitigation of project operation-related issues: Each sub-project will be screened to ensure that
issues such as environmental sanitation, lack o f proper drainage around public stand post or
water distribution points, are minimized. Depending upon the withdrawal capacity and the
demand, each public stand post will have a concrete platform at the distribution point. The
project will collaborate with the proposed Local Government Project, which will specifically
include a Total Sanitation Approach in villages to promote better hygiene and environmental
sanitation practices in the project area. The project will have adequate provision to mobilize
users for ensuring quality control measures during the installation and operation o f the sub-
projects.

The project will implement specific protocol for arsenic sludge disposal and for treating other
wastes likely to be generated while removing arsenic from groundwater. The protocol will be
developed incompliance with GOBNotification: July 20,2002.

Budget: Most o fthe mitigation measures, such as source protection, management o f construction
activities are mainstreamed with the overall sub-project (at preparation, implementation and
operation phases). The budget for these mitigation measures i s integrated in the overall sub-
project budget. Additional and specific budget for implementing the EMF are required for (a)
staffing o fthe PMUwith environmental specialists, (b) compliance monitoringbyPMU staff, (c)
periodic water quality surveillance by the PMU (separate from the water quality surveillance by
sponsors), and (d) environmental audits. The total budget for these activities will be about
US$285,000.

ImplementationCapacity:This project buildson the experience ofIDA-funded BAMWSP and
other similar projects financed by bilateral agencies implemented by the GOB since 1998.
During implementation of those projects, considerable expertise has been gained by the
implementing agencies, especially with regard to managing the water quality issues including
arsenic and microbial contamination. The Borrower has demonstrated institutional capacity to
manage the project, including planning and implementation o f actions to meet social and
environmental needs and safeguards. This project also includes capacity building initiatives,


                                               76

including knowledge management activities. Specifically Component 4 o f the project will help
enhance the capacity for groundwater management andadministration. This component will also
seek to strengthen water quality monitoring and capacity at national (DPHE), unionparishad and
pourashava levels; and incharacterization andmonitoring o f safe groundwater resources.

InstitutionalArrangements:DPHE is the implementing agency for this project, with overall
project management support provided by a PMU. The PMUas the nodal entity will decide on the
allocation o f the core responsibility and ensure coordination between the private and the public
utilities for adequate management and mitigation o f the adverse environmental impacts. The
PMU will nominate one o f its senior members as Environment Coordinator (EC) exclusively
responsible for ensuring the implementation o f the EMFin each o f the sub-projects. The EC will
be supported by a designated full-time Environmental Officer (EO) and environmental
consultants, procured as and when necessary. The EO will be stationed inthe PMU, and will be
responsible for assisting the EC on a regular basis; environmental screening o f the sub-project
proposals; andmonitoring the implementation o f the sub-projects.

A specific monitoring and evaluation component (from bothpoint o f views: bacteriological and
chemical) has been designed for the project that will systematically monitor the environmental
impacts and learn from project interventions. Besides, the project has established a partnership
with the IAEA through their local counterpart in Bangladesh - BAEC for a comprehensive
groundwater monitoring.
Other specific strategies are to include environmental parameters in appraisal and review
(including environmental screening) o f the project proposals, and in the periodic review o f
program implementation. Additionally the sub-projects will be subject to periodic Independent
Third-party Environmental Audits, which will examine the implementationo f the environmental
management measures on a sample o f sub-projects, for Project Components 1, 2, and 3; and
covering all geographical divisions o fBangladesh.



2. Social Framework

IdentifyingandPrioritizingVulnerableGroups

Vulnerability inthe context o f arsenic is defined as insecurity and defenselessnesso f the people
and continuous exposure to risk of arsenicosis in the absence o f safe water options. There are
two primaryparameters. Firs, vulnerability relates to the insecurity, risk and stress caused by the
natural element o f arsenic; and second, is individual capacity as well as the available options to
cope with the situation. The social assessment identified the poorest segment of the population,
women, children and the physically challenged as vulnerable.

Payingfor PipedWater: Needfor InformedConsent

People are aware that arsenic-contaminated water poses a serious health hazard and have a
positive attitude toward piped water systems. They are not, however, convinced about paying for
water. A vigorous awareness campaign should be launched focusing on the cost ofwater sewice
so that the people can understand the rationale for why they would be requiredto pay for water.
The sponsors and Union Parishad chairpersons will take the lead in this process during



                                                77

preparation and operation of rural piped projects, as established in the Guidelines to Sponsors.
The Pourashava chairman andthe private operator will have that role for the urbanschemes.

GenderIssues

Role of Women as Household Water Manager: Strategic Issues

Collection o f water i s considered women's work and it is the women who invest their time and
labor to bring water to the household. It i s the women who decide when, from where and also
how much water to collect. Therefore, economizing, proper use, and misuse o f water fall within
the purview o fwomen's domain as homemakers inBangladesh.

From the perspective o f women and other vulnerable sectors o f the community, the following
factors should be considered inorder to generate popularbuy-infor the schemes andpromote the
long-term sustainability o fthe pipedwater system:

    0  Distance o fthe pipe stand from the house;
    0   Privacy and convenience;
    0   Easy accessibility;
    0   Locationo fthe standpipe (where and inwhose courtyard);
    0   More time andlabor to collect water should not be required.

Women's Participation

Women would have a central role in different stages o f the project cycle o f the non-piped water
supply component as follows:

        Women as "community mobilizers," operators, monthly bill collectors and caretakers o f
        water options. Trainingwould be providedby SOs.
        At least 30% women members inthe VDC/ward arsenic committee. The VDC meeting
        should be convened in a convenient location and time so that all the women members o f
        the VDC can attend suchmeeting.
        Women would be encouraged andprovided opportunity to play a more proactive role in
        implementingandmanagingpipedwater system.
        Women Union Parishad (UP) memberswould be members o f the VDC/ward committee
        andwould be ajoint signatory for all infrastructure contracts.
        Existing women's microcredithelf help/social mobilization groups would to be involved
        inthe wardcommittees.

For the piped schemes in rural and urban areas, women - as the main customers and decision
makers interms o fwater use -will be fully involved inthe decisionmakingprocess coordinated
by the sponsors. The feasibility studies and the project proposals will include sufficient
information to demonstrate the participation of women in the preparation process, as well as a
clear description o ftheir role duringoperation, as defined inthe Guidelines to Sponsors.




                                                 78

PipedWater Systemfor TribalPopulation

The majority o f the tribal population resides inthe Chittagong HillTracts and the hilly northern
areas in a scattered manner and groundwater in these areas is not contaminated by arsenic.
Therefore it is not anticipated that the project would finance activities in such areas.
Nevertheless, communities in these areas might opt for piped water supply schemes under
Component 1. Inthe event that a request for piped water systems from tribal areas, the sponsor
will be requiredto develop a targeted mechanism for (a) creating enabling environment byusing
tribal language awareness kits and tribal workers for informed decision makingby tribal groups,
and (b) mobilizing the willing communities to determine the best approach and the community
members' role in the planning, implementation, operation and maintenance o f the piped water
schemes. When the community and sponsor agree on the community taking an active role inthe
O&M, as opposed to having a relationship of customer-water utility, the sponsor will be required
to strengthen the community's capacity to operate andmaintain the project activitiedfacilities.

 Mechanismfor Voluntary LandDonation

 The piped water systems will be built on public land or donated land, so land acquisition will
 not be required in the large majority o f cases. Bangladesh law permits voluntary land donation
 by registering at the District Commissioner's office. All voluntary land transactions will meet
 the following criteria: (a) the land in question will be free o f squatters, encroachers or other
 claims o f encumbrances; (c) verification o f the voluntary nature o f land donations in each case;
 (d) landtransfers will be completed through registration, landtitle will be vested inthe Union
 Parishad (rural) and municipality (urban); and (e) a provision will be made for redressal o f
 grievances.

 For those rare cases where the Sponsors will need to purchase land, such purchase will be
 undertaken with the portion o f funds provided by the Sponsor. The PMUinDPHEwill examine
 all cases o f land purchases, with an independent agency as required, at the time o f proposal
 submission and before approving fund transfer for actual physical work. The project will
 develop the TOR and identify a suitable agency for ascertaining voluntarism o f all landtransfers
 and purchases before the signing of implementation o f contracts. All grievances will be
 reviewed by a committee under the chairmanship o f the District Commissioner, and including
 the UP Chairman, and a PMUrepresentative as its members. This committee will address any
 issue as brought out by an aggrieved person andor as brought out by the external agency's
 examinationreports.

InstitutionalFramework

In the village piped water system, the stakeholders include community-based grassroots
organizations, all types o f beneficiaries, NGOs who might act as sponsors, UP, DPHE and also
LGED.The functions and linkages among different stakeholders are describedbelow:




                                                 79

Sponsorsfor VillagePiped Water Systems

In villages having more than 200 households, sponsors (entrepreneurs, cooperatives, CBOs,
and/or NGOs) will be contracted to develop village piped water supply schemes in close
collaboration with communities and local governments. Guidelines and TORS have been
developed for the sponsor and are available in Project Files and will constitute part of the
OperationalManual.

Support Organizations (SO)

Insmallvillageswithlessthan200households, pipedwater systemswillnotbecosteffective. In
these villages, Support Organizations (SO) will be contracted to facilitate establishment of Union
and Ward Arsenic Committees, develop capacity o f these committees to raise awareness on the
importance o f arsenic safe water, anddevelopment ofward level community action plans (CAP),
which will detail the number o f options per ward, cost sharing mechanismand O&M procedures.
SOs will monitor completion of CAP and the smooth functioning o fO&M systems.

Union Parishad Arsenic Committee


        0   Overall guidance o f arsenic mitigation inthe union.
        0   Co-signatory for CAPS.

VillageNardArsenic Mitigation Committee

For the non-piped water supply systems, the Village/Ward arsenic mitigation committee will
take the lead in:
        0   Deciding and reaching a consensus for a joint water distribution system to provide
            arsenic-fiee safewater;
        0   Approving CAP;
        0   Deciding to use of the common property resources such as, river, pond, baor, khas
            land.
        0   Resolvingproblems that may arise inthe implementationof the project;
        0   Collecting initial community contribution and cost of O&M;

For rural piped water supply schemes, the village/ward arsenic mitigation committee may take a
leadrole ina variety o fpreparationandimplementation activities, as agreedwith the sponsor and
the community overall. Their role and involvement, as agreed in the community participation
process, will be described inthe feasibility studies and project proposals.

 Water Users Committee

Depending on the agreements with the sponsors during the initial consultation process, a Water
Users Committee mayhave a variety o froles duringimplementation, such as:

         0  Releasing the tap andmake sure that everyone gets water;
         0  Preventing misuse o fwater;
         0  Collecting the monthlydues fiom the households regularly;


                                                 80

       0   Depositing monthly collection to the treasurer;
       0   Preventing any conflict and feud among the water users;
       0   Reporting problem to the ward committee for onward transmission to the higher
           committee.

The specific roles and responsibilities o f the Water Users Committee will be clearly outlined in
the feasibility studies and project proposals, and will be part o fthe legal Service Agreement.

ParticipatoryMonitoring

Participatory monitoring will be an integral part o f the system. The monitoring framework will
include processes and outcomes. The M&E framework described inthe main body o f the PAD
includes specific provisions for the collection o f social indicators to evaluate these processes and
outcomes. Social development outcomes include (i)       establishment o f inclusive and accountable
local institutions (e.g. village/ward development committee, union parishad) which are
responsive to the needs o f the rural poor; (ii)   empowerment o f rural women by giving them
greater access, choice and voice in decision making; (iii)         improvement in health status by
bringingchanges inpersonal, domestic and environmental hygiene behavior/practices; and (iv)
capacity buildingo f local government andother institutions.




                                                 81

                       Annex 11: ProjectPreparationandSupervision
                      BANGLADESH: Water SupplyProgramProject

                                             Planned                   Actual
PCNreview                              November 11,2003           November 11,2003
Initial PID to PIC                     November 26,2003           December 03,2003
InitialISDS to PIC                     November 26,2003           December03,2003
Appraisal                                 April 10,2004             April 10,2004
Negotiations                              May 10,2004                May 11,2004
BoardRVP approval                         June 17,2004               June 17,2004
Planneddate o f effectiveness            October 31,2004
Planneddate o fmid-termreview            March31,2007
Plannedclosing date                       April 30,2010

Keyinstitutions responsible for preparation ofthe project: MinistryofLocal Government and
Cooperatives; Department o fPublic Health Engineering.

Bankstaffandconsultantswho worked ontheproject include:

Name                                             Title                      Unit
KarinErikaKemper                   Sr Water ResourcesMgmt.Spec.            SASES
KhawajaM.Minnatullah                 Sr Water & Sanitation Spec.          EWDSA
EdeJorge Ijjasz-Vasquez                 Sr Environmental Spec.              ENV
Mona Sur                                      Economist                    SASRD
NilufarAhmad                               Sr Social Scientist             SASES
BurhanuddinAhmed                    Sr Financial Management Spec.          SARFM
DebabrataChakraborti                      Procurement Spec.                SARPS
Tapas Paul                               Environmental Spec.               SASES
h a 1Talbi                                Young Professional               SASES
Abul FayezKhan                            ProgramAssistant                EWDSA
Razia Sultana                             ProgramAssistant                 SASES
Hawanty Page                              ProgramAssistant                 SASES
Alain R. Locussol                  LeadWater and Sanitation Spec.,         SASE1
                                            PeerReviewer
JunaidAhmad                        LeadEconomist, Regional Team            EWDSA
                                           Leader, WSP-SA
DavidG. D e Groot                           Sr Urban Spec.                 AFTUl
HuseinRashid                                   Consultant                    n.a.
Saki1AhmedFerdousi                             Consultant                    n.a
Tanveer Ahsan                                 Consultants                  EWDSA
Bernard0Gomez                                  Consultant                    n.a
Guillermo Yepes                                Consultant                    n.a
SyedAbuhena MostafaKamal                       Consultant                    n.a
M.Khaliquzzaman                                Consultant                  SASES
FerozeAhmed                                    Consultant                    n.a


                                               82

Oliver Taft                                 Consultant               SASES
Franz Drees                        Sector Leader; Peer Reviewer      LCSFP
Luiz Tavares                    Senior Water and Sanitation Spec.;  EASUR
                                          PeerReviewer
Alexander Bakalian                        QER Reviewer              MNSER
ParameswaranIyer                          QER Reviewer              EWDWS


Bankfinds expendedto dateonproject preparation:
1. Bankresources:                         $315,000
2. Trust funds:                           $25,000
3. Total:                                 $340,000

Estimated Approval and Supervision costs:
1. Remaining costs to approval:           $5,000
2. Estimatedannual supervision cost:      $150,000




                                            83

                     Annex 12: Documentsinthe ProjectFile
                 BANGLADESH: Water SupplyProgramProject



Guidelinesfor sponsorsofruralpipedwater supply schemes

Social Assessment Report

Environmental Impact AssessmentReport including Environmental ManagementPlan

Agency Procurement Capacity Assessment Report

MissionAide Memoires


Other

Willingness-to-Pay Studies byWater andSanitation Program




                                       84

                                        Annex 13: Statementof LoansandCredits
                                   BANGLADESH: Water SupplyProgramProject


                                                 ~______         ~ _ _ _ _ _  __________       ~


                                                                                                               Differencebetween
                                                                                                               expected andactual
                                                           Original AmountinUS$Millions                           disbursements

Project ID FY   Purpose                                  IBRD       IDA     SF       GEF    Cancel.   Undisb   Ong.     Frm.Rev'd

PO74966    2004 PrimaryEducationDevelopmentProgram         0.00   150.00     0.00     0.00      0.00  153.95    0.00       0.00
                I1
PO53578    2003 SocialInvestmentProgramProject             0.00     18.24    0.00     0.00      0.00   18.29    2.10       0.00
PO62916    2003 CentralBank StrengtheningProject           0.00     37.00    0.00     0.00      0.00   37.05   19.32       0.00
PO71435    2003 RuralTransportImprovementProject           0.00   190.00     0.00     0.00      0.00  191.06     1.96      0.00
PO81849    2003 BD:TelecommunicationsTechnical             0.00      9.12    0.00     0.00      0.00    9.87    -0.06      0.00
                Assist.
PO44876    2002 Female SecondarySchoolAssis. I1            0.00   120.90     0.00     0.00      0.00   99.04    19.39       0.00
PO75016    2002 Public ProcurementReformProject            0.00      4.50    0.00      0.00     0.00    2.77     1.03       0.00
PO74040    2002 RenewableEnergyDevelopment                 0.00      0.00    0.00      8.20     0.00    7.72     1.05       0.00
PO74731    2002 FinancialServices for the Poorest          0.00      5.00    0.00      0.00     0.00    4.44     1.65       0.00
PO71794    2002 RuralElect. RenewableEnergyDev.            0.00   190.98     0.00      0.00     0.00  188.89    82.13       0.00
PO50752    2001 Post-Literacy & ContinuingEducation        0.00     53.30    0.00      0.00     0.00   43.04    13.22      -0.42
PO57833    2001 Air Quality ManagementProject              0.00      4.71    0.00      0.00     0.00    3.45     3.51       0.00
PO59143    2001 MicrofinanceI1                             0.00    151.00    0.00      0.00     0.00   26.44    -0.20       0.00
PO69933    2001 HIV/AIDS Prevention                        0.00     40.00    0.00      0.00     21.98   14.61   26.49      -2.01
PO44810    2001 Legal & JudicialCapacity Building          0.00     30.60    0.00      0.00     0.04   26.56    12.44       0.00
PO44811    2000 FinancialInstitutionsDevelopment           0.00     46.90    0.00      0.00     0.00    10.68   26.02       0.00
PO50751    2000 NationalNutrition Program                  0.00     92.00    0.00      0.00     24.02   50.56   62.13       6.11
PO49587    2000 Aquatic Biodiversity Conservation          0.00      0.00    0.00      5.00      1.25    1.85    4.82       2.66
PO09468    2000 FourthFisheries                            0.00     28.00    0.00      5.00      8.25   11.81   18.83       3.67
PO41887    1999 MunicipalServices                          0.00    138.60    0.00      0.00      0.00   83.37   29.25       0.00
PO37294    1999 Third RoadRehabilitation&Maintenance       0.00   273.00     0.00      0.00      0.00   97.93   88.58      29.11
PO09524    1999 DhakaUrban Transport                       0.00    177.00    0.00      0.00     64.89   46.54  110.54      35.37
PO50745    1999 Arsenic MitigationWater Supply             0.00      32.40   0.00      0.00      4.35   15.82   18.67       0.00
PO49790    1999 Export Diversification                     0.00      32.00   0.00      0.00      0.00    0.24    0.63       0.00
PO44789    1998 BDPrivateSector InfrastructureDev          0.00    235.00    0.00      0.00      0.00 147.68   148.65       0.00
PO37857    1998 HealthandPopulation Program                0.00    250.00    0.00      0.00      0.78   51.61   55.13       0.00

                                                  Total:   0.00  2,310.25    0.00     18.20 125.56    1,345.27 747.28      74.49




                                                                 85

                                                  Bangladesh
                                          STATEMENTOFIFC's
                                       Held and DisbursedPortfolio
                                          InMillions ofUS Dollars



                                                   Committed                            Disbursed
                                                  IFC                                 IFC
FY Approval Company                    Loan      Equity    Quasi   Partic.  Loan      Equity      Quasi  Partic.

2001        BDTEF                      13.00       0.00      0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00       0.00    0.00
1997        DBH                        2.33        0.65      0.00    0.00     2.33     0.65        0.00   0.00
1991        Dynamic Textile            1.86        0.00      0.00    1.48     1.86     0.00        0.00   1.48
1998        GrameenPhone               6.67        0.09      0.00    0.00     6.67     0.09        0.00   0.00
1985        IDLC                       0.00        0.15      0.00    0.00     0.00     0.15        0.00   0.00
1998        IPDC                       6.88        0.00      0.00    0.00     6.88     0.00        0.00   0.00
1998        Khulna                     14.74       0.00      0.00   17.99    14.74     0.00        0.00  17.99
1998/00     Lafargelsum                0.00        0.00      0.00   15.00     0.00     0.00        0.00   0.00
2003        RAKCeramics                12.00       0.00      0.00    0.00     12.00    0.00        0.00   0.00
2000        Scancem                    9.29        0.00      0.00    0.00     9.29     0.00        0.00   0.00
2000        UnitedLeasing              5.00        0.00      0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00        0.00   0.00

                      Total portfolio:  71.77      0.89      0.00   34.47    53.77     0.89        0.00  19.47




                                                               ApprovalsPendingCommitment
             FY Approval   Company                         Loan      Equity     Quasi      Partic.

             2001          BRACBank                      0.00        3.00        0.00       0.00
             2001          DhakaWestin                   8.75        0.00        0.00       0.00
             2004          GrameenPhone I1               30.00       0.00        0.00       0.00
             1998          Khulna                        0.00        3.30        0.00       0.00
             2000          USPCL                         0.00         3.OO       4.00       0.00

                                 Totalpendingcommitment:   38.75      9.30       4.00       0.00




                                                        86

                                                 Annex 14: Country at a Glance
                                    BANGLADESH: Water Supply ProgramProject


                                                                                                                               I
POVERTYand SOCIAL                                                South    Low-
                                                    Bangladesh   Asia   income     Developmentdlamond'
2002
Population, mid-year (millions)                          135.7   1,401    2,495
GNIpercapita(Atlas method, US$)                                                                 Lifeexpectancy
                                                          380     460      430
GNI(Atlas method, US$ billions)                           51 1    E40     1,072
Averageannual growth, 1996-02
PopulationI%)                                              1.7     1.8      1 9
Laborforce (%)                                             2 a     2.3      2 3    GNi                                  Gross
                                                                                   per                                 primary
Most recent estimate (latestyear available, 199 42)                                capita                             nrollment
Poverty (% of populationbelownationalpovertyline)           34
Urban papulation(% of totalpopulation)                      26      28       30
Lifeexpectancvat birth(years)                               62      63       59
Infant mortalitv(per 1,000livebirths)                       52      71       a i
Child malnutrition(% of childrenunder5)                     48                          Access to improvedwater source
Accessto an improvedwater source 1%of popu/ation)           97      84       76
lliiteracv(% ofpopulationage 15+)                           59      44       37
Gross primaryenrollment I%of schooi-agepopulation)         100      97       95          -       Bangladesh
    Male                                                   100     108      103           .....  Low-incomeWOUD
    Female                                                 101      89       a7

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOSand LONG-TERMTRENDS
                                                 1982     1992   2001     2002      Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                                18.1    31.7    47.0     47 6
Grossdomestic investmentlGDP                      178     17.3    23.1     23 1
Exportsof goods and servicedGDP                   5.2      7.6    15.4     143                      Trade
Grossdomestic savingdGDP                          125     13.9    180      182
Gross nationalsavingslGDP                         17.9    193     224      23 4
Currentaccount balance/GDP                        -49      -04     -1.7     0 5    Domestic
Interest pamentdGDP                               0 3                                                              Investment
                                                                                                                    nvestment
                                                          42 a
                                                           0.5     0.3      0 3    savings
TotaldebffGDP                                    27 9             32.4     358
Total debt service/exports                        177     16.2     7.3      7 7   I                     I
Presentvalue of debffGDP                                          20.7
Presentvalue of debt/exports                                     105.4                            Indebtedness
                                     1982-92 199242       2001   2002   2002-06
(average annualgrowth)                                                                    -
GDP                                      3 8       5.0     5 3     4 4                            Bangladesh

                                                           3 5      2.6                   ......   Low-incomearom




1%of GDP)
Agriculture                                       31.2    29.4    24.1     22.7    l5

Industry                                          21.1    22.5    25.9     26.4    10
    Manufacturing                                 13.7    13.9    15.6      15.9
Services                                         47.7     48.1    50.0     50.9

Private consumption
Generalgovernmentconsumption                      4.5      4.5      4.5     5.0
imports of goods andservices                                                                 -GDI          -C>-GDP


                                               1982-92 199242    2o01      2o02
(average annualgrowth)                                                             Growthof exports and Imports(%)

Agriculture                                        2.2      3.4     3.1     0.0    2o
Industry                                           6.0      7.1     7.4     6.5    i o
    Manufacturing                                  5.6      6.6     6.7     5.5
Services                                           3.7     4.8      5.5     5.4
Private consumption                                3.0      3.7     4.8     -0.1  -"
Generalgovernmentconsumption                       2.7     4.5      4.5     19.2  -20
Gross domestic investment                          6.3      9.6     5.8     8.2           -       Exports  "-0-lIrpOrtS
Importsof goods andservices                        2.3      9.4   11.2     -11.2




                                                                    87

                                                                                                      Bangladesh

PRICESand GOVERNMENTFINANCE
                                        1982   1992    2001   2002
Domesticprices
(% change)
Consumerprices                                   4.5     1.6    1.9
implicitGDP defiator                      9.7    3.0     1.6    3.2

Government finance
(% of GDP,includescurrentgrantsf
Current revenue                                  8.3     9.0   10.1             97    98     99      w      01
Current budgetbalance                            1.9     1.4    2.1    1
Overall surpluddeficit                   -9.6   -4.5    -5.0   -4.6            -GDPdeflator        -0-CPI


TRADE
                                        1982   1992    2001   2002
(US$millions)                                                            Exportand Import levels(US0 mill.)          1
Totalexports(fob)                             1,986   6,476   5,929
 Rawiute                                         106     67     61
 Leatherand leatherproducts                      139    254     207
 Manufactures                                 1,593   5,766   5,367
Total imports(cifl                            3,526   9,363   7,697
 Food                                           265     380    437
 Fuel andenergy                                  168    848     723
 Capitalgoods                                 1,289   2,400   2,617
Exportprice index(1995=100J                       86     112    115            98   97    98    99    w     01

Importpriceindex(1995=100J                       107     129    106                  ~xports        .imports
Terms of trade (7995=100J                         81      87    108

BALANCEof PAYMENTS
                                        1982   1992    2001   2002
(US$millions)                                                            Currentaccount balanceto GDP (%)
Exportsof goods and services              840 2,468   7,235   6,794    I 1 T
Importsof goods and services           2,759  3,932   10,103  9,061
Resourcebalance                        -1,919 -1,464  -2,868 -2,267
Net income                                -97    -89   -264    -319
Netcurrenttransfers                     1,121  1,435  2,316   2,826
Currentaccountbalance                   -895   -116    -816     240

Financingitems(net)                       387    635     490     35
Changesin netreserves                     508  -517      326   -275

Memo:
Reservesincludinggold (US$millions)            1,600   1,307  1,583
Conversionrate (DEC,local/US$J          20.0   37.7     54.0   57.4

EXTERNALDEBTand RESOURCEFLOWS
                                        1982   1992    2001   2002
(US$ millions)                                                           Compositionof2002debt (US0 mill.)
Total debtoutstandinganddisbursed      5,054  13,561  15,216 17,010
  IBRD                                     55     60      17     13                      G:494 A: ,3
  IDA                                   1,270 4,534   6,439   7,063               F 565

Totaldebt service                         220    552     671    722
  IBRD                                      3      7       7      7
  IDA                                       9     52     143    156
Compositionof netresourceflows
  Officialgrants                          759    357     287    410
  Officialcreditors                       739    623     419    220
  Privatecreditors                         21    -19     230     85
  Foreigndirect investment                  7      4     174     65
  Porffolioequity                           0      6       0     -6

World Bank prwram
  Commitments                             571    353     296    479      A IBRD
                                                                           -                            E Bilateral
  Disbursements                           188    323     312    301      B- IDA    D Othermultilateral F Private
                                                                                    -                     --
  Principal repayments                      0     24      99    112      C-IMF                          G- Short-term
  Netflows                                188    300     213    190
  Interestpayments                         12     35      50     51
  Nettransfers                            175    264     163    138




                                                          88

MAP (# 33262)




                 89


