                        Document of
                   The World Bank


                                                      Report No: 35059




               PROJECT COMPLETIONNOTE

                            OF

           A LEARNING AND INNOVATIONLOAN

IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 2.7 MILLION (US$4 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                          TO THE

                  REPUBLIC OF MALAWI

                          FOR A

         DEVELOPMENT LEARNING CENTER PROJECT

                     December 15,2005




                          AFTPR
                   Africa Regional Office

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                       (ExchangeRate Effective February 19,2004)

                            CurrencyUnit   = Malawi Kwacha
                                    MK 1 = US$ 0.00938
                                   US$1 = MK 106.6

                                     FISCAL YEAR

                                    July 1   June 30




                         ABBREVIATIONSAND ACRONYMS

CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CCA      Credit Ceiling Authority
CFAA     Country Financial AccountabilityAssessment
DCA      DevelopmentCredit Agreement
DLC      DevelopmentLearning Center
ECSAFA   Eastern, Central and Southern African Federation of Accountants
FIMTAP   Financial Management,Transparency and AccountabilityProject
FMR      Financial Monitoring Report
GDLN     Global DevelopmentLearningNetwork
GOM      Government of Malawi
GPN      General ProcurementNotice
HIPC     Heavily Indebted Poor Countries
ICR      ImplementationCompletionReport
ICB      International CompetitiveBidding
ICT      InformationCommunication Technology
IDA      InternationalDevelopmentAssociation
IDP1     First InstitutionalDevelopment Project
IFAC     InternationalFederation of Accountants
IDP2     Second InstitutionalDevelopmentProject
INTOSAI  International Organizationof Supreme Audit Insitutions
ISG      InformationSolutions Group
LIL      Learning and Innovation Loan
MASAF    Malawi Social Action Fund
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation
MIM      Malawi Institute of Management
MOU      Memorandum of Understanding
MOFEP    Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
NAO      National Audit Office
NCB      National CompetitiveBidding
NGO      Non-Governmental Organization
OPC      Office of the President and Cabinet
PA       Project Agreement
PCU      Project CoordinationUnit
PIE'     Project Implementation Plan
POM      Project Operations Manual

PRSP   Poverty Reduction StrategyPaper
QCBS   Quality and Cost Based Selection
SA     Special Account
SPN    Special ProcurementNotices
SOE     Statementof Expenditures
SOCAM   Society of Accountants in Malawi
UNDB   United Nations Development Business
WBI    World Bank Institute




                         Vice President:  Gobind T. Nankani
                       Country Director:  Hartwig Schafer
                        Sector Manager:   Helga Muller
                      Task Team Leader:   Marc Jean Yves Lixi

                                   Project Completion Note

    Republic of Malawi -Development Learning Center Project (IDA 38790 -MAI)


1. An IDA Credit of $4.0 million for the Development Learning Center Project was approved by the
   IDA ExecutiveDirectors on March 11,2004. The project, originally scheduled to reach financial
   closure in June 30,2009, failed to start implementation and disbursement, and was subsequently
   cancelled .The Government of Malawi officiallyrequested the cancellation of the IDA credit
   early November 2005. The purpose of this note is to explain why the project was not
   implemented.

   The main purpose of this Learning and InnovationLoan (LIL) was to test the effectiveness and
   sustainability of the Global DevelopmentLearningNetwork (GDLN), and more specifically, a
   Development Learning Center @LC) in Malawi as part of a global knowledge-sharingnetwork
   to strengthenthe capacity of public, private and civil society decision makers to design, plan, and
   manage social and economicdevelopmentprograms. The project was to focus on improving
   human developmentin Malawi, particularly regarding expenditure and financial management
   skills and the capacity of accountabilityinstitutions as outlined in the pillars 2 and 4 of the
   Malawi Poverty Reduction Strategy (PRSP).

ProjectDescription

3. The DLC was created as an independent legal entity to share developmentknowledge and
   information.It was formallyestablishedby an Act of Parliament with a view to launching
   construction in Lilongwe on the Malawi Institute of Managementcampus during the first year of
   the project. Thereafter, the project was to support the operations of the DLC (with costs on a
   decreasing basis) over the following four years.

4. The learning was to take place through a structured pilot aimed at documentingthe effectiveness,
   efficiency, impact,relevance, and sustainabilityof the DLC. Successwas to be determinedby the
   achievementof critical performance indicators such as the demonstration of financial viability,
   training relevance, learning, and application of skills. A Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E)
   system, performance indicator tools, and associated monitoring instruments were to
   systematicallymeasure the extent to which success has or has not been achieved.

5. This LIL had four components :(i) Main DLC constructionand developmentin Lilongwe:
   This componentwas to set up the institutional,physical and human resource requirements for the
   DLC. It was to be implemented by the Project CoordinationUnit located within Malawi Institute
   of Management (MIM); (ii) Support of the Main DLC operations: This componentwas in
   effect to support the DLC operations and assist in establishing its viability and training program.
   It was to be implemented by the DLC; (iii) Equipment and Installationof the sub-DLC in
   Blantyre:This componentwas to comprisethe developmentof the sub-DLC facilities in
   Blantyre and the support of its operations during the first three years of implementation. It was
   to be implemented by the DLC; and (iv) Monitoring & Evaluation:This componentwas to be
   carried out by MIM with considerable input and collaboration from the DLC.

6. The Credit was to finance the DLC operations during the first four years of operations on a
   decreasingbasis. The first year, the Credit would cover 80% of the Center's operating costs. The

   second year, it would cover 60%, the third year 40%, and the fourth year 20%. The management
   staff of the DLC was expected to develop a business-plan which would describe the management
   policy of the Center. The business-planwas to help the DLC reach financial sustainabilityby the
   fifth year of implementation



Events which Led to the Project's Cancellation

   The GDLN Center initiative was initially a componentof the Financial Management,
   Transparency and AccountabilityProject (FIMTAP). Following the Decision Meeting, this
    componentwas taken out of the FIMTAP's design and transformed into a stand-alone operation.
    A new $4.0 million LIJi was then set up to finance this new project. In order to move the
    preparation forward on a fast track basis, the Task Team decided not to fund project preparation
    activities (e.g. Manual of Procedures,Financial Management system,recruitment of the auditor,
    etc.) that are usually funded by a Project Preparation Facility (PPF) or other preparation grants.
   The mobilizationof the national counterpart funds from the Governmentside took longerthan
    expected and as a result the credit became effective in October 2004, seven months after the
    Board approval. As the project had not financed preparatory activities, MIM, as the Project
    Coordinationunit, had to pre-finance some activities in order to launch the project
    implementation.The Project Coordinatorhad to seek MIM's Board approval to mobilize the
    necessary funds, which again delayed the project implementation.

8. Eight months after the credit became effective, in May 2005, the Project Coordination informed
    the Bank that they had not received from the Bank the Guidelines document (Disbursement
    Letter) necessary for the project to disburse and were not able to request the initial deposit. In the
    meantime, the preparation of the bidding documentsfor the selection and recruitement of the
    architect and engineer,was being discussed and reviewed by the Ministry of Housing, the
    Ministry of Public Works, and the Office of the President and Cabinet (OPC), the ministerial
    home of MIM at the time. The DisbursementLetter was finally sent to the project early August
    2005. The Project Coordinationreceived final approval from the Minisines reviewing the
    bidding documentsfor architectural studies in September2005. During the second supervision
    mission in early September2005, noting the lack of progress in the implementation,the Task
    Team rated the project execution "not satisfactory", requesting the Project Coordinationto
    update key project documents such as the Project Implementation Plan (PIP) including the
    ProcurementPlan, and to ake pro-active action to avoid any further delay.

9. Following Quality at Entry (QEA) review by QAG, the project was considered at risk. At the end
    of Septemberand in October, internal discussionson the project status took place. The project
    was considereda risk for the whole portfolio that could "affect negatively futureprospects of
    increasingIDA resources for Malawi." In parallel, the new GoM has been developing a new
    strategy and reconsidering its areas of focus (now in areas of growth and infkastructure).The
    Government of Malawi officially requested the cancellation of the IDA credit early November
    2005, since the project no longer falls within the government's current strategic priorities.

Lessons Learned

10. Due diligence for any new distance learning initiative, including GDLN, will take note of the
    various issues raised by the Quality Assurance Group (QAG) panel in August 2005, and will
    address them in the context of the project preparation and appraisal process. The main lessons
   learned from the non-performanceof this LIL are the importance of:

a. a well formulatedProject DevelopmentObjectives (PDO) which, in case of a LIL,
   support the "pilot" aspect of this type of operation. In particular, the alignment of the
  PDO with the Government's strategy in order to ensure a strong ownership is critical;

b. a completepreparation stage of the project includingthe set up of a strong Project
   Coordination as well as the completionof all the necessary studies;

c. a finalizedM&E Plan with adequate capacity within the Project Coordination;

d. involvementof the other donors at the earliest stage of the project preparation would
   have mitigated the risks incurred by an innovativeoperation; and

e. a better coordination and communication between the Bank and the Borrower at all
   stages of the project preparation and implementationwould have resulted in a better
   outcome.

