                                    Updated Project Information Document (PID)
                                                                                                   Report No: AB491

Project Name                        MALAWI - Development Learning Center project
Region                              Africa Regional Office
Sector                              General public administration sector (100%)
Theme                               Other public sector governance (P); Education for the knowledge economy (S)
Project                             P083704
Borrower(s)                         GOVERNMENT OF MALAWI
Implementing Agency(ies)            MALAWI INSTITUTE OF MANAGEMENT
                                    Address: P.O. Box 30801Lilongwe 3
                                    Contact Person: Dr. Benson Kandoole
                                    Tel: (265) 1 710 866       Fax: (265) 1 170 609          Email:
                                    mimexecutive@mim.co.mw
Environment Category                C (Not Required)
Date PID Prepared                   November 20, 2003
Auth Appr/Negs Date                 December 10, 2003
Bank Approval Date                  January 29, 2004

1. Country and Sector Background


2. Objectives
To test the effectiveness and sustainability of a development learning centre in Malawi as part of a global
knowledge-sharing network to strengthen the capacity of public, private and civil society decision makers
and implementers to design, plan and manage social and economic development policies and programs. In
particular, the project will focus on improving the expenditure accountant skills as outlined in the pillars 2
and 4 of the PRSP.

3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The main purpose of this Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) is to test the effectiveness and sustainability
of a GDLN Center or Development Learning Center (DLC) in Malawi as part of a global
knowledge-sharing network to strengthen the capacity of public, private and civil society decision makers to
design, plan, and manage social and economic development programs.

The Government has expressed interest in training courses that support the ongoing improvement initiatives
for the civil service and, in particular, reforms in areas such as health, local government, legal, and
education, as well as in functions related to procurement, accounting, service delivery, restructuring,
budgeting, performance management, etc. The training needs for the FIMTAP and other Bank financed
projects cover technical, policy, and management areas that can also be supported by the DLC without the
cost of travel. Most of the World Bank funded projects in Malawi support capacity building efforts at both
the project and program or sector wide levels. One of the best uses of the DLC will be to link these teams
with other teams in and out of Africa to share experiences.

The DLC is a new concept for Malawi. Despite the presence of good training institutions in Malawi, there
are no means of sharing information and exchanging knowledge with other countries. This distance learning
initiative will aim to: (i) improve the implementation of the PRSP/PRSC and IDA-financed projects by
strengthening the environment fo policy reform and building the capacity in the public and private sectors;

                                                         2
                                                                                                            PID


(ii) help coordinate all the local training institutions in regard to the national capacity building policy by
putting in coherence, through the DLC Board, all the courses and training offered by the existing training
institutions.

As experience has shown elsewhere, an important segment of the market for the DLC services will also
come from the NGOs, civil society, and the private sector. Most of the private sector business being located
in Blantyre (south of Malawi), the project will also install and support a sub-Center in Blantyre. This
second GDLN Center will be technically linked to the main Center in Lilongwe and will be located within
an existing training institution.

4. Description
This LIL has four components : (i) Main DLC construction and equipment in Lilongwe; (ii) Support of the
Main DLC operations; (iii) Equipement and Installation of the sub-DLC in Blantyre; and (iv) Monitoring
& Evaluation. The Credit will finance the DLC operations during the first four years of operations on a
decreasing basis. The first year, the Credit will cover 80% of the Center's operating costs. The second year,
it will cover 60%, the third year 40%, and the fourth year 20%.

The management staff of the DLC will elaborate a business-plan which will describe the management
policy of the Center. The business-plan will help the DLC to reach financial sustainability by the fifth year
of implementation.

(i) Construction and Installation: This component will set up the institutional, physical and human resource
requirements for the DLC. It will be implemented by the Project Coordination.
(ii) DLC Operations Support: The component will in effect operationalize the DLC and assist in
establishing its viability and training program. It will be implemented by the DLC.
(iii) Sub-DLC Installation and Operations: This component will comprise the retrofitting of the sub-DLC
facilities in Blantyre and the support of its operations during the first three years of implementation. It will
be implemented by the DLC with the support of the Project Coordination and will start after one year of
successful operations by the main center in Lilongwe.
(iv) Monitoring & Evaluation: This component will be managed by the Project Coordination with
considerable input and collaboration from the DLC.
1. DLC Establishment, Construction and Installation
2. Support to DLC Operations
3. Sub-Center Installation and Support
4. Monitoring and Evaluation

5. Financing
Source (Total ( US$m))
BORROWER ($0.40)
IDA ($4.00)
LOCAL SOURCES OF BORROWING COUNTRY ($0.85)
Total Project Cost: $5.25

                                                       3
                                                                                                            PID


6. Implementation
The Project Coordination Unit (PCU) is located within the Malawi Institute of Management (MIM), and
will supervise the project preparation and implementation and will consequently be responsible to IDA for
the overall project. Its control over the activities of the DLC will essentially be of a legal nature with
respect to the obligations of the Development Credit Agreement. Specifically, the PCU will be responsible
for ensuring the successful performance of the project, consolidating the annual project accounts, ensuring
the timely submission of annual audits, processing the annual GoM budget allocation for the project,
promoting effective linkages with the civil service needs, and for monitoring and evaluation. A Project
Coordinator, from the PCU, supported by an Accountant and Procurement Officer will manage the PCU's
responsibilities. Components 1 and 4 are largely the direct responsibility of the PCU. The Malawi
Institute of Management (MIM) is independent and serves as the project implementing agency. In order to
reduce the project preparation delay, and as the establishment of an independent DLC through an Act of
Parliament would take several months, the DLC will be located in MIM and established as part of MIM.
This will be considered as an interim arrangement pending the passage of law establishing the DLC as an
autonomous entity. After two years of operations, at mid-Term, the PCU will work closely with the
Government to establish the DLC as an independent entity with an independent Board. DLC's core
responsibility is to set up and run an effective Center that is self sustaining in consultation with the Board.
DLC is directly responsible for Component 2 after mid-Term and while working in close collaboration with
the PCU on Component 3 and 4. A Subsidiary Grant Agreement outlining the roles and responsibilities
will be drawn between the PCU and the DLC.

TORs for all key positions in both the PCU and the DLC should have clear performance criteria and
standards, including explicit provisions for the exit of non-performers

7. Sustainability
Institutional sustainability will be enhanced by the proposed set up of a legal independent status
for the DLC, a Board with public, civil and private sector representation, and a management team
comprising of staff recruited from the private sector. Institutional M&E, financial, and procurement
capacity needs assessments will be conducted and addressed through responsive capacity building activities
prior to implementation. After two years of operations as part of MIM, the DLC will get an independent
status.

The DLC is expected to continuously evaluate the design, delivery, contents, relevance, demand,
effectiveness, learning failures, and barriers to greater participation, and ensure that the information is
used to adjust its training strategy and to respond to changing needs. It should establish a business model
that is viable with sustainable and effective mechanisms. The Centre will endeavor to promote the efficient
use of resources, improve reach, access and customer satisfaction, and ensure high quality and responsive
services while ensuring that the pilot's objectives are met through business planning and implementation.

Although the Centre will be run on a business basis to promote sustainability, it must also take into
account that it was created as a public good to share development knowledge and information. Therefore,
an appropriate balance is required between the not-for-profit intention and the need for financial viability.

                                                        4
                                                                                                       PID


8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The GDLN has completed its third year of operation with success in developing programming and content.
Already operational in nine countries in Africa and in more than fifty around the world, the Development
Learning Centers are today very successful learning tools. After only two years of operations, the DLC in
Dakar has already reached financial sustainability, and its objectives in terms of learning program and
number of clients. The Centers of Tanzania and Uganda use their facilities daily and have reached a use
rate of almost 80%.

With Kenya, Mali, Zambia and Burkina Faso, Malawi will benefit from this new learning network as part
of the third phase of the GDLN deployment. Moreover, the DLC in Lilongwe will be part of an
Anglophone African DL network including Ghana, Ethiopia, Tanzania, Uganda, and soon Kenya. These
four operational Centers benefit from a close relationship with the WBI GDLN Services Department in
Washington, DC which provides courses, training and seminars of many academic institutions, including
major North-American and U.K. universities.

As the Global Development Learning Network has been operational for only three years, it is very difficult
to assess the impact of the GDLN curriculum on the trainees in terms of capacity building. The GDLN is
setting up a common activity monitoring system to get some qualitative feedback from the trainees. In new
GDLN projects such as Burkina Faso, Mali, and Kenya, the M&E component is part of the Project Design
itself and will allow a better evaluation of the impact of the project on participants.

The main target audience of the GDLN comprises of decision makers from the public sector and civil
servants in general. However, due to the limited budget allocations available to governments, the public
sector does not represent a large part of the GDLN trainees. Nevertheless, the percentage number of civil
servant trainees is growing and has reached an encouraging fifty percent in certain countries. Some GDLN
Centers have now signed agreements with government administrations presenting the DLC and the GDLN
as the main training tool for civil servants. In the particular

9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
       Issues   : Not Applicable

10. List of factual technical documents:



11. Contact Point:

       Task Manager
       Marc Jean Yves Lixi
       The World Bank
       1818 H Street, NW
      Washington D.C. 20433
       Telephone: (221) 849 50 00
       Fax: (221) 849 50 27

12. For information on other project related documents contact:
         The InfoShop
         The World Bank
         1818 H Street, NW
         Washington, D.C. 20433
         Telephone: (202) 458-5454

                                                  5
                                                                                                 PID


         Fax:    (202) 522-1500
         Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop

Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not be necessarily included
in the final project.

