                   PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID)
                                 CONCEPT STAGE
                                                                     Report No.: AB 6803
Project Name                       Ghana PRSC8
Region                             Africa
Sector                             Gen. Public Adm.(38%), Energy (38%), Financial
                                   Sector (12%), Social Protection (12%).
Project ID                         P127314
Borrower(s)                        Government of Ghana
Implementing Agency                Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
Date PID Prepared                  September 19, 2011
Estimated Date of Appraisal        October 28, 2011
Authorization
Estimated Date of Board Approval   February 7, 2012

I.    Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement
      Since 2009, the Ghanaian economy has shown strong signs of stabilization, while
      weathering the impact of the global financial crisis. Both fiscal and current account
      deficits were significantly reduced, the exchange rate was stabilized and consumer price
      inflation decelerated to single digit levels. The methodology to compute national
      accounts was also updated, portraying a much richer economy than previously measured
      and a more sustainable external debt. Following a sharp adjustment in 2009, economic
      growth rebounded in 2010 (7.7 percent) and is projected to reach 14.4 percent in 2011,
      pulled by very favorable terms of trade and oil production.
      The challenge is for Ghana to fully take advantage of these positive - but maybe
      temporary - factors to decisively propel its economy to a higher development and poverty
      reduction trajectory. This calls for continued structural reforms to avoid boom and bust
      cycles (public financial management, financial sector regulation, energy-related
      stabilization mechanisms), reinforce households’ protection against various risks
      (including from the negative impact of exchange rate appreciation on agriculture and land
      prices), address regional disparities, and further strengthen Ghana’s governance
      architecture (public sector reform, decentralization, oil and gas regulatory frameworks).
      The proposed PRSC8 builds on achievements gained from past Development Policy
      Operations, namely the Economic Governance and Poverty Reduction Credit and the
      Seventh Poverty Support Credit. Both operations supported Authorities efforts to restore
      fiscal sustainability through improved public financial management and transparency,
      tackle long standing issues in public sector and energy, protect the poor through
      improved social protection and prepare the ground for an efficient use of oil revenues.
      The PRSC8 is fully aligned with the harmonized Multi-Donor Budget Support (MDBS)
      process. The World Bank was a founding member of the MDBS initiative and has been
      the permanent co-chair of the group since its inception in 2003. The MDBS process is a
      central instrument of aid harmonization in Ghana. It includes the identification with the
      Government of a selective joint matrix of policy actions to be supported by Development
      Partners, aligning their monitoring and evaluation frameworks through a common rolling
       3-year Progress Assessment Framework (PAF). In line with principles agreed upon
       between the Government and Development Partners in the MDBS Framework
       Memorandum, the PRSC8 ideally aims to be disbursed in the very first months of
       Ghana’s fiscal year.


II.    Proposed Objective(s)
       The proposed one-tranche, second and final Development Policy Operation of a
       programmatic series of two (PRSC7 and PRSC8) supports the authorities’ efforts to
       consolidate ongoing fiscal stabilization efforts and protect the development objectives set
       in the Ghana Shared Growth and Development Agenda (GSGDA) for 2010-2013. The
       GSGDA emphasizes the need for macroeconomic stabilization and greater executive
       efficiency, transparency and accountability to provide the adequate setting for the
       reduction of poverty and socio-economic inequalities through agricultural, private sector,
       infrastructure and human resource development. The proposed operation is aligned with
       the World Bank Group’s Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for FY08-12 and with the
       World Bank’s Africa Action Plan.
       The proposed operation is part of a larger program of support to Ghana that notably
       focuses on public financial management, public sector reform, energy, agriculture and
       safety nets. Following the board approval in FY10 of investment lending projects for
       public financial management (US$28 million), electricity distribution (US$70 million),
       and social protection (US$89 million), the board approved in FY11 investment lending
       projects for land administration (US$50 million), local government capacity (US$175
       million), oil and gas capacity (US$38 million), and skills development (US$70 million).
       It also approved the PRSC7 (US$215 million) and third agriculture development policy
       operation (US$57 million).

III.   Preliminary Description
       Efforts supported by the PRSC8 concentrate on measures to: prevent the accumulation of
       new public expenditure arrears and adopt a second financial sector development strategy;
       adopt an action plan for the continued subvention, rationalization, divestiture or
       commercialization of subvented agencies, and adopt the decentralization policy; establish
       and implement an electricity automatic tariff adjustment mechanism, and adopt an action
       plan for the restoration of the Tema Oil Refinery financial sustainability; test and validate
       the common targeting mechanism for major social protection programs; and establish a
       petroleum regulatory authority.
       Measures supported by the proposed operation are expected to have a significant positive
       and direct effect on poverty reduction. These include: (i) the strengthening of social
       protection through the adoption of a common targeting mechanism; (ii) strengthening
       public financial management for a better budget allocative efficiency in support of the
       GSGDA, (iii) restoring the financial viability of the electricity and petroleum sector,
       which is critical for pro-poor economic growth and employment creation, and (iv)
       promoting decentralization to better address local needs and foster executive
       accountability. More broadly, the proposed operation will support the macro-economic
       stabilization program, thus reducing the poor’s and near poor’s exposure to macro-
      economic shocks. Finally, the development of a sound institutional and regulatory
      framework for the oil and gas sector is finally a necessary condition for a developmental,
      pro-poor and sustainable use of petroleum resources.

IV.   Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects

      Measures supported by the proposed operation are not expected to have any significant
      impact on the environment. The implementation of measures to improve public financial
      management (commitment controls), the classification of SAs, the validation of the
      common targeting mechanism, and the adoption of the decentralization policy and the
      second financial sector strategic plan, are all environmentally neutral. The adoption of
      the electricity automatic tariff adjustment mechanism could improve energy
      conservation, and is not expected to induce any significant switching to dirty energy in
      net terms. In Ghana, electricity is used for lighting and running appliances, but not for
      cooking, as reported in the various Ghana Living Standards Surveys. As such, electricity
      tariff increases could only induce switching to kerosene for lighting, but such a
      substitution effect is expected to be negligible given that poor households (typically the
      most sensitive to changes in relative prices of energy given its importance in overall
      budget).will not be affected. Besides, a greater use of kerosene would be offset by a
      lower use of crude oil to generate electricity, as Ghana utilities would use this theoretical
      opportunity to reduce its average cost through higher resort to hydroelectric generation
      in relative terms. The establishment of a petroleum regulatory authority is expected to
      better adapt Ghana’s environmental institutional framework to the emergence of an oil
      industry.

      More generally, the Government’s reform agenda builds on Ghana’s robust
      environmental institutional framework and considerable capacities to set environmental
      management norms. The institutional framework is defined by the 1991 National
      Environmental Policy, the 1992 National Environmental Action Plan, and the 1994
      Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Act. The EPA has since the late 1980s adopted
      Environmental Impact Assessments (EIAs) as a management tool to screen undertakings
      likely to pose adverse impact on the environment. EIAs became mandatory in 1999 and
      are applied to all development projects and programs that have the potential to give rise
      to significant social and environmental impacts. EIAs are mandatory for seventeen types
      of activities classified as critical, including mining, petroleum and gas field development
      and exploration, construction of dams, harbors and roads, and logging and disposal of
      timber. In addition, the EPA has been one of the leading users in Africa of Strategic
      Environment Assessment (SEA) as a tool for the assessment of major policies, programs
      and investments.
V.     Tentative financing

Source:                                                 ($m.)
BORROWER/RECIPIENT
International Development Association (IDA)           100million
                                                      equivalent
Borrower/Recipient
IBRD
Others (specifiy)
                                              Total

VI.     Contact point
World Bank
Contact: Sebastien C. Dessus
Title: Lead Economist
Tel: 5337+4122 / 233-30-221-4122
Fax:
Email: sdessus@worldbank.org
Location: Accra, Ghana (IBRD)

VII. For more information contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-4500
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
