Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB2397 
Operation Name 
Human Development - Development Policy Loan (HD DPL1) 
Region 
Europe and Central Asia 
Sector 
Health (45%); General education sector (45%); Other Social Services 
(10%) 
Project ID 
P094967 
Borrower(s) 
Government of Bulgaria 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Education 
Date PID Prepared 
May 23, 2006 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
September 5, 2006 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
December 21, 2006 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Increasing labor market performance and employment will be critical for sustained growth and 
convergence to EU income levels
.
The current share long-term unemployed is large (60 percent of jobless 
are unemployed for more than a year) due to competency and skills mismatch and low employability, while 
the share of informal employment remains high.  Key reforms in this area include: (i) reducing the high 
payroll taxes to decrease disincentives to employment creation 
–
a
significant cut of social security 
contributions in 2006 from 29 percent to 23 percent of the payroll already made these taxes compatible with 
the CEE countries; (ii) adopting policies for more flexible use of fixed-term contracts and working schedules; 
(iii) allowing more flexible terms for hiring and firing owing to fluctuations in production levels, performance 
and absenteeism; (iv) strengthening the link between wages and performance; (v) adjusting unemployment 
benefits to increase incentives to work; (vi) increasing labor force participation by allowing flexible use of 
temporary and part-time contracts; and (vii) improving the effectiveness and increasing the net impact of 
active labor market programs. 
Upgrading education and skills for the knowledge economy.
 
Bulgaria’s education system faces three 
major challenges.  First, the quality and relevance of skills is inadequate for today’s labor market.  According 
to recent international comparative assessments (PISA 2002 and TIMSS 2003), there is a decline in Bulgarian 
secondary school students’ competencies and skills for the knowledge economy both in terms of reading 
proficiency and mathematics and science achievement.  This requires the establishment of an effective 
national system for assessment and control of the quality of education.  Decentralization with accountability 
systems and teacher quality will be essential for improving school quality.  Likewise, the quality and 
relevance of skills provided in higher education does not meet labor market needs.  Improved information and 
quality assurance, stronger links with industry, and accountability systems to deliver results will be crucial.  
Second, completion of upper secondary schools is below NMS-8 countries and Lisbon targets, and children 
from low income families, rural areas, and Roma in particular, have unacceptably low participation rates.  
Targeted interventions will be needed to reach the hard-to-reach groups.  Third, more efficient resource use is 
needed in view of the continuing reduction in school-age population.  Down-sizing school infrastructure and 
staffing to reallocate resources will require political will to adopt and implement the long-term Program for 
Development of School Education (2006-2015), strong communication and incentives.  Low student-teacher 
ratios and the large number of small institutions pose similar challenges in higher education. 
The health sector needs cost containment for financial sustainability, while at the same time improved 
quality and access
.
Eight years after the introduction of mandatory health insurance system, health outcomes 
are beginning to reverse from the negative trends in the 1990s.  Yet the reforms remain unfinished, and 
Bulgaria’s demographic and epidemiological profile will generate additional pressures on health spending.  
The two most significant problems are: (i) slow progress in improving efficiency and cost containment while 
at the same time securing quality care; and (ii) inequality in access due to lack of alternatives for those who 
Page  2
cannot pay for services.  Financial sustainability of the system is threatened by a combination of poor 
monitoring of the payment system for inpatient care, the oversized hospital infrastructure, and high 
pharmaceutical spending.  The focus of care will need to shift from hospitalization and curative care towards 
prevention and outpatient care.  Pharmaceutical spending needs to be contained through regulation in prices 
and volumes.  And consolidation in hospitals will require the implementation of the hospital restructuring 
strategy developed in 2002.  The EU as part of its recent monitoring report has also raised concerns about 
equity of access to the system, and equity considerations will have to be part of any discussion on restoring 
financial balance to the system. 
With about 40 percent of the economy’s resources in the public sector, improving the efficiency and 
effectiveness of public expenditures is central to Bulgaria’s growth prospects
.
In addition, Bulgaria has a 
unique opportunity in putting forthcoming EU funds, estimated on a net basis at an average 3.7 percent of 
annual GDP during 2007-09, to best use in support of long-term growth.  To make room for growth-oriented 
public investments and effective absorption of EU funds, and contain spending in the face of a difficult 
demographic situation, Bulgaria will need to contain and improve efficiency of spending on the health care 
system, education, and the social assistance system.  Reform in these areas should be driven by improving the 
quality of services while increasing the efficiency of expenditures and their fiscal sustainability.  In addition, 
effective absorption of EU funds will require urgent development of project pipelines to meet the high 
investment needs based on prioritized investment programs in key sectors (transport, municipal services, and 
environment).  This will need to be accompanied by capacity building at central and local levels. 
The Human Development – Development Policy Loan series is a key instrument of the Country 
Partnership Strategy (CPS) to achieve the CPS-agreed objectives of increasing productivity and 
employment, promoting fiscal sustainability, and improving access to social services of under-served 
groups.
 
The DPL series will be the first policy-based operation prepared entirely by the new governing 
coalition which won the Parliamentary election in June 2005.  The new Government comes to power with an 
ambitious reform agenda, as reflected in the health and education sector strategies currently being discussed 
with the country’s key stakeholders.  By supporting the implementation of key components of these two 
strategies and the introduction of changes to current labor market and social protection policies, the DPL 
series will complement and expand the work undertaken under the recently completed Programmatic 
Adjustment Loan (PAL) program.  The previous PAL program covered a broad range of topics ranging from 
infrastructure and the financial sectors to social services.  Following completion of the PAL program, the 
government requested Bank assistance to continue supporting reforms in the social sectors which are not 
explicitly guided by the EU accession process and adoption of the 
Acquis Communautaire
 and are areas 
where the Bank can provide valuable assistance given its knowledge of similar reforms in the region and its 
understanding of the Bulgarian context.   
 
2. Proposed 
objective(s) 
 
The DPL series consists of three planned Human Development - Development Policy Loans.  The proposed 
loans are intended to support the Government of Bulgaria (GoB) to meet some of the challenges of EU 
accession.  In particular, the DPL series would support the adoption and implementation of policies to (i) 
more closely align the education and health sectors and labor market policies with EU standards; (ii) increase 
competitiveness through enhanced productivity and skills of the labor force; (iii) improve the efficiency of the 
health, education, and social assistance systems to maintain a fiscally sustainable expenditure framework; and 
(iv) promote more equitable access to basic social services.   
 
3. Preliminary 
description 
 
In line with the CPS objectives, the DPL series would address the following key social sector issues:  
 
(i) 
Increase Productivity and employment by improving quality of education and promoting 
incentives for job creation:  
The DPL series would support the productivity and employment agenda 
by focusing on: (i) the needed education reforms to meet the skill needs of the knowledge economy, 
Page  3
and (ii) reform of the labor framework and social protection system, to increase labor force 
participation. 
(ii) 
Promote fiscal sustainability through efficiency gains in social sectors and facilitate absorption 
of EU funds:  
The DPL series would focus on improving the efficiency of the health, education, 
pension and social assistance systems to support their financial sustainability and effectiveness. 
(iii)
Promote social inclusion of underserved groups of the population by improving access to social 
services:  
The DPL series would support policies that promote further poverty reduction and social 
inclusion, by granting the poor equitable access to basic social services and supporting their 
participation in the labor force.   
 
The first phase of the DPL Series (DPL1) is focused on the introduction of changes in the social protection 
sector aimed at increasing employment, the implementation of stabilization measures in health financing, and 
planning activities in the education sector.  DPL2 will focus on implementation of additional measures to 
maintain financial balance in the health sector, changes in the hospital sector, and beginning implementation 
of major changes in the education sector.  DPL3 will consolidate the reforms in the health and education 
sectors. 
 
4. Environment 
Aspects 
 
Not applicable. 
 
5. Tentative 
financing 
Source: ($m.) 
Borrower 0 
IBRD (DPL1) 
150 
 Total 
150 
 
6. Contact 
point 
 
Contact: Hermann A. von Gersdorff 
Title: Sector Manager 
Tel:  (385-1) 23-57-274 
Fax:  
Email: Hvongersdorff@worldbank.org 
 
