Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  
AB2544
 
Operation Name 
Human Development - Development Policy Loan (HD DPL1) 
Region 
Europe and Central Asia 
Sector 
Health (45%); General education sector (45%); Other Social Services 
(10%) 
Project ID 
P094967 
Borrower(s) 
Government of Bulgaria 
Implementing Agency 
Council of Economic Policy, Council of Ministers 
Date PID Prepared 
September 14, 2006 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
October 5, 2006 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
January 30, 2007 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
SOCIAL PROTECTION 
 
On the verge of acceding to the European Union, a major challenge for Bulgaria is the low labor 
force participation and employment rate.
 
In spite of having increased from 50 percent in the 
beginning of 2003 to 59 percent in mid-2006, the employment rate remains low compared to the EU-15 
and most new EU member states and substantially below the EU Lisbon target rate of 70 percent by 
2010.  At present, 68 percent of the employment is created by the private sector but a sizable share of it 
is tied up in low productivity jobs in agriculture, forestry and services, much of it in informal activities.  
Accelerated efforts are necessary to meet the target in time.  Despite the growth of the private sector, 
attracting and retaining people in employment will be difficult given that 35 percent of the population 
aged 15-64 remains economically inactive, the workforce is aging and the demographic decline sets 
limitations for its renewal.  
 
EDUCATION 
 
Bulgaria appears to be facing a decline in the quality of education and a national system for 
quality assessment is still lacking. 
The information on quality of education in Bulgaria is sparse, but 
there are some solid indicators suggesting that it has not improved over the last decade. For instance, in 
the area of mathematics, Bulgarian eight-graders participated in three rounds of an international study 
(i.e., the Trends in International Mathematics and Sciences Study (TIMSS)) in 1995, 1999 and 2003. Of 
all the countries in the sample, Bulgarian eighth grade students faced the steepest decline in 
mathematics and science achievement. While it could be argued that the curriculum reform 
implemented just during those years partly explains such results, the magnitude of the decline clearly 
points to a worrying quality drop in lower secondary schools in Bulgaria. Moreover, too many students 
still drop out without completing secondary education: over one-fifth of youth leave school with only 
lower secondary compared to 7.5% in the NMS. And the quality of learning results is also unequally 
distributed among the student population. Recent external evaluations of 4
th
 graders done by the Open 
Society Institute concluded that the average studen
t
in the “Roma schools” in the sample had not even 
mastered half of the curricula taught, and this performance fell short of their peers in non-Roma 
schools.
1
In such a challenging context, Bulgaria has lacked a national system for the monitoring of 
student performance and the overall assessment of education quality. This is further aggravated with the 
1
In the sample, the “Roma schools” were not identified as such. However, in conversations with the municipal education 
teams in charge of the schools which were tested, we learnt that the poorest performing schools were schools where there 
were more than 70% Roma students. 
Page  2
absence of Bulgaria from international quality assessment test initiatives on a consistent basis like PISA 
(Program for International Student Assessment) and PIRLS (Progress in International Reading Literacy 
Study). 
 
HEALTH 
 
Health service provision is inefficient, access to care less than universal, and the National Health 
Insurance Fund NHIF is not financially sustainable.  
The reform that introduced health insurance in 
Bulgaria was meant to achieve universal coverage in a financially sustainable manner, while promoting the 
efficient use of resources and improving quality.  Eight years after the passing of the health insurance law, 
health outcomes are beginning to show a reversion in the negative trend observed during the 1990s, but it is 
also becoming apparent that many aspects of the original plan require additional fine-tuning and that some of 
the main reforms are yet to be completed.  In Bulgaria problems remain in the following areas:  
 
·
Current spending is biased towards more expensive inpatient care, and the current payment and 
monitoring systems for hospitals do not contribute to managing the growth of public spending adequately;  
·
The excess capacity of hospitals and unequal allocation of resources across regions has not been 
addressed;  
·
Spending on pharmaceuticals, at 80 Euro per capita 
—of which about 50% is out-off-pocket— is still low 
in comparison to other European countries but is increasing and has the potential to become a major burden 
for the NHIF budget and limit access to basic drugs for poor households; and 
·
Access to health care services is not universal 
 
DPL I will be the first policy-based operation prepared entirely by the new governing coalition 
which won the Parliamentary election in June 2005.
 
The new Government has come to power with 
an ambitious reform agenda, as reflected in the health sector strategy currently being discussed with the 
country’s key stakeholders and the education sector strategy approved in May 2006, and with the 
commitment to implement the Joint Inclusion Memorandum signed with the EU in 2005.  By 
selectively supporting the implementation of some of the components of these two strategies as well as 
the introduction of changes to current labor market and social protection policies, the DPL series will 
complement and expand the work undertaken under the recently completed PAL program.  The 
previous PAL program covered a broad range of topics ranging from infrastructure and the financial 
sectors to social services.  Following completion of the PAL program and during the preparation of the 
recently approved Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) the government requested assistance from the 
Bank to continue supporting reforms in the social sectors and it was agreed that the DPL series would 
focus on these sectors exclusively. 
 
2. Proposed 
objective(s) 
 
The DPL series has two overarching objectives that are closely linked to the CPS objectives.  These are: 
(i) Increase productivity and employment by providing incentives for job creation and improving 
quality of education and; (ii) Promote fiscal sustainability through efficiency gains in social sectors and 
improve access to social services.  A description of the actions being supported by the DPL under each 
objective and the expected outcomes follows. 
 
3. Preliminary 
description 
 
In line with the CPS objectives, the DPL series would address the following key social sector issues:  
 
(i) 
Increase productivity and employment by providing incentives for job creation and 
improving quality of education:  
The DPL series would support the productivity and 
employment agenda by focusing on: (i) the needed education reforms to meet the skill needs of 
Page  3
the knowledge economy, and (ii) reform of the labor framework and social protection system, 
to increase labor force participation. 
(ii) 
Promote fiscal sustainability through efficiency gains in social sectors and improve access 
to basic social services:  
The DPL series would support policies that promote further poverty 
reduction and social inclusion, by granting the poor equitable access to basic social services and 
supporting their participation in the labor force.   
 
The first phase of the program is dominated by the introduction of changes in the social protection sector to 
create additional incentives for employment generation, and the definition of a new funding mechanism for 
schools.  These measures are accompanied by actions to stabilize public spending on health, mitigate the 
impact of the changes in education financing on access, and improving the institutional capacity in the 
education and health sectors.  The second phase will focus on supporting full implementation of the new 
education financing formula, introduction of governance changes in the sector, implementation of some of 
the actions included in the medium term vision for social protection, and additional actions to maintain 
financial balance in the health sector.  The third phase supports the consolidation of the financing and 
governance reforms in the education sector and implementation of structural reforms in the supply of health 
care services; this phase is also expected to show some early results from the previous two phases of 
program implementation.  The reforms are progressing at a different pace owing to the different degree of 
preparedness in the sectors, the structural and medium-term nature of some of the reforms, and the time 
necessary to build consensus for major policy changes, but the program is balanced over the three phases. 
 
4. Environment 
Aspects 
 
Not applicable. 
 
5. Tentative 
financing 
Source: ($m.) 
Borrower 0 
IBRD (DPL1) 
150 
 Total 
150 
 
6. Contact 
point 
 
Contact: Daniel Dulitzky  
Title: Senior Economist 
Tel:  (+1 202) 473-25128 
Fax: (+1 202)  614-0930 
Email: 
ddulitzky@worldbank.org
7.   For more information contact: 
 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
