Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19434-LA
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
THIRD STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CREDIT NO. 2821-LA)
June 29, 1999
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its content may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of June 1999)
Currency Unit        =        Kip (K)
K 1000        =        US$ 0.1390
US$ 1.00        =        K 7,200
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
October 1 - September 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB        -      Asian Development Bank
ASEAN        -       Association of Southeast Asian Nations
BOL        -      Bank of Lao People's Democratic Republic
CAS        -      Country Assistance Strategy
CPPR       -       Country Portfolio Performance Review
EDL       -       Electricite du Laos
EPTL       -       Post & Telecommunications
ESAF       -       Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
FIMC        -      Foreign Investment Management Committee
FDI       -      Foreign Direct Investment
FSAL        -      Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
GDP        -      Gross Domestic Product
GOL        -      Government of Lao PDR
IBRD       -       International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICSID       -      International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes
IDA       -       International Development Association
IDF       -      Institutional Development Fund
IFC       -      International Finance Corporation
IMEF      -       International Monetary Fund
MIGA        -       Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
MOF        -       Ministry of Finance
NEM        -       New Economic Mechanism
NGO        -       Non-Government Organization
ODA        -      Official Development Assistance
PFP       -      Policy Framework Paper
PHRD        -       Policy and Human Resources Development Fund
SOCB        -      State-owned Commercial Bank
SOE       -       State-owned Enterprise
TA       -       Technical Assistance
UNDP        -       United Nations Development Programnme
Vice President                     :         Jean-Michel Severino
Country Director                   :         Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala
Sector Manager                     :         Homi Kharas
Task Manager                       :         Thang-Long Ton



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
THIRD STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
[Credit No. 2821-LA]
CONTENTS
Preface ...............................................................               i
Evaluation Summary ......................................................................   i
PART I. Project Implementation Assessment ......................     ...........................   1
A. Introduction ........................                                            1
B. Project Design and Objectives .......................       :   . ..........   1
C. Achievement of Objectives .........................................................   3
D. Bank Performance .........................................................        7
E. Borrower's Performance .........................................................  8
F. Assessment of Outcome, Sustainability, and Lessons Learned .......       ..........   9
PART II. Statistical Table
Table 1.  Summary of Assessments
Table 2.  Related Bank Credits
Table 3.  Project Timetable
Table 4.   Credit Disbursements
Table 5-6. Key Indicators for Project Implementation and Operation
Table 7.   Studies included in Project
Table 8A. Project Cost
Table 8B. Project Financing
Table 9.   Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10. Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11. Compliance with Operations Manual Statements
Table 12. Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13. Bank Resources: Missions
APPENDIX A
Borrower contribution to the ICR
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its content may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
THIRD STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CREDIT NO. 2821-LA)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the third Structural Adjustment
Credit (SAC III) to the Lao People's Democratic Republic. This credit, in the amount of US$40
million equivalent, was approved on January 22, 1996, signed on April 15, 1996, and made effective
on July 11, 1996.
The credit was closed on December 31, 1998, following two extensions of the closing date,
first to December 31, 1997 and then to December 31, 1998. The first tranche of the credit was
disbursed in July 1996 and the second tranche was cancelled on December 31, 1998. There was no
co-financing.
The ICR was prepared by Thang-Long Ton (Economist, EASPR) and incorporates the
Borrower's comments. It is based on material in the project files and on a mission to the Lao PDR in
April 1999. The Borrower's own evaluation of project preparation and execution is included as
Appendix A to the ICR.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
THIRD STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CREDIT NO. 2821-LA)
EVALUATION SUMMMARY
Introduction
1.    Since the New Economic Mechanism (NEM) was initiated in 1986, the Lao People's
Democratic Republic (Lao PDR) has achieved remarkable success in transitioning from central
planning to a market-oriented economy. Reforms have paid off in increased trade and investment flows
that have allowed rapid growth averaging about 7 percent annually between 1992 and 1997. SAC III
was intended to help the Government sustain the momentum of growth by embarking on deeper and
more difficult structural reform measures.
Project Design and Objectives
2.    SAC III was designed to support greater efficiency in private and public investment by
improving the incentive regime for private sector development and the management of public resources.
The principal components were: (i) creating a private sector enabling environment through reform of
the state enterprise sector, the regulatory framework, and the financial sector; and (ii) enhancing public
resource management by improving public expenditure management, improving professionalism, cost
effectiveness of the civil service and through changes to the social security system.
Implementation Experience
3.    Some important achievements were accomplished under SAC III, but results were uneven
(paras. 6-9). There were substantial delays in implementation due in part to Government personnel
changes, and the resulting loss of strong reform advocacy at senior level of the Govermnent and due in
part to weak implementation capacity. Macroeconomic performance also deteriorated significantly in
1997 and 1998. After two extensions totaling one year and a half, the credit closed on December 31,
1998 without disbursement of the second tranche.
4.    Macroeconomic Framework. Monetary and fiscal prudence and appropriate exchange rate
management supported good macroeconomic performance during the first six months of SAC III. In
early 1997 however, macroeconomic indicators showed signs of deterioration as economic management
weakened. The shock from the Asian crisis added to this deterioration in mid-1997. The Lao PDR was
particularly vulnerable to economic instability in Thailand given its dependence on Thailand for trade
and investment flows and the historically close links between the Lao kip and the Thai baht. This
adverse effect was however unduly exacerbated by weak management and inappropriate macro policy
responses.
5.    Almost all specific conditions for the second tranche release were successfully completed
albeit with delays, as summarized below:



6.    SOE 'reform. The Government met all second tranche release conditions for this component:
completion of the commercialization of five strategic SOEs; privatization, liquidation and/or offering
for sale of all non-strategic SOEs (but with little investor interest, however); and preparation of the plan
for the commercialization of all strategic SOEs (yet to be adopted). Other important achievements in
this area include: continued hard budget constraints for SOEs; further steps to commercialize all key
public utilities; limitation of public portfolio to key strategic enterprises; and establishment of an
enterprise performance monitoring system.
7.    Regulatory Framework. The conditions for this component remained only partially fulfilled at
credit closing. Two implementing regulations for the Business Law and Accounting Decree were
adopted, those for Foreign Investment Law and Budget Law were drafted, without IDA's comments and
feedback. The last regulation on Arbitration Decree remained to be prepared. The preparation of a
medium-term national legal framework development plan was not completed.
8.    Financial Sector Reform. The Government improved prudential regulations for commercial
banks. Audits of the State-Owned Commercial Banks (SOCBs) for the 1996 fiscal year were completed
in 1998 and work on audits for the 1997 fiscal year (not a SAC III condition) were carried out in 1998.
Both audits exposed the extremely weak financial position of the SOCBs. In this context, the Bank of
Lao PDR (BOL) could not have meaningfully enforced loan-loss provisioning as required by SAC III,
without bankrupting the banks. However several bank managers lacked technical knowledge on how
prudential regulations were to be applied and the BOL was unable to provide detailed guidance on this.
9.    Public Expenditure Management. All the second tranche conditions under this component
were met. A new budget nomenclature was adopted and budgets are now being published. A project
monitoring system was established in the Ministry of Finance and produces quarterly reports on updated
project disbursements.
D.    Bank Performance
10.   SAC III preparation benefited to some degree from the experience of two previous SACs in the
Lao PDR. In particular, staff sought close government involvement in the preparation and supervision
of the credit. A government coordinating committee with representatives from all key departments
involved in the reform program was put in place during preparation, provided comments on reform
proposals and was to be actively involved in credit supervision. Staff ensured that needed technical
assistance from other donors to implement reforms was available. All conditions including the
maintenance of a sound macroframework were closely coordinated with the IMF within the EASF
framework and with the ADB's ongoing assistance program.
11.   A closer review of implementation experience suggests however that project design could have
been more selective--focussing on fewer but more substantive reforms in a few key areas. Government
capacity was clearly insufficient to carry out SAC III's broad reform program. The reform of the legal
framework especially would have had much greater chance of success in a medium term capacity
building operation than as part of a short term adjustment operation.
12.   During supervision, Bank staff followed up with the implementation of conditions and back-to-
office reports emphasized steps needed to fulfill agreed measures. Macroeconomic dialogue was
conducted and coordinated closely with the IMF in the context of PFP/ESAF negotiations.
ii



13.   Despite these initial efforts, Bank supervision faltered in 1997 and 1998 for a variety of reasons.
First, as work programs changed during the East Asia Region's reorganization, the project was without
a full time task team leader for an extended period of time. Furthermore, amid the regional crisis, it was
difficult to assemble a diversified team to supervise all the areas covered by the credit--particularly on
the financial sector--as attention was increasingly diverted to the crisis countries and away from the
small economies in the region. All of this happened at an important period in the implementation of
SAC III as macroeconomic performance was rapidly deteriorating and the momentum of reform was
being lost.
14.   The IMF and the Bank made several efforts to persuade the Government to adopt strong
measures to restore macro stability. While the IMF led this dialogue, the Bank and the IMF agreed on
the measures that were needed and coordinated messages to the Government. The Bank also stressed
the importance of macro-stability for the success of other projects in the portfolio and for the Bank's
ability to proceed with the processing of new projects such as the Nam Theun II hydropower project.
Despite these efforts, and evidence of support for remedial measures at the technical level, the lack of
advocacy for such measures at the decision making levels of government and the lack of transparency
in decision making, prevented any meaningful move forward.
Borrower's Performance
15.  Implementation delays and unevenness also highlight several difficulties on the part of the
Borrower. First, while Government ownership appeared strong initially, ownership weakened during the
course of implementation. The few pro-reformers at the decision making levels of government either
retired (for example the Vice-Minister of Finance who had served as Chair of the Coordinating
Committee and had been instrumental in initial implementation success) or were replaced during
cabinet changes. Furthermore, capacity to implement some of the reforms was weak and in some cases,
implementing units did not have adequate numbers of staff. Finally, coordination amongst the various
ministries represented on the Coordinating Committee was inadequate.
16.   Poor economic management compounded the effects of the regional crisis on the Lao economy.
It was only toward the end of 1998 that the Government began to implement measures to respond to
worsening macroeconomic performance. But these fell short of measures recommended by the IMF
and the Bank.
Assessment of Outcome, Sustainability, and Lessons Learned
17.   Assessment of Outcome. There were some important accomplishments under SAC. III.
Improvements were made in the budgetary process and in budgetary transparency; prudential
regulations for the banking sector were improved; and external audits of the banks provided critical
information on the health of the financial sector; and initial steps were taken to launch the
commercialization of key public utilities. But there was much less progress in other areas notably
regulatory reform. Only two implementing regulations were adopted.
18.   Sustainability. The achievements under SAC III are important but do not go far enough in
achieving the fundamental objectives sought by the operation. Additional measures are needed in the
same areas in order to have any lasting impact on Government efforts to build a well-functioning
market economy. Thus, sustainability will depend critically on Government's ability to reinvigorate
iii



reform. For example, in the area of SOE reform, appreciable improvements in SOE efficiency cannot
be achieved unless other critical policy issues including pricing-particularly of power services-are
resolved. In addition, the enterprise monitoring mechanism needs to be used effectively to identify
performance problems and solutions. The banking sector remains extremely weak. Bank distress needs
to be addressed as part of fundamental restructuring and reform of the sector. Adequate enforcement of
existing regulations will be critical.
19.   Lessons Learned. The implementation experience of SAC III provides important lessons for
future adjustment support to the Lao PDR. First, the design of such support needs to take adequate
account of weak economic management capacity. Operations thus need to be more focused, limiting
interventions to a few areas, but seeking substantive reforms that are likely to have high impact. Most
of the measures supported by the SAC just seemed to touch the tip of the iceberg and were unlikely to
have much lasting positive impact without additional and deeper measures. The SAC had sought to
support a deepening of reforms but overall, project design reflected breadth rather than depth.
Unfortunately, the legal development framework which involved substantial change was not
appropriate for an adjustment operation. This lesson is already being internalized in the Bank's support
to the Lao PDR. The current Country Assistance Strategy (March 1999) states that further Bank
support for policy-based lending should take the form of sectorally-focused operations while addressing
other longer term institutional constraints under specific investment operations.
20.   The Bank also needs to focus more on the big picture during supervision. The likely impacts of
reforms should be regularly reassessed and changes made as needed, to project design and
implementation to enhance development impact A broader lesson is the importance of extra attention
to the needs of smaller clients. The difficulty of mobilizing staff in the right skills mix to supervise this
operation during the Asian crisis highlights the need to ensure that smaller client needs do not fall
between the cracks particularly in circumstances where attention tends naturally to be focussed on
larger clients.
21.   A final lesson is the importance of broad support and ownership within government at the
highest level More effort needs to be put into building such broad support for reform. The Bank needs
to invest in examining how best to do this. This needs to go hand in hand with increased efforts to
understand better the nature of the decision making processes and the political economy of reform in
relatively closed societies like the Lao PDR.
iv



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
THIRD STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(Credit No. 2821-LA)
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.    Introduction
1.    Since the New Economic Mechanism (NEM) was initiated in 1986, the Lao People's
Democratic Republic (Lao PDR) has achieved remarkable success in transitioning from central
planning to a market-oriented economy. This has been achieved in parallel with economic, political
and social stability. Reforms have helped boost trade and investment flows, supporting growth
averaging about 7 percent between 1992 and 1997. The World Bank has provided broad support to
the reform  effort through a portfolio of investment, technical assistance and adjustment programs.
Within the adjustment framework, the first structural adjustment credit (SAC I) in 1989 supported
exchange rate and price reforms. SAC II in 1991 followed up with enterprise reform, and
improvement in public resource management and public administration. The third SAC in 1996 was
designed to help the Government sustain the momentum of growth by embarking on deeper and
more difficult structural reform measures.
B.    Project Design and Objectives
2.    SAC III was designed to assist the Government in two main areas: enabling private sector
development and managing public resources. To be fully successful, these reforms required the
maintenance of a sound and stable macroeconomic framework through appropriate macroeconomic
management.
Enabling Environment for Private Sector Development
3.    The private sector in the Lao PDR was still constrained by a burdensome institutional
structure. To accelerate the transition toward a market-oriented business environment that would
promote private sector development, this component of SAC III was designed to: (i) improve -he
efficiency of the SOE sector; (ii) improve the regulatory framework governing business activity; and
(iii) strengthen the financial sector.
4.    SOE reforms. This component supported the Government in (i) the completion of the
privatization process, and (ii) the development of a clear strategy for the management of remaining
SOEs and other state assets. It envisaged the following actions: (i) privatization of the remaining
non-strategic SOEs within two years, based on a time-bound divestiture plan already agreed with
IDA; (ii) an end to the granting of new monopoly privileges, and the phasing out of existing ones on
expiration; (iii) strengthening of the performance of SOEs remaining in state portfolio and other



- 2 -
state assets through the preparation of a mechanism for monitoring their performance; imposition of
hard budget constraints within a clear strategy for SOE management; preparation of a time-bound
action plan to commercialize 32 SOEs and the commercialization of the four largest utilities.
5.    Regulatory Framework. The Government needed to develop a medium-term national legal
framework, key legislation and regulations for the promotion of a competitive enterprise sector and
for private investment. SAC III was designed to support this effort, including the adoption of
implementing regulations for several business-related laws. This component also aimed to further
integrate the Lao PDR into international financial and economic markets through adherence to
international conventions and through formulation of a legal reform plan.
6.    Financial Sector Reform. The objective of the financial sector reform component was to
ensure a sound and stable banking system by introducing elements of discipline and accountability
into the decision-making process of commercial bank managers. This component included the
adoption of prudential regulations, annual independent external bank audits, conversion to a new
uniform chart-of-accounts for commercial banks; and the introduction of pre-tax loan-loss provisions
in banks, based on periodic reviews of portfolio quality.
Efficiency in Public Resources Management
7.    The main elements of this component included public expenditure management, civil service
reforms, and improvement in the social security system.
8.    Public Expenditure Management. The objective of this component was to enhance public
expenditure management, including improved consistency between capital and current expenditures-
-especially in the development of hydropower--by strengthening the Government's investment
planning capacity by enhancing transparency in the budget process, and by improving prioritization
of Government expenditures.
9.    Civil Service Reform. This component supported the preparation for the professionalization
and the improvement of the overall cost effectiveness of the non-military civil service through
clearer identification of skill requirements, the development of competitive entrance examinations,
and preparation of a long-term strategy for civil service development.
10.   Social Security System. The Government agreed to delink any future adjustments in the
civil service pensions from any future changes in the civil service salary structure in order to avoid
the tendency for average pensions to exceed average civil service salaries. It would also carry out a
comprehensive study on options to reform the social security system with planned assistance from
the International Labor Organization (ILO) and UNDP, and initiate a study of social security
provisions for the private sector.
Sound Macroeconomic Framework
11.   During SAC III's implementation, the Government was expected to maintaih an overall
sound economic framework determined on the basis of a series of indicators acceptable to IDA,
including maintenance of a market-related exchange rate, control of inflation, and improvement in
the current fiscal balance through increased domestic resource mobilization.



- 3 -
C.    Achievement of Objectives
12.   At the preparation of this operation in 1995, the Lao PDR had achieved a substantial
transformation of the economy while maintaining economic, political and social stability. Building
on these reform achievements, SAC III was to address important institutional problems in order to
ensure sustainability in growth and development. While the areas to be addressed by this operation
were undoubtedly critical and difficult, it was felt that with the experience gained from the two
previous and successful SACs, the Government would be able to bring the implementation of SAC
III to a successful conclusion. The Lao PDR anticipated a continuation of good economic prospects.
Earlier reforms had improved macroeconomic balances and spurred trade and investment. The
external environment was also stable and favorable with neighboring countries and key trading
partners, notably Thailand, China and Vietnam, enjoying economic stability and growth. The
international donor community was impressed with the Lao PDR's good macroeconomic
performance and its good track record of reforms. The Bank's Board noted that SAC III was a
realistic operation  to support the deepening of structural reforms and to help ensure the
consolidation of earlier results.
13.   Some important goals have been achieved under SAC III (para 18-22,30), but results have
been uneven, with only marginal progress in some areas of the program. There were also substantial
delays in program implementation due in part to changes in government personnel and resulting loss
of strong advocacy for reforms at a sufficiently high level in the Government and in part to
weaknesses in capacity. The East Asian crisis presented a significant adverse shock to
macroeconomic performance which was exacerbated by weakening macroeconomic management
and inadequate policy responses. After two extensions totaling a year and a half, the credit closed on
December 31, 1998 without the disbursement of the second tranche. Lack of Government action to
address rapidly deteriorating macroeconomic conditions and lack of progress on remaining specific
conditionalities related to legal reforms were key factors in the Bank's decision.
14.   Macroeconomic Framework. During the first six months of SAC III, the Govermnent
maintained good macroeconomic performance. The exchange rate of the Kip was stable, inflation
was maintained at around 10-11 percent; targets for fiscal and external current account deficits were
met. These achievements reflected both monetary and fiscal prudence. In early 1997, however,
macroeconomic indicators began to show signs of deterioration as economic management weakened.
The shock from the Asian crisis in mid-1997 added to this. Lao PDR's dependence on neighboring
countries for trade and investment flows was a double-edged sword:  the country benefited
significantly from growth and economic stability in Thailand, its most important trade and
investment partner. Conversely, the downward spiral of macroeconomic instability and contraction
in Thailand, and subsequently the rest of Southeast Asia, triggered similar instability and economic
difficulties in the Lao economy. Given the close ties between Thailand and the Lao PDR, the
uncertainty and macroeconomic instability in the Thai economy at the onset of the regional crisis
triggered some loss of confidence in the kip. The currency began to lose value as agents abandoned it for
more stable currencies. A tightening of macroeconomic policy, particularly monetary policy, was needed
to reverse or at least halt this trend. Instead, considerable monetary expansion linked to extrabudgetary
expenditures only served to further erode confidence and accelerate flight out of kip. In addition,
monetary control weakened as instruments of direct control were abandoned without effective use of
other indirect instruments. In 1997, the Government begun implementation of a scheme to finance the



-4 -
building of an irrigation system, geared towards assuring self-sufficiency in rice production1. The
BoL extended credits totaling about KN86 billion for this scheme. The equivalent of US$25
million of this was used directly for imports of pumps. The remaining KN26 billion of these
credits which went to expanded electrification and expansion of transmission lines, had the same
effect as printing money for domestic public works: a direct infusion of cash into the economy.
Between end-August 1997 and end-January 1998, currency in the hands of the public increased
by 22 percent. In total, broad money grew by 65 percent2 during 1997, compared to 27 percent
during 1996, and was much higher than planned credit growth of about 20 percent for 1997.
This rapid monetary growth was the main factor driving the inflationary spiral. The result was a
vicious cycle of monetary expansion and accommodation, inflation, deepening loss of
confidence, flight out of and depreciation of the kip. While the objective of food-sufficiency is
an important one for a country like the Lao PDR, the mechanism selected to promote this end
also served to compound the external adverse shock to macroeconomic instability. The Lao
PDR's economic management experience stands in sharp contrast to that of several other crisis
economies in the region which, with strong adjustment policies, have succeeded in restoring a
reasonable degree of macroeconomic stability and have thus been able to turn their attention to
longer-term recovery efforts.
Inflation Keeps Increasing as the Currency Depreciates
Lao PDR: Exchange Rate Movements         Lao PDR: Consumer Price Index:
(Kip(USS)                           12 month change (/6)     I
0 ________________________            180%
1000   P    MarkCommercial Bank Rate20%
2OD0                                   140%
3000                                   tO
4000~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~10/
4000
80%
50000
40%
7000
4'  4'  4 4'  4'  4 '  '~'   "V Il  40
Source: National Statistical Center.
This investment is the first part of a medium-term Government plan to increase the area under irrigated rice
production from 22,000 hectares in early 1997 to 100,000 hectares by the year 2000.
2   If the evaluation effects on foreign currency deposits is excluded, broad money rose by about 30 percent.



-5 -
Lao PDR: Monetary Developments          Lao PDR: Foreign Trade by Quarter
(% Annual Change)                        (US$ Million)
120% E
150
80%/
0%~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
40%                                        l501|  ;  
\ c~\ Q c¢ c' \c 4 0    c °  c0 0 c       lIst 2nd 3rd 4th lst 2nd 3rd 4th Ist 2nd 3rd 4th
-';bve,#3' M@'$.+°4' Ei>'¢t.#',ib^>3' 3'tf >S's  E96  96  96  96  97' 97  97  97  98  98  98  98
Reserve Money  - Broad Money          U Exports         * Importsa  l
Source: Bank of the Lao PDR and National Statistical Center.
15.   The economic situation deteriorated further in 1998 and continued into 1999 as no remedial
measures were undertaken. By end-1998, the Kip had depreciated about 124 percent in nominal
terms relative to its value against the US Dollar in June 1997. The fiscal deficit was higher than
budgeted. Inflation rate increased over 140 percent in 1998. Capital flight increased as confidence
in economic management and in the kip weakened. Official reserves fell to the equivalent to two
months of import. Throughout 1997-98, there was no clear indication that the Government was ready
to take the difficult steps to deal with the worsening economic situation. It was unable to conclude a
new Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF) arrangement with the IMF and several
measures recommended were not adopted. In addition, in early 1998, there were key personnel
changes in the Government and especially in the ministries in charge of the economy. The difficult
task of tackling the emerging macroeconomic crisis was delayed further as new officials needed time
to take charge of the economic functions.
16.   Toward the end of 1998, the Government began to implement recovery measures, beginning
with the adoption of a budget for 1998/99 which stressed increased revenue collection, tight controls
on spending in order to limit the deficit to a level that could be realistically financed from Official
Development Assistance (ODA) outside of quick-disbursing loans.. Revenue measures included
increases in duties and taxes and the use of a realistic exchange rate for import valuation. The last
Bank supervision mission in November 1998 however noted potential risks to the budget since
revenue and expenditure targets were unrealistic. The mission felt that pressures for additional
financing might emerge during budget implementation. At the technical level, Ministry of Finance
(MOF) officials reaffirmed their commitment to economic stability, but the Government did not
move forward vigorously on prior actions agreed with the IMF. This and the inability to meet some
of the specific conditionalities for tranche release led to the Bank's decision to cancel the second
tranche.
17.   Signs of difficulties in implementing specific conditions for the second tranche release
were already hinted in the aide-memoire of the November 1996 supervision mission which
reported that "a strong ongoing dialogue will be needed to ensure that the main structural
measures remain on track." This was noted with the "less than satisfactory progress" in the fourth
project supervision report (PSR) in May 1997. The implementation of the second tranche



- 6 -
conditions, as it turned out, needed more time and effort from both the Bank and the
Government.
18.   SOE reform. The Government met all second tranche release conditions for this component.
It completed the commercialization of at least five strategic SOEs, including their transformation
into joint-stock companies with the appointment of boards of directors and the adoption of
performance contracts. The Government also effected the privatization, liquidation and/or offering
for sale of all non-strategic SOEs included in the time-bound divestiture plan. The plan for the
commercialization of all strategic SOEs was prepared; but it remained to be adopted. The remaining
26 non-strategic SOEs were offered for sale; but there was little investor interest--six inquiries were
received but there was no follow-up. The authorities intended to liquidate two of these in 1999. At
the same time, the Government again established a Committee in the Office of the Prime Minister to
consider the possibility of restructuring these enterprises before offering them for sale to the market
again.
19.   There were other achievements in this area. SOEs continued to be subjected to hard budget
constraints, steps were undertaken to commercialize all key public utilities and the Government
agreed to limit the public portfolio to key strategic enterprises. Efforts also begun to establish and
regularly monitor enterprise performance. But important as these were, they were only the first steps
towards achieving substantial improvements in SOE efficiency (para. 31)
20.   Regulatory Framework. The condition for this component remained only partially fulfilled
at credit closing. The implementing regulations for the Business Law and Accounting Decree were
adopted, those for the Foreign Investment Law and the Budget Law were drafted, however IDA
never provided comments to the Government. The implementing regulation for the Arbitration
Decree was not completed and work on the preparation of the medium-term national legal
framework development plan was delayed partly because an Institutional Development Fund (IDF)
to support this activity was put in place only after a long delay--over a year after SAC III became
effective. The final report which was to form the basis for the preparation of the legal framework
was not completed. The preparation of this framework relied exclusively on external consultants--
based on an outline provided by the Bank at the time of credit negotiation. There was thus marginal
if any involvement of the Lao. This highlights both weak client capacity to carry out such major
institutional reform, and weak government ownership in this area of the program. The delays and
subsequent failure to prepare this framework also raise the related issue of whether such a
component was appropriate for a quick disbursing adjustment operation (see para. 27).
21.   Financial Sector Reform. The Government adopted adequate prudential regulations for
commercial banks. After considerable delays, audits of State-Owned Commercial Banks (SOCBs)
for the 1996 fiscal year were carried out in 1998 and audits for the 1997 fiscal year were carried out
in 1998. Both showed extremely weak financial standing of the SOCBs with shares non-performing
loans ranging from 30 to 70 percent. This is due largely to sub-standard operating procedures and
weak management. The completion of the banks audits was an important achievement that provides
some justification for the second closing date extension. The Government appears to have realized
the usefulness of the audit and continued with audits for the 1997 fiscal year which was not a SAC
III condition. The audit results also showed that, given the poor financial state of the SOCBs, the
enforcement of the pre-tax loan loss provisioning (a second tranche release condition) would have
bankrupted the banks. In the event, the Bank of Lao PDR did not provide to IDA evidence that it



-7-
had required commercial banks to adopt adequate pre-tax loan-loss provisioning. However, BOL
was unable to provide adequate guidance to bank management-most of whom lacked the relevant
technical expertise-on how this and other prudential regulations should be applied.
22.   Public Expenditure Management. All second tranche conditions under this component were
met. In accordance with the State Budget Law, a new budget nomenclature was implemented
beginning with the 1996/97 budget which was also published for the first time. A project monitoring
system was established in the Ministry of Finance and produces quarterly reports on updated project
disbursements. The Government was closely involved in the preparation of the Public Expenditure
Review, whose recommendations were reflected in the 1996/97 budget, including increased
allocations to the social sectors and increased provisions for operations and maintenance.
D.    Bank Performance
23.   The preparation of SAC III benefited from the experience of the two earlier adjustment
operations. In particular, staff sought to build close involvement of Government in the preparation
and supervision of the credit. A government coordinating committee was set up with participation
from all key departments involved in the reform program. This committee reviewed proposed policy
reforms to be supported under SAC III and was also to be responsible for day to day supervision of
the various components of SAC III. Bank staff took care with other donors to ensure that technical
assistance needed to implement reforms was available. All conditions including the maintenance of
a sound macro-framework were closely coordinated with the IMF within the framework of the ESAF
and with the ADB's ongoing assistance program. These steps were important for ensuring smooth
implementation.
24.   A closer review in light of the implementation results suggests however that project design
could have been more selective--focussing on fewer but more substantive reforms in a few key
areas3. Earlier reforms had been more successfully implemented but Government capacity was
clearly insufficient to carry out the broad reform program envisaged under SAC III which covered
reforms in the state enterprise sector, public resources management, financial sector, and regulatory
and legal reform. In particular, it is clear now that the objectives of the legal reform component
would have had much greater chance of success in a medium-term capacity building operation than
as part of a short-term adjustment operation. Furthermore, the Bank delayed significantly in putting
in place the IDF grant to provide technical assistance in this area.
25.   During supervision, Bank staff spent time following up with the implementation of
conditions and back-to-office reports provided detailed information and emphasized steps needed to
fulfill agreed measures with the concerned government departments. Macroeconomic dialogue was
conducted and coordinated closely with the IMF focussing attention of policy makers on appropriate
and sustainable macroeconomic policy mix within the context of the PFP/ESAF negotiations. Bank
staff also assisted Government to address difficulties and delays experienced in the context of the
PER exercise.
3  The design issue was raised by the QAG in its 1998 review of SAC III supervision. The review stated further
that a restructuring of the operation could have been contemplated in this case. However, with weakening
macroeconomic performance and policy makers unable to implement needed remedial measures, redesigning
the credit may not have been possible.



-8-
26.   Despite these initial efforts, Bank supervision faltered in 1997 and 1998 for a variety of
reasons. First, during the East Asia Region's change process, difficulties in recruitment led to the
absence for an extended period of a permanent manager in the economic management unit where
the SAC was housed. This led to gaps in task management as staff work programs changed and new
task leadership was not identified for some time. Furthermore, with the onset of the regional crisis,
it was hard to get a diversified task team together to supervise all the areas covered by the credit--
particularly on the financial sector--as attention was increasing diverted to the key crisis countries
and away from the smaller economies in the region. It was also increasingly difficult to get the
adequate attention for the legal and regulatory reform component and Government requests for
comments on two draft implementing decrees--for the Foreign Investment Law and for the Budget
Law were never responded to by the Bank. All of this happened at a very critical period in
implementation of SAC III since macroeconomic performance was rapidly deteriorating and
momentum of reform was being lost. Much more intensive supervision was needed precisely for this
reason. But the Bank was unable to provide this. While the second extension allowed completion of
SOE commercialization plan and bank audits, the macroeconomic performance weakened so much
that the entire operation was jeopardized.
27.   Supervision also became too focussed on details of specific conditionalities and not enough
on outcome and impact of the reforms. More emphasis on impact could have led to a rexamination
of whether project design was appropriate given weak capacity and new factors such as weakening
government ownership and the East Asian Crisis. This lack of attention to this important issue by
the Bank, may have led to missed opportunities to reorient the operation towards greater
development impact.
28.   The IMF and the Bank made several efforts to persuade the Governnent to adopt strong
measures to restore macro stability. While the IMF led this dialogue, the Bank and the IMF
agreed on the measures that were needed and coordinated messages to the Government. The
Bank also stressed the importance of macrostability for the success of other projects in the
portfolio and for the Bank's ability to proceed with the processing of new projects such as the
Nam Theun II hydropower project. Despite these efforts, and evidence that staff at the technical
level in the Lao PDR were convinced of the need for such measures, there were no decisions to
move forward on implementation.
E.    Borrower's Performance
29.   With the successful completion of SAC I and SAC II, the Government was optimistic that
SAC III would be smoothly implemented. However, several difficulties emerged as implementation
got underway. While government ownership appeared initially high, it may not have been broad
enough and weakened during the course of implementation SAC preparation and initial
implementation had relied heavily on a few reform minded officials at the decision making level-
especially the Vice-Minister of Finance who was also the original Chair of the Coordinating
Committee. When these officials either retired or were removed with Government changes, support
for reform naturally weakened and SAC implementation stalled. Newer high level appointees had
less knowledge of and previous interaction with the Bank and understood the reform program less.
Secondly, coordination within the committee was ineffective and there was no proper mechanism for
monitoring how much progress was been made across the program as a whole. Individual



- 9 -
departments knew what was happening in their components but there was no overall view and
monitoring. Finally implementation suffered from weak capacity. This was due both to inadequate
technical skills in most of the areas of, the reform and the related inadequate staffing of key
departments involved in the reform process. For example, the Department for the management of
State Assets, which had responsibility for implementing the SOE component, was severely
understaffed for an extended period despite repeated requests from supervision missions that
appropriate staffing be provided. BOL capacity to supervise implementation of prudential
regulations was weak despite active in field technical assistance provided by the Bank to help build
such capacity. Several banks also did not understand how the regulations were to be applied. As
mentioned above, skills in the area of legal reform were also weak. The Government's inability to
respond appropriately to the macroeconomic risks presented by the regional crisis (ara. 14) was
a major factor in the cancellation of the credit. Finally, like the Bank, the Government also
seemed to loose sight of the big picture and to focus excessively on detailed conditionalities.
F.    Assessment of Outcome, Sustainability, and Lessons Learned
30.   Assessment of Outcome. There were some important accomplishments under SAC III.
Improvements were made in the budgetary process and in budgetary transparency, with input from
the first PER exercise; prudential regulations for the banking sector have been improved and external
audits of the banks have provided critical information on the health of the financial sector. This can
form the basis of a sector restructuring and reform plan. The Government has also undertaken initial
steps to commercialize key public utilities. In other areas, especially regulatory reforms, there was
much less progress. Only two implementing regulations were adopted and only marginal progress
was made towards the preparation of a medium-term legal development framework.
31.   Sustainability. Achievements under SAC III are important but alone are unlikely to have any
lasting impact in terms of achieving the objectives supported by the credit. Additional measures are
needed in the same areas to ensure substantial impact on Government efforts to build a well-
functioning market economy. Thus sustainability of SAC III results will thus depend critically on
Government's ability to reinvigorate reform. The measures implemented under SOE reforms cannot
be expected to lead to any appreciable improvements in SOE efficiency unless other critical policy
issues including that of pricing-especially in the power sector-are adequately addressed. In
addition, SOE management needs to be significantly improved and the monitoring mechanism
instituted under the credit needs to be made fully operational and used effectively to address
performance problems. The banking sector remains extremely weak and measures implemented
under the SAC are yet to yield lasting and sustainable impact since enforcement of regulations has
not been strong. The current distress of the sector needs to be addressed as part of fundamental
restructuring and reform of the sector. Adequate enforcement of existing regulations will be critical
and external audits need to be continued on a regular basis. Both audits have so far been externally
funded. A real test of whether the need for audits has been internalized by the Government and the
banks will be whether they are willing to fund this activity from their own resources in the future. It
is not clear at this time.
32.   Lessons Learned. Several important lessons emerge from the implementation experience of
SAC III. First is the need to adequately reflect weak client capacity in the design of short-term
adjustment support. This lesson is not new and has been highlighted in several adjustment
experiences in other countries with weak capacity. Operations in countries such as the Lao PDR



-10-
need to be more focussed, limiting interventions to a few areas, but seeking substantive reforms that
are likely to have high impact. The SAC had sought to support a deepening of reforms but overall,
project design reflected more breadth than depth with reforms spread across a range of sectors.
Unfortunately, the legal development framework which involved substantial change was not
appropriate for an adjustment operation. This lesson is already being internalized in the Bank's
support to the Lao PDR. The current Country Assistance Strategy (March 1999) states that further
Bank support for policy-based lending should take the form of sectorally-focused operations while
addressing other longer term institutional constraints under specific investment operations.
33.   A second lesson is that Bank staff need to focus more on the big picture during
supervision. Detailed conditionalities should be seen as means to an end rather than as ends in
themselves. Staff should regularly reassess likely impact of measures and examine whether
changes are needed in project design or implementation arrangements to enhance development
outcomes. Another lesson is the need for extra attention to the needs of small clients that usually
have limited economic management capacity. The SAC III implementation highlights the
difficulty of mobilizing adequate staff resources and attention for such countries, particularly in a
region like East Asia where staff may find work on larger economies more visibly rewarding.
The Bank needs to put in place mechanisms to ensure that the needs of smaller clients are not
overlooked especially in situations where attention would naturally tend to be focussed on larger
and more developed economies-as happened in the recent East Asia crisis. The Bank cannot
expect to be an effective development partner for these countries otherwise.
34.   A final lesson is the importance of broad support and ownership within government at the
highest level. SAC III implementation suffered because support for reforms supported under the
credit was centered around a few key people. Most decision makers interacted little with the
Bank and did not understand much of the objectives and the details of the credit. More effort
needs to be put into building such broad support and understanding of reform particularly at the
highest levels of Government. Bank needs to invest in examining how best to do this. This needs
to go hand in hand with increased efforts to understand better the nature of the decision making
processes and the political economy of reform in relatively closed societies like the Lao PDR.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT III
(Credit No. 2821-LA)
Part II. Statistical Annexes
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3: Project Timetable
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5-6: Key Indicators for Project Implementation and Operation
Table 7:  Studies Included in Project
Table 8A: Project Costs
Table 8B: Project Financing
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11: Compliance with Operations Manual Statements
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions



Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives     Substantial         Partial           Negligible       Not applicable
Macro policies                               .
Sector policies                                                                         F 71
Financial objectives                                                   Z                El]
Institutional development                                            Fii]
Physical objectives                                                                     F - D
Poverty reduction                                                                       El]
Gender issues                                      L                   II
Other social objectives                                                                 F 0  
Environmental objectives                                              LI]
Public sector management          O                    ]                 ]               I
Private sector development        O I7L ]
Other (specify)                                                       L                   W
B. Project sustainability             Likely                  Unlike                   Uncertain
C. Bank performance             Highly satisfactory         Satisfactory               Deficient
Identification                           |                                          LIZ
Preparation assistance            L         :1i
Appraisal                                                                              _
Supervision                                                LIIII
D. Borrower performance         Highly satisfactory          Satisfactory              Deficient
Preparation                               |  
Implementation                                                                      L
Covenant compliance
Operation (if applicable)
E. Assessment of outcome      Highly satisfactory    Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory   Highly unsatisfactory
O           z    ELI]                        1LI



Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Year of
Loan/credit title                        Purpose             Approval   Status
Preceding operations
Credit 2037 SAC ($40.0 m)          Assisted Government in       FY89       Closed
achieving broad economic    (June 14,    1/31/92
reforms towards a market     1989)
economy. Key reform measures
completed were:
Credit 2304 SACII ($40.0 m)    (1) price liberalization; (2) fiscal    FY92  Closed
reform; (3) prudent monetary   (October 1,  12/31/93
policy; (4) exchange rate reform;    1991)
(5) trade reform; (6) restructuring
of the Lao banking system; (7)
privatization of most state-owned
enterprises; (8) reclassification
and retrenchment of the civil
service; and (9) adoption of a
liberal foreign investment code.
Following operations
Financial Sector Adjustment       Financial Sector Reform
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle             Date planned          Date actual
Identification                               January 1995         January 1995
Preparation                                 April/May 1995          May 1995
Appraisal                                    October 1995        December 1995
Negotiations                                November 1995          January 1996
Board presentation                          November 1995         February 1996
Signing                                     December 1995          April 1996
Effectiveness                               December 1995           July 1996
First and only tranche release              December 1995           July 1996
Second Tranche                               March 1997             Cancelled
Project completion                          December 1997        December 1998
Loan closing                                  July 1997          December 1998



Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
FY 1997       FY 1998
Appraisal estimate                                20.0           20.0
Actual                                            20.0           0.0
Actual as percent of estimate                     100.0          0.0
Date of final disbursement                       7/26/96    Not Applicable
Table 5 - 6: Key Indicators for Project Implementation and Operation
I. Key implementation indicators in SAR/    Estimated
President's Report                        Target            Actual
Maintenance of a market-related exchange rate  on-going       on-going
Control of inflation                         on-going         on-going
Improvement in the current fiscal balance of
the national budget                          on-going         on-going
IL. Other indicators
none                                          none              none



Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as defined
Study             at appraisal/redefined     Status             Impact of study
None                 Not applicable
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate (US$M)              Actual estimate (US$M)
Local      Foreign                   Local       Foreign
Source           costs        costs       Total        costs        costs       Total
IDA                                 40.0        40.0                      20.0        20.0
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate (US$M)          Actual estimate (US$M)
Local     Foreign                 Local    Foreign
Source              costs       costs      Total       costs  -   costs      Total
IDA                             -         40.0       40.0          -        20.0       20.0
Cofinancing institutions
None                                   -           -                -         -
TOTAL                           -         40.0       40.0          -        20.0       20.0
Note: Figures are rounded.



Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
(Not available since this is a policy-based credit)
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants 1/
Lao People's Democratic Republic
Structural Adjustment Credit
Cove-               Original   Revised         Description
Nant   Present   Fulfill-    fulfill-              of
Agreement    Section         Type    status       ment        ment           covenant             Comments
Date        date
DCA          3.01(a)        9         C         n.a.        n.a.     Exchange of views
on progress of
Program
DCA          3.01(b)        9         C         n.a.        n.a.     Progress Report
DCA           3.02          1         C         n.a.        n.a.     Audit of Deposit
Account
Covenant types:                                                     Present status:
I - Accounts/audits                    8 = Indigenous people                 C  = covenant complied with
2 = Financial performance/revenue       9 = Monitoring, review, and          CD = complied with after delay
generation from beneficiaries          reporting
3 = Flow and utilization of project    10 = Project implementation not        CP = complied with partially
funds                                  covered by categories 1-9
4 = Counterpart funding                II = Sectoral or cross-sectoral       NC = not complied with
budgetary or other resource
allocation
5 = Management aspects of the          12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral
project or executing agency             policy/regulatory/institutional
action
6 = Environmental covenants            13 = Other
7 = Involuntary resettlement



Table 11: Compliance with Operations Manual Statements
No significant variance with the Operations Manual Statements based on documents in
the project file.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of                                          Actual
Project cycle                         Weeks                      US$ (000)
Through Appraisal                        94.5                         352.0
Appraisal - Board                        2.0                          9.9
Board - effectiveness                      5.1                         30.6
Supervision                           46.0                         177.8
Completion                             5.0                         17.5
TOTAL                               152.6                        587.8
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Specialized
Number   Days        staff     Implemen-   Develop-    Types
Stage of         Month/        of      in        skills       tation      Ment          of
Project cycle       Year      persons   field   Represented    status     Objectives  Problems
Supervision       Jul 1996      3        10         E            S            S
Nov 1996       2        12         E            S           S
Apr 1997      3        26         E            S            U        F, T, M
Sep 1997      2        10         E            S           U         F,T,M
Apr 1998       1       10         E             S           U        F, T, M
Nov 1998       3       20          E            S           U        F, T,M
Completion       Apr 1999        1        6         E            S           U         F, T, M
1. Specialization                 2. Perfonnance Rating         3. Types of Problems
E = Economist              HS = Highly satisfactory            F = Financial
L = Lawyer                        S = Satisfactory                   T = Technical
U = Unsatisfactory           M   Managerial



APPENDIX A
Page 1 of 2
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
THIRD STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CREDIT NO. 2821-LA)
GOVERNMENT SECTION
1.   In 1995, Lao PDR had achieved a substantial transformation of the economy while
maintaining economic, political and social stability. Building on these achievements, the
Government wished to continue the adjustment process to address important institutional
problems in order to insure sustainability in growth and development and won the support of
the World Bank which approved the third SAC. This operation was designed to assist the
Government firstly to encourage the development of the private sector. Secondly, SAC III
supported further improvement in the management of its public resources.
2.    Upon approval and declaration of effectiveness of the credit, the first tranche was
released in 1996. The Government then focused its effort in implementing the conditions in
the second tranche release. Despite its intention to carry out these conditions, the
Government encountered some difficulties and then delays in the implementation of specific
conditions. The implementation of the second tranche conditions, as it turned out, needed
more time and efforts and the process is reviewed below.
3.    SOE reform. The condition for this component was met by the Government: (1)
completion of the commercialization of at least five strategic SOEs, including their
transformation into joint-stock companies with the appointment of a board of directors and
the adoption of performance contracts; (2) the privatization, liquidation and/or offering for
sale of all SOEs included in the time-bound divestiture plan was carried out; and (3)
Preparation of the commercialization of all strategic SOEs.
4.    Regulatory Framework. The condition for this component remained partially
fulfilled. The implementing Tegulations for the Business Law and Accounting Decree were
adopted, those for the Foreign Investment Law and the Budget Law were drafted, however
the Government did not receive comments and feed back from IDA A guideline for the
implementation of the Arbitration Decree was completed however, the comments remained
to be provided by the consultant. There were substantial delays in the preparation of the
medium national legal framework development plan and the final report on the legal
framework was not completed by December 1998.



APPENDIX A
Page 2 of 2
5.    Financial Sector Reform. The Government adopted adequate prudential regulations
for commercial banks. The second tranche release condition on audits of the State-Owned
Commercial Banks (SOCBs) was met, and the Government also initiated work on the 1997
audits in 1998. The Govemment realized the usefulness of the audit and continued with the
1997 audits which were not a condition for SAC III. However, there was no adequate pre tax
loan-loss provisioning made by the state commercial banks while most private banks have
mostly complied.
6.    Public Expenditure Management. The Government met all the second tranche
conditions under this component. The budget was presented and published in the new
nomenclature format, as an implementation of the State Budget Law. A project monitoring
system was established in the Ministry of Finance and produces quarterly reports on updated
project disbursements. The Government was closely involved in the preparation of the Public
Expenditure Review, whose recommendations were reflected in the 1996/97 budget,
including increased allocations to the social sectors and increased provisions for operations
and maintenance.
7.    Overall, the Government tried its best under the circumstances to fulfilled the
conditions for the second tranche release. However, SAC III's condition on macroeconomic
stabilization was not met due to the outbreak of the Asian financial crisis which affected
directly an open and small economy like that of the Lao PDR. It became more difficult as
the external problems affected the ability of the Government to react in time and to bring
about corrective measures. The economy deteriorated further during 1997 and 1998. Toward
the end of 1998, the Government began to work on recovery measures, beginning with the
adoption of a budget for 1998/99 with tight control on spending and a deficit which could be
realistically financed from Official Development Assistance (ODA) without reliance on
quick-disbursing loans. The Ministry of Finance (MOF) made revenue collection a high
priority in 1999 with improvement of the tax base that more accurately reflected the reality
and to further strengthen the revenues and use of a realistic exchange rate for import
valuation. Expenditures were also subjected to tight restrictions. The Government wishes to
bring about the improvement in the economy and intends to work with the IMF and the
World Bank toward this objective.



IBRD 25510
104,
The  b undaries.  colors.,HA                                       HN
denominations and  any
other information shown         YNR*
CHINA ~     ~     ,,                on  this ma p  do  not
imply, on the part of22or
The Wrld  Bank  Group.                                          le
4           ~~~~any judgment on the legal Li
~~ ~i~ii~       status of any  territory.
S.          ~~or any  endorsement
or acceptance of such                                                     *
bounaries.                                                            0
VIETI   PROVIECTUE BOUNARE
ROADS:    ~ ~- INERNVATIONALI BOUNERSES
MILESCO0DAR PAED                 00                10
NATIONALAMAPITA
JANUARY 1994



