Report No. PIC2808
Project Name                   Lao PDR-Structural Adjustment Credit III
Region                         East Asia and Pacific
Sector                         Macroeconomic / Structural Adjustment
Project ID                     LAPA4209
Borrower                       Lao People's Democratic Republic
Implementing Agency            Ministry of Finance
Department of Foreign Currency Affairs
Mr. Kheuangkham Inthavong
Vientiane, Lao P.D.R.
Tel: 414206
Fax: 412415
Date PID Prepared              September 28, 1995
Projected Appraisal            November 28, 1995
Projected Board Date           February, 1995
Background
1.   Lao PDR's economic challenge for the future will be twofold: To
complete the transition from a command economy to a market-oriented one,
and to integrate the Laotian economy with its dynamic regional
neighbors. The development agenda is large, and will need to address
bottlenecks in public administration, human and physical infrastructure
in order to sustain economic growth, encourage private sector
development and alleviate poverty. Two previous IDA- funded structural
adjustment credits have assisted the government in achieving broad
economic reforms towards a market economy. The reform program has now
entered a more difficult phase of institutional reforms, and the
Government has requested a Third Structural Adjustment Credit to support
its efforts in addressing outstanding institutional constraints.
Macroeconomic Performance
2.   While Lao PDR has been successfully embarking on the path of deep
economic, the economic record of recent years has been positive and
characterized by a remarkable degree of stability. Strengthened public
and private investment and improved economic incentives contributed to
sustained GDP growth at a robust rate of 7.5w p.a. in real terms on
average. Although national income remains vulnerable to external shocks,
per capita income has been rising by nearly 5t in recent years. In 1994
real output growth accelerated to about 8.5w, led by strong recovery of
agricultural sector performance and continued buoyancy in manufacturing,
construction, and services. The nominal exchange rate is stable,
inflation is moderate and urban unemployment is low.
Economic Reforms Completed To Date
3.   Lao PDR has achieved remarkable progress in implementing the
necessary economic reforms in its transition to a market-based economy.
The "New Economic Mechanism" was launched in 1986 in the context of



hyperinflation and stagnation in real per capita GDP. The goal of the
reform program was to stabilize the economy and to engineer a transition
from central planning to a market economy. The country's achievements
are particularly noteworthy for two reasons: (1) it is one of the
poorest countries in Asia with per capita income of US$320 in 1994, and
(2) the government has managed to achieve a substantial transformation
of the economy with remarkable economic, political and social stability.
4.   The following key reform measures have been completed to date: (i)
price liberalization has allowed aost all prices to be determined by
market forces, except utilities, post and telecommunications services,
and air transport prices; (ii) fiscal reform introduced tax reform
measures to shift the Government's revenue base from its dependence on
state enterprises towards a mix of income, excise, property and trade
taxes, with the effect of sharply reduced fiscal deficits in recent
years; (iii) prudent monetary policy has reduced inflation from over 60%
in 1989 to around 6.5% p.a. in 1994, while real interest rates have been
positive; (iv) with the exchange rate reform in July 1988, the exchange
rate was fully unified at a rate close to the prevailing market rates
and has been periodically adjusted by the Central Bank to keep in line
with the market rate since 1989; (v) The Lao banking system has been
restructured to a two-tier system consisting of a central bank and
commercial banks; the banking sector was also opened to private and
foreign banks; (vi) under the Government+s program for state enterprise
restructuring, more than two thirds of all state-owned enterprises have
been divested through outright sales, joint ventures, leasing and
liquidation; (vii) in their efforts to streamline the public
administration, the Government undertook a comprehensive
reclassification and retrenchment of the civil service, reducing
civilian staffing by over 20%..(viii) Lao PDR has adopted one of the most
liberal foreign investment codes, which has successfully attracted
foreign investors and encouraged the repatriation of capital; (ix) Trade
reform introduced the GATT valuation system, removed restrictions on
international transactions, lowered the dispersion of tariffs and
reduced the number of tariff bands from 12 to 6. The Government also
eliminated most non-tariff barriers and terminate the practice of
"special conventions" that offer non-statutory duty rates for designated
importers.
The Government+s Policy Framework for the Medium Term
5.   Over the medium term, economic policy aims at building the
foundations of broad-based and sustainable economic growth, while
promoting human resource development. In particular, the Government's
objectives are to: (i) position the private sector to be a stronger
driving force in the economy and to promote exports vigorously; (ii)
strengthen domestic resource mobilization efforts through tax and
financial reforms; (iii) create improved instruments of macroeconomic
management and strengthen policy planning and implementation capacity;
and (iv) coordinate and improve the efficiency of foreign aid inflows.
The overall macroeconomic framework as set out in the PFP is addressed
by the ESAF program for 1994/95-96/97, currently in its second year,
through comprehensive tax reforms and administrative improvements,
liberalization of interest rates and continued progress in tariff
reforms.
-2-



6.   The Government aims to achieve a 7% real annual average growth rate
for the 1994/95-96/97 period. If this target is to be attained in the
context of macroeconomic stability, it will require a solid effort on
the part of the Government to address institutional bottlenecks and
improve the efficiency of national resource allocation. These steps
include inter alia: (i) higher rates of domestic resource mobilization,
(ii) more efficient planning and allocation of public resources, (iii)
strengthening the Government+s administrative capacity to respond to the
increasingly complex demands of a market economy.
Objectives of SACIII
7.   The overall objective of the proposed Third Structural Adjustment
Credit is to support Lao PDR in continuing the impressive progress it
has achieved to date in implementing economic reforms in its transition
to a market-based economy. SACIII would assist the Government in
sustaining reform momentum as it moves on to more difficult structural
measures. The macroeconomic policy environment for sustained growth is
now largely in place and most of the decisive policy reforms towards
economic liberalization have been undertaken already. The proposed SAC
III would focus on deepening institutional reforms by building on the
achievements in public enterprise, budgetary and financial sector
management reform, strengthening the legal framework and developing a
financially viable social security system. It would assist the
Government in providing a strong environment for private sector
development and improved public resource management.
The SACIII Reform Program
8.   As Lao PDR sheds the remnants of a command economy, the principal
economic policy challenge facing the Government is to strengthen the
institutional basis for private sector development and market
functioning, on the one hand, and for a sound management of public
resources, on the other hand. The macroeconomic strategy outlined in the
Policy Framework Paper can be expected to yield increased domestic
savings, strengthening investment over the medium term. Within this
context, the proposed operation supports greater efficiency in private
and public investment, underpinning economic growth. It would include
two principal components: (i) Private Sector Enabling Environment, which
focuses on state-owned enterprise reform, the regulatory framework, and
financial sector reform; and (ii) Public Resource Management in the
areas of public expenditure management, civil service reform and the
social security system.
9.   Private sector development is being held back below its potential
by (i) an uncompleted program of SOE privatization; (ii) uncertainties
in the legal framework; (iii) the constraints of the fragile financial
system; (iv) critical bottlenecks in physical infrastructure and (v)
unclear provisions for employee protection. Reform of state-owned
enterprises proposed under the SAC will encourage the completion of the
outstanding privatization agenda. The legal reform component will be
concerned with key legislation and implementing regulations conducive to
private sector development. Important measures to improve the
functioning of commercial banks, management of monetary policy and the
regulatory framework of the financial sector will be targeted under the
- 3 -



SAC. Problems of necessary outlays for operation and maintenance as well
as government counterpart funds for infrastructure projects will be
addressed by a review of public expenditure and the public investment
planning process. A study of possible options for social security
coverage of private sector employees will clarify the risks and costs of
any future schemes.
10. At the same time, the proposed components of this adjustment
operation will assist the Government in improving the management of
public resources, which is characterized by a lack of control,
transparency and skills. SOE reform would involve monitoring the
performance of enterprises that are leased or will remain under public
control. A public expenditure review helps in identifying recurrent
expenditure shortages, planning of public investment in high priority
areas and reducing waste. Public administration is being addressed by
steps towards creating a more efficient civil service. A revision of the
social security system for civil servants is crucial in preventing
uncontrollable future fiscal liabilities.
Technical Assistance and Aid Coordination
11. The World Bank already provides or has proposed technical
assistance in the areas of bank supervision and bank/ commercial bank
accounting, civil service reform and project monitoring. World Bank TA
is already assisting the State Property Department in establishing and
managing an inventory of SOEs and other state assets. Technical
assistance to support legal reform will be provided by the World Bank
IDF currently under preparation, which is to be implemented in
conjunction with the UNDP Legal Framework Development Project. Some
short-term TA may be needed to assist GoL in finalizing their medium-
term Legal Reform Plan and to assist them in the process of joining
international conventions.
Financing and Implementation
12. The proposed credit amount would be equivalent to US$40 million.
The borrower would be the Lao People+s Democratic Republic. The credit
would be disbursed in three equal tranches of US$20 million. The first
tranche would be available on effectiveness of the credit agreement. The
second tranche of US$20 million would be available subject to the
conditions for second tranche release, which should take about 12 to 16
months to implement. The main responsibility for implementing the
proposed operations would lie with the Ministry of Finance.
Lessons learned from past structural adjustment operations
13. The Government's reform efforts have been supported under two
previous Structural Adjustment Credits from the Bank. Analysis of these
two programs has shown that performance has been satisfactory: the
program of actions have been implemented and sustainability seems
certain. Institutional development impacts, however, were slower and
more modest than expected due to skill shortages. In the preparation of
SACIII, the responsible Government agencies have therefore been closely
involved in the design of conditionalities to take accounts of sectoral
constraints and implementation capacity.
-4-



Social Costs of Adjustment
14. Like Vietnam, the transition experience of Lao PDR has been
different than that of other former command economies in Eastern Europe
for several reasons. First, the relative importance of agriculture
rather than industry has helped most Lao households to benefit from the
initial price reforms. Second, those laid off from the state sector
received adequate compensation packages. Third, redundant civil servants
and employees of SOEs were quickly absorbed into the growing private
sector. Although an estimated 20- of civil servants and 10; of state
enterprise employees have been retrenched since the adjustment program
began, the impact of this retrenchment on the urban unemployment rate of
around 3t has been modest. Finally, SOEs in Lao PDR have not served to
the same extent the role of critical provider of social services as in
Eastern Europe. Overall, structural adjustment in Lao PDR is likely to
have a beneficial social impact by providing the necessary
administrative and regulatory reforms for sustained growth.
Benefits and Risks
15. By assisting Lao PDR's continuing transition to a market economy,
the proposed operation will strengthen the country±s adjustment program
in two ways: (i) creating an improved environment for private sector
development and (ii) achieving a better management of public resources.
By completing the process begun under the two previous adjustment
credits, the policy reforms of SACIII will enhance economic growth and
contribute to the alleviation of poverty. The weak institutional
capacity and lack of trained staff experienced by SACI and II show that
the main risk of the operation lies with a slow implementation of policy
reforms. Design of the operation has been aimed at minimizing this risk
by involving the relevant technical agencies in developing the
conditionality and seeking technical assistance funded from grant
sources. Since SACIII addresses institutional reforms within the
macroeconomic framework provided by the ESAF, the program is also
conditional on the observance of benchmarks and performance criteria
under the ESAF arrangement. A mid-term review was successfully completed
in September 1995, and a third year ESAF and PFP preparation is planned
for January 1996, which would assist the Government in maintaining its
grip on macroeconomic stability.
Contact Point:       Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
- 5 -



