Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-6789-LA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 26.9 MILLION
TO THE LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
FOR A
THIRD STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (SACIII)
JANUARY 23, 1996
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(September 1995)
Currency Unit    =  Kip (K)
Kip 100          =  US$0.11
US$1.00          =  K 930
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB         -  Asian Development Bank
ASEAN       -  Association of South East Asian Nations
BoL         -  Bank of Lao PDR
CAS         -  Country Assistance Strategy
CPPR        -  Country Portfolio Performance Review
EDL         -  Electricite du Laos
EPTL        -  Post & Telecommunications
ESAF        -  Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
FIMC        -  Foreign Investment Management Committee
FDI         -  Foreign Direct Investment
FSAL        -  Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
GDP         -  Gross Domestic Product
GoL         -  Government of Lao PDR
IBRD        -  International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICSID       -  International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes
IDA         -  International Development Association
IDF         -  Institutional Development Fund
IFC         -  International Finance Corporation
IMF         -  International Monetary Fund
MIGA        -  Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
MoF         -  Ministry of Finance
NEM          -  New Economic Mechanism
NGO          -  Non-Governmental Organization
ODA         -  Official Development Assistance
PFP         -  Policy Framework Paper
PHRD        -  Policy and Human Resources Development Fund
SOCB        -  State-Owned Commercial Bank
SOE         -  State-Owned Enterprise
TA          -  Technical Assistance
UNDP        -  United Nations Development Program
FISCAL YEAR
October I to September 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
LAO PDR - THIRD STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (SACIII)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
I.   THE ECONOMY ........................................1
Background ........................................                                           1
Recent Economic Performance and Reform Progress ........................................2
II.  THE GOVERNMENT ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM ........................................6
Policy Framework for the Medium Terrn ........................................6
III. THE SACIII REFORM PROGRAM                                        ..8
Private Sector Enabling Environment                             ..9
(i) State-Owned Enterprise Reform                              .9
(ii) Regulatory Framework .12
(iii) Financial Sector Reform            ..14
Public Resource Management                 ..16
(i) Public Expenditure Management .16
(ii) Civil Service Reform                                .18
(iii) Social Security System            ..19
IV. THE PROPOSED OPERATION .20
ANNEXES
Annex I        Key Economic Indicators ...............................                              24
Annex II       Government's Action Plan- Policy Matrix ...............................             30
Annex III      Letter of Development Poiicy ...............................                        33
Annex IV       Timetable of Key Project Processing Events ...............................          42
Annex V        Statement of Development Credits ...............................                    43
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






LAO PDR - THIRD STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (SACIII)
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:                  Lao People's Democratic Republic
Implementing Agency:       Ministry of Finance
Beneficiary:               Not applicable
Poverty:                   Not applicable
Amount:                    SDR 26.9 million (US$40 million equivalent)
Terms:                     Standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity
Commitment Fee:            0.50% on undisbursed credit balances, beginning 60 days after signing,
less any waiver.
Net Present Value:         Not applicable
Project ID #:              LA-PA-4209






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
FOR A THIRD STRUCTURAL ADJUJSTMENT CREDIT (SAC III)
1.    I submit for your approval the rollowing report and recommendation on .. proposed development
credit to the Lao People's Democratic Republic (Lao PDR) for SDR 26.9 million, the equivalent of
US$40 million, on standard IDA terms, with a maturity of 40 years, to help finance a Third Structural
Adjustment Credit.
I. THE ECONOMY
Background
2.     Since the New Economic Mechanism (NEM) was initiated in 1986, the Government of Lao PDR
has achieved remarkable success in bringing about a transition from central planning to a market-
oriented economy. The Government has achieved a substantial transformation of the economy, while
maintaining economic, political and social stability. The initial actions of the Government were to free
virtually all prices, eliminate subsidies and protection of the state owned sector, align the official and
market exchange rates, and encourage private domestic and foreign commercial activity. Liberalization
has led to accelerated economic growth, led by a burgeoning private sector. The country's achievements
are all the more noteworthy since Lao PDR is one of the poorest countries in Asia, with a per capita
income of almost US$320 in 1994.
3.     The challenge will be to complete the economic transition, and to integrate the Laotian economy
with its dynamic neighbors. The development agenda is substantial, involving overcoming bottlenecks in
public administration, strengthening human capital, building physical infrastructure, and alleviating
poverty. Two previous IDA- funded structural adjustment credits have assisted the Government in
carrying out its broad economic reforms. The Government has requested a Third Structural Adjustment
Credit to support further important institutional reforms, while safeguarding macroeconomic stability
and encouraging sound economic growth.
4.     The transformation of the economy is complicated by difficult structural constraints. Lao PDR is
a landlocked country with a population of 4 million scattered over an area the size of Great Britain.
Domestic markets in this predominantly rural and agrarian economy are small and localized, with over
half of production and four-fifths of employment in largely subsistence agriculture. However, the
country's location is also a potential advantage: it borders on the rapidly growing economies of China to
the north, Thailand to the west and Viet Nam to the east.



-2 -
5.    The Government's reform program has been supported under two Structural Adjustment Credits
from the World Bank , and an IMF supported Structural Adjustment Facility (1991-1993). An ESAF
arrangement was approved in 1993, and expires in 1996. The proposed operation is a central part of the
Bank's assistance to Lao PDR, as detailed in the Country Strategy Paper of May 1993 and the Country
Assistance Strategy being presented to the Board with this operation. The present operation has been
developed together with the Government's SACIII Coordinating Committee, allowing officials of the
ministries involved to contribute their judgments and suggestions. As a result, SACIII is structured to
continue the adjustment process by addressing important institutional problems. The reform program
follows the broad recommendations of the most recent Country Economic Memorandum (Report No:
12554-LA, May 1994), which explains economic developments in more detail. A table of economic
indicators is attached to this report (Annex I).
6.    The bulk of the remaining policy reform agenda will be undertaken under SACIII. Future IDA
support for balance of payments financing needs is likely to take the form of sectorally focused
policy-based lending. Other institutional constraints would be addressed through specific investment
operations.
Recent Economic Performance and Reform Progress
7.    Lao PDR's successful systemic economic reform (as summarized in the box below), has led to
accelerated economic growth and a remarkable degree of macroeconomic stability. Strengthened public
and private investment and improved economic incentives contributed to growth of real GDP at the
robust rate of 6.3% p.a. over 1990-1994 and per capita income rising at a 3.2% rate over the same period.
Growth accelerated to 8.1% in 1994 and an estimated 7.1% in 1995, led by a strong recovery of
agricultural production from the previous years' adverse weather conditions and continued buoyancy in
manufacturing, construction, and services.
8.    The move towards a market economy is leading to a significant shift in production patterns.
Although agriculture is still the most important sector, employing over 80% of the labor force in 1994,
its share of GDP declined from 61% in 1988 to 56% in 1994. The share of industrial output, largely
generated by small scale manufacturing (large scale industry is virtually nonexistent), rose from 11.2%
of GDP in 1988 to 17.7%. As part of its liberalization strategy, the Government committed itself to
privatize most of the roughly 600 state-owned enterprises (SOEs), and to rely increasingly on the private
sector as the main engine of growth.
9.    With the progress in privatization and the emergence of new firms, the private sector now
dominates the insurance, manufacturing, transport and distribution sectors, and is strongly represented in
banking and construction. Although the service sector's share of GDP has been fairly constant (25.6 %
in 1994), the composition of services shifted away from public services towards commercial services.
Value added in financial services has increased sixfold since 1988, and income generated in the hotel and
restaurant sector has increased by 23 times.
10.   Although agricultural growth has been satisfactory, averaging about 5% p.a., performance
within the sector has been very uneven. Production of timber has grown rapidly while the production of
rice, which occupies over 80% of cultivated land and is the main food crop, has grown slowly. About a
third of rice is still produced in the uplands under environmentally unsound slash and bum cultivation.
I
Credit 2037-LA, approved in June 1989, and Credit 2304-LA, approved in October 1991.



Lao PDR: Economic Reforms Completed to Date
The New Economic Mechanism was launched in 1986 in the context of hyperinflation and stagnation
in real per capita GDP. Under it, the Government has made a strong progress in the transition to a
market economy and has succeeded in invigorating and stabilizing the economy.
*   Almost all prices have been liberalized and are now determined by market forces, except
utilities, post and telecommunications services, and air transport prices.
*   Tax reform has shifted the Government's revenue base from state enterprise surpluses to a mix
of income, excise, property and trade taxes and contributed to sharply reduced fiscal deficits
from 1989 to 1992/93.
•   Prudent monetary policy reduced inflation from over 60% in 1989 to around 6.5% p.a. in 1994.
Interest rates on loans and deposits have been mostly liberalized. Savings have been encouraged
by positive real interest rates on loans and deposits.
*   The exchange rate was unified in 1998 and periodically adjusted thereafter by the Central Bank
in line with the prevailing market rate. A market-determined floating exchange rate was
introduced in September 1995.
*   The banking system has been restructured into a two-tier system consisting of a central bank and
commercial banks, and opened to private and foreign banks.
*   Almost 90% of all state-owned enterprises have-been divested, mainly through leasing, but also
outright sales, joint ventures, and liquidation.
*   The Government has undertaken a comprehensive reclassification and retrenchment of the civil
service, reducing civilian staffing by over 20%.
*   A liberal foreign investment code has attracted foreign investors and encouraged the repatriation
of capital.
|   The trade regime has been made more liberal. The GATT valuation system is being introduced,
restrictions on international transactions were removed, tariff dispersion was reduced and most
nontariff barriers were abolished. Lao PDR has applied to join ASEAN by 1997.
Rural income levels have been outstripped by those in the urban areas, where the standard of living
improved significantly and the dualism of the Lao economy is likely to increase. A recent Bank
Agricultural Sector Memorandum suggests that problems of lagging growth of food crop production and
rural poverty are best addressed by improved rural infrastructure and support services, better access to
markets and reallocation of government expenditure away from large-scale irrigation toward smaller
systems and better maintenance.
11.    Lao social development policies and programs need to focus on poor rural areas and especially
women and children. Social indicators are comparable to those of some its East Asian neighbors 30 years
ago. Poverty is widespread and chronic, and the vast majority of the poor live in rural areas and are
engaged in subsistence agriculture production. A recent Bank Social Assessment found the distribution
of per capita income in Lao PDR is relatively equal. However, 46% of the population lives below the
poverty line -- 53% in rural areas compared to 24% in urban areas. Over half of the population lives in
small, scattered villages without regular road transport, electricity or health facilities. Although there has
been progress in increasing literacy rates (64% among the adult population), illiteracy is common
particularly among poor women in rural areas. Net primary school enrollment is only 60%, and it is even



- 4 -
lower in rural areas (54%) and among female children (37%). Health standards are well below those
elsewhere in Asia: life expectancy is only about 50 years; infant mortality stands at 95 infant deaths per
1000 births; and maternal mortality is estimated at 660 deaths per 100,000 births.
12.   Prudent fiscal policies have been critical to the stabilization program. Although the Government
remains dependent on foreign assistance to finance the fiscal deficit, the tax base has been expanded, and
nonessential Government expenditures have been pared down. Between 1990 and fiscal year 1992/1993
the overall fiscal deficit (excluding foreign grants) fell from 13.4% to 7.8% of GDP, with revenue
enhancement accounting for about a third of the improvement. In 1993, the Government began a
program of tariff rationalization, restructured timber royalties, implemented a minimum corporate
income tax, and passed property and land tax legislation. These measures, combined with tight current
expenditure control, resulted in the fiscal current balance moving from a deficit of 1.4% of GDP in 1990
to a surplus of 0.9% of GDP by 1993 and 1.0% of GDP in 1995. Nonetheless, the overall fiscal deficit
increased to 11.4% in 1994/95.
13.   Economic transition has brought profound reforms in monetary policy and the financial sector.
Following price liberalization in 1987, inflation peaked at 60% in 1989. However, inflation was reduced
to only 6.8% by 1994. The decline in inflation resulted from tighter control over monetary expansion
and exchange rate policies that have helped build confidence in the currency. The establishment of a
two-tier banking system and increased interest rates served to attract savings and fostered a rapidly
expanding market for banking services. Reserve requirements were introduced in September 1990 and
foreign reserves were transferred to the Central Bank. Ceilings on commercial banks lending rates were
removed in 1995, while the guidelines on a minimum savings deposit rate and on lending to the
agricultural sector were retained. Interest rates on foreign currency deposits and loans are completely
liberalized. Entry of private banks has been allowed; eight banks (mostly Thai and joint venture) have
set up branches in Vientiane and are competing freely with state-owned commercial banks. In 1994, the
Bank of Lao PDR (BoL) commenced regular Treasury Bill auctions and introduced a discount facility,
thus promoting liquidity management through open market operations and the development of an
interbank money market.
14.   Since the unification of the exchange rate in 1988, the authorities have adjusted the official rate
in line with the parallel market. The nominal exchange rate of the kip against the US dollar depreciated
by about 90% between 1988, but remained stable between 1990 and 1994. Over this period, however,
the real effective exchange rate appreciated by about 53%, reflecting increased foreign exchange inflows
resulting from foreign investment, aid and repatriated capital. This appreciation has not adversely
affected external competitiveness, mainly because of productivity gains associated with trade and
payments liberalization.
15.   Developments in the external sector reflect an increasing integration of the Lao economy with
world markets, encouraged by a trade regime that is more open and outward oriented than that of most
neighboring countries. The Government has shown its commitment to trade liberalization by reducing
maximum tariff rates from 80% to 40% and the number of tariff bands from 12 to 6. By 1995, the
Government had eliminated virtually all quantitative restrictions on imports, with the exception of motor
vehicles, and terminated the practice of special conventions between the Government and private
importers concerning duty payments. Customs administration has been improved and the GATT
valuation system is being implemented. Exporters now have access to imported inputs at duty free prices.
16.   Since a liberal Foreign Investment Law was adopted in 1989, the Government has issued around
600 investment licenses, representing potential investments over US$1 billion, excluding mining and



- 5 -
hydropower. The economy has become more open as growth of exports and imports have outstripped
that of GDP. Exports have been growing vigorously, resulting in a reduction in the external current
account deficit from 17% of GDP in 1988 to 8.8% in 1993. Since then, the balance of payments has
shown some weakening, with a widening of the current account deficit to about 11% of GDP in 1995 due
to rapid import expausion, financed by official financing and foreign di-ect investment.
17.   Macroeconomic stability was threatened in 1995, when lax monetary management pushed
annual inflation up to over 20%. An increasing gap began to emerge between the market exchange rate
and the official rate. lIowever, the Government reacted swiftly. The official exchange rate was brought
into line with the market exchange rate by devaluing from 750 kip/US$ in mid-May 1995 to 930 kip/US$
in October 1995. Monetary measures were taken to curb excess liquidity and the fiscal situation was
improved through measures preventing the leakage of timber royalties and improving procedures for tax
collection, keeping current expenditures in line with targets and delaying nonessential capital spending.
18.   Social Costs of Adjustment. The transition experience of Lao PDR has been less painful than
that of former command economies in Eastern Europe. Since most Lao households depend on agriculture
for their livelihood, they benefited from the initial price reforms. Although an estimated 20% of civil
servants and 10% of state enterprise employees were retrenched, those laid off received adequate
compensation and many were absorbed into the growing private sector. The urban unemployment rate is
still quite low, around 3%. Finally, unlike those in Eastern Europe, Lao SOEs have not been important
providers of social services. Continued structural adjustment in Lao PDR is likely to have a beneficial
social impact by providing administrative and regulatory reforms necessary for sustained growth.
19.   Institutional Capacity. The complex requirements of an economy in transition have tended to
overstretch the Government's administrative and budgetary capacity. A central task of the proposed
adjustment operation therefore is to assist the Government in prioritizing its tasks. By relinquishing the
duty to run enterprises to the private sector, reducing its role in the financial system to regulation and
supervision, and enhancing the efficiency of public resource management, the Government can focus on
strengthening physical infrastructure and human capital to support private sector growth, alleviating
poverty and assisting those groups who are excluded from the benefits of economic growth.
20.   Previous Experience with Adjustment Lending. The two previous adjustment operations
(para. 5) have assisted the Government in achieving some of the key measures in its reform program.
The first SAC supported exchange rate and price reform. The stage was set for the privatization of a large
number of SOEs; and financial sector reform led to restructuring of the Central Bank and established
positive real interest rates. Fiscal reforms strengthened the tax system and raising utility prices. The
second SAC was an ambitious follow on operation, supporting further enterprise reform, enhanced public
resource management and improved public administration. Project Completion Reports and a
2
Performnance Audit Report for SACI and SACII indicate that performance has been satisfactory: the
programs have been implemented and sustainability seems certain. Institutional improvement, however,
has been slower and more modest because of skill shortages and the need for reorientation of the
bureaucracy. Further, many key institutional reforms cut across the authority of several ministries,
necessitating close cooperation and coordination.  The main lessons learned from  the previous
operations, especially SACII, have been taken into account in the design of SACIII: (i) the SACIII
Coordinating Committee serves as an interministerial group to coordinate the reform program and
achieve consensus among policy makers; (ii) more time has been taken in preparation and targets have
2
PCR-12664, January 1994; PAR-14810, June 1995.



- 6 -
been made less complex in view of administrative capacity constraints and institutional weaknesses; and
(iii) adequate technical assistance is being provided.
II. THE GOVERNMENT'S ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
Policy Framework for the Medium Term
21.   The Government's medium-term objectives are to: (i) foster private sector growth and stimulate
exports; (ii) strengthen domestic resource mobilization through tax and financial reforms; (iii) create
improved instruments of macroeconomic management and strengthen policy planning and
implementation capacity; and (iv) coordinate and improve the efficiency of foreign aid inflows. The
macroeconomic framework is addressed by the Policy Framework Paper for 1994/95 - 1996/97 (issued
January 1995), which provides for comprehensive tax reforms and administrative improvements,
liberalization of interest rates and continued progress in tariff reform. The arrangements for the third year
of the ESAF program will ' e finalized in early 1996.
22.   The Government's target growth rate is 7% for 1995-97. Attaining this in the context of
macroeconomic stability will require addressing institutional bottlenecks and improving the efficiency of
resource allocation. This would include: (i) higher rates of domestic resource mobilization, (ii) more
efficient planning and allocation of public resources, and (iii) strengthened administrative capacity to
respond to the increasingly complex demands of a market economy.
23.   Fiscal Policy. Maintaining price stability and reducing the fiscal deficit, primarily through
resource mobilization efforts, are the two key components of the Government's macroeconomic policy as
set forth in the ESAF program. The goal is to increase the budgetary current surplus to 2.9% of GDP and
contain the overall deficit (excluding grants) to about 9% of GDP in 1997. Revenue is targeted to exceed
13% of GDP by 1996/97, as a result of the implementation of tax reform measures introduced in 1995
and a comprehensive tax reform in 1996, planned with IMF assistance, which will enlarge the tax base
and reduce over reliance on trade taxes. The Government has already increased motor vehicle
registration fees and excise taxes on petroleum products, cigarettes and beverages; it will also overhaul
utility pricing to ensure cost recovery and improve the management of timber royalty collection.
24.   On the expenditure side, priority will be given to containing the wage bill through a further
reduction in the civil service personnel, with a net retrenchment of 500 in 1996. With adequate funding
for operations and maintenance, improved project implementation and reduced outlays in less essential
areas, capital expenditure is expected to rebound to around 12% of GDP in 1996/97, compared to 6.9%
in 1993. Transportation accounts for the bulk of capital expenditure (45% compared to 37% in 1989), but
the sectoral distribution in 1996/97 will see a stronger emphasis on education (9% compared to 4% in
1989) and health (7%, up from zero in 1989).
25.   Monetary Policy. The Government seeks to limit consumer price inflation to around 5% p.a., in
line with inflation of its major trading partners. Given the recent increase in domestic inflation to over
20% in 1995, the reduction of inflation to 10% by the end of 1996 and a return to single-digit figures
thereafter will require a firm control of fiscal and monetary aggregates. Removing the interest rate
guidelines on savings deposits and loans and adoption of prudential regulations will further enhance
confidence in the domestic banking system. The BoL will pursue a strict control of domestic credit
through the use of indirect policy instruments. Cautious demand management and increasing use of



- 7 -
market instruments, such as extending treasury bill auctions to the nonbank public, will also help
maintain a stable nominal exchange rate.
26.   Trade Reform. The Government intends to deepen its external trade reform by moving towards
a low uniform tariff structure, further improving customs administration and fully implementing the
GATT valuation system. Within the next year, the number of tariff bands will be further reduced from
six to four. Under the ESAF program, the Government has also agreed to remove remaining nontariff
barriers on motor vehicles, and to reduce the number of duty exemptions.
27.   External Sector. Foreign lending and assistance will continue to finance a large share of capital
goods imports, but export earnings will need to provide an increasing share of import financing to sustain
external viability. Exports are expected to grow by an average of over 9% p.a. for the rest of the decade.
Sales of electricity will be an increasingly important source of export earnings after 1998. Lao
hydropower exports to Thailand are about US$24.8 million, or over 8% of export revenues. Two projects
(Theun-Hinboun and Houay Ho), already under construction, are projected to increase electricity exports
by 138% in 1998 and 24% in 1999. Of four other projects being considered, the largely private financed
Nam Theun II (NT2) would be by far the largest, with a capacity of 690MW. However, the
macroeconomic, environmental and resettlement implications of this project are still under review and its
financial arrangements remain to be determined; it has therefore not been included in the base case
scenario presented in Annex I. In this scenario the GDP growth rate would be 7% until 1998 and 6.5%
thereafter. The external current account deficit would widen somewhat to 11.9% of GDP by 1998,
reflecting increasing import demand, mainly due to the two power projects already underway. After
1998, however, the deficit would start to fall, reaching 5% of GDP by 2004, as hydropower exports
expand even without the NT2 project.
28.   An alternative scenario based on preliminary estimates of the impact of NT2 shows a substantial
rise in the current account deficit during the construction of the dam from 1996 to 2000 due to increased
capital goods imports, which would be covered by likely financing of the project. Once NT2 is
completed, an additional US$200 million per year in electricity exports to Thailand would lead to a
reduction in the current account deficit. In the medium term, the most important impact of NT2 on
growth would come from increased expenditure made possible by government revenues generated by the
project. The debt service ratio will remain in the same range as in the base case, as any additional debt
service is likely to be covered by additional export revenues.
29.   External Financial Requirements. At present, Lao PDR finances a significant share of total
investment out of bilateral grants and concessional borrowing from IDA and the ADB. Until domestic
resource mobilization has improved and domestic savings increased from the present low level, the
financing of the country's reform program will need to make use of foreign savings offered in the form
of direct foreign investment and ODA. Since the debt is on highly concessional terms, with IDA and
ADB accounting for 42% and 40% respectively of total debt, debt service requirements represented only
4.9% of export earnings in 1994. The debt service ratio in the base case is projected to remain at around
5% over the next several years, as the Government is committed to pursuing a prudent external debt
management strategy and the rise in exports would compensate for the modest and mainly soft
borrowing involved.
30.   The external financing requirement for the period 1996-97 is projected at US$677 million under
the base case without Nam Theun II (Annex I), net of a third year ESAF of the IMF to be disbursed in
two tranches of US$8.8 million in early 1996 and early 1997. This requirement can be met by foreign
private investment, commercial loans and private transfers (US$216 million); official transfers in the



- 8 -
form of grants from bilateral donors (US$251 million); and official loans from multilateral institutions
(ADB and World Bank) amounting to US$210 million. Disbursements from private sources, together
with project financing from bilateral and multilateral (grant and loan resources), add to US$598 million.
This leaves a need for short term balance of payments support of $79 million for 1996-97, which would
be financed by IDA's SACIII (US$40 million), a proposed ADB Financial Sector Program Loan of
US$30 million, and likely bilateral sources of US$9 million.
31.   Looking ahead a few years, the relative roles of ODA and foreign direct investment are likely to
shift, with the latter expected to provide a substantial share of extemal financing. Over time, Lao PDR
will be increasingly able to finance its development program from its own resources and increased export
receipts. In the interim, however, the Government will need to make efficient use of donor assistance by
enhancing the effectiveness of project implementation and foreign aid management. IDA, as part of its
overall strategy, will continue to work with the Government to address weaknesses in institutions and
procedures and improve project implementation.
32.    The Current Agenda for Institutional Reform.  While the Government has remained
committed to implementing its program of reform, the nature of required reforms has shifted. As Lao
PDR sheds the remnants of a command economy, the principal challenges facing the Government are to
strengthen the institutional basis for private sector development and market functioning and sound
management of public resources. This requires completing the privatization of public enterprises,
building a stable financial system, constructing a modern legal system, ensuring efficient public
expenditure management, developing a professional civil service, and creating an affordable social
security system.
III. THE SACIII REFORM PROGRAM
33.    Focus of SACIII. The proposed operation would support greater efficiency in private and public
investment, underpinning economic growth. By enhancing the efficiency of public resource
management, it will also assist the Government in shifting its focus towards social issues and the
alleviation of poverty. The macroeconomic policies for sustained growth are largely in place and most of
the decisive policy reforms for economic liberalization have been undertaken. Additional measures
needed in these areas, e.g. additional revenue measures, the elimination of nontariff barriers and further
rationalization of tariffs, form part of the Government's ESAF program. As with the two previous
structural adjustment credits, SACIII would assist the Government sustain the momentum of reform and
undertake more difficult structural measures. The basis for this operation is the Government's own
adjustment program, which addresses the main factors limiting growth and effective poverty reduction.
SACIII would assist the Government in improving the incentive system for private sector development
and the management of public resources by closely interlinking two principal components: Private
Sector Enabling Environment, focusing on state-owned enterprise reform, the regulatory framework,
and financial sector reform; and Public Resource Management, focusing on public expenditure
management, civil service reform and the social security system.
34.    SACIII will encourage private sector development by supporting the reform of state-owned
enterprises and completing the privatization process. The regulatory framework would be strengthened
by key legislation and implementing regulations conducive to the creation of a competitive enterprise
sector. Important measures to improve the functioning of commercial banks, management of monetary
policy and the regulatory framework of the financial sector are also targeted. Problems of necessary
outlays for operation and maintenance as well as Government counterpart funds for infrastructure



- 2 -
5.    The Government's reform program has been supported under two Structural Adjustment Credits
from the World Bank , and an IMF supported Structural Adjustment Facility (1991-1993). An ESAF
arrangement was approved in 1993, and expires in 1996. The proposed operation is a central part of the
Bank's assistance to Lao PDR, as detailed in the Country Strategy Paper of May 1993 and the Country
Assistance Strategy being presented to the Board with this operation. The present operation has been
developed together with the Government's SACIII Coordinating Committee, allowing officials of the
ministries involved to contribute their judgments and suggestions. As a result, SACIII is structured to
continue the adjustment process by addressing important institutional problems. The reform program
follows the broad recommendations of the most recent Country Economic Memorandum (Report No:
12554-LA, May 1994), which explains economic developments in more detail. A table of economic
indicators is attached to this report (Annex I).
6.    The bulk of the remaining policy reform agenda will be undertaken under SACIII. Future IDA
support for balance of payments financing needs is likely to take the form of sectorally focused
policy-based lending. Other institutional constraints would be addressed through specific investment
operations.
Recent Economic Performance and Reform Progress
7.    Lao PDR's successful systemic economic reform (as summarized in the box below), has led to
accelerated economic growth and a remarkable degree of macroeconomic stability. Strengthened public
and private investment and improved economic incentives contributed to growth of real GDP at the
robust rate of 6.3% p.a. over 1990-1994 and per capita income rising at a 3.2% rate over the same period.
Growth accelerated to 8.1% in 1994 and an estimated 7.1% in 1995, led by a strong recovery of
agricultural production from the previous years' adverse weather conditions and continued buoyancy in
manufacturing, construction, and services.
8.    The move towards a market economy is leading to a significant shift in production patterns.
Although agriculture is still the most important sector, employing over 80% of the labor force in 1994,
its share of GDP declined from 61% in 1988 to 56% in 1994. The share of industrial output, largely
generated by small scale manufacturing (large scale industry is virtually nonexistent), rose from 11.2%
of GDP in 1988 to 17.7%. As part of its liberalization strategy, the Government committed itself to
privatize most of the roughly 600 state-owned enterprises (SOEs), and to rely increasingly on the private
sector as the main engine of growth.
9.    With the progress in privatization and the emergence of new firms, the private sector now
dominates the insurance, manufacturing, transport and distribution sectors, and is strongly represented in
banking and construction. Although the service sector's share of GDP has been fairly constant (25.6 %
in 1994), the composition of services shifted away from public services towards commercial services.
Value added in financial services has increased sixfold since 1988, and income generated in the hotel and
restaurant sector has increased by 23 times.
10.   Although agricultural growth has been satisfactory, averaging about 5% p.a., performance
within the sector has been very uneven. Production of timber has grown rapidly while the production of
rice, which occupies over 80% of cultivated land and is the main food crop, has grown slowly. About a
third of rice is still produced in the uplands under environmentally unsound slash and bum cultivation.
I
Credit 2037-LA, approved in June 1989, and Credit 2304-LA, approved in October 1991.



- 10-
privatized over the next two years, the task will be to continue following transparent bidding procedures,
protect the state against under-compensation, or to proceed swiftly with liquidation.
40.    Management of SOEs. The Government intends to retain only 32 strategic enterprises in full
state ownership. These include the eight state-owned commercial banks (SOCBs), the Lao Electricity
Company (Electricite du Laos with 1771 employees), the public water company (Nam Papa Lao, 320
employees), the post office (EPTL, 1226 employees), the fuel inport company, some basic public
services (state printing shop, production of pharmaceuticals), three food and garment enterprises under
the Ministry of Defense, the National Lottery and three logging companies under the Ministry of
Finance.
41.    There is no indication that SOEs to be retained are a particular problem: SOEs have been
operating without subsidies from the budget for some years; they are generally subject to competition
from the private sector and the risk of non-performing SOE loans is not disproportionate. Moreover,
domestic credit to public enterprises dropped from 86% of total domestic credit in 1989 to less than 14%
in 1994. While public utilities are not a drain on government resources, public authorities have to ensure
that responsible pricing and regulatory mechanisms for natural monopolies are in place and that
minimum standards of service are observed. Furthermore, the Government's plan to rationalize its eight
state commercial banks through merger will be supported under the proposed ADB Financial Sector
Program Loan.
42.    To improve the performance of SOEs, as well as their ability to compete with the private sector,
the Government needs to speed up the process of commercialization and strengthen SOE management
within the existing legal framework. This involves the appointment of a Board of Directors and the
registration of state-owned enterprises as joint-stock or limited liability companies. Commercialization
of SOEs is an important step for the exercise of ownership functions of the State, as sole owner, in a
manner as analogous as possible to that of a private owner. Furthermore, managers need targets and
standards to improve the performance and quality of services rendered by those SOEs to be retained
under public ownership. The international experience with formal performance contracts has generally
been disappointing where they could not be credibly enforced. However, evidence also suggests that as
long as SOEs operate in a competitive environment, the state can enhance its ownership function by
agreeing with SOE managers on a set of monitorable performance indicators and targets. Although the
Government would not interfere in day-to-day management decisions, improved performance monitoring
would reduce the risk of SOEs asking for financial assistance from the state. The key is to make sure
that SOEs are subject to competition. In addition, strengthening the capacity of the State Property
Department to monitor existing leases would help to raise more government revenues.
43.    Objective.  This component would assist the Government in completing the privatization
process, while developing a clear strategy for the management of state-owned enterprises and other state
assets. Furthermore, SACIII would support the Government in assessing the performance of state assets
and widen the scope for revenue generation and private sector involvement.
Proposed Policy Actions
44.    Privatization Program. The authorities are committed to complete the divestiture process of all
non-strategic SOEs within the next two years. These SOEs include mainly construction companies, as
well as telecommunications, tobacco, cement and bricks production. The Government has submitted a
time-bound divestiture plan to IDA, (i) listing all remaining state-owned enterprises targeted for
privatization or liquidation, with their individual asset value and number of employees, classified by



- II -
responsible Ministries or Provinces; and (ii) documenting semi-annual divestiture targets expressed in
terms of number of enterprises, and percentage of total asset value. The privatization program is
expected to contribute Kip 15 billion (nearly one percent of GDP) to the 1995/96 budget. As a condition
of second tranche release, the Government would achieve progress, satisfactory to IDA, toward the
privatization of remaining state-owned enterprises. The Government would provide evidence that
all of the state-owned enterprises included in the time-bound divestiture plan have been liquidated,
privatized or offered to the market.
45.   Monopolies. The insurance monopoly granted to Assurances Generales du Laos was not
renewed when it expired in February 1995, thereby opening the Lao market to the competitive provision
of insurance services. Lao Brewery and Lao Soft Drinks are the last two privatized enterprises which
have the monopoly on domestic production, although they do have to compete against imports. In the
Letter of Development Policy, the Government commits itself to refraining from granting new
monopolies in the future, and to phasing out all existing monopolies for goods and services when
they expire.
46.   Monitoring Leasing Arrangements. A modern reporting system would assist the State Property
Department in fulfilling its mandate to: (i) monitor the existing leasing contracts; (ii) establish and
monitor objectives and performance targets for state-owned enterprises; and (iii) inventory major state
holdings, including assets and minority shareholding. As indicated in the Letter of Development
Policy, the Government will introduce and implement a computerized reporting system for the
State Property Department of the Ministry of Finance. To ensure the effectiveness of the
computerized reporting system, the data base needs to be regularly updated. The Government will
maintain the reporting system by completing the entry of data, and regularly revising the relevant
information required to monitor: (i) all leasing contracts; (ii) the performance of all majority or fully
state-owned enterprises; and (iii) minority shareholdings and major state assets under the control of
individual ministries (such as buildings, vehicles and equipment). As stated in the Letter of
Development Policy, where lease fees have not been paid, leases are found to be in noncompliance
with the contractual provisions or leases expire, the Minister of Finance will terminate the lease
and ask the Permanent Office of the Privatization Department in CPC to offer the enterprise for
sale. In cases where outright sales of expired leases are not possible due to a renewal clause in the
leasing arrangement, the new lease would only cover land (and if necessary, buildings) with all the
other mobile and immobile assets being sold.
47.   Hard Budget Constraint. On balance, SOEs generate enough profits to cover operating costs
and a small portion of investment finances. However, it is important that the remaining SOEs be able to
cover increasing proportions of their investments through self-finance and commercial borrowing. The
Letter of Development Policy states that, consistent with past policy, the Government will refrain
from providing any budgetary support or preferential access to bank credit to enterprises that
remain publicly owned.
48.   Management of State-owned Enterprises. The quality of service provided by the major
utilities seems acceptable. However, data are not adequate to measure their technical and financial
performance and to stimulate improvements in these areas through the elaboration of explicit
performance targets. Indeed, while the Government has granted SOEs considerable operating autonomy,
it has not yet put in place the mechanisms required to play its role as shareholder, either in terms of
provision of policy guidance and clear objectives, or through the promotion of management
accountability. Following a time-bound action plan, all 32 enterprises to be retained under public
ownership will eventually be incorporated as joint-stock or limited liability companies with a Board of



- 12 -
Directors and be subject to performance monitoring. As a condition of second tranche release, the
Government would commercialize at least five SOEs, of which three should be utilities, by: (i)
converting and registering the selected SOEs into either public joint-stock or limited liability
companies; (ii) causing the respective Board of Directors to be appointed; (iii) establishing
satisfactory performance plans setting out technical, commercial and financial objectives and
performance improvement targets for each SOE; and (iv) completing the database required to
monitor the performance plans. The Government would also schedule the commercialization of the
remaining SOEs by the end of 1997.
49.   Technical Assistance. Technical assistance has been contracted to assist the State Property
Department design an information system to inventory state assets, monitor the performance of SOEs
and control the lease contracts. Additional assistance may be required on a short-term basis to help the
State Property Department analyze the performance and efficiency of the SOEs scheduled for
commercialization.
(ii) Regulatory Framework
50.   Background. When Lao PDR was officially proclaimed in 1975, the existing constitution and
legal system were abolished. With the adoption of a new Constitution in 1991, Lao PDR embarked on
developing its legal system with enactment of priority laws and regulations. Nonetheless, significant and
often vital gaps still remain in the legal system which hinder the effective functioning of a market
economy. Existing legislation lacks internal consistency and overall coherence, and some of the laws
adopted prior to 1991 may not be consistent with the provisions of the new Constitution. Moreover, the
day-to-day implementation of laws is weak, due to the lack of regulations and the fragility or absence of
legal institutions. The court system is still inadequately developed, a professional judicial bar has not yet
been reinstated and the status of the entire legal profession, particularly in the private sector, remains
unclear. In addition, Lao PDR has still not adhered to a number of international legal conventions
typically used in business transactions, although several contracts stipulating the settlement of disputes
through the provisions of such conventions have already been concluded.
51.   Objective. This component would support the Government's continuing efforts for the
development of a legal framework that effectively regulates and facilitates commercial transactions,
promotes private sector development and stimulates investment. Complementary to ongoing technical
assistance provided by UNDP and the World Bank, four key requirements are addressed: (i) the adoption
of implementing regulations to several business-related laws which have been passed but otherwise are
only weakly enforced; (ii) the submission for adoption by the National Assembly of existing drafts of
legislation to promote private sector transactions; (iii) the further integration of Lao PDR with
international financial and economic markets through adherence to widely accepted international
conventions; and (iv) the formulation of a legal reform plan.
Proposed Policy Actions
52.   Implementing  Regulations Governing  Private  Sector Development. The fact that
entrepreneurs, foreign investors and officials do not know how to apply crucial laws, acts as a
disincentive to investment. There are a number of pending implementing regulations whose adoption
would make a considerable contribution to correcting this situation. As a condition of second tranche
release, the Government would adopt implementing regulations to the (i) Business Law, (ii)
Foreign Investment Law, (iii) Decree on Arbitration, (iv) the Accounting Law, and (v) the Budget
Law.



- 13 -
53.   These implementing regulations represent a major step towards reducing legal uncertainty and
clarifying the details of how key legislation should be applied in practice: (i) the Business Law
enumerates the legal forms of Lao companies, ranging from individual private enterprises, state-owned
enterprises, joint-stock companies to cooperatives. An implementing regulation would cover the legal
registration process, the functions and selection of the Board of Directors, and procedures for share
trading and auditing. (ii) The Foreign Investment Law allows the repatriation of profits and facilitates
approval by setting up a one-stop shop. An implementing regulation would set out details such as fees,
internal organization of the Foreign Investment Management Committee, requirements for supporting
documentation or what type of approval is needed from which ministry. (iii) Although the Decree on
Arbitration provides for a mechanism for settling commercial disputes through informal arbitration
procedures rather than formal litigation, the specific institutional procedures and regulatory mechanisms
remain to be specified. (iv) The Enterprise Accounting La)1 has been broadly implemented and
disseminated. However, an implementing regulation should govern professional standards for auditors
and chartered accountants. (v) An implementing regulation for the Budg t Law would support the
recently adopted new budget nomenclature and clarify procedures and reporting requirements.
54.    Legislation Governing Private Sector Development. As the private sector grows, more
sophisticated financial instruments will increasingly be used. These need to be governed by appropriate
business and financial legislation to create security, ensure property rights and provide transparency.
Legislation on negotiable instruments would permit the use of financial instruments such as checks, bills
of exchange and promissory notes as convenient methods of financing loan transactions and thus foster
financial sector development and facilitate international financial transactions. In the Letter of
Development Policy, the Government commits itself to finalize the drafts of the Law on Bills of
Exchange and Promissory Notes and the Law on Checks and submit them to the National
Assembly for adoption. Legislation on public procurement is essential for establishing a uniform, fair
domestic procurement system for public entities which conforms to international standards. The
Government has adopted a Procurement Decree which details the procedures for procurement of works,
goods and services made by the public administration.
55.   International Conventions. The expeditious settlement of foreign investment disputes, and the
recognition of arbitral awards issued under the provisions of Lao investment agreements need to be
ensured. The Government recognizes the importance for Lao PDR to become party to standard private
international law conventions, namely: (i) the International Center for Settlement of Investment Disputes
(ICSID); (ii) the Convention on Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA), and (iii) the New
York Convention on the Recognition of International Arbitral Awards. These three conventions would
substantially reduce the political and legal risk to foreign investors of starting a commercial venture in
Lao PDR. In the Letter of Development Policy, the Government commits itself to applying to join
the three international conventions ICSID, MIGA, and the New York Convention.
56.    Legal Reform Plan. To date, a clear vision as to the direction for development of the overall
legal system of Lao PDR does not exist. Since not everything can be done at the same time, the
Government needs to set priorities in the sectors to be developed over the medium term. For instance,
there is a need to develop new legal institutions such as an appellate court or specialized courts such as
commercial courts. Furthermore, the legal framework at present still lacks a clear definition of the
relationship between legislature and the judiciary. Future lawyers need to be adequately prepared by
streamlining the law school curriculum and establishing priorities for legal training. As a condition of
second tranche release, the Government would adopt a medium-term national legal framework
development plan, satisfactory to IDA. This legal reform plan will outline the Government's national
priorities, policies and strategies with respect to institutional measures, training needs, legislation to be



- 14 -
enacted and consistency within the selected legal system, while translating the Government's strategies
into a time-bound action plan for legal reform.
57.   Technical Assistance. Technical assistance to support legal reform will be provided by the
World Bank IDF, currently under preparation, to be implemented in conjunction with the UNDP Legal
Framework Development Project.
(iii) Financial Sector Reform
58.   Background. The financial sector needs strengthened supervision, extemal audits, proper
accounting, and regulations that further define and interpret the banking law. Banks should establish
adequate loan loss provisions so as to impose greater discipline on bank managers and to ensure the
health and stability of the banking system. The importance of state-owned commercial banks is likely to
decline over time. At present, however, the authorities are reluctant to allow a rapid privatization of the
state-owned commercial banking sector, since supervisory oversight and prudential regulations are not
yet well developed and the private banking presence in the country is still not well diversified. Although
a recapitalization of SOCBs was undertaken in 1994 with the assistance of the Asian Development Bank
(ADB), a comprehensive review of their loan portfolios and the adoption of prudent banking criteria are
still needed.
59.   The Government is assessing the possibility of restructuring the SOCBs in order to focus human
resources and capacity building efforts on a few viable institutions. Significant changes in organization,
management, and operations will be necessary to enable the state-owned commercial banks to function
in a sound profitable manner. Placing the SOCBs on a sounder financial footing through audits,
enforcement of prudential regulations and restructuring would also facilitate their eventual privatization.
60.   Objective. Reforms to be supported under this component will help to ensure the health and
stability of the banking system, and introduce elements of discipline and accountability into the
decision-making processes of commercial bank managers. Key elements include: (a) adoption of
prudential regulations; (b) implementation of annual external bank audits; (c) conversion to a new
uniform chart of accounts for commercial banks; (d) introduction of pre-tax loan loss provisions in banks
based on periodic reviews of portfolio quality; and (e) rationalization and restructuring of state-owned
commercial banks.
Proposed Policy Actions
61.   Adopt Important Prudential Regulations. Prudential regulations are necessary to further
define the powers of supervisors, the limits within which banks can be expected to operate, and the
sanctions to be imposed for engaging in unsafe and unsound banking practices. The BoL has adopted and
will begin implementing key prudential regulations. Following standard practices, these regulations
address loan concentration; asset classification and provisioning; insider and connected lending; capital
adequacy; enforcement powers; and the handling and treatment of failed banks.
62.   Implement Annual External Bank Audits. Annual external audits of commercial banks by
qualified, independent auditors provide a basis for establishing market discipline through financial
disclosure and represent an important complement to bank supervision. To ensure effective bank
supervision, the banking supervision and internal audit functions of the BoL's Banking Control
Department would be separated into two departments, as stated in the Letter of Development
Policy. In the absence of effective on site examinations, audits are the only means for independently



- 15 -
determining a bank's financial condition and performance. However, so far there has been no effective
implementation of the requirement for audits of commercial banks stipulated by Article 19 of Decree 3,
dated January 23, 1992. As a condition of second tranche release, the BoL would provide evidence
that the 1995 financial statements of commercial banks have been audited, in accordance with a
methodology and procedures satisfactory to IDA.
63.   Convert to a Uniform Chart of Accounts. There is a need for both state-owned and private
commercial banks to move to an accounting regime designed for a market economy. A new, uniform
chart of accounts for commercial banks has been developed with the help of technical assistance. The
BoL has adopted the new chart of accounts for commercial banks. The use of this uniform chart of
accounts will facilitate prudential reporting and financial management. As stated in the Letter of
Development Policy, the BoL will require all banks to submit their 1996 financial statements using
the new, uniform chart of accounts.
64.   Introduce Pre-Tax Loan Loss Provisions. Timely recognition of problem assets is essential to
ensure the health and stability of the banking system. Asset quality should be reviewed by commercial
banks at least quarterly. Based on the review, adequate provisions should be established for potential and
actual losses. By forcing commercial banks to make adequate provisions, poor lending and managerial
practices are exposed in the form of lower earnings or even losses. Provisions for loan losses impose
stricter discipline on bank managers as their errors show up quickly in the profit and loss statement. A
survey of the state-owned banks has just been completed (under ADB financing) and indications are that,
following the first recapitalization of state-owned banks, the quality of their portfolio is broadly
acceptable. There should not be any significant negative repercussions on the budget resulting from the
loan loss provisions. Therefore, as a condition of second tranche release, the BoL will provide
evidence that it has required banks to adopt adequate pre-tax loan loss provisions, in accordance
with banking principles, norms and practices satisfactory to IDA. In the event that the budgetary
impact of pre-tax loan loss provisioning is substantially larger than expected and would pose an undue
strain on the budget, the Government would present IDA with a schedule showing how it intends to
phase in pre-tax loan loss provisions so as to mitigate these strains.
65.   Rationalize and Restructure State-Owned Commercial Banks. The authorities are committed
to restructure the banking system by strengthening the management, accounting, and credit practices of
state banks. The plan of the authorities to reduLe the number of SOCBs will also be supported by
technical assistance and conditionality under the proposed Financial Sector Program Loan of the ADB
which is complementary to the financial sector refonns proposed under this operation. A time-bound
action plan is being drawn up to enable these banks to compete in a market environment in a sound and
profitable manner and prevent a recurrence of bad debt problems. In the Letter of Development Policy,
the Government commits itself to rationalize the state-owned commercial banking system and to
begin restructuring at least one state-owned commercial bank.
66.   T-bill auctions. The Bank of Lao PDR has begun to use indirect instruments for monetary
management. It acts as the Government's agent in the conduct of regular T-bill auctions, open to
commercial banks and large enterprises. At present, only 180-day bills are issued. The effective use of
T-bills is hampered by the fact that the Treasury has undertaken direct issues of bills which carry
higher-than-market interest rates (22-24%, compared to 13-14% obtained at auctions). In the Letter of
Development Policy, the Government commits itself to conduct all T-bill issues by BoL-managed
auctions and to increase the range of maturities offered in order to obtain a market-based yield
curve.



- 16-
67.   Regulations on Interest Rates and Agricultural Lending. Scrapping the remaining interest
rate caps and floors on deposits and loans will be an important step in making the kip a more attractive
medium of exchange. The Letter of Development Policy commits the Government to liberalize
administratively-determined interest rates on bank deposits and loans. In the interim, the
Government will take steps to better target subsidized agricultural credit to poor farmers and
make the costs of these subsidies more transparent. The Central Bank is attempting to direct credit to
rural areas by ordering all banks to lend at least 10% of their deposits to the agricultural sector. This
method of supporting rural areas is inefficient and, moreover, is not clearly enforced and compliance
seems to be low. In the Letter of Development Policy, the Government states that it will undertake
periodic reviews and consultations with IDA on the effectiveness of subsidized interest rates,
especially the impact on beneficiaries, and the impact of compulsory sectoral lending of 10% of
bank deposits to agriculture.
68.    Technical Assistance. IDF grant financing has been approved to assist in the development of
the BoL's capacity for bank supervision. The program of technical assistance would be carried out over a
period of two years. PHRD financing is currently being used to assist in the transition of commercial
banks to a new, uniform chart of accounts. Technical assistance for the restructuring and rationalization
of SOCBs is expected to be pursued by the Asian Development Bank.
Public Resource Management
69.   Opaque budgeting and investment planning, weak institutional capacity, and unclear social
protection undermine the effectiveness of public finances and public administration. This component
would improve the management of public resources by addressing planning and monitoring of public
expenditure management, civil service reform and viability of the social security system.
(i) Public Expenditure Management
10.   Background. The Government of Lao PDR is committed to provide more and better quality
infrastructure services complementary to private sector development, and to improve education and
health services for the Lao people in general and the poor in particular. This is reflected in the country's
strategic planning for up to the year 2000 as well as the Public Investment Program (PIP) for 1994-2000.
Development and maintenance of the road system is the highest infrastructure priority, accounting for 35
- 40% of planned annual public investment over the next several years. For education and health, the
planned allocation will approach nearly 20% of public investment. However, the PIP does not address
the issue of the appropriate public private mix of social service provision. Moreover, it does not provide
any information on economic or social justification of projects, or the link between inputs (e.g., public
spending on primary education) and outcomes (e.g. school enrollment at the primary level). So far, there
has been no systematic consideration of priorities or establishment of clear criteria for recurrent
expenditure allocations.
71.   Objective. SACIII aims at enhanced public expenditure management, including closer
coordination of capital and current expenditures. It also addresses the need to clarify the Government's
strategy for the development of hydropower. This component of the program will support: (i)
strengthening investment planning capacity, (ii) enhancing the transparency of the budgeting process,
and (iii) prioritizing Government expenditures.



- 17 -
Proposed Policy Actions
72.   Budget Accounting Format. In order to ensure proper management of public expenditure, the
national budget has to be accessible in a transparent, and standardized format. As required by the State
Budget Law, the Ministry of Finance has adopted a modernized accounting system for the national
budget which was devised with technical assistance from the IMF and UNDP; the next step is to
implement this revised nomenclature for the annual national budgets. As a condition for second tranche
release, the Government would publish and disseminate its Fiscal Year 1996-1997 national budget
which shall have been prepared and adopted based on a revised nomenclature satisfactory to IDA.
73.   Undertake a Public Expenditure Review. As a logical follow up to the PIP, there is a need to
undertake a comprehensive review of public expenditure. This public expenditure review would help to
ensure that public resources are spent efficiently and to prioritize future expenditure needs. Such a
review would focus on adequacy of recurrent costs, economic and social justification of investment
projects and priority of social sectors and poverty alleviation expenditures. The Government will discuss
the findings of the review with IDA and the mutually agreed recommendations will be reflected in the
next budget. As a condition of second tranche release, the Government will present to the National
Assembly a budget for Fiscal Year 1996/97 prepared in accordance with objectives satisfactory to
IDA, which would provide for: (i) adequate funding for recurrent and capital expenditures in
priority sectors; and (ii) financing for investment projects which are economically and socially
justified.
74.   Recurrent Costs of the PIP. The Government commits itself in the Letter of Development
Policy to update the PIP annually. This PIP should coincide with the regular budget cycle and ensure
that recurrent costs of existing and new investments are taken into account and adequate funds for
operations and maintenance are allocated in the budget. The PIP should also be based on realistic
projections of the resource envelope provided by foreign and domestic financing.
75.   Disbursement Monitoring. As a condition for second tranche release, the Government will
establish a monitoring system for reporting, on a quarterly basis, the actual disbursement of funds
(domestic as well as foreign) for all public investment projects outlined in the rolling PIP. The
information from this monitoring system is to be shared among the line agencies, provinces, departments
in the CPC and in the Ministry of Finance. This monitoring process will eventually be enhanced to
include information on physical indicators and outcomes achieved (e.g., miles of road construction) for
each of the projects.
76.   Hydropower Development Strategy. Lao PDR has so far signed 23 Memoranda of
Understanding with foreign developers for the construction of hydroelectric facilities. There is a need to
set out a consistent hydropower strategy which would clearly establish which of the proposed
hydropower schemes are economically and financially justified; what future revenues in the form of
royalties, dividends and taxes would accrue to the budget; what financing arrangements will ensure a fair
share of the revenues for the Lao Government; and how the potential adverse social, economic and
environmental consequences of different realistic alternatives could be mitigated. Therefore, the
Government commits itself in the Letter of Development Policy to present a Hydropower
Development Strategy.
77.   Technical Assistance.  TA for the preparation of the PIP has been provided by a joint
IMF/UNDP/ADB project. Funds for disbursement monitoring and the public expenditure review would
be provided by an IDF of the World Bank.



- 18-
(ii) Civil Service Reform
78.   Background. The Government is streamlining and professionalizing the civil service to make it
better suited to the requirements of a market-based economy. It has reduced the size of its (nonmilitary)
civil service from about 95,000 in 1989 to 76,000 in 1991 and a further 2,000 in 1992, a total reduction
of over 22%. However, it is now facing greater difficulty in downsizing. As part of the ESAF program,
it had agreed to retrench about 5,220 workers per year over 1993-95. Actual net retrenchment for fiscal
years 1993 and 1994 has been roughly 6,700 in total compared to reductions of only 300 in 1995. The
Government should now review the appropriateness of the size and skills mix of the civil service as well
as the adequacy of the current civil service benefits structure and the viability of the pension scheme.
79.    Objective.  The objectives of this component are to (i) lay the groundwork for the
professionalization of the nonmilitary civil service and (ii) to improve the overall cost effectiveness of
the civil service through greater transparency and clear identification of skill requirements. In order to
promote private sector based economic development, it is necessary to rebuild the nonmilitary civil
service and reorient it towards servicing the needs of a market economy. Establishing transparent and
impartial rules goveming recruitment and creating a data base on civil servants are critical steps in this
direction.
Proposed Policy Actions
80.   Develop Competitive Entrance Exams for the Civil Service. In order to upgrade the average
skill levels of the civil service, it is necessary to identify and recruit qualified applicants. Unified,
competitive entrance exams are instruments that can be used as a screening device. As stated in the
Letter of Development Policy, each line ministry prepares an entrance exam, which all applicants
for similar positions throughout the country will be required to take on the same day.
81.   Civil Service Reports. In order to determine what skills are needed by the civil service, the
Government is establishing a computerized data base on civil servants employed at the national and
provincial level. In the Letter of Development Policy, the Government agrees that regular reports
on the civil service will be produced from the proposed civil service data base system and published
in the form of an official bulletin. These reports will provide details on the number of civil servants at
the national and provincial levels, broken down by categories, titles, grades and ministerial/departmental
affiliations.
82.   Long-Term  Civil Service Strategy.  The purpose of the regular reports is to assist the
Government in evaluating the personnel needs of the civil service and formulating a coherent long-term
vision for professionalizing the Lao civil service. The Government commits itself in the Letter of
Development Policy to present a long-term strategy for civil service reform, outlining (i) areas of
surplus and deficit skills; (ii) a program for correcting these imbalances, including retraining to
meet skill deficits and selective voluntary and involuntary retrenchments in surplus areas; and (iii)
a process for comparing civil service and private sector compensation.
83.   Technical Assistance. The policy actions proposed under this component are consistent with
and complementary to the tJNDP supported program on Administrative Reform and the IDF of the
World Bank on Civil Service Monitoring.



- 19-
(iii) Social Security System
84.    Background. At present, Lao PDR's social security system only covers civil servants and SOE
employees, but has rather imprecise provisions to extend protection to private sector employees. The
formal safety net consists of severance pay, the civil service pension program, and the Labor Law. The
severance pay system for civil servants and state enterprise employees provides for one month of
severance pay per year of employment. Given recent public sector wage increases and the buoyant labor
market, no adjustments in the severance pay system are needed at present. The civil service pension
program provides for pensions equaling 70% to 100% of a worker's final month's wages and is indexed
to civil service wage increases. This has resulted in average pensions exceeding the average civil service
salary. Although the pensions are supposed to be funded by 6% contributions by employees and the
Government as employer, in fact the Government is paying about twice as much to meet the costs of
pensions.
85.    The 1994 Labor Law provides for a program for protection of workers, including assistance to
victims of occupational injury or disease. While some private sector employers are complying with the
Law, others are not. It is desirable to ensure consistent and fair payments and compensation for these
situations. However, implementing regulations have not yet been completed, so that benefits and
necessary contribution levels are not clear. Article 48 of the Labor Law also contains provisions
establishing a social security fund (or funds) and the right of workers in the private sector to retirement
benefits. Regulations to establish and operate the fund(s) and to define contributions and benefits have
not yet been formulated.
86.    Objective. Adequate provisions need to be made to protect civil servants, current and former
workers of state-owned enterprises and private sector employees from loss of income due to work
accident, injury or old age. At the same time, existing or proposed programs toward these objectives will
need to be tailored to what society can afford.
Proposed Policy Actions
87.    Delink Civil Service Pensions. It is desirable to stop the practice of allowing changes in the
structure of civil service compensation from feeding into equivalent adjustments of pension payments. If
the Government wishes to reform the salary structure of the civil service, it should not be restricted in its
room for ma.,euver by the added pension liabilities. At the same time, retirees should be protected
against a loss in the real value of their pensions as prices rise. In the Letter of Development Policy, the
Government agrees to delink any future adjustments in the pension benefit structure for civil
service retirees from any future changes in the civil service salary structure. Pensions would instead
be linked to an appropriately chosen index, such as the consumer price index.
88.    Review Civil Service Benefits. The social security system for the civil service can be made
more affordable by choosing from a range of policy options such as (i) reducing the benefit structure, (ii)
raising the contribution from civil service salaries, (iii) increasing the retirement age, or (iv) creating an
entirely new, self sustaining pension system for civil servants eligible for pensions after a given date,
separate from the budget. For this purpose, as stated in the Letter of Development Policy, a
comprehensive study of options to reform the social security system for civil servants would be
carried out.
89.    Study Social Security Alternatives for Private Sector. For an implementing regulation to
article 48 of the 1994 Labor Law to be coherent, consistent and affordable, the Government needs to be



- 20 -
aware of alternative schemes and their costs. Thus, the Government will initiate a study of social
security provisions for the private sector, as stated in the Letter of Development Policy. Before any
type of insurance fund is set up, this study should make policy recommendations, clearly distinguishing
between institutional provisions for work injury and for pensions.
90.   Technical Assistance. The proposed study on the viability of the current social security system
for civil servants will be covered by technical assistance planned by the International Labor Organization
and financed by UNDP.
IV. THE PROPOSED OPERATION
91.   Credit Amount and Use of Funds. The proposed credit amount would be SDR 26.9 million
(US$40 million equivalent). The borrower would be the Lao People's Democratic Republic. The credit
would be disbursed in two equal tranches, subject to fulfillment of the conditions listed in the policy
matrix (Annex II). The first tranche of SDR 13.45 million (US$20 million equivalent) would be available
on effectiveness of the credit agreement. The second tranche of SDR 13.45 million (US$20 million
equivalent) would be available subject to fulfilling the conditions for second tranche release, which
should take about twelve months to implement. The counterpart funds generated by the SAC will be used
to finance part of the Government's budgetary expenditures for economic development.
92.   Monitoring and Conditionality. The Government's reform program is set out in the Letter of
Development Policy (Annex III) and summarized in the Policy Matrix. Under SACIII, the Government
will place particular emphasis on the policy actions summarized in Annex II to be carried out under the
two principal components of (i) Private Sector Enabling Environment, which focuses on state-owned
enterprise reform, the regulatory framework, and financial sector reform; and (ii) Public Resource
Management in the areas of public expenditure management, civil service reform and the social security
system. Provided that the second tranche release conditions have been met, it is estimated that the second
tranche would be available by March 1997.
93.   Macroeconomic Conditionality. The Government will continue to maintain a sound
macroeconomic framework, as determined on the basis of indicators acceptable to IDA. To help
monitor economic performance, macroeconomic indicators will be observed as detailed in the Policy
Framework Paper, reflecting in particular: (i) the maintenance of a market-related exchange rate; (ii)
control of inflation through, among others, prudent domestic credit expansion; and (iii) improvement in
the current fiscal balance of the national budget, particularly through increased domestic resource
mobilization.
94.   Progress in Policy Reform. The following actions have been taken recently as part of the
Government's reform program:
(a)    The Government has submitted a time-bound divestiture plan to IDA, (i) listing all
remaining state-owned enterprises targeted for privatization or liquidation, with their
individual asset value and number of employees, classified by the responsible Ministry
or Province; and (ii) documenting semi-annual divestiture targets expressed in terms of
number of enterprises, and percentage of total asset value. [state-owned enterprise
reform, para. 441



- 21 -
(b)    The Government has adopted the Decree on Public Procurement.[regulatory framework,
para.54]
(c)    The Bank of Lao PDR has adopted and will begin implementing key prudential regulations,
addressing loan concentration; asset classification and provisioning; insider and
connected lending; capital adequacy; enforcement powers; and the handling and
treatment of failed banks. [financial sector reform, para. 61]
(d)    The Government has adopted the new chart of accounts for commercial banks. [financial
sector reform, para 63]
(e)    The Ministry of Finance has adopted a new nomenclature for the National Budget, as an
implementation of the State Budget Law (Law No. 5, dated July 18, 1994). [public
expenditure management, para. 72]
95.   Second Tranche Release Conditions. The following conditions would need to be fulfilled prior
to second tranche release:
(a)    Achieve progress, satisfactory to IDA, toward the privatization of remaining state-owned
enterprises. The Government would provide evidence that all of the state-owned
enterprises included in the time-bound divestiture plan have been liquidated, privatized
or offered to the market. [state-owned enterprise reform, para. 44]
(b)    Commercialize at least five SOEs, of which three should be utilities, by (i) converting
and registering the selected SOEs into either public joint-stock or limited liability
companies; (ii) causing the respective Board of Directors to be appointed; (iii)
establishing satisfactory performance plans setting out technical, commercial and
financial objectives and performance improvement targets for each SOE; and (iv)
completing the database required to monitor the performance plans. [state-owned
enterprise reform, para. 48]
(c)    Adopt five implementing regulations, pertaining to the (i) Business Law, (ii) Foreign
Investment Law, (iii) Decree on Arbitration, (iv) Enterprise Accounting Law, and the (v)
Budget Law. [regulatoryframework, para 52]
(d)    Adopt a medium-term national legal framework development plan, satisfactory to IDA.
[regulatoryframework, para. 56]
(e)    The Bank of Lao PDR would provide evidence that the 1995 financial statements of
commercial banks have been audited, in accordance with a methodology and procedures
satisfactory to IDA. [financial sector reform, para. 62]
The Bank of Lao PDR would provide evidence that it has required commercial banks to
adopt adequate pre-tax loan loss provisions, in accordance with banking principles, norms
and practices satisfactory to IDA. [financial sector reform, para. 64]
(g)    Publish and disseminate the Fiscal Year 1996-1997 national budget which shall have
been prepared and adopted based on a revised nomenclature satisfactory to IDA. [public
expenditure management, para. 72]



- 22 -
(h)    Present to the National Assembly a budget for Fiscal Year 1996/97 prepared in
accordance with objectives satisfactory to IDA, which would provide for: (i) adequate
funding for recurrent and capital expenditures in priority sectors; and (ii) financing for
investment projects which are economically and socially justified. [public expenditure
management, para. 73]
fi)    Establish a monitoring system for reporting, on a quarterly basis, the actual disbursement
of funds (domestic as well as foreign) for all public investment projects outlined in the
rolling PIP. [public expenditure management, para 75]
96.   Procurement. The proceeds of the proposed credit would be used for eligible imports, subject
to the standard negative list. Both private and public sector imports are eligible for financing. Imports
valued at US$5 million equivalent and more by both public and private sector entities would be procured
in accordance with simplified ICB procedures except for certain commodities which are traded in
international markets. The Bank's standard bidding documents will be used for ICB procurement.
Procedures for procuring commodities traded in international markets would be agreed upon before
procurement activities are started. All contracts estimated to cost more than US$10 million would be
subject to prior review and approval by IDA. Goods valued at less than US$5 million equivalent per
contract would be imported by public sector entities using their own procurement procedures, which
have been reviewed and found acceptable to IDA. Goods valued at less than US$5 million equivalent
per contract procured by private sector importers would follow commercial practices acceptable to IDA.
Expenditures for goods procured under contracts for less than US$10,000 would not be eligible for
financing under the proposed credit.
97.   Disbursement. The proceeds of the proposed credit would be disbursed against the foreign
costs of general imports based on a standard negative list which includes, inter alia, luxury goods,
military equipment, and environmentally hazardous products. Retroactive financing up to SDR5.4
million (US$8.0 million equivalent) would be provided to reimburse expenditures for eligible imports
incurred after December 15, 1995. No withdrawals would be made in respect of expenditures in excess
of an aggregate amount of SDR5.4 million (US$8 million equivalent) for petroleum products and
foodstuffs. Disbursements would be administered by the Ministry of Finance. For goods valued at less
than US$10 million equivalent, the simplified documentation procedures for adjustment operations
would be followed. For such contracts, each valued at less than US$10 million, IDA would reimburse
the Borrower on the basis of Statements of Expenditures prepared from the customs certificates showing
that eligible goods at least equal in value to the amount requested from IDA had been imported into the
country during the period under consideration. The customs certificates will be retained by the Ministry
of Finance for review by supervision missions and for subsequent audit by the external auditors. For
contracts each valued at US$10 million equivalent or more, IDA would reimburse the Borrower against
full documentation: contracts, supplier invoices, evidence of payment, and evidence of shipment. The
proposed credit is expected to be disbursed over a period of one year. The closing date would be July
31, 1997.
98.   Rationale for IDA Adjustment Lending. Lao PDR has the potential to follow in the footsteps
of its dynamic regional neighbors. IDA adjustment lending will assist the Government in addressing
critical administrative, legal and financial institutional constraints. The Bank has been an important
partner of the Lao Government in the design and implementation of reforms. This operation will provide
an opportunity to support implementation of a wide range of recommendations set forth in the most
recent Country Economic Memorandum; it is also consistent with the Bank's strategy as set out in the
CAS being presented to the Board with this operation. Furthermore, Bank involvement in public



- 23 -
expenditure management suggested as a conditionality of this operation will directly assist in improving
the performance of projects funded by donor resources in general and IDA resources in particular.
99.   Government Commitment. The preparation of the proposed operation has benefited from
strong Government participation. To avoid the top-down approach of previous adjustment credits, the
Vice Minister of Finance has been chairing regular meetings of the SACIII Coordinating Committee with
representatives from the responsible ministries and administrative units, such as the State Property
Department, the Budget Department, the Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare and the Ministry of
Justice. The implementation of the suggested adjustment program should be enhanced by the fact that it
closely reflects the reform agenda identified by these officials.
100.  Benefits. SACIII is intended to maintain the momentum of economic reform in Lao PDR. By
assisting the continuing transition to a market economy, the proposed operation will strengthen the
country's adjustment program in two ways: (i) creating an improved environment for private sector
development and (ii) achieving a better management of public resources. By completing the process
begun under the two previous adjustment credits, the policy reforms of SACIII will enhance economic
growth and contribute to the alleviation of poverty. The proposed operation will also allow a continuous
policy dialogue, including areas without formal tranche release conditions such as civil service reform
and social security.
101.  Risks. There are three possible risks associated with the program. First, the weak institutional
capacity and lack of trained staff experienced by SACI and II may result in a slow implementation of
reforms. Policy reforms could lose momentum due to political inertia or an overly cautious
decision-making process within the Government. Design of the operation has been aimed at minimizing
this risk by closely involving the relevant technical agencies in developing the conditionality, ensuring a
high degree of Government ownership of the program and seeking adequate, demand-driven technical
assistance funded from grant sources. Second, weak macroeconomic management could make it difficult
for the Government to maintain its grip on macroeconomic stability. Over the longer term, institutional
capacity may also be stretched by the management demands associated with large hydropower projects.
This risk will be addressed during SACIII monitoring, with the Government taking appropriate measures
to correct macroeconomic imbalances and monitoring macroeconomic indicators as set out by the Policy
Framework Paper. Third, given that Lao PDR is almost entirely dependent on international donors for its
public investment program, there may be a risk of underfinancing, and a subsequent slowdown of reform
implementation, if committed bilateral grants or multilateral loans are not fully disbursed. Although aid
budgets are generally shrinking, Lao PDR has been fortunate to attract adequate levels of donor finance
and the risk of having to postpone high-priority capital expenditures during program implementation is
relatively low.
Recommendation. I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the Articles of
Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
Washington, D.C.
January 23, 1996
Attachments



ANNEX I
- 24 -
Lao PDR - Key Economic Indicators
Actual                  Estimate             Projected
Indicator                 1990      1991      1992    1993      1994       1995      1996       1997
National accounts
(as % GDP at current market prices)
Gross domestic product                      100.0     100.0   100.0   100.0        100.0    100.0      100.0      100.0
Agriculturea                                   .         .    58.1    57.3        56.4      54.6       53.4      52.2
industrya                                     ..        ..    16.7    18.2        15.9      16.0       16.1      16.2
Servicesa                                     ..        ..       ..      ..       25.2      26.6       27.8      28.7
Total Consumption                           100.8      99.6       ..       ..       96.8      98,5      97.5       96.1
Gross domestic fixed                          12.3      12.7      ..       ..       14.8      13.0      13.5       15.6
investment
Government investment                       10.5      10.7       ..       ..      11.6      12.4       12.2      12.2
Private investment                            ..        ..       ..       ..       3.2       0.6        1.3       3.4
(includes increase in
stocks)
Exports(GNFS)b                                11.3      12.9    16.2    21.4        22.7      23.0      23.1       23.1
Imports (GNFS)b                              24.4      25.2    25.8    31.0)        34.2     34.4       34.1       34.7
Gross domestic savings                        -0.8      0.4       ..       ..        3.2       1.5       2.5        3.9
Gross national savingsc                        ..         ..      ..       ..        4.0       2.0       2.8        4.0
MVemorandum items
Gross domestic product                        868      1028    1185    1334        1832      1965       2203      2424
(USS million at current
prices)
Gross national product per                     ..    218.1   253.5   281.8         315.4
capita (USS, Atlas method)
Real annual growth rates
(%, calculated from 1990
prices)
Gross domestic product at                  7.1%      3.6°%    7.0%     5.9%      8.1%      7.1%       7.0%      7.0%
market prices
Gross Domestic Income                      5.9%      4.5%     7.1%     7.1%     10.1%      6.1%       7.1%      7.2%
Real annual per capita
growth rates (%, calculated
from 1990 prices)
Gross domestic product at                  3.8%      0.5%     3.8%     2.6%      5.0%      4.6%       4.5%      4.5%
market prices
Total consumption                             ..        ..       ..      ..         ..        ..         ..
Private consumption                           ..        ..       ..       .          ..       ..         ..
(continued)



ANNEX I
- 25 -
Lao PDR - Key Economic Indicators
(Continued)
Actual                  Estimate            Projected
Indicator                 1990     1991      1992    19'(3     1994      1995      1996      1997
Balance of Payments
(US$m)
Exports(GNFS)b                            102.4    133.2   191.5   289.1       415.8    451.5      508.4      559.1
Merchandise FOB                          78.7      96.6   132.7   247.9      300.4    320.9      367.1      404.1
Imports (GNFS)b                          213.8    258.5   303.9   419.5        628.0    676.8      751.7     841.5
Merchandise FOB                         201.6    215.0   265.6   431.9       564.1    568.9      636.0      714.0
Resource balance                         -111.4   -125.3  -112.4  -130.4    -212.2   -225.3    -243.4    -282.4
Net current transfers                        ..        ..       ..      ..       14.4     10.5       11.6      12.9
(including official current
transfers)
Current account balance                   -78.1    -46.9   -40.7   .55.4       -72.5    -85.7    -113.5    -163.3
(after official capital grants"
Net private foreign direct                  6.0       8.0      9.0    48.0       60.1     94.0      95.5      120.8
investment
Long-term loans (net)                     112.5    100.7    48.8    50.0         52.2     99.0      91.5       93.4
Official                                 146.6    100.8    49.0    53.8        63.0      84.1      75.5       72.6
Private                                  -34.1      -0.1    -0.2    -3.8      -10.8      14.9      16.0       20.8
Other capital (net, including              -6.9    -53.2    -1.4   -62.6       -29.7    -70.9        0.0        0.0
errors and omissions)
Change in reservesd                       -33.5      -8.6   -15.7    20.0      -10.1    -36.4      -73.4      -51.0
Memorandum items
Resource balance (% of                    -12.8%    -12.2%    -9.5%    -9.8%    -11.6%   -11.5%    -11.0%    -11.6%
GDP at current market
prices)
Real annual growth rates
(1990 prices)
Merchandise exports
(FOB)
Primary
Manufactures
Merchandise imports
(CIF)
(Continued)



ANNEX I
- 26 -
Lao PDR - Key Economic Indicators
(Continued)
Actual                   Estimate             Projected
Indicator                  1990      1991      1992    1993      1994       1995      1996       1997
Public finance
(as % of GDP at current market prices)c
Current revenues                              9.9      10.3     10.7     11.9       12.3      12.7       13.4       13.8
Current expenditures                         11.4      11.3    10.9      11.0       11.7      11.7       11.1       10.8
Current account surplus (+)                  -1.4       -1.0    -0.2      0.9        0.6       1.0        2.2        2.9
or deficit (-)
Capital expenditure                          12.0       9.6      9.7      6.9       11.6      12.4       12.2       12.2
Foreign financing                               ..       ..       ..       ..        8.4      11.6        9.7        8.4
Monetary indicators
M2/GDP(atcurrentmarket                        7.2       7.1      9.0     13.2       12.1      12.5       12.5       12.9
prices)
Growth ofM2(%)                                         15.7    49.0    64.6         27.1      32.3       17.7       19.3
Private sector credit growth /                  ..       ..       ..       ..         ..
total credit growth (%)
Price indices( 1990 =100)
Merchandise export price                        ..       ..       ..       ..         ..
index
Merchandise import price                       ..        ..       ..       ..         ..
index
Merchandise terms of trade                     ..        ..       ..       ..         ..
index
Real exchange rate                             ..        ..       ..       ..         ..
(US$/LCU)'
Real interest rates
Consumer price index                       35.6%      13.4%    9.9%     6.2%       6.8%     20.0%      10.0%       8.0%
(% growth rate)
GDP deflator                               34.6%     13.3%     9.8%     6.3%       8.6%     20.0%      10.0%       8.0%
(% growth rate)
a. If GDP components are estimated at factor cost, a footnoote indicating this fact should be added.
b. "GNFS" denotes "goods and nonfactor services". Calculated from national account in local currency.
c. Includes net unrequited transfers excluding official capital grants.
d. Includes use of IMF resources.
e. Should indicate the level of the government to which the data refer.
f. "LCU" denotes "local currency units." An increase in US$/LCU denotes appreciation.



Lao PDR - Public Finance
(at current prices and exchange rates)
Br -ra5sc (nost likelts projection
Actual                               Estimate                                  Projection
199U          1991           1992           1993          1994           1995           1996          1997            1998          1999
Goxemnient budget (billions LCUs) /a
Total cufrent revenues                                               610            74.7           90.5          113.3        161.9          214.4          266.1          316.8          363.8          408.7
Direct taxes                                                      9.7           16.6           19.2           14.6         27.7           444            54.3           64.9           76.9           89.8
Iindirect taxes                                                  27.9           37 7           44.3           71.4        100.1          125.9          160.0          192.0          218.4          241.6
On domestic goods asod services                                                                              ..         66.7           79 0          105.2          127.4          144.2          160.3
On intemational trade                                                          ..                            .          33.4           46 9           54.8           64.6           74.2          81 2
Nontax receipts                                                 23.3           20 3           26.9           27.3          34 1           44.0           51.8           59.9           68.6           77.4
(of wvhich current grants)
Total Current Expenditures                                          69.9           82.(           92.4          104.9        153 6           97.7          221 5          248.9          277.1          305.3
Interest on extemal debt                                          3.3            4.7            6.6            3.2          2.9            4.5            5.0            6.6            7 3            8.2
Interest on domestic debt                                                          ..            ..            3.7          8.0            8.7            4.6            4.0            3.9            4 9
Transfers to private sector                                         ..            ..             ..              .          0.0            16.9           199           23.0           26.4           29.8
Transfers to other NFPSb                                            ..             .              .              ..         0.0            0.0            0.0            0.0            0.0            0.0
Subsidies                                                           ..            ..                            ..          0.0            0.0            0.0            0.0            0.0            0.0
Consumption                                                       66.6           77.2           85 8              .        142.7          167.6          192.0          215.3          239.4          262.3
Wages asd salanes                                               ..              .             ..             ..         68.3           78.4          101.4          113 7          126.4          138.5
Other consumption                                               .              ..             ..             ..         744            89.1           90.6          101.6          113.0          123.8
Budgetary Savings                                                   -8.9           -7.3           -2.0            8.3          8.3           16.7           44.5           67 9           86.7          103.4
Capital Revenues                                                     0.0            0.0            0.0                         0.0            0.0            0.0            0.0            0.0            0.0 
Total Capital Expenditures                                          73 6           69.1           82.2           65.6        153.0          209.3          243.5          279.9          334.3          378.5
Capital transfers                                                 ..             ..             ..                         0.0            0.0            0.0            0 0            0.0            0.0
Budgetary fixed investment                                        ..              .              .              ..       153 0          209.3          243.5          279.9          334.3          378.5
Overall balance (-  deficit)                                       -82.5          -76.4          -84.2             ..       -144.7         -192.6         -199.0         -212.0         -247.5         -275.0
Sources of financing (+)                                             82.5          76.4           84.2                        144.7          192.6          199.0         212.0          247.5          275.0
Official capital grants                                         23.0           32.6           39.9           31 3          74.5          112.7          112.4          112.1         111 8          111.5
Net extemal borrowinig                                             ..             ..             ..             ..         36 8           84.5           81.0           81.3           1 .1           71.2
Net disbursements (cash)                                        ..            ..             ..              .         36.8           84.5           81.0           81 3           66.1           71.2
Adjustments to scheduled principal repayments (-)              ..              .              .                         0.0            0 0            0.0            0.0            0.0            0.0
Adjustments to scheduled debt service (+)                       ..            ..             ..             ..          0.0            0.0            0 0            0.0            0.0            0.0
Net monetary system                                              0.2           13.7           -0.5            2.0          2 3            0.0            0.0            0.0            0.0            0.0
Net other domestic borrowing                                       ..            ..             ..             ..         31.2           -4.6            5.6           18.6           69.6           92.3
(coistinned)
a. "LCU" denotes "local currency unit."
b. "NFPS" denotes "nonfinancial public sector."
z
L1
(-



Lao PDR - Public Finance (continued)
(at current prices and exchange rates)
Base-cstse (u/rosl likely) prfjection
Actaal                              Estimate                                 Projection
1990          1991           1992           1993        1994           1995           1996           1997          1998           1999
Sbares of GDP (%)
Current revenlues                                                   9.9           10.3           10.7          11.9         12.3           12.7           13.4          13.8           13.8           13.7
Current expenditures                                               11.4           11.3           10.9          11.0         11.7           11.7           11.1          10.8           10.5           10.3
Budgetary savinigs                                                 -IA            -1.0           -0.2           0.9          0.6            1.0            2.2           2.9            3.3            3.5
Capital revettues                                                   0.0           0.0            0.0 °                       00            0.0            0.0            0.0            0.0           0.0
Capital expenditures                                               12.0           9.6            9.7            6.9         11.6          !3 t           12.2           12.2          12.7           12.7
Overall Balance (- - deficit)                                    -13.4          -10.6           -9.9             ..        -11.0          -i A          -10.0           -9 2           -9.4          -9.2
Official capital grattts                                        3.7           4.5            4.7            3.3          5.7           6.7            5.6            4.9            4.2           3.7
Net externial borroswing                                                         .                            .          2.8           5.0            4.1            3.5            2.5           2.4
Monetary system credit                                          0.0           1.9           -().1           0.2          0.2           0.0            0.0            0.0           0.0            0.0
Other domestic financing                                                ..             ..                    ..          2.4          -0.3            0.3            0.8            2.6           3.1
Gov erminent Debt (DOD /c at the enid of the year, in (billions LCUs, iittless noted))
External debt                                                     863.7         1342.0         1397.9        1413.4       1437.4         1852.2        2027.8         2213.6         2392.0        2583.5
Externial debt (in USS millionis)                                1218.9         1910.3        1952.1         1974,0       1999.2         2097.3        2186.8         2273.4         2339.7        2406.7
Debt to mnonetary system                                          -14.6           -0.9            0.6           9.5         38.9           38.8           38.8          38.8           38.8           38.8
Other domestic debt                                                  ..              .             .              .          0.0           -4.6            1 0          19.6           89.2          181.5
Total govemment debt                                                                 ..            ..             .       1476.3         1886.5        2067.7         2272.0         2520.0        2803.8         1
Total governmentdebtaspercent ofGDP                                   ..            ..             ..             .        112.1          111.4          103.8          98.7           95.6           942
Tax burden indicators (%)                                                                                                                                                                                           CD
Direct taxes / GDP                                                   1.6           2.3            23             1.5         2.1            2.6            2.7           2.&            2.9            3.0
Indirect taxes on domestic G&Sd / GDP                                 ..                                                     5.1            4.7            5.3           5.5            5.5            5.4
Indirect taxes on domestic G&S / privatc cottsumption                ..              .             ..                        5.9            5.3            6.0           6.4            6.3            6.4
Taxes ott initemationial trade / merchandise imports                                                               .         8.2            9.6            9.5           9.5            95             9.5
c, "DOD" denotes "debt outstanding and disbursed."
b. "G&S" denotes "goods and seivices."
F-1a



Lao PDR - External Financing Requirements
Base Case
Actual         Estimnate                Projected                  Total
Indicator                                1991    1992   1993    1994    1995   1996   1997    1998   1999   1996-97
Financing Needs
Current account deficits (exci. officials transfers)  116  104     117      197    216    238       281      315     273       519
Amortization                                         8       8      23       17      17       17      17      19      21        34
Others /I                                           -8      16      62       50      71        0       0       0       0         0
Change in reserves                                  32       5      14      -10      36      73       51      23       9       124
O/w IMF ESAF                                        0       0      -8       -6    -18       -9      -9       0       0       -18
Total                                                148    132    216        254     341    328    349       358    303        677           l
Financing Resources
Official Grants                                     64      63     104      125     132     126      125     140     124       251
Long term borrowing                                 47      71      77       69     115      107     104      85      89       210
O/w IDA                                            15     38       38      29       40      58      56      36      35       115
O/w SAC III                                      0       0       0        0        0      20      20       0       0        40
O/w ADB                                           27       16      39       18      36      14      23      33      43        38
Direct foreign investment                            8       9      48       60      94      96      121     132      90       216
Other capital flows                                 29     -11      -13       0       0        0       0       0       0         0
Total                                                148    132    216        254    341    328    349    358    303            677
Note: Base case excludes Nam Theun 11.
1/ Errors & omissions
tri



LAO PDR - THIRD STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (SACIII)
SUMMARY OF POLICY MEASURES
Government's Action Plan- Policy Objectives and Loan Conditions
POLICY AREA             OBJECTIVES    ACTIONS ALREADY                           SECOND TRANCHE                               LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
TAKEN
MACROECONOMIC  *   ensure                     *   maintain a sound macroeconomic framework and monitor macroeconomic indicators consistent with the PFP
CONDITIONALITY              macroeconomic
stability
PRIVATE SECTOR
ENABLING
ENVIRONMENT
(i) State-Owned         *   complete          *   submit time-bound       *   commercialize at least five SOEs, of    *   continue to refrain from providing any budgetary support to SOEs   o
Enterprise Reform           privatization         di estiture plai. to        which three should be utilities, by (i)  through direct subsidization or through preferential access to bank
program               IDA, (i) listing all       converting and registering the selected   credit
remaining state-           SOEs into either public joint-stock or
provide               owned enterprises          limited liability companies; (ii) causing   *   phase out all existing monopolies for providers of goods or
effective             targetcd for               the respective Board of [)irectors to be  services when they expire, and refrain from granting any nevw
management of         privatization or           appointed; (iii) establishing satisfactory  monopolies in the future
SOEs to remain       liqtiidation, with their    performance plans setting out
under public         individual asset value      technical, commercial and financial  *   introduce and implement a computerized reporting system to: (a)
control               and number of              objectives and performance                monitor the performance of SOEs; (b) control compliance with the
employees, classified      improvement targets for each SOE;         terms of the leasing contracts of state property; and (c) inventory
*   widen role for        by the responsible          and (iv) completing the database         major state assets (land, buildings, equipment and vehicles)
private sector        Ministry or Province;      required to monitor the perfornance
and (ii) documenting       plans.                               *   complete entry of (i) all leasing contracts; and (ii) relevant
*   enforce               semi-annual                                                          information required to control the performance of all mnajority or
compliance with       divcstiture targets    *   achieve progress, satisfactory to IDA,    fully state-owned enterprises in the data base of thc SOI monitoring
leases                expressed in terms of      toward the privatization of remaining     system
number of enterprises,     state-owned enterprises. The
and percentage of          Government would provide evidence   .   terninate, re-privatize or liquidate all leasing arrangements in non-
total asset value          that all of the state-owned enterprises  compliance or expiring                                                    Z
included in the time-bound divestiture                                                                            z
plan have been liquidated, privatized    .   in cases where outright sales of expired leascs arc not possible due
or offered to the market                 to a renewal clause in the leasing arrangements, new leases would
only cover land/ buildings with all other assets being sold.



(ii) Regulatory            .   clarify regulations of   .   adopt Procurement          *   adopt five implementing regulations,      *   finalize the drafs of the Law on Bills of /Exchange
Framework                      business-related laws       Decree                          pertaining to the (i) Business Law, (ii)       anfd Promissori' Notes and thc law io Checks and
ioreign Investment Law, (iii) Decree on       stibiiit Ihcim to the National Assemblv lor adoptio
l   adopt legislation to                                        Arbitrationz, (iv) Enterprise Accounting
promote private                                             Law, and the (v) Budget Law              *   Apply to join three international conventions (ICSID,
sector transactions                                                                                       AIIGA and New York Convention on the
adopt a medium-term national legal            Recognition of International Arbitral Awards)
l   integrate Lao PDR                                           framework development plan,
with international                                          satisfactory to IDA
nmarkets by adlhering
to intcrnational
conventions
l   clarify medium-term
legal development
(iii) Financial Sector     .   adopt regulations to    .   adopt prudential            .   enforce audit of 1995 financial           .   separate banking supervision and internal audit
Reform                         provide discipline in       regulations addressing           statements of commercial banks                funictionis of Banking ('ontrol D)epartimieit ol Bol.
the banking sector         loan conlcentration, assct                                                     into to Icpartments
classification and              eiiforce adequate pre-tax loaii-loss
l   enf'orce regulations        provisioning; insider aiid       provisions for commercial banks          .   require 1995 audits of commercial bank accounits
for commercial banks       connected lending; capital
to create a stable         adequacy: enforcement                                                     *   ensure that the new chart of accounits is beiiig
Financial                  powers; and the halidlinig                                                     iiaplecimieltc(d by conirliicical lmiiiks
environment                and treatment of failed
banks                                                                     *   rationialize thc structtire oi thic statc-owned
*   rationalize and                                                                                            commercial banking system and begin
restructure state-     .   adopt char' Jf accounts for                                                    restructuring at least one state-owiied commercial
commercial banks           commercial banks                                                               bank
*   conduct all T-bill operations by BoL-managed
auctions and introduce a wider range of T-bill
maturities in addition to the existing 6 months
*   liberalize administratively-determined interest rates
on bank deposits and loans. In the interim, take
steps to better target subsidized agricultural credit
to poor farmners and make the costs of these
subsidies more transparent
*   undertake periodic reviews and consultations with
IDA on the effectiveness of subsidized interest
rates, especially the impact on beneficiaries, and
the impact of compulsory sectoral lending of 10%
of bank deposits to agriculture



POLICY AREA               OBJECTIVES                ACTIONS ALREADY                            SECOND TRANCHE                         LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
TAKEN
PUBLIC RESOURCE
MANAGEMENT
(i) Public Expenditure    *   strengthening         *   adopt new Accounting       *   establish a monitoring system for reporting, on a  *   update PIP annually, taking into
Management                    investment planning        System for the National       quarterly basis, the actual disbursement of funds      account recurrent costs
Budget                        (domestic as well as foreign) for all public
*   enhancing                                                 investment projects outlined in the rolling PIP.  *   present hydropower development
transparency of                                                                                                 strategy of the Government
budgeting process                                    *   publish and d;isseminate the Fiscal Year 1996-1997
national budget which shall have been pi-epared and
*   prioritizing                                             adopted based on a revised nomenclattire satisfactory
government                                               to IDA
expenditures
*   present a budget for Fiscal Year 1996/97 prepared in
*   clarify Government's                                     accordance with objectives satisfactory to IDA,
hydropower                                               which would provide for: (i) adequate funding for
development strategy                                     recurrent and capital expenditures in priority sectors;
and (ii) financing for investment projects which are                                            w
economically and socially justified
(ii) Civil Service        *   professionalize civil                                                                                       *   produce regular civil service reports in
Reform                        service                                                                                                         the form of a bulletin
*   improve cost                                                                                                *   present long-term strategy for Civil
effectiveness of civil                                                                                          Service Reform
service
each line ministry prepares a unified
competitive entram e exam
(iii) Social Security    *   contain fiscal burden                                                                                        *   complete a study of the social security
System                        of civil service                                                                                                system for civil servants
pensions
*   initiate study of proposed Social
*   ensure adequate                                                                                                 Security Fund for private sector
social protection for
public employees                                                                                           *   adopt implementing regulation of
Art.48 of Labor Law only after
*   review options for                                                                                              recommendations of study
affordable private
sector social security                                                                                     *   de-link civil service pensions from civil
provisions                                                                                                      service salaries and chose an
appropriate index, such as the CPI



- 33 -                        ANNEX III
January 18, 1995
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
President
International Development Association
Washington D.C., USA
Letter of Development Policy
Dear Mr. President:
The Government of the Lao People's Democratic Republic has been implementing a wide-
ranging reform program since the New Economic Mechanism was initiated in 1986. We have
achieved substantial progress in the transformation of our economic system from a centrally
planned to a more dynamic market-oriented economy. The first and foremost aim of our
Government remains to strive towards an equitable and prosperous society. We have been
working with your staff to develop a program which continues our efforts at structural
adjustment and could be supported by IDA resources. This letter provides an overview of our
Government's reform program, including measures already taken, and concrete plans for further
reforms.
The transition process has proceeded swiftly and economic indicators have shown steady
improvement for almost a decade. Economic growth has been vigorous and the stability of
balance of payments and domestic prices has been steadily improving. Almost all prices are i1I,:w
market determined and the bulk of state-owned enterprises have been divested. The Lao banking
system has been overhauled and opened to outside competition. Thorough reforms of fiscal
policies, liberalization of both the trade and investment regime, as well as a reorientation of
monetary policies, have made room for a booming private sector. The Government appreciates
the continuous support of both the IMF and the World Bank in pursuing these economic reforms.
We recognize that maintaining macroeconomic stability is essential to sustain the current
structural reforms. The fragility of our previous stabilization efforts became clear in 1995, when
excess demand pressures caused a substantial rise in inflation and an excessive gap between the
official and the market exchange rate emerged. Although the economy continued to grow at a
pace of 8.1% p.a. in 1994 and over 7% in 1995, the fiscal deficit increased from 7.4% of GDP in
1992/93 to 10.5% in 1994/95 and the current account deficit (excluding transfers) grew from
10.6% of GDP in 1993 to 13.1% in 1994 and an estimated 13.3% in 1995. The Government



- 34 -                       ANNEX III
reacted promptly, reducing demand pressures by limiting the monetary expansion, increasing
revenue collections and devaluing the official exchange rate. The need for firm fiscal discipline
means that we have to enhance our revenue collection further and plan our expenditures
carefully. In consultation with the World Bank and the IMF, we will maintain a sound
macroeconomics framework and monitor macroeconomic indicators consistent with the Policy
Framework Paper. We are committed to taking appropriate measures to correct future
macroeconomic imbalances should they arise.
The Govermnent of the Lao PDR is proud of the results achieved to date. It should be
emphasized that the overall social impact of the reform measures has been positive. Poor farmers
have benefited from the initial price reforms and the flourishing private sector was able to offer
new job opportunities for retrenched civil servants and SOE employees. However, we are also
aware that a complex agenda for structural reforms remains to be completed. Complementary
reforms are clearly called for in order to ensure the long-term sustainability of the stable growth
enjoyed since the late 1980s. Since per capita incomes are still very low and poverty continues to
be widespread, maintaining a dynamic economy is crucial for overcoming the social problems
our country faces.
The broad objective of our ongoing reform program is to strengthen the enabling environment
for a dynamic private sector and enhance the efficiency of our public sector, in order to promote
sustained development and economic growth. To give additional momentum to the reform
process the Government of the Lao People's Democratic Republic requests the assistance of the
International Development Association (IDA) in the form of a Third Structural Adjustment
Credit in the amount of US$40 million equivalent.
THE CURRENT REFORM AGENDA
Over the medium term, the Lao PDR Government's economic policy aims at consolidating the
foundations for broad-based and sustainable economic growth, while promoting human resource
development. In particular, the Government's objectives are to place the private sector in a
position to become the driving force in our eccnomy. To maintain macroeconomic stability, it is
crucial to reduce inflation by curbing excess demand pressures and keeping the official exchange
rate in line with the market rate. The fiscal deficit needs to be kept under control by
strengthening domestic resource mobilization, improving the efficiency of public expenditure
and enhancing the Government's policy planning and implementation capacity. At the same
time, we will pursue the integration of the Lao economy with international markets by
vigorously promoting exports, completing the agenda for tariff reductions and facilitating foreign
direct investment. In quantitative terms, the Government aims at a 7% real annual average
growth rate for 1996/97, while containing the balance of payments current account deficit to
16% of GDP, as well as reducing inflation to a 10% rate by the end of 1996 and to an annual rate
of 7.5% in 1997.
While the Government of Lao PDR remains committed to implementing its program of structural
adjustment, the nature of required reforms has shifted. From the early efforts to reduce
Government intervention through price and market liberalization and to encourage competition,
adjustment now needs to confront institutional bottlenecks to the efficient functioning of a



-35-                          ANNEXILI
market-oriented economy. The proposed adjustment program s.dpports greater efficiency of
private and public investment. To provide a sound basis for pri-ate sector development, the
Government will improve the incentive structure for private producers and investors, while
developing human capital and building up infrastructure. Considerations of efficiency and fiscal
constraints require Government involvement to focus its expenditures on services
complementary to private sector activities. Enhancing the efficiency of public resource
management will require sufficient funding of recurrent expenditure, avoiding low-priority
capital outlays, improving donor coordination and increasing the priority of social issues and the
alleviation of poverty.
IMPROVING THE BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OF THE PRIVATE SECTOR
State-Owned Enterprise Reform
We have made substantial progress in divesting state-owned enterprises (SOE) and only about
10% of the original SOEs remain in the e_ntral government's portfolio. We wish to continue our
divestiture so that only a limited number of strategic enterprises remain in state ownership. We
have published a list of all state-owned enterprises targeted for privatization. The Government
expects to complete the privatization process by offering to the market or liquidating all the
enterprises on this list during 1996 - 1997. Only 32 strategic enterprises will remain in the
public. Consistent with our past policy, the Government will continue to refrain from providing
any budgetary support or preferential access to bank credit to enterprises that remain publicly
owned.
In the past, temporary monopoly privileges were granted to certain enterprises to make them
more attractive to potential investors. However, we recognize that private monopolies are
inconsistent with a market oriented economic system and we have therefore decided to refrain
from granting any new monopoly privileges in the future. Furthermore, the Government will not
renew the two remaining domestic production monopolies -- Soft Drinks and Lao Beer -- that are
due to expire in 1996 and 1997 .
We are determined to improve the rules concerning privatization in order to increase
transparency and fairness. The majority of SOEs have been leased to private parties, often the
companies' workers or managers. Monitoring the leased SOEs has proved to be a substantial
burden for the central government. In order to strengthen the capacity of the State Property
Department in the Ministry of Finance to monitor the leasing arrangements, the Government will
implement and regularly update a computerized reporting system which would include an
inventory of lease payments, as well as state assets and minority shareholdings. Where
contractual provisions are not fulfilled or financial obligations not met, the Minister of Finance
will terminate the lease and ask the Permanent Office of the CPC's Privatization Department to
proceed with privatization or liquidation without delay. In the future, leasing arrangements will
be restricted to land and, if necessary, buildings: all other assets will be sold to the new private
owner of the enterprise.
The Government of the Lao PDR is committed to running those enterprises which remain
publicly owned under commercial principles. We will therefore ensure that SOEs are
operationally autonomous, while creating a level playing field with private businesses. The



- 36 -                        ANNEX III
Government will exercise ownership functions analogous to those of private owners. In order to
further this process, Government will register five or more SOEs (of which at least three will be
utilities) as joint-stock or limited liability companies and appoint board members who can
contribute to the development of the SOEs. In order to promote the quality of services rendered
by public enterprises, we are determined to define a set of technical, commercial and financial
performance improvement targets for each of the SOEs. Maintaining a computerized record of
performance indicators will help the State Property Department monitor the performance of
public enterprises.
Regulatory Framework
With the implementation of the New Economic Mechanism in 1986 and the adoption of the
Constitution in 1991, our Government enacted several important laws and decrees regulating
critical areas of Lao PDR's emerging market economy. During 1994, for example, laws on the
budget, on customs, on business and bankruptcy were adopted. A new Labor Law as well as a
new Foreign Investment Law have contributed greatly to strengthening labor markets and
making Lao PDR more attractive for foreign investors.
Nonetheless, significant gaps remain in the country's legal system which hinder the effective
functioning of a market economy. Existing legislation sometimes lacks internal consistency and
overall coherence. Moreover, the implementation of laws is not always fully effective, due to the
lack of implementing regulations and the weakness of legal institutions. The court system has to
be strengthened in order to be able to fulfill its new enhanced role. The Government of Lao PDR
recognizes the importance of developing a comprehensive legal framework, not only to establish
a society governed by the rule of law, but also to support the development of the country's
market-oriented economy and to encourage the creation of a legal environment that effectively
regulates and facilitates commercial transactions, promotes private sector development and
stimulates investment.
It is our intention to provide a clearer prospect of how Lao PDR's legal system will develop in
the medium term. We will adopt a comprehensive legal reform plan outlining the development of
our legal framework until the year 2000. This legal reform plan will identify priority legislation,
institutional strengthening needs and the principal measures for ensuring consistency within our
legal system, while translating our strategies into a time-bound action plan for legal reform.
In order to address remaining legal uncertainties, we are committed to clarifying the regulations
for enforcing business laws. The Government of Lao PDR therefore intends to enact pending
implementation regulations for the Laws on the Budget, Business, Foreign Investment and also
for the Decree on Commercial Arbitration. Regulations for the Enterprise Accounting Law will
be adopted by issuing a Decree on the Accounting Profession governing professional standards
for auditors and chartered accountants.
We recognize that the development of the Lao private business sector will lead to the growing
utilization of more sophisticated financial instruments. Private sector transactions need to be
governed by business and financial legislation that creates security, ensures property rights and
provides transparency. The Government intends, therefore, to adopt Laws covering Promissory
Notes, Negotiable Instruments, and Checks that will allow the use of financial instruments and
thus foster financial sector development and facilitate international financial transactions. We
will draft the relevant legal text and submit it to the National Assembly for adoption. In order to



- 37 -                        ANNEX III
establish a unifonn, transparent and fair domestic procurement system by public entities which
conforms to international standards, we have recently adopted a Procurement Decree.
Since the beginning of economic reforms in 1986, Lao PDR has become an economically much
more open country. We recognize the need to establish a legal environment for international
transactions that facilitates cooperation and transparent conflict resolution. The Government
recognizes the importance for Lao PDR to become party to the generally accepted private
international law conventions, such as the International Convention on the Settlement of
Disputes (ICSID), the Convention on Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA), and
the New York Convention on the Recognition of International Arbitral Awards. We will
therefore apply to join these three international conventions.
Financial Sector Reform
The financial sector of Lao PDR has already achieved a remarkable transformation with the
restructuring of the pre-vious monobank into a two-tier system. We now have an autonomous
Central Bank, while the commercial banking sector comprises several foreign bank branches, in
addition to eight state-owned commercial banks. Confidence in the banking system has
substantially increased with the ability of individuals to maintain bank accounts in different
currencies, the extension of banking services and the maintenance of real interest rates at
positive levels.
We are convinced that the transition to a stable market economy and the development of the
private sector require a healthy, robust and efficient financial system. In order to achieve this, we
need a strong supervisory regime and well-defined rules within which banks can operate. To
continue strengthening the financial sector of our country we intend to implement wide-ranging
reforms.
The introduction of clear prudential regulations for commercial banks is an immediate priority.
These will define the powers of the banks' supervisors and the limitations to the banks'
operations as well as the sanctions to be imposed for engaging in unsound practices. This
framework of key prudential regulations will comprise clauses addressing loan concentration,
asset classification and provisioning, insider and connected lending, capital adequacy, foreign
exchange exposures, enforcement powers, and the handling and treatment of failed commercial
banks.
Timely recognition of problem assets is essential to ensuring the health and stability of the
banking system. Therefore, asset quality should be reviewed by commercial banks at least
quarterly. As a result of this ongoing portfolio review, commercial banks will be obliged to
establish adequate provision for potential and actual losses.
In order to ensure financial discipline and prudence on the part of commercial banks, we will
require these banks to undergo annual external audits by qualified, independent auditors, as
required by Article 19 of Decree 3 of January 12, 1992. We intend to enforce the provisions of
this decree for the 1995 financial statements of commercial banks. In order to better focus on
regulatory and supervisory efforts, we wish to separate the banking supervision and internal
audit functio-is of the Bank of Lao PDR Banking Control Department.



- 38 -                       ANNEX III
We also have to adapt our accounting practices to the requirements of a modem, market oriented
economy. We have adopted a new, uniform chart of accounts for commercial banks and will
require all banks to present their 1996 financial statements in the new accounting format.
The institutional structure of the state-owned banking system that evolved after implementation
of the two-tier financial system needs rationalization and restruicturing to ensure the long-term
viability and competitiveness of commercial barks. Necessary steps include strengthening of
management, accounting, E.ad credit procedures and possibly reducing the number of state-
owned banks by merging or privatizing them. WVe will begin this process by restructuring at least
one state-owned commercial bank during 1996.
We are also committed to issuing all Treasury Bills by auctions managed by the Bank of Lao
PDR. This will increase transparency, enable better monetary management and allow a market-
determined yields curve to be established. Accordingly, we intend to discontinue the practice of
direct issue by the Treasury. We will also liberalize administratively-determined interest rates on
bank deposits and loan.-. In the interim, we will take steps to better target subsidized agricultural
credit to poor farmers and make the costs of these subsidies more transparent. We also intend to
undertake periodic reviews and consultations with IDA on the effectiveness of subsidized
interest rates, especially the impact on beneficiaries, and the impact of compulsory sectoral
lending of 10% of bank deposits to agriculture.
PUBLIC REsouRcE MANAGEMENT
PUBLIC EXPENDITURE MANAGEMENT
One of our priorities is to expand and improve infrastructure services that support private sector
activity. We are further determined to develop education and health services to improve the
productivity and well-being of the Lao people in general and the poor in particular. We are
convinced that the regular Public Investment Program (PIP) has been a step in the right direction.
However, we are also aware that we need to maintain our efforts to improve public expenditure
planning in order to keep up with evolving cliallenges. In order to cope with an increasingly
complex and dynamic environment, the Government will take the necessary steps to increase the
efficiency of budgetary procedures.
We have adopted a new accounting system for the National Budget, as an implementation
regulation to the State Budget. The new accounting system will assist the Government to ensure
proper management of public expenditure and the national budget will be accessible in a
transparent, consistent and standardized format. We are committed to producing and
disseminating annual budgets under the new accounting system beginning with the 1996-97
budget.
The preparation of a medium term Public Investment Program for the fiscal years 1994-2000,
which outlines sectoral investment priorities, has been a vital innovation in public expenditure
planning. The PIP is currently being revised. It is our Government's intention to update the PIP
annually to coincide with the regular budget cycle. The PIP will also adequately budget for the
recurrent costs of existing and new investments. This will help in planning and budgeting
adequate funds for critical operations and maintenance activities.



- 39 -                        ANNEXIII
As an important budgetary planning tool we will be implementing a monitoring system for
reporting, on a quarterly basis, the actual disbursements of domestic and foreign funds for all
public investment projects. This information will be shared with the line agencies, provinces,
departments in the CPC and in the Ministry of Finance. In a second phase, we intend to include
information on physical indicators and outcomes achieved for each of the projects in the
monitoring system.
As a logical follow up to the PIP, we will undertake a comprehensive review of public
expenditure. This review would help us ensure public resources are spent efficiently and
prioritize the future expenditure needs of the country. It would also minimize the risks of
undertaking projects that require excessive recurrent expenditure to operate and maintain or do
not yield acceptable social or economic returns. The review would ensure that the shortfall in
recurrent expenditures for essential economic and social sector activities is identified, public
investment planning minimizes waste of resources and the attention ',f the Governrment is
focused on essential infrastructure, the social sectors and the alleviation of poverty. The Public
Expenditure Review (PER) would focus on adequacy of recurrent costs, economic and social
justification of investment projects and priority of social sectors and poverty alleviation
expenditures. We will review the findings of the PER with IDA and the mutually agreed
recommendations will be reflected in the 1996/97 budget.
Electricity exports will become an increasingly important source of export revenues as Lao PDR
prepares to build new hydropower schemes over the next decade. There is a need to set out a
consistent hydropower strategy which would clearly establish the feasibility of proposed
hydropower schemes; what future revenues in the form of royalties, dividends and taxes would
accrue to the budget; what financing arrangements would ensure a fair share of the revenues for
the Lao Government; and how potential adverse social, economic and environmental
consequences of proposed projects could be mitigated. Therefore, our Government commits
itself to present a comprehensive hydropower strategy which would clearly outline these issues.
Civil Service Reform
We have continuously expressed our intention to streamline and professionalize the civil service.
We have already reduced (nonmilitary) civil service employment by almost one quarter since
1989. Having now reached a second phase of restructuring the civil service, however, we are
convinced that complementary steps to pure downsizing need to be undertaken in order to
increase the professionalism and productivity of the public sector and to achieve a better match
between staff skills and requirements. In order to upgrade the average skill level of the civil
service, the Government is committed to establishing impartial and transparent recruitment rules.
Unified, competitive entrance exams are instruments we want to use as a screening device to
ensure that only qualified applicants will be recruited. Each line ministry prepares an entrance
exam which all applicants for similar positions throughout the country will be required to take on
the same day.
In order to determine what skills are needed by the civil service, we are currently establishing a
computerized data base on civil servants employed at both the national and provincial level,
which will be updated periodically. We are committed to report on the updated results of the
civil service data base regularly in the form of an official bulletin. These reports will provide
details on the number of civil servants at the national and provincial levels, broken down by
categories, titles, grades and ministerial/departmental affiliations. These reports will assist us in



- 40 -                         ANNEX III
assessing the current personnel situation and to develop measures to improve the match between
staff skills and requirements. These regular reports would assist the Government in formulating a
coherent long-term plan for professionalizing the Lao civil service administration.
We are committed to presenting a long-term strategy for civil service reform, outlining areas of
surplus and deficit skills and a specific program for correcting eventual imbalances, including
retraining to meet skill deficits and selective voluntary and involuntary retrenchments in surplus
areas. We also recognize the need to compare civil service salaries with compensation in the
private sector for personnel with particular skills.
Social Security System
The Government of Lao PDR believes that reforms of the social security system for civil
servants are called for in order to ensure a financially viable and self-sustaining scheme.
Concerning the Civil Service Pension System, we realize that, under the current system, pensions
and other social benefits for civil servants are likely to become a growing burden for the
Government's finances. To be able to contain the budgetary cost of the current social security
system for civil servants in the future, we are determined to take appropriate cost cutting
measures. To contain future costs for civil service pensions, it is imperative to prevent changes
in the structure of civil service compensation feeding into equivalent adjustments of pension
payments, as has been the case in the past. We intend to de-link future adjustments in the pension
benefit structure for civil service retirees from changes in the civil service salary structure and
protect the real value of pensions by choosing another appropriate index, such as the consumer
price index. The Government also intends to conduct a comprehensive study of options available
to reform the social security system for civil servants.
A study of alternative options is needed to support our plans for the creation of social security
schemes for the private sector. Since the new Labor Law of 1994 contains very broad provisions
on social security for private sector employees, it will be necessary to adopt a coherent and
consistent implementing regulation outlining the details of social security provisions. We will
initiate a study of social security provisions for the private sector. Before setting up any type of
insurance fund and finalizing the appropriate implementing regulation, the findings of this study
will be carefully reviewed.
Conclusions
Our Government has taken decisive steps in order to promote a rapid transition from a centrally
planned to a market based economy. Since the early initiatives under the New Economic
Mechanism, the Government has shown strong commitment to achieving and maintaining
macroeconomic stability and to implementing wide-ranging structural reforms. We are
committed to maintaining a stable macroeconomic environment by pursuing a realistic and
competitive exchange rate policy as well as a prudent stance of fiscal and monetary policies, as
outlined in the Policy Framework Paper. Those structural adjustments which have been realized
in the past will stay in place.
In order to efficiently address the remaining institutional and structural shortcomings of Lao
PDR's market environment and to maintain the momentum of economic reforms, the
Government would appreciate IDA's favorable consideration of its request for a US$40 million
equivalent Structural Adjustment Credit. This credit is intended to assure the smooth realization



-41 -                        ANNEXI1I
of the reforms outlined above in this letter. We will implement, to the best of our ability, the
policy measures set forth in this letter.
We believe that the reform program we are envisaging will enable our economy to maintain a
path of high, equitable and sustainable growth and improve the living standards of the people of
the Lao PDR.
Yours sincerely,
Xaysomphone Phomvihane
Minister of Finance



- 42 -                     ANNEX IV
LAO PDR - THIRD STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(SACIII)
TIMETABLE OF KEY PROJECT PROCESSING EVENTS
(a)   Time taken to prepare the project:               about 14 months, January 1995-February
1996
(b)   Prepared by:                                     Government with Association Assistance
(c)   First IDA mission:                               January 1995
(d)   Appraisal mission departure:                    November 28, 1995
(e)   Negotiations:                                    December 1995
(f)   Planned date of effectiveness:                   March 1996
(g)   List of relevant PCRs and PARs:
Credit No.                          Project                       PCR Date               No.
2037-LA               Structural Adjustment Credit I              1992                (12664)
2304-LA               Structural Adjustment Credit II             1995                (15165)
This memorandum is based on the findings of a pre-appraisal mission of May 1995 and an appraisal mission in
December of the same year. Mission members were Messrs./Mmes Stefan Koeberle (Task Manager), William
McCleary (EA 1 DR), Linda Schneider, Vinaya Swaroop (PRDPE), Ed Campos (PRDFP), Loup Brefort (PSD),
Mostafa El-Erian (LEGEA), Lou Enoff, Vince Polizatto and David Greene. Peer reviewers were Mr. Ulrich
Thumm (OEDDR) and Bernard Funck (EA3CI). The responsible division chief is Ms. Pamela Cox (EAlCO)
and the Director is Mr. Callisto Madavo (EA1). The task assistant responsible for document processing was Ms.
Amy Mendez.



-43-                          ANNEX V
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN LAO PDR
STATEMENT OF DEVELOPMENT CREDITS /A
(As of December 31, 1995)
Amount (US$ million)&2
Loan or                                                                                            (less cancellations)
Credit      Fiscal
Number       Year            Borrower                          Purpose                       IDA          Undisbursed
Eleven IDA Credits credits fully disbursed                                                   185.85        1.46
Of which SALs, SECALs and Program Loans
2037          1989           Lao PDR                        Structural Adj. Credit            40.00
2304          1992           Lao PDR                        Structural Adj. Credit II         40.00
80.00
2001          1989           Lao PDR                        Polytechnic                        3.50        2.90
2079          1990           Lao PDR                        Upland Agric. Development         20.20       18.64
2101          1990           Lao PDR                        Telecom II                        24.50        3.89
2218          1991           Lao PDR                        Highway Improvement               45.00       16.15
2425          1993           Lao PDR                        Prov. Grid Integration            36.00       26.81
2488          1993           Lao PDR                        Education Development             19.00       18.41
2579          1994           Lao PDR                        Luang Namtha Prov. Dev.            9.67        9.31
2586          1994           Lao PDR                        Forest Mgt. & Conserv.             8.70        8.59
2606          1994           Lao PDR                        Highway Improvement II            30.00       31.33
2674          1995           Lao PDR                        Health Sys. Ref. & Mal.           19.20       18.60
Total                                                                          401.62      154.63
Of which has been repaid                                                        3.02
Total Now Held by IDA                                                          3986
Amount sold                  0.00
Total undisbursed                                                                          1 6.O
La The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on all IBRD/IDA-financed projects in execution,
which is updated twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
Lb Principal amounts in US$ equivalent at date of negotiations, and undisbursed amounts in equivalent are valued at
exchange rate applicable on the date of this statement.
* Indicates SAL/SECAL Loan and Credits.
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
None









t-]
rCC",
CO!
t-
C",i
I:;
rW4                     4
- E- r;
W-d     ''s  E--~ ~



