Report No. 1757b-MA                                                              Mft 0     t
Malaysia
Appraisal of the Northwest Selangor
Integrated Agricultural Development Project
lanuary 30, 1978
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00          =     M$2.48
M$1.00           =     US$0.40
M$1 million            US$403,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES - METRIC SYSTEM
1 millimeter (mm)               =      0.039 inches
1 meter (m)                     =      39.37 inches
1 kilometer (km)                =      0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (sq km)      =      0.386 square miles
1 hectare (ha)                  =      2.47 acres
1 cubic meter (cu m)            =      35.31 cubic feet
I liter (1)                     =      0.264 gallons (USA)
1 liter/second (l/s)            =      0.035 cubic feet per second
1 kilogram (kg)                 =      2.2 pounds
1 metric ton (ton)              =      2,205 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS
AA      =   Agriculture Assistant
AO      =   Agriculture Officer
AT      =   Agriculture Technician
BPM     =   Bank Pertanian Malaysia
DID     =   Drainage and Irrigation Department
DOA     =   Department of Agriculture
FOA     =   Farmers' Organization Authority
GOM     =   Government of Malaysia
GRP     =   Glass-Reinforced Polyester
MOA     =   Ministry of Agriculture
MARDI   =   Malaysian Agriclture Research and Development Institute
LPN     =   Lembaga Padi dan Beras Negara = National Padi Board
SG      =   Sungei = River
MALAYSIAN FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MALAYSIA
APPRAISAL OF THE
NORTHWEST SELANGOR INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS                                              i-ii
1.  INTRODUCTION . . . .   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
2.  BACKGROUND .                         . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        1
The Agricultural Sector  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           2
Irrigation and Drainage Development in Malaysia  . . . ..            2
The State of Selangor. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           3
3.  THE PROJECT AREA . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            4
Climate  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . .            4
Soils, Topography, and Drainage  . . .   . .          . . .          5
Drainage and Irrigation Infrastructure . . . . . . . . . .           6
Farm Size and Tenure .. .. . . .  .         .  .  .  .  .  .    ....  7
Estate Agriculture . .                     .        . .    .   .     8
Agricultural Supporting Services . . . . . . . . . . . . .           8
Project Formulation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    11
4.  THE PROJECT  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    12
Project Components  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ..  .  12
Status of Design . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    15
Implementation Schedule  . .  .       . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    16
Cost Estimates           . . . .  .  .  .  . .. ...                 16
Financing  . . . . -   . .   .      . . * . . . . . .   . . .    17
Procurement  .    . . . .  . . . .    . . . . . . . . . . . .    18
Disbursements  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             . . . . .    19
Accounts and-Audits  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    19
Environmental Effects         .  ... ..  .  .                       19
5.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT  ................                          20
Project Coordination . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    20
Agency Responsibilities  . .. . . . . .                             21
Smallholder Rent and Cost Recovery . . . . . . . . . . . .    23
Estate Taxation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    24
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission composed of
Messrs J. Goldberg and G. Temple (Bank), and G. Thorsky, R. Shepherd, and
P. Judd (consultants).
This docunent has  re tricted distribution and may be usd by recipients only in the performance
of their omcial duties. Its content mAy not otherwise be diclosed without Worid Bank authorization.



Page No.
6.  PRODUCTION, MARKETING, PRICES AND FARM INCOME . . . . . . . .   24
Padi Production, Marketing, and Prices  . . . . . . . . . .   25
Tree Crop Production, Marketing, and Prices . . . . . . . .   25
Farm Incomes ..          ....... . . ..27
7.  BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISK  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   28
8.  RECOMMENDATIONS .                           . . . . . . . . . .    29
ANNEXES
1.   Water Demand, Supply, and Quality
2    Present and Projected Developments in Padi Production
3.   Present and Projected Developments in Tree Crop Agriculture
4.   Drainage and Irrigation Works, Equipment and Staff - Cost
Estimates
5.   Agricultural Supporting Services
6.   Summary Cost Estimates
7.   Expenditure and Disbursement Schedules
8.   Proposed Allocation of the Proceeds of the Loan
9.   Production, Marketing and Prices
10.   Farm Budgets and Incomes
11.   Economic Analysis
CHARTS
17908 - Proposed Timing of Farm Activities in Tanjong Karang Padi Area
(attached to Annex 2)
17696 - Schedule of Implementation of Civil Works (attached to Annex 4)
17618 - Tanjong Karang Irrigation Area - Typical Layout (attached to Annex 4)
MAPS
13026R - Northwest Selangor Rural Development Project
13027R - Typical Drainage Layout (Sabak Bernam)
REFERENCES
1.    FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program; "Draft Report of the Northwest Selangor
Drainage and Irrigation Improvement Project Preparation Mission;"
March 8, 1977
2.    S. Selvadurai, "Coconut Smallholdings in Lower Perak, Kuala Selangor,
and Sabak Bernam," Ministry of Agriculture, 1974
3.    S. Selvadurai, "Padi Survey in Kuala Selangor and Sabak Bernam,"
Ministry of Agriculture, 1976



MALAYSIA
APPRAISAL OF THE
NORTHWEST SELANGOR INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
1.        The Government of Malaysia has requested Bank assistance in financing
the Northwest Selangor Rural Development Project. The major objective of the
project is to raise the productivity and incomes of about 32,000 smallholder
farm families dependent on the cultivation of padi and a wide variety of tree
crops in a region bordering the northwest coast of the State of Selangor.
Project formulation originated in the efforts of the Selangor Drainage and
Irrigation Department (DID) to upgrade existing drainage and irrigation infra-
structure and to promote agricultural development (increased cropping intensity
in padi areas, intensified intercropping in tree crop areas) in the major
agricultural subregion of the state. Over time it became apparent that only
piecemeal engineering solutions to the region's drainage and irrigation problems
were possible as long as development was dependent on routine annual budget
allocations. It was also necessary to involve the agencies providing agricul-
tural supporting services together with DID in an integrated extension effort
to upgrade smallholder farm practices in conjunction with full-scale improvement
in agricultural infrastructure. The formulation of this project thus involved
the long-term planning of irrigation works and regional drainage systems on the
engineering side, and the working out of a complete operational methodology of
field extension activities with the Department of Agriculture, the Bank Pertanian
Malaysia, the Farmers' Organization Authority, and DID at both the State and
Federal levels.
2.        The proposed project is composed of three major infrastructure
elements, including the upgrading and intensification of the existing Tanjong
Karang irrigation system serving 12,000 families cultivating 20,000 ha of padi;
provision of an integrated and improved drainage and flood protection system for
about 10,000 families cultivating 28,000 ha of coconuts and intercrops in the
Sabak Bernam area; and provision of major drainage works in the Kuala Selangor
area, to serve 10,000 smallholder families cultivating 25,000 ha of tree crops
and to link the private drainage systems of 35 estates with over 26,000 planted
ha. In addition to the irrigation and drainage infrastructure elements, the
project would provide required access roads throughout the region and agricul-
tural installations, quarters, and equipment to support an expanded program of
agricultural and irrigation extension, production credit, crop marketing, input
supply, and operation and maintenance services for the region's smallholders.
3.        The project would advance the Government's two major goals for the
rural sector - increasing incomes of smallholder farmers and increasing produc-
tion of imported staples and diversified export crops. About 65% of the North-
west Selangor region's padi and tree crop smallholders currently earn incomes
below the absolute poverty line, and the incomes of the majority of these
families would be raised above the absolute poverty line by full project develop-
ment. A combination of factors, including the rapid spread of intercropping
of cocoa and coffee by coconut farmers, the recent development of very high
yielding hybrid dwarf coconuts, and relatively high prices for a range of coconut
products, provides the first opportunity in recent years for large numbers of
coconut farmers to escape poverty, given adequate drainage of the coconut areas.



- ii -
Similarly, padi farmers in the region are progressive enough and possess large
enough farms (1.7 ha on average) to rise out of the poverty group, given an
adequate irrigation and drainage system. The project would produce an incre-
mental 30,000 tons of milled rice at full development, reducing imports by
about US$10 million per annum at present prices. Total incremental production
of coconut products, cocoa, coffee, rubber and oil palm products would amount
to approximately US$9.3 million per annum by the year 2000. The overall eco-
nomic rate of return is estimated at 21%, comprising a 19% rate of return for
the irrigation component and a 22% rate of return for the drainage component.
4.        Total project cost is estimated at US$60 million (M$148.7 million),
of which the foreign exchange component would be US$26 million, or 43% of the
total cost. The proposed Bank loan of US$26 million would finance the foreign
exchange component. The average capital costs of the irrigation works proposed
are US$1,390/ha (US$2,100/family), while costs of the tree crop drainage works
in smallholder areas are US$225/ha (US$540/family). Average capital costs of
drainage directly allocable to estate areas are US$33/ha, or US$52/ha if costs
of regional drainage works are allocated pro rata. Incremental annual costs of
agricultural services at project completion (1983) would amount to about US$12
per smallholder family.
5.        The drainage and irrigation works and access roads would be
constructed through a total of 12 contracts, of which five pertaining to
the Tanjong Karang irrigation component (US$28.3 million) would be subject
to international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group guidelines.
The three largest ICB contracts; (totalling US$18.3 million) would cover the
supply and installation of the structural tertiary canal system, and would
be open to any structural system meeting specified characteristics of speed
of installation, minimal disruption of existing crops, total command of the
area, durability, and other factors. Two additional ICB contracts (totalling
US$10 million) would cover construction of secondary and lateral canals,
drains, and roads. Rehabilitat:ion and upgrading of headworks, main canals,
and coastal bunds, and fabricat:ion of tidal gates, totalling US$2.2 million
in value, would be executed by DID on force account. Drainage of the tree
crop areas would be implementedl through seven contracts worth a total of
US$17.5 million, which would be awarded after competitive bidding advertised
locally in accordance with Government procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
Buildings and facilities costinig a total of US$2.7 million would also be
tendered locally. Agricultura:L and operation and maintenance equipment and
vehicles (US$2.0 million) would be tendered internationally, and a 15%
preference margin, or the prevailing customs duty if lower, would be
extended to local manufacturers of these items. Small off-the-shelf items,
costing less than US$20,000 each and limited to a total of US$500,000,
would be procured through normal Government procedures.
6.        The project would be implemented over a period of five years.  All
Federal agencies involved in the project are under the jurisdiction of the
Ministry of Agriculture (IIOA). Federal DID would be responsible for final
design, tendering, and supervision of construction of all project civil
works.  The agency has successEully completed the Muda (434-MA) and Kemubu
(500-MA) Irrigation Projects, and is currently implementing the major
drainage component of the West,ern Johore Agricultural Development Project
(973-MA) and the major irrigation component of the North Kelantan Rural



- iii -
Development Project (1294-MA), and is supervising the implementation of
the National Small-Scale Irrigation Project (1444-MA) by the various State
Departments of Drainage and Irrigation. Implementation of the present project
works without consultant assistance is considered feasible, particularly since
the rectangular lot layout of the Tanjong Karang padi area presents a much
less difficult problem of on-farm irrigation and drainage system design than
that faced by DID planners in North Kelantan, and the areas to be drained are
much smaller and less complex hydrologically than those of Western Johore. The
agricultural services program would be implemented by local field staff of the
Department of Agriculture, the Farmers' Organization Authority, and the Bank
Pertanian Malaysia, working in cooperation with each other and DID field staff.
The project would be administered by a Project Coordinator appointed by the
1O0A, under a Steering Committee co-chaired by the Secretary-General of the MOA
and the State Secretary of Selangor.
7.        Subject to appropriate assurances, the proposed project is suitable
for a Bank loan of US$26 million, with a 17-year maturity and a grace period
of 4 years. The borrower would be Malaysia.






MALAYSIA
APPRAISAL OF THE
NORTHWEST SELANGOR INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Malaysia (GOM) has requested Bank assistance
in financing the Northwest Selangor Integrated Agricultural Development
Project. The major objective of the project is to raise the productivity
and incomes of about 32,000 smallholder farm families dependent on the
cultivation of padi and a wide variety of tree crops in a region bordering
the northwest coast of the State of Selangor. Major infrastructure components
would include the upgrading and intensification of the existing Tanjong
Karang irrigation scheme, reconstruction and improvement of drainage and
flood control networks in the Sabak Bernam and Kuala Selangor tree crop
areas, and construction of Farmers' Development Centers and access roads
distributed throughout the region. Agricultural service components would
promote the introduction of an intensive training and visit system of
agricultural extension throughout the smallholder padi and tree crop areas,
as well as a marked expansion in volume and coverage of agricultural
production credit and input supply and marketing services for smallholders.
In addition to substantial increases in smallholder padi and tree crop
production, the project would permit increased production of various tree
crops by private estates (plantations) which would be able to connect their
own internal drainage systems to the new main drainage system.
1.02      The project was identified and formulated by the Drainage and Irri-
gation Department (DID) with the assistance of Bank missions in May and
August 1976. Detailed project preparation was assisted by FAO/CP missions
consisting of Messrs. C. W. Brookson and M. Sugimura (FAO/CP), and J. Weather-
hogg and T. Bright (Consultants), working in close cooperation with Federal
and Selangor DID, the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA), the Bank Pertanian
Malaysia (BPM), Federal and Selangor Departments of Agriculture (DOA) and the
Farmers' Organization Authority (FOA). This report is based on the findings
of an appraisal mission which visited Malaysia in April 1977 composed of
Messrs. J. Goldberg and G. Temple (Bank) and G. Thorsky, R. Shepherd and
P. Judd (Consultants).
2. BACKGROUND
2.01      Malaysia covers an area of 333,000 sq km, of which 132,000 sq km
are in the 11 States of Peninsular Malaysia and the remaining 60% in the
Borneo States of Sarawak and Sabah. Of the total population of 12.3 million
in 1975, 10.2 million lived in Peninsular Malaysia, 1.3 million in Sarawak,
and 0.8 million in Sabah. The ethnic composition of the population is approx-
imately 47% Malay, 34% Chinese, and 9% Indian, with the remainder chiefly
consisting of groups indigenous to Sabah and Sarawak and a small Eurasian
community. In Peninsular Malaysia, the great majority of farm families are
Malay, while the population of most urban areas is predominantly Chinese.
2.02      With a per capita income of US$860 in 1976, Malaysia is one
of the most prosperous developing countries in Asia. This high average
income masks considerable poverty among rural smallholders, however,



among whom padi farmers and coconut and rubber smallholders have been
identified by GOM /1 as target poverty groups to be assisted by rural
development programs. The Government's commitment to financing large
drainage and irrigation, agricultural production, rural infrastructure
and social service programs has been facilitated by fairly high rates
of economic growth, averaging 6% p.a. during the last decade. The growth
rate of the economy slowed down to 1% in 1975 due to softening of inter-
national commodity prices, following the boom years of 1973 and 1974 when
commodity prices and GNP growth peaked. The estimated GNP growth in 1976
again rose above trend to about ]L0%, and Malaysia's external reserves
(US$2.6 billion in February 1977) rose to a level equal to about eight
months of net imports at current levels.
The Agricultural Sector
2.03      Malaysia's agricultural sector is largely oriented to world export
markets, and occupies a predominant position in international trade in
natural rubber, palm oil, hardwoods, and pepper. Except for oil palm,
acreages of all principal crops mainly consist of smallholdings, although
the large private and public estate sector continues to play a vital role
in the production of rubber and coconuts. In this regard, coconut small-
holders on the west coast of Johore, Selangor, and Perak have in recent
years followed estate breakthroughs in the intercropping of cocoa and other
crops with mature coconuts. Other recent trends in tree crop agriculture
include the gradual replacement of rubber by oil palm by estates situated
in coastal regions more suited to the latter, and the initiation of oil palm
cultivation by independent smallholders. Planting and production decisions
by both estates and smallholders are closely attuned to existing and projec-
ted world market conditions.
Irrigation and Drainage Development in Malaysia
2.04      Irrigation and drainage works in Malaysia constitute a basic infra-
structure network on which the settlement, continued habitation, and pros-
perity of large coastal regions, including hundreds of thousands of farmers
and town dwellers, depend. In this sense the water control network is at
least as important as the road, railway, and electrical networks to the
life of the country. The most productive padi and tree crop areas of the
country were developed from coastal swamp jungles and marshland which
required drainage to permit agric:ultural development, settlement, construc-
tion of transport links, and alleviation of the once endemic malaria.
Channelization of rivers and bunding of river banks and sea coast were
required to prevent annual heavy flooding of both crops and towns in monsoon
seasons, salt water intrusion, and severe erosion of the coast in storm
/1 See Problems of Rural Poverty in Malaysia, IBRD Report No. 838-MA.



seasons. Irrigation was required to expand the production of the population's
basic food, rice. All of these activities fall within the purview of DID,
which began the survey and design of its first major project (the Krian
Irrigation Scheme) in 1880.
2.05      Bank financing of DID activities began with the Muda Irrigation
Project (Loan 434-NIA) in 1965, which provided the facilities required to
initiate padi double-cropping in Malaysia's largest coastal plain, in the
states of Kedah and Perlis. The Kemubu Irrigation Project (Loan 500-MIA)
enabled a substantial increase in padi double-cropping in the southern por-
tion of the Kelantan coastal plain, while the North Kelantan Rural Devel-
opment Project (Loan 1294-MA) provides for intensification of padi irriga-
tion and drainage facilities originally constructed by DID between 1958 and
1962 on the north bank of the Kelantan River, as well as construction of a
system of river flood control bunds. The recently initiated National Small-
Scale Irrigation Project (Loan 1444-MA) will finance a program of nearly
200 small irrigation schemes throughout the country, several of which were
originally developed by DID from coastal swampland. The Western Johore
Agricultural Development Project (Loan 973-MA) is based on the construction
of an intensive drainage and coastal bunding system which will enable that
tree-crop region to achieve higher levels of agricultural productivity. The
present project would be the first to combine the two major elements of DID's
program, drainage and protection of tree crops and irrigation of padi, in a
single area development project.
The State of Selangor
2.06      The State of Selangor is situated in the central portion of the
west coast of Peninsular Malaysia, bounded by Negeri Sembilan to the south,
the Central Mountain Range and Pahang to the east, the Bernam River and Perak
to the north, and the Strait of Malacca to the west. It surrounds the
Federal Territory of Kuala Lumpur, recently detached administratively from
the jurisdiction of the Selangor State Government. The State is now divided
into six administrative districts, of which two (Kuala Selangor and Sabak
Bernam) form the present project area. Selangor had a population of 1.63 mil-
lion in 1970, of which .87 million were in Kuala Lumpur. Selangor is Malaysia's
most prosperous State, due mainly to the large tin mining and manufacturing
industries in the Klang Valley and the concentration of civil service and
commercial employment in the Kuala Lumpur area, but the economy of the two
relatively isolated districts in the northwest corner of the State is almost
entirely dependent on agriculture.



-4-
3. THE PROJECT AREA
3.01      The project area lies in the districts of Sabak Bernam and Kuala
Selangor (Map 13026R). It includes most of the inhabited area of the two
districts, the remainder largely consisting of a large peat swamp (nearly
500 sq km in extent) inland from the project area and smaller coastal
mangrove swamps, which would not be affected by the proposed project. The
project area extends about 90 km along the coast and 20 km inland at its
widest point. The total agricultural area of the project is about 97,000 ha,
including nearly 20,000 ha of padi in the Tanjong Karang irrigation area; a
drained coastal strip between this area and the sea of 7,500 ha largely
planted with smallholder coconuts; a drained area in Sabak Bernam to the
north of 21,000 ha largely planted with smallholder coconuts; and a drained
area in Kuala Selangor to the south of 48,500 ha of tree crops (oil palm,
rubber, coffee, coconuts, and cocoa), evenly divided between smallholdings
and estates.
3.02      The population of thes two districts in 1970 was 213,000, of which
64% were Malay, 21% Chinese, and 15% were Indian. The Chinese population was
largely concentrated in the area's major towns, including Kuala Selangor,
Sekinchan, Tanjong Karang, Sungei Besar, and Sabak Bernam, and was largely
involved in trade, fishing, and small-scale industry in addition to agricul-
tural pursuits. The Indian polpulation was chiefly engaged as laborers in
estate agriculture, while the Malays were largely concentrated in smallholder
agriculture. About 73% of the households in the region were engaged in
smallholder agriculture. The present smallholder agricultural population of
the project area is estimated at 192,000 (32,000 households), the overwhelming
majority of which is Malay.
Climate
3.03      The project area has a humid tropical climate characterized by
relatively high rainfall, high humidity, consistently high temperatures,
and only minor variations in day length. Annual rainfall averages 1,800 mm
with distribution largely determined by the northeast monsoon (October-March)
and intermonsoonal disturbances during the March-April and September-November
periods. The influence of the southwest monsoon (May-September) is weakened
by the sheltering effect of North Sumatra. The wettest months are October-
November and April-May. The driest months are February-March and June-July.
3.04      Mean annual temperature is about 26 degrees centigrade and average
relative humidity is about 83%. There are no major climatic constraints to
perennial tree crop and upland field crop production, but the unreliability
of rainfall in the January-August period precludes off-season rice production
without supplementary irrigation. In the absence of an intensive drainage
system, heavy rains in the September-November period also frequently hinder
harvest and drying of late-planted off-season rice crops, and increase the
incidence of pest and disease aLttack. Occasional extended flooding, due to
heavy localized rainfall and overtopping of rivers, is also capable of
inflicting permanent damage on tree crops.



-5-
Soils, Topography, and Drainage
3.05      The bulk of the project area comprises a flat coastal plain, with
rising land and undulations in the southern section between the Buloh River
and the Klang district boundary. Four rivers drain the area. The Bernam
River meanders along the northwest boundary of the area, while the smaller
Tinggi, Selangor, and Buloh rivers dissect the southern half of the area and
flow in a southwesterly direction to the sea. Due to the low elevation,
slight grade and lack of natural drainage lines, the coastal plain is poorly
drained and was historically subject to sea water intrusion along the coastal
fringe. Since 1910, the Drainage and Irrigation Department has progressively
improved the area with the construction of a coastal bund, tidal gates and a
basic network of internal drains at about 2-km intervals. These works have
allowed most of the more suitable soils to be developed for agricultural
purposes. Nevertheless, problems with the silting of drainage outlets, and
the inadequacy of the existing drainage network still impose a yield constraint
on crops in the lower lying areas.
3.06      The bulk of the soils on the plain are fairly heavy alluvial soils
developed under marine or brackish water conditions or organic muck and peat
soils developed under impeded surface drainage conditions in the lower lying
areas. Fresh water alluvial soils occur along the lower reaches of the
larger rivers. The most common soil series in the project area, the Selangor
series, is one of the most fertile series in Peninsular Malaysia, and most of
the local soils are well suited to rice production and have been successfully
developed for the entire range of Malaysian tree crops. However, the heavier
phases of these soils are not well suited for rubber production, and are
currently being converted to oil palm. The yields of all tree crops in the
region are closely correlated with the adequacy of surface drainage. Small
isolated areas of potentially acid sulphate soils have been identified, and
will require careful water table management to insure good tree crop yields.
3.07      A sample survey of the region's coconut smallholders /1 in 1974
revealed the extent of drainage problems as follows. Fifty percent of the
respondents in Sabak Bernam, and 44% in Kuala Selangor, reported waterlogging
of coconut holdings, and 21% and 15% of the respondents in the respective
areas reported waterlogging of duration between 11 and 30 days. Seventeen
percent of the Sabak Bernam respondents reported waterlogging of over 30 days
duration, which is an indication of serious damage for coconuts and intercrops.
Ninety-one percent of Sabak Bernam farmers and 65% of those in Kuala Selangor
had excavated drains on their holdings, but only 19% in the former area and
22% in the latter reported that collector drains existed to which their farm
drains could be connected. According to the survey, the largely similar
coconut areas of Lower Perak, immediately north of the Bernam River, are much
better served by major drainage infrastructure, and perhaps as a result,
report substantially reduced waterlogging and more intensive maintenance and
cleaning of farm drains by smallholders.
/1 Coconut Smallholdings in Lower Perak, Kuala Selangor, and Sabak Bernam,
S. Selvadurai, Ministry of Agriculture, 1974.



- 6-
Drainage and Irrigation Infrastructure
3.08      The first settlers of the project area, many of whom migrated from
various regions of present-day I]ndonesia, constructed open drains through
the coastal areas to permit coconut cultivation. These systems were not
particularly effective in draining localized flooding, and the area became
increasingly vulnerable to sea water intrusion, and to river flooding with
the clearing of inland jungles. Government drainage and flood control works
were initiated in Kuala Selangor in 1910 and in Sabak Bernam in 1932, and
by 1937 included 90 km of coastal bunds with tidal gates and associated main
drains. Between 1937 and the 15950s DID provided a simple internal drainage
network for 6,000 ha of smallholder tree crops in Sabak Bernam, while the
private estates in Kuala Selangor constructed their own piecemeal drainage
systems. The existing drains in the tree crop areas were designed to evacu-
ate a two-year frequency storm in 72 hours, but several large areas are fre-
quently flooded for two weeks or more (para. 3.07). Drain capacities are
too small and drain structures dlo not adequately control water levels. Tidal
gates are in many cases much too small and are incorrectly sited in loca-
tions that silt up. Much of the coastal and river bund system is inadequate
or needs repair. Hundreds of ha of potential coconut land near the sea,
and thousands of ha of potential coffee land near the Buloh River, are still
subject to frequent sea and river flooding, and require improved bunds and
drainage to permit cultivation by smallholders.
3.09      The Tanjong Karang padi irrigation scheme was developed from virgin
jungle by DID through a series of programs beginning in 1936. Water was
first provided for a single wet-season padi crop by a weir on the Tinggi
River via a 40-km main canal along the inland border of the project area. To
augment the water supply for double-cropping, diversion barrages were construc-
ted in 1957 and 1964 on the Bernam River, and a 15-km feeder canal was exca-
vated through the peat swamp to transport water to the Tinggi River. A pump-
house was constructed in 1962 on the lower reaches of the Bernam River at
Bagan Terap, to provide a more assured water supply for the northern portion
of the scheme. These water sources are augmented by substantial seepage from
the swamp into the feeder canals, the Tinggi River, and along the entire
length of the main canal which borders the swamp. A water balance study of
the project area (Annex 1) indicates that the irrigation area would have an
assured water supply, with no foreseeable restriction on cropped area due to
water shortage. This conforms with historical experience, as the cropping
intensity has never been constrained by lack of water (rather by lack of
command and a poor distributary system), despite the fact that the present
system of irrigation by back-flooding is extremely wasteful (para. 3.10). No
problem related to water quality has been encountered in Tanjong Karang,
despite the fact that from 1938 to 1958 the padi area was virtually entirely
supplied from the peat swamp. Since that time the diversion from the Bernam
River has replaced the swamp as the major supplementary water source, and the
irrigation supply has become markedly less acidic. The scheme area is
divided into seven large blocks, of which one (Sawah Sempadan) has been



developed to proposed project standards as a pilot scheme. The padi area is
divided into 16,411 three-acre (1.2 ha) rectangular lots, which significantly
facilitates the layout and construction of on-farm irrigation and drainage
works.
3.10      The existing irrigation system has fulfilled its original purpose
of permitting wet-season padi production and dry-season cropping of an average
of 70% of the scheme area, but still suffers from several deficiencies. The
capacity of some reaches of the main canal is inadequate, and the gates
of the old Tinggi headworks now leak badly and waste water. Command head
of the existing distributary canals is inadequate, causing slow inundation
of fields and late transplanting, a problem exacerbated by the fact that
water must travel one-half mile (.8 km) across farm lots with the present
density of distributaries. Since the micro-topography is undulating, the
water must often fill depressions to undesirable depths (30 cm and above)
before its flow continues. Much of the area can only be inundated by back-
flooding from drains which are kept full for this purpose, thereby wasting
substantial amounts of both water and fertilizers. These inadequacies have
led to a situation where large areas of padi are continually out of phase,
and drainage for drying and harvesting earlier planted fields is impossible
if the water needs of the less mature crops are to be met.
Farm Size and Tenure
3.11      The average size of land holding of the 12,000 padi farmers in
the Tanjong Karang irrigation area is 2 ha (5.1 acre), consisting of 1.6 ha
of irrigated padi land and 0.5 ha of house lot and village land on which some
dry land crops are grown under coconut trees./l Only 5% of the holdings
surveyed were larger than 3 ha, and no holding contained over 5 ha of padi
land. An earlier (1967) survey of the area estimated the average padi hold-
ing at 1.8 ha, the reduction in average size probably stemming from increased
population pressure. As the padi area has been developed relatively recently,
a relatively high proportion (84%) of the land is owner-operated, and the
remainder is rented through payment of fixed money rents averaging US$230/ha
per annum. The bulk of family labor is utilized on the family padi holding.
3.12      By contrast, in the coconut areas less than half of the available
farm work force has been utilized on the smallholding, and there has been
a high dependence on outside work to augment the traditionally meager income
from coconuts. Hired labor has been extensively utilized, however, for the
physically difficult and-specialized tasks of plucking ripe coconuts from
the palms and husking them. This situation is rapidly improving, however,
with the expansion of intercropping in the coconut areas and the replace-
ment of bananas with cocoa as the predominant intercrop, which provides
substantially improved incomes and useful employment for the farm families
on their own holdings. In 1974 the average coconut holding was 2.8 ha in
/1 Current socioeconomic information is derived from Padi Survey in Kuala
Selangor and Sabak Bernam, S. Selvadurai, Ministry of Agriculture, 1976.



-8-
Sabak Bernam and 2.6 ha in Kua:La Selangor, 94% owner-operated./l Holdings
of ot.er tree crops average about 2 ha and are almost entirely owner-occupied.
Whi,e r-   holdings are entireLy devoted to rubber or coffee, there is a
cooid sirible amount of mixed tree farming, particularly in Kuala Selangor.
A typical 2. xed farm would inc:Lude about 1.2 ha of rubber, 0.3 ha of coffee,
0.4 ha of oil palm, and the balance under fruit trees and vegetables. While
the padi holdings in the project area are slightly larger than the average
for Peninsular Malaysia (1.3 ha), the tree crop holdings are smaller and
less productive than the Malaysian average. This is particularly true for
the rubber smallholders.
Estate Agriculture
3.13      There are 40 private estates /2 in the project area, of which 35
are in Kuala Selangor (27,600 ha) and 5 are in Sabak Bernam (5,200 ha). The
estates are typically interspersed among the smallholder areas, making it
physically impossible to drain the latter without also improving the drainage
of the former. Mlost of the estate coconut acreage is concentrated in Sabak
Bernam. Most of the 17,600 ha of estate oil palms, and all of the 10,300 ha
of estate rubber, are found in Kuala Selangor. Cocoa is planted as an estate
intercrop in Sabak Bernam (1,500 ha) and as a minor sole crop in two Kuala
Selangor estates (620 ha). In Kuala Selangor, as in many parts of Peninsular
Malaysia, estates are a basic feature of the rural economy, employing thousands
of people,/3 introducing new cr'ops and processing methods later adopted by
smallholders, and providing large and assured tax revenues to the Federal and
State Governments (para. 5.11). During their establishment and expansion, the
project area estates evolved their own internal drainage systems and main
outlets as was expedient. These private systems are now constrained by the
main drainage system, consisting of canalized and natural rivers and streams,
river and tidal bunds, and major drains, which are the responsibility of DID.
Improvement of the regional system, which is a necessary prerequisite for
intensive drainage of the smallholder and town areas, would thus also provide
subsidiary benefits to the region's estate sector.
Agricultural Supporting Services
3.14      Most of the agencies responsible for providing agricultural supporting
services to project area farmers are under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of
Agriculture (MOA). These include the Department of Agriculture (DOA) and the
Drainage and Irrigation Department (DID), which are line departments within
the Ministry, as well as the Farmers' Organization Authority (FOA), the Bank
Pertanian Malaysia (BPM), the MIalaysian Agricultural Research and Development
Institute (MARDI), and the Federal Agricultural Marketing Authority (FAMA).
/1 30% of project area coconut farmers owned some padi land, with the
average subsidiary padi holding equalling 1.3 ha.
/2 An estate is defined as a holding of over 40 ha (100 ac).
/3 Project area estates are estimated to employ about 8,000 laborers,
representing about 4,000 households.



-9-
In addition, the Rubber Industry Smallholders' Development Authority (RISDA)/l
supervises rubber replanting, rehabilitation, and cooperative processing pro-
grams, and provides extension services to smallholders who are dependent on
rubber or who have replanted rubber with other crops, typically oil palm. The
National Padi Authority (LPN)/2 in the Ministry of Trade, is responsible for
regulating the marketing, milling, and importing of rice, maintaining the
national rice stockpile, and operating a network of rice mills in the larger
padi producing areas./3
3.15      The DOA is responsible for agricultural extension to rice and
coconut smallholders, and is thus the key agricultural support agency in the
project area. In addition, the Coconut Smallholders' Development Scheme
(CSDS), a branch of the DOA, supervises the Federal coconut replanting
program, which provides grants to smallholders replanting or rehabilitating
(thinning and intercropping) their coconut stands over a five-year period.
Extension services within the project area are supervised by an Agricultural
Officer stationed in Kuala Selangor town, assisted by two Agricultural
Assistants, in Sungei Besar and Tanjong Karang. The Agricultural Assistants
supervise the work of 20 Agricultural Technicians, who are expected to serve
the region's smallholders at a ratio of over 1,600 families per extension
agent. As the ATs are also responsible for regulatory duties, statistical
work, and administration of subsidies, the ratio is much wider in practice,
and the ATs contact few farmers in their area of operation. The CSDS is
operated through a similar, though smaller hierarchy, which processes applica-
tions for replanting grants, inspects the property of participants to ensure
that planting and cultivation (including excavation of farm drains) is done
to CSDS guidelines, and arranges for the supply of cash, inputs, and seedlings
provided under the replanting program. Extension for coconut smallholders is
generally left to the DOA staff, however, as CSDS agents typically visit
participants only twice a year, and lose contact with participants once the
five-year grant period is completed. While the recently initiated National
Extension Project (Loan 1493-MA) would increase the overall level of staffing,
quarters, and training of the Selangor DOA extension service, an additional
concerted extension effort will be required in the project area to allow
farmers to realize the full agricultural potential of their smallholdings.
3.16      The Selangor DID is responsible for operating and maintaining the
drainage and irrigation systems in the project area. DID field staff also
advise the District Agriculture Committees (comprised of representatives
from the District Office, DOA, DID, and farmer groups) on the availability
of water for timing of agricultural operations which are closely related to
DID water management responsibilities, including land preparation, nursery
/1 In the Ministry of Primary Industries.
/2 The official name of this agency is Lembaga Padi dan Beras Negara.
/3 Details of the organization and operations of the major agricultural
agencies in the project area are presented in Annex 5.



- 10 -
planting, transplanting, and harvesting. With the implementation of the
project the intensity of drains and canals in the area would be increased
to about four times that of the existing system. To ensure that DID could
continue to perform its important advisory role, as well as for proper
operation and maintenance of the intensified infrastructure system, a
substantial increase in the number of field staff (particularly technical
assistants, inspectors, and overseers) would be necessary.
3.17      The Selangor FOA operates three Farmers' Development Centers (FDCs)
in the project area, in Kuala Selangor, Tanjong Karang, and Sungei Besar,
with a total paid-up membership of 7,000. In addition there are 66 private
farmers' cooperatives, organized for rice-milling, revolving credit, and rubber
processing activities. Both FDCs and private cooperatives supply inputs and
planting materials (e.g., cocoa and coffee seedlings), and in recent years
have become involved in the marketing and processing of cocoa beans. Neither
the official Farmers' Organizations based in the FDCs, nor the private coopera-
tives, have yet attained the level of technical skill in their agro-business
activities or the volume of blusiness required for commercial viability.
Input supply for smallholders, processing of tree crops, and provision of
credit are still largely in tlhe hands of private enterprise, and are likely
to remain so in the foreseeable future. Private enterprise, in this regard,
covers a wide spectrum of agents ranging from large rubber and coconut oil
factories in Klang District to the south; through medium-sized coconut oil
factories and copra kilns in the project area; to large middlemen who purchase
processed tree crops for transshipment to factories in Klang, Perak, and
Penang; to the basic unit, the general store which grants farmers credit to
be repaid with cocoa and coffee beans, coconuts and rubber sheets which the
storekeeper and his family thten process and sell to middlemen or factory
agents. The marketing of rice in the project area is, however, dominated by
a Government agency, the National Padi Authority (LPN).
3.18      The LPN has been granted an official monopoly on the purchase of
padi and rice-milling in the Tanjong Karang irrigation area, which it exercizes
only in regard to the surplus production intended for cash sale and export
from the irrigation area. LPN permits padi farmers to mill rice for domestic
consumption at 46 licensed cooperative mills and 120 small unlicensed mills
scattered throughout the area. LPN itself operates 5 large milling complexes
in the project area, which handle a combined total of 65% of the padi crop.
Total rated milling capacity of these mills is 26 tons/hour, rated drying
capacity is 80 tons/hour, and storage capacity is 44,000 tons. Currently LPN
buys most of its padi during two three-month seasons, dries the padi as
quickly as possible, and mills continuously throughout the year. Padi is
purchased through 30 cooperatiLves, two Farmers' Organizations, and private
agents. The major problem faced by LPN is the high moisture and trash
content of the padi, which should be reflected in standard price discounts by
the LPN mills. As the discounts have not been applied, there has been no
incentive for farmers to winnow and sun-dry the padi crop. LPN plans to
correct this situation through formal testing of moisture content by its
buying agents. The recent addition of two LPN complexes will ease processing
bottlenecks and provide sufficient surplus capacity for the proposed project.



- 11 -
3.19      BPM provides short-term padi production credit in the Tanjong
Karang irrigation area, as part of a national program for irrigated padi.
The credit is supplied in kind in the form of approved quantities of fer-
tilizers, insecticides and pesticides, and contract tractoring, and in cash
for hired labor for cultivation and transplanting, with a six-month term at
4.25% per term. The credit has been provided through the FDCs, which have
functioned as local credit centers for BPM, screening applications, issuing
inputs or credit vouchers for inputs and services, and recovering loans, in
exchange for a commission of 1.25% per season. This program reached a peak
of 2,400 padi farmers (20% of the total) in 1973, but has since largely
retrenched following scandals involving the management of two Farmers'
Organizations, to a point where only 280 farmers took credit in 1976. This
credit program can be revived, and extended to a majority of the area's padi
farmers, provided FOA improves and increases the staffing of the FDCs, BPM
staff are brought in to field operations to control financial transactions
and promote the program, and the credit program is publicized and implemented
as part of a combined extension effort including DOA agricultural advice and
recommendations, DID water management extension, and purchasing and preliminary
drying of rice by FOA as an agent for LPN.
Project Formulation
3.20      Project formulation originated in the efforts of Selangor DID to
upgrade existing drainage and irrigation infrastructure and to promote agri-
cultural improvement (increased cropping intensity in padi areas, intensi-
fied intercropping in tree crop areas) in the major agricultural subregion
of the State. Over time it became apparent that only piecemeal engineering
solutions to the region's drainage and irrigation problems were possible as
long as development was dependent on routine annual budget allocations,
and that the other agricultural agencies would have to be involved with local
DID staff in an integrated extension effort to upgrade smallholder farm
practices in conjunction with full-scale improvement in agricultural infra-
structure. The preparation of this project thus involved the long-term
planning of irrigation works and regional drainage systems on the engineering
side, and the working out of a complete operational methodology of field
extension activities (Annex 5) with DOA, BPM, FOA, and DID at both the State
and Federal levels. The average capital costs of the proposed irrigation works
are US$1,390/ha (US$2,100/family), while costs of tree crop drainage works in
smallholder areas are US$225/ha (US$540/family). Average capital costs of
drainage directly allocable to estate areas are US$33/ha, or US$52/ha if costs
of regional drainage works are allocated pro rata. Incremental annual costs of
agricultural services at project completion (1983) would amount to about US$12
per smallholder family.



- 12 -
4. THE PROJECT
4.01      The project would improve the productivity and incomes of smallholder
farmers throughout the Northwest Selangor region through provision of improved
drainage and irrigation facilities, access roads, and intensified agricultural
supporting services, and would improve regional drainage systems with subsequent
subsidiary benefits for the region's towns and estates. The main components of
the project are as follows:
(a)  rehabilitation of the existing headworks and feeder
and main canals and structures serving the 20,000 ha
of padi in the Tanjong Karang irrigation area; con-
struction of required access roads in the padi area;
construction of tertiary irrigation and drainage
networks which would serve each individual padi lot;
and provision of required maintenance equipment;
(b)  rehabilitation and improvement of existing main
drainage and flood control systems serving 77,000 ha of
tree crops, including upgrading and reconstruction of
coastal and river bunds; provision of tidal gates,
bridges, and gated culverts; construction of an inten-
sive drainage system serving individual smallholder
lots and farm access roads; and upgrading of the main
drainage system in estate areas;
(c)  construction of offices, quarters, storehouses, and
drying floors, and provision of vehicles, agricul-
tural equipment, anid training to support an intensified
program of agricultural extension, agricultural credit,
input supply, and marketing services for the region's
smallholders.
The components of the project are summarized below, and further details
are given in Annexes 4 through 6.
Project Components
4.02      Tanjong Karang Irrigation Improvement:  The main canal delivery
system would be improved by enlarging the canal in some locations and by
rehabilitating the primary structures. The sluiceway and inlet to the Bernam
River headworks would be modified to reduce sluicing water needs and improve
the removal of bed load material. The Tinggi River headworks structure and
spillway would be modified ancd its gates replaced. The wasteway structure to
the Haji Dorani flood relief channel would be rehabilitated and the drop and
the lower end of main canal improved to provide better command and capacity.



- 13 -
4.03      The existing distributary irrigation and drainage system in the
padi area consists of a main canal along the upper boundary of the area,
and straight tertiary canals and drains at half mile (800 m) intervals
perpendicular to the main canal./l Under the project existing tertiary
canals would be transformed into drains, and additional small drains would be
excavated parallel to and midway between each existing canal and drain. This
would provide a drain spacing of one-quarter mile (400 m), which would permit
evacuation of a five-year frequency storm in 72 hours. Irrigation distribu-
tion would be intensified by constructing structural canals (para 4.04)
midway between each drain, which would thus also lie one-quarter mile apart.
The distance between tertiary canals and drains would thus be reduced from
the present half mile (800 m) to one-eighth mile (200 m), the length of a
typical three-acre (1.2 ha) lot, giving each farmer direct access to both
canals and drains.   In three blocks (Sungei Burong, Sungei Leman, and
Sekinchan) the width of the padi area increases from 2 miles (3.2 km) to
4 miles (6.4 km), making it uneconomic to serve the entire block directly by
means of structural tertiary canals. In these areas, two concrete-lined
earth link canals would be constructed from the existing main canal to
smaller transverse secondary canals within the blocks, which would in turn
supply structural tertiaries in the lower part of each block.
4.04      The structural tertiary canal system would total 305 miles (492 km)
in length, and the discharge capacity of various segments would range between
1.6 cusecs (45 1/sec) and 19 cusecs (538 1/sec). Discharge capacity for outlets
to individual lots would be 0.1 cusecs (4.5 I/sec) under 16 in (41 cm) of
head. The proposed structural tertiary canal system has been completed by
DID in the Sawah Sempadan block of Tanjong Karang as a pilot scheme. The
structural system used there consisted of glass-reinforced polyester (GRP)
flumes, placed above ground on concrete pads founded at 20 ft (6 m) centers
on bakau wood friction piling. Installation and initiation of the system in
the pilot area has proceeded with a minimum of engineering or social problems.
The GRP system has been approved by the Bank for installation in the Lemal
Irrigation area under the North Kelantan Rural Development Project (Loan
1294-MA), after completion in July 1977 of a one-year accelerated testing
program undertaken by DID to confirm the long-term structural and chemical
properties of the system. The GRP system would also be installed under the
present project in the Sungei Nipah block of Tanjong Karang, under the same
central contract utilized for the Sawah Sempadan and Lemal works./2 For the
remaining five blocks in Tanjong Karang, tendering for the tertiary distribu-
tary system would again be opened to all structural water conveyance systems
which could meet the performance specifications already achieved by the GRP
system, in terms of speed of installation, lack of disruption of cropping
activities, minimization of land acquisition, discharge and command, ease of
maintenance and durability.
/1 Tertiary canals are now one mile apart, as are the alternating
tertiary drains. See Annex 4, Figure 1 for a layout of typical existing
and proposed distributary blocks.
/2 This contract, valid through December 1978, was approved by the Bank
during negotiations for the North Kelantan Rural Development Project,
and is described in Report No. 1137-NA, para. 4.15.



- 14 -
4.05      Existing roads run through the padi area parallel to the main
canal at one mile intervals, and will in future cross all tertiary canals
and drains. Checks and culverts would be located at these crossings to
control the water surface upstream. Existing tertiary canals and drains
have banks that would be upgraded and surfaced to a 10 ft wide (3 m) roadway.
New drains would be provided with a 4 ft wide (1.2 m) laterite surfaced bank
on one side. Timber bridges would be provided where necessary.
4.06      Tree Crop Drainage Improvement.  Improved drainage in the tree
crop areas would be based on evacuating a five-year frequency storm in
48 hours, equivalent in the project area to a drainage capacity of 80 cusecs/
sq mile (0.9 cumecs/sq km). In smallholder areas existing main drains
would be improved by clearing and deepening, and new main drains constructed
where necessary. Secondary drains would be constructed at half mile (800 m)
intervals, and would discharge into main drains through gated culverts or
other suitable water control devices. The water control devices would hold
up the water during low flow periods to prevent over-drainage, while allowing
large storm flows to evacuate quickly. Feeder drains, one-eighth mile (200 m)
apart, would be constructed to collect water from farm drains and convey
it to the secondary drains. Construction of farm drains is the responsibility
of individual farmers; in many cases the smallholders have already excavated
them (para. 3.07), while the remaining tree crop areas in the region are
expected to be covered by the CSDS (para. 3.15) between 1978 and 1983.1l
4.07      Secondary drains would be 5 to 6 ft (1.5 to 1.8 m) deep with a
bottom width of 6 to 10 ft (1.8 ito 3m), and side slopes of 1-1/2:1 or
flatter. Feeder drains would be 3 ft (0.9 m) deep with a bottom width of 4 ft
(1.2 n).  MIain and secondary drains would have a 10 ft wide (3 m) laterite
surfaced roadway constructed on one bank. Timber bridges would be constructed
over main drains and culverts wouild be installed under roadways on secondary
drains. A typical drainage layout for smallholder tree crop areas is
provided in Map 13027R, which portrays a block on the Bernam Peninsula
at the northern extremity of the project area.
4.08      In the tree crop estate areas project works would consist of the
construction and rehabilitation of main drains and the construction of
bridges across main drains to provide access for smallholders and estate
laborers. These main drainage improvements would serve blocks of about
3,000 ac (1,215 ha) of estate land. A low-lying area of 10 sq miles (26 sq km)
of State land, located between thLe major estate area of Kuala Selangor
and the Buloh River, would be drained and poldered for eventual parcelization
and transfer to smallholders. A pumping plant would also be constructed to
evacuate flood waters from this area.
/1 A coconut rehabilitation project, which would support CSDS programs in
Northwest Selangor and throughout the country, has been prepared for
Bank financing.



- 15 -
4.09      A total of 167 miles (269 km) of bunds protecting the entire coast-
line of the project area and low-lying areas along the lower reaches of the
major rivers would be upgraded or reconstructed under the project (Map 13026R).
Bunds would be designed to protect against floods of 25-year frequencies.
The bunds would consist of earth embankments, with material obtained from
borrow pits on the inland side, and would be finished to 3:1 side slopes with
a 10 ft (3 m) top width. All main drains discharging through the bunds to the
rivers or the sea would be served by reinforced concrete tidal control gate
structures founded on piling. In many installations the existing gates are
too small, and would be replaced by larger gates up to 12 ft (3.7 m) in width.
Some old structures would be abandoned because of constant silting due to poor
siting, and new tidal gates would be added at more suitable locations. All
new gates would be fabricated of marine aluminum alloy.
4.10      Operation and Maintenance Equipment.  Vehicles and excavation and
earth-moving equipment would be purchased under the project to improve the
capability of Selangor DID to operate and maintain completed project works
(Annex 4, Table 4). The equipment would be allocated to the Sabak Bernam
and Kuala Selangor District DID offices, which are capable of performing
routine maintenance. Major repairs of heavy equipment and fabrication of
parts would be undertaken by DID's central maintenance shop in Ipoh.
4.11      Agricultural Supporting Services.  This component is designed to
institute an integrated agricultural service system which would eventually
provide a wide range of required services to all project area smallholders
on a reliable, timely basis (Annex 5). Two steps are required to achieve this
goal - the upgrading and expansion of the field operations of the four key
agencies responsible for promoting smallholder agricultural development in the
project area (DOA, FOA, BPM, and DID); and the integration of operations of
those key agencies to the extent required to synchronize services to farmers.
Each agency would require a buildup of staff at various levels in the project
area, with an emphasis on adequate numbers of field level staff to form and
regularly service small farmer groups, supported by smaller numbers of addi-
tional supervisory and specialist staff. New staff would require offices,
quarters, vehicles, equipment, and training, which would be financed by the
project, to effectively fulfill their duties. Operations of the various
agricultural agencies would be most closely integrated at the planning and
management level, on the one hand, and at the level where the field workers
contact small farmer groups and individual smallholders on the other. To
facilitate these joint operations, a single project headquarters to be shared
by supervisory staff of the agencies would be constructed under the project.
Seven new secondary-level Farmers' Development Centers (FDCs) would also be
constructed, and the three existing FDCs expanded, to provide office space,
storehouses, meeting rooms, and living quarters for field staff of the
various agencies.
Status of Design
4.12      Federal and Selangor State DID have completed detailed layouts of
representative sample areas for both the padi irrigation and tree crop
drainage components. For the irrigation distribution system the sample areas
utilized were the Sungei Nipah and Sungei Burong blocks, comprising a total
of 27% of the entire irrigable area. In addition, the proposed tertiary



- 16 -
irrigation and drainage system has already been constructed in the Sawah
Sempadan block of Tanjang Karang, representing an additional 12% of the padi
area. Federal DID would be responsible for the final design of all works,
including access roads and FDCs. Designs for the FDCs would be based on the
standard designs developed by DID for the seven centers constructed under the
Western Johore Agricultural Development Project (Loan 973-MA).
Implementation Schedule
4.13       The project would be implemented over a period of five years.  The
agricultural support components provide for a buildup of staff and facilities
phased over the implementation period. Much of the survey work in the padi
area has already been done, and except for two drainage blocks in Kuala
Selangor all surveying should be completed in 1978. Construction of irriga-
tion works in the Sungei Nipah block, to be financed retroactively under the
project (para. 4.16) began in July 1977 and is expected to be completed in
July 1978. Construction of irrigation works in the five remaining blocks
would commence immediately thereafter. Building of offices, quarters, and
FDCs would begin in February 1978. Construction of drainage works would
begin in Sabak Bernam in May 1978. Land acquisition is not expected to
seriously delay the implementation of construction as right-of-way for most
of the proposed drainage works has long been reserved by DID, and the use of
structural tertiary canals in the padi area would require the acquisition of
only 72 ha of padi land. All project works would be completed by January
1983. Further details are presented in Annex 4.
Cost Estimates
4.14       Total project costs are estimated at US$60 million, of which
US$26.0 million (43%) would be foreign exchange. Cost estimates for irrigation
and drainage works (including roads) are based on detailed layout and design
of 10% of the drainage area and 27% of the irrigation area (para 4.12) and
recent contract unit costs for earthwork and concrete structures in the
project area. Costs of structural tertiary canals, which represent 38% of
the total construction costs of project civil works, are based on an existing
central contract for manufacture and installation of GRP flumes valid through
December 1978 (para 4.04). Project cost estimates exclude the costs of the
tertiary canal system already installed in the Sawah Sempadan block, at a cost
of US$2.1 million. Costs of FDCs are based on similar recently completed
buildings in Johore. All incremental operating costs for the project period,
including salaries, have been included for the agricultural services component.
Cost estimates for equipment and vehicles are based on recent suppliers'
quotations, net of taxes and duties. Physical contingencies of 15% on
construction costs and 10% on equipment have been included. All cost
estimates have been adjusted to February 1978 levels based on recent
Malaysian and international inflationary trends. Expected price increases
due to inflation of 9% in 1978-79 and 8% thereafter have been included for
civil works and related physical contingencies, land, and operating and
personnel costs. For equipment, price increases of 7.5% in 1978-79 and 7%
thereafter have been allowed. Expected price increases amount to 27% of
base costs plus physical contingencies.



- 17 -
4.15      Detailed project costs are given in Annexes 4-6 and are summarized
below:
Foreign
Exchange
Local Foreign Total  Local  Foreign Total  Component
---- M$ Million ---  ---- US$ Million ---
Civil Works:
Tanjong Karang Irrigation   29.6  25.1   54.7   11.9    10.1   22.0           46
Tree Crop Drainage            16.6  13.7   30.3    6.7        5.5   12.2      45
Buildings and Facilities       2.9   1.3    4.2    1.2        0.5    1.7      30
Engineering and Supervision  6.4   0.7    7.1    2.6          0.3    2.9      10
Equipment:
Agricultural                   0.1   0.9    1.0        -      0.4    0.4      90
Operation and Maintenance    0.1   2.3    2.4    0.1          0.9    1.0      95
Incremental Agricultural
Services:                      3.3   0.4    3.7    1.3        0.2    1.5      10
Base Cost Estimate              59.0  44.4  103.4   23.8    17.9   41.7         43
Physical Contingencies           7.4   6.3   13.7    3.0        2.5    5.5      46
Expected Price Increases        17.8  13.8   31.6    7.2        5.6   12.8      43
Total Project Cost         84.2  64.5  148.7   34.0    26.0   60.0        43
Financing
4.16      The proposed Bank loan of US$26 million would finance the foreign
exchange requirement of the project. The loan would finance retroactively
the installation of a GRP flume tertiary canal system in approximately 50%
of the Sungei Nipah block (2,500 ac) of Tanjong Karang.  Total costs of this
work, which commenced after completion of appraisal in May 1977, are esti-
mated at US$1.1 million.  As this is a Federal project, all local costs would be
borne by GOtM throughout the implementation period of the project. Activities
falling under constitutional State jurisdiction, such as operation and main-
tenance of the completed irrigation and drainage works and agricultural
extension, would thereafter be financed through normal GOM procedures as
necessary. An assurance to this effect has been obtained from GOM.



- 18 -
Procurement
4.17      The drainage and irrigation works and access roads would be construc-
ted through a total of 12 contracts, of which 5 would be subject to inter-
national competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines. The
three largest contracts (totalliLng US$18.3 million) 11 would cover the
supply and installation of the structural tertiary canal system in five
complete blocks of Tanjong Karang and in one-half of the Sungei Nipah
block. These contracts would be subject to international tender open to
any structural system meeting specified characteristics of speed of instal-
lation, minimal disruption of existing crops, total command of the area,
durability, and other factors. The tertiary system in the remaining half-
of the Sungei Nipah block (US$1.1 million) would be installed under the
existing GRP flume contract (paras. 4.04 and 4.16). Most of the remaining
civil works pertaining to the Tanjong Karang irrigation component, including
construction of secondary and lateral canals, drains, and roads, would be
divided into two contracts worth approximately US$5 million each. These
contracts would also be subject to international competitive bidding.
4.18      Drainage of the tree crop areas would be implemented through
seven contracts worth a total of US$17.5 million. Three contracts would
cover Sabak Bernam, phased with the coconut replanting program planned for
that area. Three contracts would cover Kuala Selangor, divided by the
Tinggi, Selangor, and Buloh rivers, and a single contract would cover the
coastal strip between the padi area and the sea. As these contracts would
be too small in value to attract international interest (averaging US$2.5 mil-
lion each), they would be awarded after competitive bidding advertised locally
in accordance with Government procedures satisfactory to the Bank. The
local contracting industry is extremely competitive and strong, and local
tendering is well managed and publicized. Bids would be accepted from
foreign contractors who wish to participate, and no preference margins,
whether domestic or international, would be utilized in the evaluation and
award of civil works contracts. Buildings and facilities costing a total
of about US$2.7 million would also be tendered locally.
4.19      Force account work would include the rehabilitation of the Bernam
River and Sungei Tinggi Headworks as well as the feeder canal between them;
improvements to portions of the Tanjong Karang main canal and coastal
bunds; resurfacing of access farm roads; and the fabrication and supply of
aluminum roller gates and gears for tidal control structures. The total
cost of force account work is esitimated at US$2.2 million.
4.20      Agricultural and operation and maintenance equipment and vehicles
(US$2.0 million) would be procured under international competitive bidding
in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines. A 15% preference margin, or the
prevailing customs duty if lower:, would be extended to local manufacturers
of these items. Small off-the-shelf items, costing less than US$20,000
each and limited to a total of US$500,000, would be procured through normal
Government procedures.
/1 All estimates of contract values in this section refer to the total of
base costs, physical contingencies, and expected price increases.



- 19 -
Disbursements
4.21      Disbursements would be made at the rate of 100% against foreign
exchange expenditures on all directly imported equipment and vehicles and
training, 100% of the ex-factory cost of items manufactured locally, and 80%
of the total cost of locally procured items. Disbursements for all civil
works executed by contract would equal 48% of total costs. Disbursements for
force account work (para. 4.19) would equal 48% of total costs, and would be
made against a certificate of expenditures, the documentation for which would
be retained by the borrower and be available for inspection by the Bank dur-
ing the course of project supervision. Estimated expenditure and disburse-
ment schedules for the project, and a proposed allocation of the proceeds of
the loan, are given in Annexes 7-8. It is expected that disbursements would
be completed by August 31, 1983.
Accounts and Audits
4.22      The agencies involved in the project are all subject to normal
Government control and audit procedures. Assurances have been obtained that:
(a)  all agencies involved in project implementation would maintain
separate accounts for the project;
(b) all project accounts would be collated by the Project Manager
(para. 5.01);
(c) the Government's Auditor General or other auditors satisfactory
to the Bank would audit these accounts; and
(d)  the Project Manager would send the audited project accounts,
together with the auditor's comments, to the Bank within nine
months of the close of each financial year.
Environmental Effects
4.23      The project would not greatly affect the regional environment,
as most of the project works would merely intensify water control systems
which have been established for decades. About 1,000 ac (400 ha) of coastal
land subject to frequent sea flooding and salt water intrusion, and 2,500 ac
(1,000 ha) of land subject to flooding near the Buloh River, would be
reclaimed and protected for agricultural use. Drainage works would reduce
local mosquito habitats and facilitate ongoing malaria and dengue fever
control programs. The volume of drainage into the sea would remain essen-
tially unchanged and should have no effect on marine fish or shellfish.
Project works would not disturb the coastal mangrove fringe or the Tanjong
Karang swamp.
4.24      The Tanjong Karang peat swamp plays an important role as a water
storage reservoir for the padi area (Annex 1). Assurances have been
obtained that the swamp would be protected as a forest area, and that the
portion of the swamp which serves as a catchment for the irrigation area
would not be drained, logged, or developed in a manner which would jeopardize
the supply of water for irrigation purposes.



- 20 -
5. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Project Coordination
5.01      All the Federal agencies which would be involved in the implemen-
tation of the project - the Drainage and Irrigation Department (DID), the
Department of Agriculture (DOA), the Farmers' Organization Authority (FOA),
and the Bank Pertanian Malaysia (BPM) - are under the jurisdiction of the
Ministry of Agriculture (MOA). While each agency would be responsible for
implementing specific activitiies within its jurisdiction, responsibility for
coordinating all project activities would rest with a Project Manager in MOA.
The Project Manager's main administrative responsibilities would include
assisting the project agencies in the planning of joint field extension
programs (para. 4.11) and in preparing requests for the staff and operating
budgets required to implement ithose programs; assisting in planning construc-
tion of facilities and equipment procurement programs which would fulfill the
various agency requirements; representing the project in periodic meetings
with the Public Services Deparitment, the Treasury, and Selangor State
Government agencies; monitoring and evaluating the progress of implementation
actions and project effects and benefits; and reporting on the progress of
the project (particularly on behalf of DOA, FOA and BPM) to the Steering
Committee (para 5.02) and the Bank. Experience in Malaysia indicates that
technical officers (i.e., agriculture officers or engineers) are able to
perform this managerial function most effectively. The appointment of a
suitably qualified and experienced Project Manager would be a condition of
effectiveness of the proposed 'Loan. The Project Manager, who would reside
in the project area, would have a small staff to assist in budgeting,
procurement and disbursement matters.
5.02      The Project Manager would be guided on policy matters by a Steering
Committee composed of the Secretary General of the Ministry of Agriculture,
the State Secretary of Selangor, and other officials they may nominate.
Involvement of the State Secretary would ensure the participation of both
State-level agencies and officers and the District Officers, who are in
charge of local governmental ftnctions, and should facilitate coordination of
project activities at the grourLd level. Establishment of the Steering
Committee would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan.
5.03      At the substantive level the Project Manager would have to provide
close and continuous liaison between the implementing agencies in order to
maximize the impact of the project on the target population. The first and
most difficult task would be the organization of common Small Agricultural
Units, small groups of farmers which would be contacted by the various
agencies for agricultural extension, marketing, input supply, credit, water
management, and operation and maintenance purposes. The organization of
these groups would have to instill a cooperative spirit necessary for the
successful operation of relatively complex irrigation and drainage systems
and for the efficient provision of agricultural services to 32,000 small-
holder families. Such groups have operated successfully (on a small scale)



- 21 -
in the project area in the past, particularly when formed voluntarily on
the basis of natural residential and kinship patterns. The first step
in this effort would be to ensure that the local field staff of the various
agencies are themselves organized and aware of each other's activities and
programs, and that they meet the farmers jointly and with a unified program.
5.04      The Project Manager would have to ensure that agricultural recom-
mendations developed by the Malaysian Agricultural Research and Development
Institute (MARDI) for the project area are translated into simple field recom-
mendations delivered and demonstrated by the DOA extension staff, and that
recommended inputs are available in appropriate quantities through the FOA.
For this purpose, the Project Manager would function as a member of the State
Agricultural Research Development and Extension Committee, composed of senior
State-level officers in all agriculture-related agencies, including MARDI.
Finally, the Project Manager would have to ensure that adequate credit is
available through BPM to enable farmers to purchase recommended inputs. On
the last point assurances have been obtained that:
(a) the Project Manager would prepare, in consultation with
FOA, DOA, and BPM staff, a statement of annual agricultural
credit requirements, to be submitted to BPM and the Bank not
later than three months prior to the beginning of each fiscal
year; and
(b) GOM would thereafter ensure that an adequate amount of credit
would be made available to project area farmers through BPM.
Agency Responsibilities
5.05      Drainage and Irrigation Department.  DID would be responsible
for implementing all project civil works. Design work would require the
full-time services of a team of 7 engineers (including a senior engineer)
based in DID headquarters, as well as approximately 50 supporting technical
staff, for a period of 4 years. To ensure that design concepts, features,
assumptions, and data are effectively transmitted from the Federal design
staff to the State staff who will eventually operate and maintain the
systems, assurances have been obtained that design staff would produce a
designer's operation manual covering major project works. Supervision of
construction would require 6 senior engineers, 15 irrigation engineers,
and about 170 technical and clerical staff during the peak years of construc-
tion activity (1979-82). This staff would be posted by Federal DID to the
project area during project implementation. Selangor State DID would assume
responsibility for operation and maintenance of works upon completion and
acceptance by Federal DID. To adequately fulfill this responsibility, state
staff in the project area would have to be augmented by an additional senior
engineer and irrigation engineer, 47 technicians, inspectors, overseers,
and clerical staff of various grades, and 140 laborers./l An assurance has
been obtained that all drainage and irrigation staff required to operate and
maintain the project would be appointed.
/1 Detailed estimates of DID staff requirements are presented in Annex 4.



- 22 -
5.06      Department of Agriculture.  DOA would assume primary responsibility
for the organization and operation of the agricultural services component
of the project, with the assistance of the Project Manager (para. 5.01).
As agricultural extension is a State responsibility, the Selangor Director of
Agriculture would be administratively responsible for allocation of extension
staff to the project and for the general direction of the extension effort in
the project area. A Chief Extension Officer for the State of Selangor, as
well as a number of administrative and field extension staff, would be
provided under the National Extension Project. Additional staff
would be provided under the present project to complement the proposed
drainage and irrigation infrastructure with an intensified agricultural
services program aimed at raising smallholder agricultural incomes to the
maximum extent possible (para. 4.11). The operational methodology of the
proposed program is based largely on the training-visit system of agricultural
extension, modified to suit Malaysian institutions and the requirements of
the smallholders in the project area. The proposed operation and structure
of the agricultural services program is described in detail in Annex 5. In
order to implement that program, the Selangor DOA would require an additional
10 agricultural technicians (to bring the field agent:farmer ratio to 1:800),
5 Agricultural Assistants, 1 District Agriculture Officer, and 1 senior
project (regional) Agriculture Officer. Effective technical support of the
field extension staff would require the addition of five subject matter
specialists to the staff of the Selangor DOA, and strengthening of the
Federal technical support units serving the State. An assurance has been
obtained that all DOA staff required to serve the project area would be
appointed. The operational guidelines for the agricultural extension system
presented in Annex 5 should be updated and refined on the basis of field
experience in implementing the system over the entire project area. Accordingly,
assurances have been obtained that the DOA, in consultation with DID, FOA,
and BPM, would prepare an agricultural services operations manual as a guide
for field extension staff by December 31, 1978.
5.07      Farmers' Organization Authority.  FOA facilities in the project
area, which currently include three FDCs, would be augmented by seven new
secondary-level FDCs (para. 4.11). The subcenters would be operated to the
extent possible by farmer group leaders (Annex 5), supervised on a regular
basis by FOA staff based in the FDCs. To improve the FOA management system
in the project area, and to achieve an overall staffing level which would
permit FOA to play its role in the integrated agricultural services program,
Selangor FOA would require three graduate FDC managers assisted by two
additional Agriculture Assistants to strengthen and upgrade FDC activities
in the project area, and one agro-business specialist to provide technical
support and training for field staff. The State Director of FOA would bear
overall responsibility for agency activities in the project area. Assurances
have been obtained that all FOAI staff required to operate FDC facilities
and to participate in padi credit operations in the project area would be
appointed.
5.08      Bank Pertanian Malaysia.  BPM staff would work closely with FOA
staff in reviving and expanding institutional smallholder credit in the



- 23 -
project area; the two agencies would adopt the same methods of credit assess-
ment and would share the responsibility of making the assessment. With the
assistance of the DOA extension workers creditworthiness assessment would be
converted from a seasonal activity undertaken by a few individual FOA credit
workers to a year-round activity handled as part of the overall extension
effort. Another innovation would introduce the concept of group responsibility
for credit, in terms of countersignature of ordinary loans by farm group
leaders, and through loans to small groups of farmers, cross-guaranteed by
each, in cases where farmers own no land or are already in debt. BPM would
appoint 14 credit assistants to serve the project area from the 10 FDCs and
the BPM branch office in Tanjong Karang, and 5 area supervisors (AA level)
also to be stationed at the 5 larger FDCs. One thrust of the BPM effort
would be to provide credit directly to farmers unable or unwilling to become
members of Farmers' Organizations, who at present frequently find it difficult
to gain access to institutional credit programs. The regional BPM program
would continue to be supervised by the branch manager in Tanjong Karang. An
assurance has been obtained that all BPM staff required to serve the project
area would be appointed.
Smallholder Rent and Cost Recovery
5.09      At present operation and maintenance (O&M) costs of the Tanjong
Karang irrigation system average US$15/ha, while irrigation charges levied
by the State Government average US$10/ha. The O&M costs in the drainage
areas are lower, ranging between US$3 and US$8 per ha in various drainage
districts. Drainage rates paid by both estates and smallholders generally
are set to cover these O&M costs. Incremental DID O&M costs due to project
implementation are calculated (Annex 4, Table 5) to average US$15/ha in the
irrigation area by 1984, US$7.30/ha in the Sabak Bernam drainage area and
in smallholder areas generally, and US$3.60/ha in the Kuala Selangor drain-
age area and in estate areas generally. The State Legislature of Selangor
has approved an increase in irrigation rates to a maximum of US$15/ha
(in addition to a land tax of US$3/ha), and it is expected that these rates
would be charged by full project development. In addition to these charges
all Malay padi farmers pay the Islamic padi production tithe (zakat) to the
Selangor Department of Religious Affairs, which uses the receipts to finance
the religious school system, teachers' salaries, welfare expenses, and
maintenance of mosques. Estimated zakat payments (for all irrigation blocks
except Sekinchan) average US$69/ha, and are projected to rise an increment
of US$40/ha proportionally with project-induced yield increases. Thus the
total cost recovery index for the non-Sekinchan irrigation blocks is 37% /1
and the total rent recovery index for those blocks is 30%. For the non-
Moslem Sekinchan farmers, who are not liable for zakat, the cost recovery
index is 9% and the rent recovery index is 34%./2
/1 Equivalent to 300% of incremental O&M costs and therefore covering a
substantial proportion of capital costs.
/2 The rent recovery index is high because of the more limited potential
benefits in Sekinchan (Annex 2).



- 24 -
5.10      It should be noted that O&M of irrigation facilities in Malaysia
is totally divorced from irrigation charge collections,/l that irrigation
O&M is financed out of general revenues supported by a highly efficient
and generally progressive tax system, and that the level of O&M is not
constrained by a shortage of funds. In view of these factors and the level
of farm incomes (para. 6.07) the present structure and level of charges are
considered acceptable. Assurances have been obtained that the Selangor State
Government would continue to collect irrigation and drainage charges whose
level would be determined taking into account O&M and capital costs, incen-
tives to farmers, farmers' capacity to pay, and other taxes and charges
imposed upon them; and that the Government would exchange views with the Bank
from time to time on the level of these charges.
Estate Taxation
5.11      The estates in the project area pay drainage rates typically set to
cover O&M costs as calculated by Selangor DID. They also pay export duties
averaging 10% of the value of rubber and oil palm production, and quit rents
(property taxes) to the Selangor State Government. In addition, all estates
in the project area belong to registered private companies liable to pay the
standard Malaysian company tax equivalent to 45% of net profits. A financial
projection of the incremental tax payments of the 40 estates in the project
area which would be associated with incremental production due to the project
indicates that the net present value of such incremental taxes (US$10 million)
far exceeds the investment costs of drainage works in estate areas (US$2.3
million). The cost recovery index in these terms is over 430%./2 Finally,
dividend income received by resident owners or shareholders of the estate
companies is again subject to personal income tax at rates of up to 55%. In
sum, the drainage works benefit:ting estates would not constitute a burden on
Malaysian public finances.
6. PRODUCTION, MARKETING, PRICES, AND FARM INCOME
6.01      The Tanjong Karang irrigation component would provide each individ-
ual padi farmer access to imprcoved irrigation and drainage systems, permit-
ting a very high degree of water control over each three-acre (1.2 ha) lot.
The tree crop drainage component would provide an intensive drainage system
serving most of the tree crop smallholdings directly, which, with associa-
ted gates, checks, and other structures, would provide for the first time
a reliable degree of control over the depth of the water table in the tree
crop areas. The main drainage systems, river canalization works, and coastal
bunds would also provide flood protection to smallholder and estate tree crop
areas, as well as providing outlets for numerous internal drainage systems
constructed by the estates (see Map 13026R). Most of the smallholders have
enough experience with the crops they are growing to be able to take advan-
tage of the improved infrastructure systems through changes in cultivation
/1 Irrigation and drainage rates, together with quit rents and land taxes,
are paid by landowners to the State Land offices, and not to DID.
/2 The financial rent recovery index is approximately 65%.



- 25 -
practices and input usage. However, changes in the smallholders' agricul-
tural practices can be directed and accelerated by an integrated agricultural
extension effort, to make quicker and fuller use of improved facilities
to increase their production and incomes. This is the function of the pro-
ject's agricultural services component. Penetration of the agricultural areas
by extension and credit workers, and marketing and input supply activities,
would be facilitated by the access road and bridge construction elements of
the project.
Padi Production, Marketing, and Prices
6.02      Average padi yields in Tanjong Karang would increase substantially
with improved water control facilities alone due to five major factors: con-
version from double-transplanting (floating nursery) techniques adapted to
a situation of uncontrolled water depths to standard wet seedbed techniques;
increased use of fertilizer and insecticide in lower risk conditions; better
land preparation with improved drainage; better timing of planting and hence
harvesting seasons; and maintenance of more appropriate water levels during
various growth stages (Annex 2). With infrastructure investment alone, main
season padi yields are projected to rise from 3.0 to 3.7 ton/ha, and off-season
yields from 3.5 to 4.0 ton/ha, over a period of ten years./l This would
result in an incremental output of 25,000 tons of padi per annum. Assuming
effective implementation of the project's agricultural services component,
final yields are expected to reach 4.4 ton/ha in the main season and
4.7 ton/ha in the off-season, with a total incremental output of 46,000 tons
of padi, equivalent to 30,000 tons of milled rice.
6.03      The incremental padi production would be entirely marketed in
Malaysia, which is projected to be a net importer of rice at least through
1990 (Annex 9, Table 2). Tanjong Karang, the only large padi area in
Selangor, is also the closest point of supply to Kuala Lumpur, the major
consuming market in the country. Most of the incremental production would
be milled and marketed by LPN (para. 3.18) which purchases padi from farmers
at farm-gate prices roughly equivalent to current world market prices.
Although the project output would substitute for the highest grades of
Chinese and Thai rice (which are the grades commonly imported) for purposes
of economic analysis it is assumed that the mixture of grades to be produced
under the project would equal in value the standard 15% broken Thai grade.
This grade is typically traded internationally at prices 10% below those of
the Thai 5% broken grade for which the Bank's Economic Analysis and Projec-
tions Department makes long-term projections.
Tree Crop Production, Marketing, and Prices
6.04      All of the major tree crops in the project area are susceptible
to serious damage and yield reduction due to prolonged inundation, drought,
or frequent fluctuations in the depth of the water table. Due to widespread
/1 Preliminary crop cutting results for the first full season following comple-
tion of works in the Sawah Sempadan block indicate a rise in average yield
of over 0.6 ton/ha, an extremely rapid reaction.



- 26 -
recognition of this fact, both estates and smallholdings throughout the
region are characterized by regular systems of on-farm drains, though the
standard of excavation and maintenance on the estates naturally exceeds that
of most smallholdings. By providing collector and main drains and regulating
structures, the project would be essentially completing a network begun by
smallholders and firms. The benefits of this investment would be reflected in
increased areas planted with certain tree crops and in increased yields on
existing stands or on stands which would have been planted or replanted in the
absence of the project (Annex 3). As project works would for the first time
prevent river flooding and provide drainage on a total of 3,200 ha (7,800 ac)
of unused fertile land in Kuala Selangor, it has been assumed that the net
benefits of planting this land with 800 ha of smallholder oil palm, 1,200 ha
of smallholder coffee, and 1,200 ha of estate oil palm would be due to the
project. Similarly, an area of 600 ha of smallholder land in Sabak Bernam to
be reclaimed behind reconstructed sea bunds and planted with coconuts would be
a direct result of the project. In each case the nature of the crop to be
planted on reclaimed land was projected on the basis of soil type, future
drainage conditions, and trends in the immediate vicinity. Implementation of
this project would also permit the Selangor State Government to initiate the
Bukit Cheraka Settlement Scheme, which would involve the planting of 3,000 ha
of oil palm along the Buloh River and the settling of 1,800 landless families.
The latter scheme has not been accounted a direct benefit of the present
project.
6.05      Estimates of yield increases (Annex 3) are based largely on the
long experience of private estates in the northwest Selangor and lower
Perak areas, supplemented by the recent experience of drainage schemes
in smallholder areas of those two states. The largest proportional yield
increases (about 25%) are projected for the diminishing areas of small-
holder and estate rubber, as existing stands of rubber are capable of sub-
stantial yield increases with lowering and control of the water table.
Oil palm is capable of such yield recovery to a lesser extent, being less
susceptible to poor drainage conclitions in the first place, and average
yield increases of about 10% due to the project have been postulated. For
coconuts, cocoa, and coffee, yield increases (of about 10%) would primarily
be observed on new plantings rather than existing stands. None of the
large projected increases in the area of cocoa intercropped on coconut
smallholdings is assumed to be due to the project (Annex 3, Table 6) despite
the fact that adequate drainage and a water table maintained at 1 m (3 ft)
below the surface are considered to be agronomic prerequisites of the crop.
None of the highly profitable projected conversion of coconut land from
Malayan Tall varieties to MAWA hybrids is assumed to be due to the project,
although yield increases of 10% for both varieties have been included as
project benefits.
6.06      Marketing and processinLg of the projected incremental output of
tree crops would present no problems whatsoever. Malaysia is the largest
producer and exporter of natural rubber and oil palm, and extremely effi-
cient private bulking and milling, facilities developed to serve both estates
and smallholders are available thLroughout the region. Incremental project
area production of rubber and oil palm would amount to only 0.03% and 0.4%



- 27 -
respectively of projecued Malaysian exports in 1990. The country has also
long exported coconut oil, and several private coconut oil mills operate in
the region. The initiation of cocoa production by estates along the
Perak and Selangor coasts opened up international marketing channels, which
have now been extended to reacn the smallholders by a network of small
middlemen, who process the beans and sell the dried and fermented product
to international agency houses. The p'roject's incremental output of Liberica
coffee would be largely destined for the domestic market, but domestic
demand is strong for this variety and a strong private marketing and proces-
sing network already e'xist:s for .Uis commodity also.  The Federal Agricul-
tural Marketing Authority is also active in the processing and marketing of
smallholder copra and cocoa in the project area, serving to ensure fair
treatment of smallholders by private wholesalers and processors. Price
projections of rubber, oil palm and coconut products, and cocoa are based
directly on Bank projections of world prices, with a slight (5%) discount
for Malaysian cocoa due to its higher acidity relative to West African
output.  The price of local Liberica coffee has been forecasted to vary
proportionally with Bank projections of the world price of Arabica varieties,
in line with recent experience.
Farm Incomes
6.07      The farm budgets presented in Annex 10 represent single-family
farms typical of the irrigation and drainage areas of Northwest Selangor.
Surveyed farm families in the region average 6.0 members in size. The
present annual per capita income in the non-Sekinchan padi areas is about
M$583 (US$235), compared with the estimated national relative poverty line of
about M$840 (US$340), the estimated absolute poverty line of M$533 (US$215),
and national per capita income of about M$2,130 (US$860). Per capita incomes
in the tree crop areas are lower (averaging M$370 or US$150) and tree crop
farmers are heavily depe -ei' on off-farm incomes. About 85% of smallholder
families in the project area subsist on total incomes below the relative
poverty line, while 65% live in absolute poverty. In general, the project
area is not among the poorest padi or rainfed areas in the country, but in no
sense can it be considered wealthy or prosperous. The level of incomes, farm
sizes, and agricultural practice of the area is such that the project is
anticipated to lift the bulk of the poor in the project area (17,000 families)
out of absolute poverty, and to place those currently living on incomes above
the absolute poverty line more securely and permanently outside the poverty
group.  In the non-Sekinchan padi areas per capita income would rise with the
project to M$735 (US$296) in constant terms by 1987, while tree crop farmers
would by 1990 earn the equivalent of between M$938 (US$378) and M$1,528
(US$616), depending on choice of primary crops and intercrops.  The most
advanced and prosperous single identifiable group of farmers, the Sekinchan
padi farmers, are expected to benefit least from the project, with per capita
incomes rising from M$1,100 (US$444) now to M$1,150 (US$464) with the project.



- 28 -
7. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION, AND RISK
7.01      The expected value of the economic rate of return of the overall
project, assuming effective implementation of the agricultural services
component, is 21%. This estimate is a composite of the estimated return of
the Tanjong Karang irrigation component (19%) and the tree crop drainage
component (22%). The effects of the tree crop drainage component were further
segregated into costs and benefits primarily related to either smallholder or
estate areas. This analysis indicates that the return on drainage investments
in the smallholder areas would be 15% and in the estate areas, 30%. The
difference would be due to the higher sunk cost of existing works (largely
on-farm drains and roads) constructed by the estates themselves, the higher
sunk cost of existing stands of estate tree crops, and the higher standards of
upkeep and labor management. Almost all project works would be justified on
the basis of effects on smallholder production alone, however. The above
rates of return do not include possible project effects on increases in areas
planted of various tree crops, on rates of conversion between varieties of
coconuts planted, nor on the feasibility of the Bukit Cheraka Settlement
Scheme (paras. 6.04-6.05).
7.02      Commodity prices were derived with suitable adjustments from the
Bank's world market price projections (Annex 9). All farm labor was valued
at the surveyed regional market rate of M$8/day (US$3.20/day) during the
peak periods of land preparation and harvesting and M$4.80/day (US$1.90/day)
during the remainder of the year. During the appraisal period (March-May
1977) the freely fluctuating market rate of exchange for the Malaysian
currency averaged M$2.48 to US$1.00. Recent calculations, based on data
for the three-year period 1974-76, indicate that the standard conversion
factor is 1.00, which permits the use of the official market exchange rate.
7.03      The major risk associated with achievement of project benefits
involves the uncertainties associated with the implementation of the inte-
grated agricultural supporting services system. If the padi yield increases
projected with the proposed intensive agricultural service system are reduced
by 50%, the expected value of the economic rate of return of the Tanjong
Karang irrigation component would decline from 19% to approximately 16%, on
the basis of the assumptions made in Annex 2.  Similar rLsks would be assoc_ated
with the drainage component, although to a lesser extent as the starting base
of tree crop yields in the region is quite low, the projecteci incremenial
yield increases are quite small, and the required changes in productioL
techniques are quite simple. However, the implementing agencies have already
begun to organize the proposed field extension system in the Sawah Se'tPqdqn
pilot irrigation block (para. 4.04) in anticipation of expanding the ,stc'.
throughout the region in step with infrastructure improvements.  Fu l er;nole
the proposed system has now been initiated with considerable success under the
North Kelantan Rural Development Project (1294-MA) providing a training



- 29 -
ground for Selangor staff and more importantly a demonstration that with
sufficient will, enthusiasm, and organizational leadership, the training
and visit extension system is feasible in Malaysia. Finally, the National
Extension Project (Loan 1493-MA) would provide the Federal and Selangor
Departments of Agriculture with the general organizational support and
strengthening they would require to effectively direct and manage the
proposed extension program in Northwest Selangor.
8. RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government
on the following major points:
(a) all local costs would be borne by GOM throughout the implemen-
tation period of the project, and activities falling under
constitutional state jurisdiction, such as operation and main-
tenance of the completed irrigation and drainage works and
agricultural extension, would thereafter be financed through
normal GOM procedures as necessary (para. 4.16);
(b) the implementing agencies would maintain separate project
accounts for the project; and such accounts would be audited by
auditors satisfactory to the Bank and forwarded to the Bank within
nine months of the close of each financial year (para. 4.22);
(c) the Tanjong Karang swamp would remain a protected forest area,
and the portion of it which serves as a catchment for the irri-
gation area would not be drained, logged, or developed in a
manner which would jeopardize the supply of water for irrigation
purposes (para. 4.24);
(d) the Project Manager would prepare annual statements of agricultural
credit requirements to be submitted to BPM and the Bank not later
than three months prior to the beginning of each fiscal year, and
GOM would thereafter ensure that an adequate amount of credit
would be made available to project area farmers through BPM
(para. 5.04);
(e) DID design staff would prepare a designer's operation manual to
guide the operation and maintenance of project works upon comple-
tion of final design, and DOA would prepare an agricultural ser-
vices operations manual as a guide for field extension staff by
December 31, 1978 (paras. 5.05 and 5.06);
(f) all DID, DOA, FOA, and BPM staff required to implement and operate
the project would be appointed (paras. 5.05, 5.06, 5.07, and 5.08);
and



- 30 -
(g)  the Selangor State Government would continue to collect irrigation
and drainage charges wFhose level would be determined taking into
account O&M and capital costs, incentives to farmers, the farmers'
capacity to pay, and other charges and taxes imposed upon them;
and that the Government would exchange views with the Bank from
time to time on the level of these charges (para. 5.10).
8.02      The appointment of a suitably qualified and experienced Project
Manager (para. 5.01), and the establishment of a project Steering Committee
(para. 5.02) would be conditions of effectiveness of the proposed loan.
8.03      With the above assurances the project is suitable for a Bank
loan of US$26 million, with a 17-year maturity and a grace period of
4 years. The borrower would be Malaysia.



ANNEX I
Page 1
MALAYSIA
NORTHWEST SELANGOR INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Water Supply, Demand and Quality
Climate
1.        The project area has a tropical climate, characterized by high
humidity, abundant rainfall and little variation in temperature. Average
annual rainfall is about 70 inches, of which approximately 60% occurs dur-
ing the Northeast monsoon season from October to March. The rainfall
pattern generally includes two maxima and two minima per year. One maximum
occurs in April-May, and a higher one in October-November. One minimum
occurs in February, and a low-er one in June-July. The monthly rainfall in
the project area is shown in Table 1 for 1962-73. Monthly mean temperature
is almost uniform throughout the year at about 8OoF. Relative humidity
is persistently high, varying between 80% and 86%.
Water Supply
2.        The water supply for the Tanjong Karang irrigation area 11 is
derived from the following three sources:
(a) Rainfall on the padi fields. This is an important but
highly variable source (Table 1). Only a portion of the
monthly mean rainfall can be relied upon and effectively
utilized.
(b) Bernam River. Flow from the Bernam River is diverted
into the existing 1,000 cusec capacity feeder canal at
the Bernam River headworks and barrage (Map 13026). The
feeder canal discharges into the Tinggi River which
conveys the water for about 15 miles before it is
diverted to the main canal, and project use, by the
Tinggi headworks. The Bernam River headworks and
barrage can essentially divert the full flow of the
river, to the limit of the capacity of the feeder ranal:
About 220 cusecs of river flow are continuously sluiced
through the barrage to prevent the entrance of bed load
sediment into the feeder canal. Table 2 shows the mean
monthly discharge for the period 1962-73 of the Bernam
River at the SKG Bridge, about ten miles upstream from
the headworks. No flow is diverted from the river
between the bridge and the headworks.
/1 The water supply and demand analysis is based on the entire net
padi area in the Tanjong Karang irrigation scheme, including the
Sawah Sempadan block (5,990 ac) which has already been upgraded.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
(c)  TanJong Karang Swamp.  The Tanjong Karang peat swamp
acts as a storage reservoir for the project area.
The feeder canal and Tinggi River pass through it and
the main canal borders it on the east. Water in
the swamp is derived from rainfall and also from
Bernam River flow diverted to the feeder canal and
into the swamp in excess of project requirements.
The main canal has no bank on the swamp side and
receives water from the swamp along its whole
length. The swamp is composed of peat to a depth of
some 15 to 20 feet and covers an effective storage
area of 274 square miles. The extractable water is
stored in the upper layer which is computed to hold
120,000 acre feet of live storage. Refer to Table 3
for assumptions and computations which derive the
live storage, and Table 4 for the computed monthly
water yield of the swamp. The water balance yield
equation reduces to the difference between rainfall
and evaporation, as deep percolation is not a factor.
Table 5 shows mean monthly evaporation at five forest
sites in the area.
3.        Water demand is primarily supplied by rain falling on the irrigated
area and by flow diverted from the Bernam River. When this is insufficient
the deficit is made up by withdrawal of water from the Tanjong Karang swamp.
Conversely, when rainfall and diversion are in excess of demand, the excess
water is stored in the swamp, to an estimated capacity of 120,000 acre feet.
Water Demand
4.        To compute water demand, the Taniong Karang irrigation area is
divided into three cropping patterns (three water delivery schedules) of
approximately equal size and 20 days apart. Refer to Figure 1 of Annex 2
for proposed timing of farm activities. The main canal would be upgraded
and operated so that any area or sub-area could be included in any one of
the cropping patterns. Staggering farm activities has the advantage of
better utilizing water conveyance capaLities and aLtenuatiing peak demands
on farm labor and machinery. For purposes of computation, areas were
grouped as follows:
(a) Cropping Pattern No. 1 (19,434 acres) comprising
Sawah Sempadan, Sungei Burong and Sekinchan
blocks;
(b) Cropping Pattern No. 2 (14,245 acres) comprising
Sungei Leman, Pasir Panjang, and Sungei Nipah;
(c) Cropping Pattern No. 3 (15,366 acres) comprising
Panchang Bedina and Bagan Terap.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
5.        The above areas add up to 49,045 acres which is used to compute
water requirements. This is a conservative figure since the net projected
irrigated area, after subtracting land which will be taken out of production
by the construction of flumes and additional drains, is about 48,300 acres.
6.        Table 6 shows the monthly irrigation requirement for each cropping
pattern and Table 7 shows the total flow requirement in cusecs for each
month, based on results shown in Table 6. To develop these tables, the
following assumptions were made:
(a) the effective rainfall is 30% of the mean monthly
rainfall;
(b) the water delivery/application/operating efficiency
is 60%.
Values for presaturation requirements and consumptive use can be obtained by
referring to Table 6. A field loss of .07 in per day was assumed./l
Water Demand and Availability Analysis
7.        A computerized analysis of water demand and availability was
performed on the basis of 12 years of data, and the detailed results
in the form of printouts are available as working papers. Computations were
based on half-monthly intervals of time. Rainfall data and monthly discharge
values for the Bernam River for the years 1962-73 were superimposed on
computed demands. A silt (bed load) flushing requirement of 220 cusecs was
assumed at the Bernam River headworks and the maximum capacity of the feeder
canal was assumed as 1,000 cusecs. The swamp capacity was assumed as 120,000
acre feet. The analysis revealed that in 288 two-week periods there is
withdrawal from the swamp 86 times. The lowest storage level reached is
18,182 acre feet.
8.        The study showed that the project would have an assured water supply
with diversion from the Bernam River and storage in the Tanjong Karang swamp.
This result conforms with historical experience in tl-he project area, which
has depended on the three available sources of water (para. 3) for double-
cropping of up to 70% of the land area since 1964. The cropping intensity
has never been constrained by lack of water (rather by lack of command and a
poor distributary system), despite the fact that the present system of
inundation by backflooding is extremely wasteful.
Water Quality
9.        There is little analytical data available on water quality.  The
water from the peat swamp is quite acidic and the water from the Bernam River
turbid. No problem related to water quality has been encountered in the
/1 Water requirements estimates are based on DID Water Resources Publica-
tion No. 5 and DID Information Paper No. 2.



ANNEX I
Page 4
irrigation area, despite the fact that from 1938 to 1958 the padi area was
virtually entirely supplied from the peat swamp. Since that time the
diversion from the Bernam River has replaced the swamp as the major supple-
mentary water source, and the irrigation supply has become markedly less
acidic. Throughout the entire period the Tanjong Karang padi area has been
one of the highest yielding padi areas in Malaysia.



ANNEX I
Table I
MALAYSIA
NORTHWEST SELANGOR INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Monthly Rainfall in Taiong Karang Irrigation Area
(Inches)
Month      1962   1963   1964  1965   1966   1967   1968   1969   1970   1971   1972  1973
January     4.87   4.95  5.54   1.01   6.36   6.07   2.78   3.03   9.08   9.05  1.90  11.19
February    3.67   2.69  9.99   5.43   7.01   4.04   1.47   2.14   0.55   3.09  4.28   4.01
March       4.67   3.74  4.64   2.94   5.78   1.95   5.89   4.58   5.20   1.80  1.17  10.01
April       6.11   0.56  3.72   6.24   5.47   5.84   7.38   3.07   5.46   1.97  3.49   9.32
May         6.66   5.96  1.79   4.02   4.74   2.76   4.93   9.98   4.43   1.78  2.02  11.19
June        2.46   2.89  2.45   0.57   6.88   3.54   4.06   2.96   3.58   5.62  7.52   3.55
July        1.62   2.07  6.23   3.07   2.20   1.70   5.14   1.76   5.24   2.80  3.32   3.09
August      6.42   4.34  1.40   4.97   7.17   4.45   3.27   5.82   2.10   5.77  2.23   4.27
September   2.06   7.60  6.36   4.68   6.95   3.83   6.58   2.89   3.12   5.56  6.25   6.91
October    10.80  12.63  9.64   9.36   8.95   7.25  12.84  10.40   9.76   5.98  6.98  11.40
November   11.63  16.17  7.09   9.58  11.74  17.13   7.81  17.29  16.58   6.40  9.19   7.13
December    3.52   5.66  6.70  10.07   6.88   3.65  11.73  11.24   6.24  10.76  4.67   4.62
Source:  DID



ANNEX 1
Table 2
MALAYSIA
NORTHWEST SELANGOR INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Monthly Discharge of Bernam River at SKG Bridge la
(Cusecs)
Month       1962   1963   1964    1965    1966   1967   1968   1969   1970   1971   1972   1973
January    2.653  1,630  2,055  1,313    2,195  3,545  1,030  2,276  2,585  4,251  2,208  1,523
rebruary   1,160    841  1,177  1,060    1,708  2,310    770  1,596  1,112  1,576  1,643  1,120
March       2,176    911  1,397  1,131    2,074  1,683    508  1,169  1,070  1,770  1,315  1,435
April       2,604    607  1,403  2,353    2,727  2,213    916  1,593  2,178  1,343  2,042  4,279
May         3,142  1,579  1,612  3,443    1,558  2,794  3,135  3,201  2,777  1,357  2,784  3,512
June        1,538  1,511  1,242  1,483    1,726  1,189  2,394  1,706  1,347  1,074  2,279  3,180
July          997  1,007  2 250  1,000/1b  1,631    775  1,537    935  1,297  1,004  1,212  1,696
August      1,258  1,777  1,484  1,000/b- 1,556    687  1,236  1,404  1,399  1,869  1,095  2,283
September  1,656  1,678  2,802  1,000/b  1,842  1,125  1,797  1,443  2,088  2,272  1,901  2,463
October    3,436  3,433  2,273  2,463    3,186  2,033  2,364  3,996  3,102  1,491  3,777  3,852
November   4,693  5,735  3,506  3,316    3,935  4,446  2,459  2,928  2,880  3,452  4.693  4,604
December   2,237  3,428  2,858  3,545    3,802  2,311  2,686  2,779  2,947  4,219  2,873  4,223
/a From DID streamflow records.
/b Estimated values: records not available.



ANNEX 1
Table 3
MALAYSIA
NORTHWEST SELANGOR INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Computation of the Live Storage in Tanjong Karang Swamp
The water stored in the Tanjong Karang Swamp contributes a portion
of the irrigation supply to the Tanjong Karang Irrigation Scheme. In the
computation of the possible storage, the following assumptions were made:
(1)  The top of the storage layer is defined by the existing ground
level.
(2)  The base of the layer is defined for a specified contour level as
the top half of the depth of that contour above the R.L. + 16.00
level.
(3)  The peat possesses an average void ratio of 70% and a minimum yield
coefficient of 0.2.
Area in               Base level            Storage volume
Contour level          square miles         of water layer            in acre feet
16   to   18               12.75              16   to 17                    4,080
18   to   20               15.15              17   to 18                   14,544
20   to   22               16.50              18   to 19                   26,400
22   to   24               16 95              19   to 20                   37,968
24   to   26               18.90              20   to 21                   54,432
26   to   28               24.75              21   to 22                   87,120
28   to   30               46.20              22   to 23                  192,192
30   to   31               16.80              23   to 23.5                 77,952
31   to   32               15.10              23.5 to 24                   75,144
32   to   33               15.45              24   to 24.5                 81,576
33 and above               75.05             24.5 to 25                   420,000
Total               274.00                                        1,071,408
Therefore, live storage = 0.7 x 0.2 x 1,071,408
= 149,997 acre feet
However, for the purpose of computation, 80% of this value was assumed as the
live storage of the swamp available to the project.
Hence, maximum live storage = 0.8 x 149,997
= 120,000 acre feet



MALAYSIA
NORTHWEST SELANGOR INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Monthly Water Yield from the Tanjong Karang Swamp /a
(Acre feet)
Month        1962      1963      1964     1965      1966     1967      1968      1969     1970      1971      1972     1973
January     58,464   16,384   31,396  -42,068   77,796   46,244   17,012   14,228   10,610   56,596  -16,548   53,466
February    29,385  -17,322   56,298    6,804   23,354   29,232   15,466   25,520  -33,408    3,712   14,692    5,316
March       41,760   46,090   32,480   21,808   585928   15,218    3,556   59,050   59,856   17,940  -47,328   75,434
April       87,540  -38,202   49,648   53,978   64,650   31,458   80,426    2,628   62,330   22,890   74,240  195,976
May         63,412   85,914   -9,434   36,964  -17,322   53,204   60,938   97,904   83,210  -28,304   14,848  120,528
June          -464  -16,394   15 930  -36,346   46,682  -18,126   28,768   -4,330  -33,716           -772   25,674      -772
July        22,116  -28,458   47,328   11,136  -21 652  -54,132  -19,178  -37,738  -20,880  -36,964  -45,628   18,404
August      38,048   34,336  -17,322   20,828   17,476   -2,040  -13,920   35,108   -9,280   19,488   -1,042   31,552
September    5,568   71,456   57,844   12,064   37,892   32,480   15,466   -7,732   24,282   22,426   85,674   36,656
October    107,338   95.892   51,348  109,348   78,416   86,304   88,004   99,296   22,580   24,436   82,282  140,436
November   115,226  200,292   46,090  139,972   93,108  220,372   38,048  152,768  143,220   52,074  178,640  106,564
December    11,600   29,554   32,016   97.284  103,472    6,650  121,412   48,768   51,960  143,684   51,504   69,908
/a  Based on DID's "Water Balance Study of Tanjong Karang Swamp."                                                               Pt t
a,.-.



MALAYSIA
NORTHWEST SELANGOR INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Mean Monthly Forest Evaporation
(Inches)
SI. no. Site no.  Site name    Jan.  Feb.  Mar.  Apr.  May   June  July  Aug.  Sept.  Oct.  Nov.  Dec.
1     3710306   Bagan Terap  5.04  5.16  5.79  5.24  5.08  4.65  4.85  5.04  4.96   5.00  4.53  4.33
2     340       Tg. Malim    5.04  5.00  5.99  5.56  5.56  5.40  5.59  5.63  5.67   5.52  5.12  4.89
3     3609313   Sg. Besar    5.08  5.16  5.83  5.48  5.36  5.28  5.36  5.52  4.96   5.12  4.73  4.57
4     322        K.K. Baru    5.36  5.00  5.91  5.67  5.56  5.32  5.52  5.75  5.59   5.59  5.08  5.16
5     325       Tg. Karang   4.57  4.57  5.24  5.89  4.85  4.65  4.73  5.08  4.93   4.89  4.41  4.26
Source: "Evaporation in Peninsular Malaysia, DID Water Resources Publication No. 5, 1976.
F3 
Um



MALAYSIA
NORTHWEST SELANGOR INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Monthly Irrigation Water Requirements
(inches)
Jan.   Feb.   Mar.   Apr.   May    Jun.   Jul.   Aug.  Sept.   Oct.   Nov.   Dec.
Mean rainfall (in/month)             5.48   4.03   4.36   4.88   5.02   3.84   3.19   4.35   5.23   9.66  11.48   7.15
Cropping pattern I
Presaturation, q                      -  15.94       -       -       -      -       -  16.16        -       -      -
Consumptive use + field loss          -   2.55   8.28   8.66   5.83         -       -   2.94   7.90   8.31   8.06   3.81
Effective rain, RE                    -   1.21   1.31   1.46   1.51   1.15          -   1.31   1.57   2.90   3.44   2.15
Farm requirement, QF                  -  17.28   6.97   6.82   7.15   4.68          -  17.79   6.33   5.41   4.62   1.66
Diversion requirement                 -  28.80  11.61  11.36  11.91   7.80          -  29.65  10.55   9.01   7.70   2.76
Cropping pattern II
Presaturation, q                      -   8.03   8.02        -       -      -       -   4.09  12.07         -      -       -
Consumptive use + field loss    1.34          -   5.49   7.82   8.66   8.40   2.75          -   1.34   7.59   8.06   7.62
Effective rain, RE                 1.64   1.21   1.31   1.46   1.51   1.15   0.96   1.31   1.57   2.90   3.44   2.15
Farm requirement, QF                  -   6.82  12.20   6.36   7.15   7.25   1.79   2.78  11.84   4.69   4.62   5.47
Diversion requirement                 -  11.36  20.33  10.60  11.91  12.00   2.98   4.63  19.73   7.81   7.70   9.11
Cropping pattern III
Presaturation, q                      -       -  16.26       -       -      -       -       -  12.16        -      -       -
Consumptive use + field loss    6.83          -      -   7.84   7.83   8.40   8.52          -       -   7.59   7.41   7.62
Effective rain, RE                 1.64      -   1.31   1.46   1.51   1.15   0.96           -   1.57   2.90   3.44   2.15
Farm requirement, QF               5.19       -  14.95   6.38   6.32   7.25   7.56          -  10.59   4.69   3.97   5.47
Diversion requirement              8.65       -  24.91  10.63  10.53  12.08  12.26          -  17.65   7.81   6.61   9.11
Source: DID.
0 Z
M rm
(DN t-



MALAYSIA
NORTHWEST SELANGOR INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Gross Water Requirements in Main Canal
Item                   Unit      Jan.   Feb.   Mar.   Apr.  May  Jun.  Jul.    Aug.  Sept.  Oct.  Nov.  Dec.
Cropping Pattern I
(19,434 ac)
Volume requirement       ac ft/day      -   1,529    616   603   632   414        -  1,574    560   478   409   146
Flow requirement           cusecs       -     764    308   301   316   207        -    787    280   239   204    73
Cropping Pattern II
(14,245 ac)
Volume requirement      ac ft/day       -     442    791   412   463   470   116    180    767   304   299   354
Flow requirement           cusecs       -     221    395   206   231   235    58         90    383   152   149   177
Cropping Pattern III
(15,366 ac)
Volume requirement       ac ft/day   363        -  1,046   446   442   507   515          -    741   328   277   383
Flow requirement           cusecs    181         -    523   223   221   253   257         -    370   164   138   191
Total flow requirement       cusecs    181       985  1,226   730   768   695   315    877  1,033   555   491   441
Source: DID.
3- 



ANNEX 2
Page 1
MALAYSIA
NORTHWEST SELANGOR INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Present and Projected Developments in Padi Production
Physical Aspects
1.        Presently about 19,800 ha in the Tanjong Karang Irrigation
area are utilized for padi production. The soils are predominantly fertile
marine alluvia, with low permeability, and are well suited to padi. However,
the Soils Branch of the Department of Agriculture estimates that about 30%
of the irrigated area adjacent to the main supply canal on the fringe of
the peat swamp may be under organic clay, muck and peat soils. Small isolated
areas of acid sulphate soils may also occur. Local field staff estimate
that peat may account for aboul: 1,500 ha of the area. Due to acidity, hydrogen
sulphide production and associated nutrient in-balance, yield potential on the
organic soils is considerably lower than on the mineral soils.
2.        The irrigation area iLs divided into blocks of 80-120 ha, with
each block having its own supply channel and drain. The blocks in turn are
divided into 1.2 ha lots. The average family grows padi on 1 to 2 lots.
There are a total of 16,411 lots in the area and the number of farm families
involved is of the order of 12,000. While the land is fairly flat, there are
local variations of 30 cm in land level. On-farm water control is crude;
much of the area is now irrigated by back-flooding from drains rather
than from canals, and hence few batases (field bunds) have been constructed
by farmers.
3.        As the capacity of tbhe present delivery system is limited, irrigation
schedules and planting are staggered over a 12-week period. Farmers in the
Kuala Selangor section, e.g. the Sawah Sempadan, Sungei Burong and Sekinchan
blocks, can obtain water earlier. Also, since they are closer to the head-
works and on higher ground, the reliability of water supply and water control
is better. These factors, coupled with timely planting and a high level of
management skill, lead to very high yields on about 1,860 ha operated by
Chinese farmers in the Sekinchan block./l By contrast, farmers in the Sabak
Bernam area receive water later, have difficulties in disposing of excess
water, can often not obtain enough water to adequately flood the higher
ground, and report difficulties with regard to the reliability and timing of
supplies. The problems with regard to timing of supply are compounded by the
fact that with the present system, a block cannot be irrigated until all
farmers have completed harvest. Except in the Sekinchan block, there are
always large numbers of farmers who plant late, either through ignorance,
/1 Sekinchan farmers have also invested a considerable amount of capital
and effort in digging field channels and contract land-levelling.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
tardiness, or the need to work on other farms to raise sufficient cash to plant.
Hence, with the exception of the Sekinchan block, late delivery of water, poor
water control and lack of organization of the farmers to plant on schedule are
major constraints to production. This is reflected in cultural practices and
in average yields and production.
Present Cropping Pattern. Yields and Production
4.        Currently most farmers attempt to grow two crops per year.  Those
in the Kuala Selangor section plant from April to June and from September to
November, and harvest in the February-March and August-October period. In
the Sabak Bernam areas, July-September and December-February are the main
planting months, and harvesting is carried out from December to February and
May to July. Crops planted in May-June run into periods of low radiation
during grain maturation and periods of high rainfall at harvest, which
reduces yield and increases the risks of losses. Also, November-January
plantings are sometimes affected by periods of cooler weather. In essence,
only the early planters in Sekinchan are planting at close to optimum time.
While most farmers in the Sekinchan area are consistently planting two crops
a year and achieving 200% cropping intensity, local field staff confirmed
that many farmers in other areas are only achieving about five crops in three
years since they progressively plant later and later, and finally get out of
phase with the water supply schedule and have to miss a crop. It is esti-
mated that overall cropping intensity is of the order of 170%.
5.        Estimates of current planted area, yield and production of padi /1 are
summarized as follows:
Total
Area    Average Yield ton/ha          Production ton/padi
ha    Main season  Off season    Main season  Off season
Sekinchan         1,860      5.0         5.2            9,300         9,672
Other Areas      15,555      3.0         3.5           45,354        38,185
Project Area /2 17,415       3.2         3.7           54,654        47,857
The higher yields achieved in the off season are a reflection of lower
levels of pest attack, lower incidence of excess water and flooding, and a
lower level of risk which provides incentive for the use of cash inputs.
Production Methods
6.        The majority of farmers use locally selected improved varieties,
e.g. Mat Chandu, Sri Sekinchan Merah and Sri Sekinchan Putih. These are
thought to be farmer selections of improved varieties released during the
1960s. They are long-strawed varieties, adapted to conditions of poor
water control, which mature in about 135-145 days from seeding. They are
/1 See Tables 1-4.
/2 This padi area excludes the 5,990 ac (2,425 ha) in the Sawah Sempadan pilot
block.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
susceptible to lodging under high fertility conditions and have only moderate
resistance to pest and diseases. Nevertheless, under good management
conditions, they have a yield potential of 5-6 ton/ha. This feature, coupled
with good quality and high market value, accounts for their popularity.
Officially recommended varieties, Mahsuri and Jaya, have lost popularity. In
a double-cropping system, a shorter term variety such as Jaya (C4-63, bred in
the Philippines) which normally matures in 125 days, would be an advantage,
and has proved quite popular in the Muda Irrigation Area. However, it proved
susceptible to Pyricularia oryzae (Rice blast). "Improved Jaya," a Jaya line
with improved blast resistance, recently released by MARDI, has yet to
convince the farmers of its superiority over local varieties. While the new
line has acceptable cooking quality and good yield potential, it matures
in about 135 days, which is only 10-15 days earlier than some of the local
improved varieties.
7.        Farmers use several types of seeding methods, depending on the
reliability and timing of water supply. In areas with good water control
e.g. Sekinchan, most farmers adopt the standard wet seedbed technique.
However, they use relatively light seeding rates, e.g. 20 kg/ha and often do
not pull and transplant the seedlings until they are 30-35 days old. In
areas with unreliable water supply, or where there is risk of late delivery,
they adopt a dry seedbed technique or practice direct seeding by dibbling
the seeds directly in the field. In the dry seedbed technique, a piece of
land is levelled and covered with banana leaves or dried grass. Wet mud from
a drainage ditch is spread to a depth of 5-6 cm and germinated seed broadcast
on the mud. The seed is covered with soil and banana or palm leaves. After
7-10 days, when the seedlings are well established, they are transferred in
clumps to an area of the field which is wet or flooded, and transplanted.
They are left for a further 30-40 days until water is available in the padi
field or the seedlings are large enough to withstand the depth of water in
the field. This technique allows farmers to start the seedbed before water
arrives, and allows flexibility with regard to the time the seedlings are
left in the seedbed, and the height of seedling used at transplanting in
cases where deep water is a problem. However, the late planting of seedlings
in both the wet seedbeds and banana leaf seedbeds provides a severe setback
to the seedling, and the physical damage leaves the seedling very vulnerable
to attack from bacterial blight (Xanthomonas oryzae). Several newly trans-
planted seedlings observed in the field in Sabak Bernam exhibited symptoms of
systemic bacterial blight (Kresek).
8.        Before land preparation, the straw is normally cut and burnt,
which provides a cheap and effective control for the buildup of insects and
disease, as well as making land cultivation easier. However, this is only
possible in areas with good drainage. In areas with poor drainage, a good
burn is impossible and cultivation is more difficult. Most of the land is
cultivated with 8-10 hp diesel-powered 2-wheeled rotovators which are owned
or hired. It is estimated that over a thousand units are available in the
area, and most farmers reported reasonable access to the machines. Cultiva-
tion practice depends on the condition of the land and the availability of
cash. Where land has been cleared and burnt and drainage is adequate, farmers
normally plough once under dry conditions and allow weeds to germinate,
and then plough again and puddLe when the water arrives and the field can be
flooded. Where the land is poorly drained and the straw cannot be burnt properlvy



ANNEX 2
Page 4
or there is a shortage of cash, farmers often only plough once, after the
field is flooded. However, some spray weeds with Paraquat or Dowpon, prior
to cultivation, or supplement tractor ploughing with hand cultivation.
9.        Transplanting is carried out one or two days after puddling.
Seedlings are pulled and topped and transplanted at 2-5 seedlings per
hill, on about 30 x 30 cm spacing, using the "kuku kambing," a forked
stick. The majority of farmers use urea and mixed fertilizer at trans-
planting, and topdress with urea. However, rates of application and types
of mixed fertilizer used vary widely, from excessive use of expensive mixed
fertilizer in Sekinchan to suboptimal rates of fertilizer use in other blocks.
Weed killers are also popular in Sekinchan, and many farmers reported using
Amine 2.4.D. and MCPA preparations, but were often not sure of the most
economic rate or the best herbicide to use. Farmers outside Sekinchan who
used herbicide usually used it at suboptimal rates. Some hand weeding is
common throughout the area, but in many cases is inadequate.
10.       The most common pests causing damage to the rice crop are stem-
borer (Chilo polychrysa and Tryporyza incertulas), rice bugs (Leptocoriza),
cut worm and army worm (Spodoptera sp) and leafhoppers (Nephotettix). Rats
and mice were also reported to cause considerable damage in some locations,
and birds are also a problem in areas where a small area of crop is out
of phase with the rest of the area. With the exception of Sekinchan, few
farmers used adequate pest control measures. The Department of Agriculture
operates a subsidy scheme in which farmers can purchase sprayers at half
price and obtain free chemicals to control severe outbreaks of pests. How-
ever, the farmers reported that the supply of chemicals and control measures
were usually too late to prevent damage. Either through ignorance or lack
of cash, most did not make a concerted effort to protect their crops. It
is suspected that the majority of farmers do not recognize the early signs
of damage and are not fully conversant with the correct control measures.
A further problem is the wide range of chemicals and fertilizers available
through the Farmers' Organizations and private dealers, which confuses the
farmers, especially when some items recommended by the Department of Agri-
culture are not available.
11.       Harvesting and threshing are carried out by hand.  The crop is
cut with a serrated sickle (sabit padi) and threshing is usually carried
out in the field, using a locally made threshing box. It is traditional
for hired labor to assist with harvest and threshing. Very little of the
crop is winnowed and dried before sale. Although the LPN operates a grading
system which has provisions for downgrading price on the basis of moisture
content and contamination, most farmers reported putting the threshed grain
straight in the bag and selling to the dealers at about M$27 per picul
(US$185 per ton) which is equivalent to the price for dried second grade
padi. Most farmers appear to retain the equivalent of 110-140 kg milled rice
per year per capita for domestic consumption.



ANNEX 2
Page 5
12.       The harvesting and dryjing problem is most acute with late planted
off-season crops that cannot be harvested until September/October. The LPN
reports receiving large volumes of padi in excess of 20% moisture content.
While farmers must be encouraged to have their crops planted by early April,
the current problem is a reflection of the lack of enforcement of grading
and pricing policies and the lack of adequate drying floors at village level.
13.       Most of the padi field work is carried out by family labor.  The
exceptions are land preparation, transplanting and harvest, when there is
pressure to complete the operaticin in reasonable time. Available data indi-
cates that most of the hired labor is used for transplanting and harvest,
and that hired labor used per crcp is of the order of 20 to 30% of total
labor requirements.
Demonstration Projects
14.       The State Drainage and Irrigation Department, in collaboration
with the State Department of Agriculture, has established a 32 ha demonstra-
tion area at Sekinchan, to check the yields and cropping intensities possible,
given adequate water supply and control, and effective extension. The target
is five crops in two years. To date, three crops have been harvested, and
yields of 5.0-6.0 ton/ha have been recorded, with Improved Jaya. However,
the planting schedule is now reported to be slipping behind, because Improved
Jaya required 135 days to mature, as opposed to the 125 day maturation period
expected. Progressive farmers participating in the project are not enthus-
iastic regarding the prospect of five crops in two years, due to the tight
working schedule and high demand for labor throughout the year. In practice,
five crops in two years is not likely to prove practical on a large scale,
due to limitations of water supply and the need to keep the majority of
farmers in the project area on a standard schedule which maximizes water use
and reduces harvesting and drying problems.
Projected Yield and Production Increases under the Project
15.       Under the project, the irrigation and drainage system would be
rehabilitated and intensified and the delivery capacity increased. Each
1.2 ha lot would have its own water supply channel and drain, and the maximum
irrigation run would be of the orcder of 200 meters. Plans for operating the
system include dividing the irrigation area into three divisions and provid-
ing presaturation water to the first section of each division simultaneously,
in the first weeks of February and August. Presaturation of each division
would be completed within eight weeks. Altough the system has the capacity to
presaturate the whole area in a shorter time, a 6-8 week spread of opera-
tions in each division is likely to be more practical when the availability
of tractors and labor for land pre!paration, seedbeds and transplanting
is considered. Further, a 6-8 week spread at harvest would put less
strain on drying, transport, processing and storage facilities.



ANNEX 2
Page 6
16.       The improvement in the irrigation and drainage system per se
would result in substantial benefits in terms of yield and production. To
achieve full benefits, there will have to be a dramatic improvement with
regard to the organization of farmers, management of the irrigation and
drainage system, the efficiency of the extension service, the supply of
credit and inputs, and the handling of produce. A concerted effort will also
be necessary to change farmers' attitudes to water management, credit and
group activity. To this end, an intensive agricultural service component has
been included in the project (Annex 5). As the latter has a high "human"
content and is harder to implement than physical works, estimated yield and
production increases are examined in two parts, first by projecting the
likely benefits attainable with imp- -8ment in irrigation and drainage works
onl.v, and then the benefits resultiiig from improvement in both physical works
and supporting services.
17.       With improvement in physical works, and a better timed irrigation
schedule, average cropping intensity should rise to at least 190%, and yield
should rise by at least 0.5 ton per ha per crop, on the following grounds:
(a) With individual plot watering, the majority of farmers would convert
to a standard wet seedbed, and planting of younger seedlings
would be practical. There would be less physical damage to seed-
lings and less setback in growth, and the incidence of infection,
e.g. Xanthomonas oryzae, would decrease.
(b) More farmers would be able to drain their fields properly and burn
straw effectively prior to land preparation. This would improve
the standard of land preparation, reduce hand labor input, and
reduce the buildup of insect pests and disease.
(c)  With earlier planting, grain maturation and harvest of the off-
season crop would occur during periods of high radiation. This
would increase yield potential, reduce labor input for harvest and
drying, and result in a higher quality padi. As a result of earlier
planting of the main season crop, seedlings would be better devel-
oped before heavy rains occur and insect populations build up,
which would reduce potential damage.
(d) With better facilities for water control, the majority of farmers
would have an opportunity to maintain water levels closer to the
optimum for weed control and maximum tillering.
(e) Under lower risk conditions, the use of fertilizer and insecticide
can be expected to increase, especially in the main season.
18.       Without organization of farmers, integrated supporting services,
and an effective credit service, rates of adoption of improved production
practices and yield buildup would be comparatively slow. Water management at
farm level would likely be chaotic during the first season, and water would
be wasted unless farmer groups were formed to plan water distribution within
a block and build batases to prevent water from flowing directly to the drains.



ANNEX 2
Page 7
It would take several seasons for the farmers to adjust to the new system,
and staggered cropping would probably continue on a large percentage of the
area. Overall efficiency of production would remain at a fairly low level
without a service to provide sound technical and economic advice.
19.       With an effective integrated agricultural service to supplement
the improved physical works, a yield increment of at least one ton per
ha per crop can be anticipated, and cropping intensity should rise to at
least 195%, even allowing for farmers who consistently get out of phase
with the system, and crop losses due to epidemics and flood. All the
advantages outlined (para. 17) would apply, but the rate of adoption and
yield buildup would be more rapid, and a higher percentage of farmers could
be expected to plant on time. With less spread of planting, and a period
of the year with very little rice in the field, the carry-over of pests
and disease should decrease and result in reduced crop loss. The produc-
tivity of cash inputs would increase, resulting in higher yield at lower
incremental cost. Farmers could be expected to better utilize family labor
in the off-peak periods for han,lweeding, pest control and water management
if incremental yield offered a favorable return to labor, which becomes
possible with an improved physical environment and the use of modern high
input techniques.
20.       Even allowing for favorable conditions at full development, average
project area yields are not likely to reach 5.0 ton per ha per crop. On the
physical side, the presence of organic soils would depress average yield. On
the human side, the project demands a dramatic change in farmers' attitudes
and the competence and efficiency of agricultural and irrigation service
personnel, many of whom have received minimal training. At the technical
level, the rice varieties are a major constraint. The long growing period
calls for fairly rigid adherence to the planting schedule. The varieties
are prone to lodging under high fertility conditions, and susceptibility
to disease and insect attack is likely to become more apparent as average
fertilizer applications increase. There is an urgent need in Malaysia to
develop a medium height, shorter duration, disease and insect resistant,
high-yielding variety that can respond to high fertility conditions, and
at the same time produce an acceptable grain. The development of a new
variety will be the next major breakthrough in raising yields in areas
such as Tanjong Karang, once water control and agricultural services have
been developed to a reasonable standard of efficiency.
21.       With a shorter duration variety, growing two rice crops and one
short-term vegetable or field crop per year would become a distinct possibi-
lity, one which is likely to be more practical and profitable than attempting
three rice crops a year or five rice crops in two years. It is suggested
that this topic, along with the possibility of profitably growing one main
season rice crop and off-season vegetables and field crops on the organic
soils, should form part of the research program for the project area.
Another topic requiring urgent investigation is the best long-term method of



ANNEX 2
Page 8
insect control. As broad spectrum insecticides have not been widely used in
Malaysia, there appears to be an adequate population of predators and para-
sites to control the population of major economic rice pests at acceptable
levels. However, with an increase in cropping intensity and higher usage of
fertilizers, insect population and damage can be expected to increase, and
there will be an increasing tendency for farmers to use larger quantitites of
broad spectrum insecticides. Apart from running the risk of changing the
balance of pests to predators and starting a cycle of excessive chemical use
and more costly control, there is the added risk of reducing natural fish
populations and the building up residues, if some of the potent granular
insecticides available are used indiscriminately.
22.       Projected yields and production that can be attributed to irriga-
tion works with and without intensified agricultural services are presented
in the accompanying tables. In Sekinchan, potential yield and production
increases are relatively small. Farmers are already operating on a 200%
cropping intensity and practicing a relatively high level of water control and
management. The yield potential of the existing varieties will be their main
constraint at full development. Nevertheless, financial benefits would accrue
from more intelligent use of cash inputs and lowered cost of production, if an
effective extension service is established. Most project benefits would come
from the rest of the project area. With irrigation improvement only, it is
anticipated that main season yields would rise from 3.0 to 3.7 ton/ha, and
off-season yields would rise from 3.5 to 4.0 ton/ha. With effective agricul-
tural services, potential average yields at full development are estimated at
4.4 ton/ha for the main season and 4.7 ton/ha for the off-season. Total padi
production would increase by 25,000 tons per year with irrigation improvement
only, and a further 21,000 tons if the agricultural service program is imple-
mented effectively. Gross annual production could thus rise from the present
103,000 tons to 156,000 tons at full development, an overall increase of 51%,
of which 46,000 tons would be due to the project.



MALAYSIA
NORTHWEST SELANGOR INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Padi Production - Sekinchan
Assumed Effects of Irrigation Improvement with Effective Agricultural Services
Area                  Yields              Yields                  Production
Year      WithU   WithD   Without   With    Without    With   Without    With    Without   Incremental
Main season  1      15,555         0   15,586   15,088    15,118        3.00    3.00    45,264    45,354           -90
2     13,466    2,038   15,586   15,100    15,118        3.03    3.01    45,753    45,505            248
3     10,068    5,378   15,586   15,144    15,118        3.10    3.04    46,946    46,147            799
4      6,170    9,213   15,586   15,198    15i118        3.30    3.07    50,153    46,412         3,741
5      1,975   13,350   15,586   15,266    15,118        3.60    3.10    54,958    46,866         8,092
6          0   15,325   15,586   15,325    15,118        3.97    3.13    60,840    47,319        13,521
7          0   15,325   15,586   15,325    15,118        4.19    3.16    64,212    47,773        16,439
8          0   15,325   15,586   15,325    15,118        4.30    3.19    65,898    48,226        17,672
9          0   15,325   15,586   15,325    15,118        4.35    3.22    66,664    48,680        17,984
10-25          0   15,325   15,586   15,325    15,118        4.40    3.25    67,430    49,133         18,297
Off-season   1      15,555         0   15,586   10,889    10,910       3.50    3.50    38,112    38,185            -73
2     13,466    2,038   15,586   11,362    10,910        3.54    3.51    40,222    38,294         1,928
3     10,068    5,378   15,586   12,157    10,910        3.70    3.53    44,981    38,512         6,469
4      6,170    9,213   15,586   13,071    10,910        3.90    3.56    50,977    38,840        12,137
5      1,975   13,350   15,586   14,065    10,910        4.10    3.59    57,667    39,167        18,500
6          0   15,325   15,586   14,559    10,910        4.33    3.62    63,041    39,492        23,219
7          0   15,325   15,586   14,559    10,910        4.46    3.65    64,933    39,822        25,111
8          0   15,325   15,586   14,559    10,910        4.56    3.65    66,389    39,822        26,567
9          0   15,325   15,586   14,559    10,910        4.63    3.71    67,408    40,476        26,932
10-25          0   15,325   15,586   14,559    10,910        4.70    3.74    68,427    40,803        27,624
U = Undeveloped under project.
D = Developed under project, with effective agricultural services.



ANNEX 2
Table 2
MALAYSIA
NORTHWEST SELANGOR INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Padi Production - Sekinchan
With an Effective Agricultural Supporting System
Cropped area          Yields                  Production
Year      With   Without    With   Without    With   Without  Incremental
Main season  1       1,860    1,860      5.00      5.00      9,300    9,300         0
2      1,860    1,860      5.02      5.01     9,337    9,319         18
3      1,860    1,860      5.05      5.02     9,393    9,337         56
4      1,860    1,860      5.13      5.03     9,542    9,356        186
5      1,832    1,860      5.22      5.04     9,563    9,374        189
6      1,832    1,860      5.28      5.05     9,673    9,393        280
7      1,832    1,860      5.34      5.06     9,783    9,412        371
8      1,832    1,860      5.37      5.07      9,838    9,430       408
9      1,832    1,860      5.39      5.08     9,875    9,449        426
10-25      1,832    1,860      5.40      5.10      9,893    9,486       407
Off-season   1       1,860    1,860      5.20      5.20      9,672    9,672         0
2      1,860    1,860      5.25      5.21     9,765    9,691         74
3      1,860    1,860      5.32      5.22     9,895    9,709        186
4      1,860    1,860      5.40      5.23    10,044    9,728        316
5      1,832    1,860      5.48      5.25    10,039    9,765        274
6      1,832    1,860      5.55      5.26    10,168    9,784        384
7      1,832    1,860      5.63      5.27    10,314    9,802        512
8      1,832    1,860      5.67      5.28    10,387    9,821        566
9      1,832    1,860      5.69      5.29    10,424    9,839        585
10-25      1,832    1,860      5.70      5.30    10,442    9,858        584



MALAYSIA
NORTHWEST SELANGOR INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Padi Production - Non-Sekinchan Areas
Assumed Effects of Irrigation Improvement without Effective Agricultural Services
Area                  Cropped area            Yields                  Production
Year      WithU   WithD   Without    With   Without          With   Without    With   Without  Incremental
____________---- (ha) --------------             -- (ton/ha) --    --------- (tons) ----------
Main season  1      15,555         0   15,586   15,088    15,118         3.00    3.00    45,264    45,354            -90
2     13,466    2,038   15,586   15,100    15,118          3.01    3.01    45,451    45,505            -54
3     10,068    5,378   15,586   15,144    15,118          3.04    3.04    46,038    45,959             79
4      6,170    9,213   15,586   15,198    15,118         3.11    3.07    47,266    46,412             854
5      1,975   13,350   15,586   15,266    15,118         3.24    3.10    49,462    46,866          2,596
6          0   15,325   15,586   15,325    15,118          3.39    3.13    51,952    47,319         4,633
7          0   15,325   15,586   15,325    15,118         3.52    3.16    53,944    47,773          6,171
8          0   15,325   15,586   15,325    15,118         3.60    3.19    55,170    48,226          6,944
9          0   15,325   15,586   15,325    15,118         3.65    3.22    55,936    48,680          7,256
10-25           0   15,325   15,586   15,325    15,118         3.70    3.25    56,703    49,134          7,569
Off-season   1      15,555         0   15,586   10,889    10,910         3.50    3.50    38,112    38,185            -73
2     13,466    2,038   15,586   11,372    10,910         3.51    3.51    39,881    38,294          1,587
3     10,068    5,378   15,586   12,158    10,910         3.53    3.53    42,914    38,512          4,402
4      6,170    9,213   15,586   13,071    10,910         3.58    3.56    46,794    38,840          7,954
5      1,975   13,350   15,586   14,065    10,910         3.67    3.59    51,619    39,167         12,452
6          0   15,325   15,586   14,559    10,910         3.78    3.62    55,033    39,492         15,539
7          0   15,325   15,586   14,559    10,910         3.87    3.65    56,343    39,822         16,521
8          0   15,325   15,586   14,559    10,910         3.93    3.65    57,217    39,822         17,395
9          0   15,325   15,586   14,559    10,910         3.97    3.71    57,799    40,476         17,323
10-25           0   15,325   15,586   14,559    10,910         4.00    3.74    58,236    40,803         17,433
U = Undeveloped under project.
*D = Developed under project, irrigation improvement only.                                                                     a M



ANNEX 2
Table 4
MALAYSIA
NORTHWEST SELANGOR INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Padi Production - Sekinchan
Assumed Effects of Irrigation Improvement without Effective Agricultural Services
Cropped area          Yields            Production
Year      With   Without    With   Without    With   Without  Incremental
Main season  1        1,860    1,860       500       500      9,300    9,300         0
2      1,860    1,860        501      501      9,319    9,319          0
3      1,860    1,860        503      502      9,356    9,337         19
4      1,860    1,860        506       503     9,412    9,356         56
5      1,832    1,860        502      504      9,343    9,374        -31
6      1,832    1,860        514      505      9,417    9,393         24
7      1,832    1,860        519      506      9,508    9,412         96
8      1,832    1,860        521       507     9,545    9,430        115
9      1,832    1,860        523      508      9,581    9,449        132
10-25      1,832    1,860        525       510     9,618    9,486        132
Off-season   1       1,860    1,860        520       520     9,672    9,672          0
2      1,860    1,860        521       521     9,691    9,691          0
3      1,860    1,860        523      522      9,728    9,709         19
4      1,860    1,860        526       523     9,784    9,728         56
5      1,832    1,860        530      525      9,710    9,765        -55
6      1,832    1,860        534      526      9,783    9,784         -1
7      1,832    1,860        539      527      9,875    9,802         73
8      1,832    1,860        542      528      9,929    9,821        109
9      1,832    1,860        543      529      9,948    9,839        109
10-25      1,832    1,860        545       530     9,984    9,858        126



MALAYSIA
NORTHWEST SELANGOR INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Proposed Timing of Farm Activities in Tanjong Karang Padi Area
Jan.        Feb.        Mar.        Apr.   [   May          Jun.         Jul.       Aug.         Sep.        Oct.        Nov.        Dec.
Cropping
Pattern No.                    OFF - SEASON                                                                   MAIN-SEASON
20           49                        72               20      20      20          49                      72               20
I         F         p             E                        L                H       F       P            E          |           L             jHJ
20                 20            49                      72                 20             20            49                     72
3H                F         P             E                       L             |H          F       D            E                      L
20                 20           49                        72                20      20     20            49                72
1III            H         F          P           E                         L                 H         F   I  P   I       E         I       L
Abbreviation
P - Presaturation            - 20 Days
E - Early Growth Stage       - 49 Days
L - Late Growth Stage        - 72 Days
H - Ripening & Harvest       - 20 Days
F - Fallow Period                                                                                      World Baik - 17908



ANNEX 3
Page 1
MALAYSIA
NORTHWEST SELANGOR INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Present and Projected Developments in Tree Crop Agriculture
General
1.        There are approximately 190,000 ac (77,000 ha) of tree crops in the
Northwest Selangor region, of which 108,000 ac (44,000 ha) or 57% of the total
consists of smallholdings, defined as holdings less than 100 ac (40 ha) in
size. Coconuts are by far the major smallholder tree crop in the region,
followed by rubber, coffee and oil palm. The major estate crop is oil palm,
followed by rubber, coconut, and a small amount of sole crop cocoa. The
northern part of the region (Sabak Bernam) is dominated by coconut small-
holdings while oil palm and rubber estates are concentrated in the southern
portion (Kuala Selangor). The major current trend in the smallholder sector
is the intercropping of existing coconut stands with cocoa, a development
which offers many desperately poor coconut farmers their first opportunity
for decent incomes. The major current trend in the estate sector is the
continuing replacement of rubber by oil palm, due to the now general
realization that the coastal areas are better suited to oil palm production.]L
Smallholders are also replacing rubber with oil palm to some extent, follow-
ing the example of neighboring estates and extension advice by local RISDA /2
staff.
2.        The major foreseeable future development in the tree crop sector
involves the introduction of a new variety of coconut, the MAWA Hybrid,
which will largely replace the existing Malayan Tall variety in the project
area over the next three decades. The MAWA is a cross between Malayan Dwarf
and West African Tall varieties, originally bred in the Ivory Coast and now
being produced by private estates in Malaysia. At full development the MAWA
produces on the order of three times as much copra per unit area as selected
Malayan Talls, and production begins two years sooner than with the tall
varieties. It is also suitable for intercropping with cocoa, as its dis-
tinctly uniform growth provides a homogeneous shade regime. Estates in
Northwest Selangor have already planted about 600 ac of MAWA, of which
200 ac will come into production in 1980. MAWA planting materials will not be
available in sufficient quantities for distribution to smallholders until 1980.
Conversion of smallholdings to MAWA is expected to lag behind conversion
of estates for many reasons, one of which is the lower average age of the
existing heterogeneous smallholder stands as compared to the very old
existing estate coconut plantings.
/1 The Rubber Research Institute discourages rubber planting on coastal
alluvial soils and peats as yields are significantly lower (15-40%)
than those obtained on inland mineral soils.
/2 Rubber Industry Smallholders Development Authority.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
3.        The project would not greatly affect the direction or pace of the
developments outlined above in acreage terms, as they represent responses
to strong long-term price trends or to technical innovations of obvious merit.
All the various tree crops suffer from waterlogging and poor drainage,
however, and all will experience some increase in yields due to improved
drainage (see Tables 1-10). This will provide the major benefit of the
tree crop drainage component. In addition some new areas would be brought
into production by project drainage works, including 4,000 ac of estate oil
palm, 2,000 ac of smallholder oil palm, and 2,800 ac of smallholder coffee
near the various rivers dissecting Kuala Selangor District; and 1,500 ac
of smallholder coconuts in Sabak Bernam District. Finally, the canali-
zation of the Buloh River and other associated drainage works would permit
the initiation of the Bukit Cheraka land settlement scheme, a Selangor
State Government project to develop 7,500 ac of oil palm on frequently
inundated scrubland along the inland reaches of the Buloh, with eventual
settlement by landless applicants./l
Coconut Smallholdings
4.        The average size of coconut smallholdings in the project area is
7 ac (2.8 ha), and around 12,500 project area families are primarily dependent
on the crop. Families with smialler than average coconut stands are more
likely to possess padi or additional tree crop land. Aside from water-
logging of the palms and excessive weed growth due in part to poor drainage,
the major problems of coconut smallholdings are excessive numbers of palms
per acre and frequent attack bty the rhinoceros beetle (Orcytes rhinoceros).
Effects of poor drainage (as well as other contributing factors) are fre-
quently visible in terms of tapering of growing points, yellowing of fronds,
and reductions in size and number of nuts. In Sabak Bernam, where 91% of
the farmers have excavated on-farm drains, only 19% of coconut holdings have
access to connecting drains, and 50% of farmers report waterlogging as a
serious problem.
5.        The present level of husbandry on coconut smallholdings is quite
low. The following practices are only incompletely followed and should
be improved:
(a) correct excavation and adequate upkeep of on-farm drains and
connections to the main drainage network as it is extended;
(b)  correct stand of palms per acre to permit maximum yield of
coconuts and adequate light for intercropping. This normally
requires thinning of excess palms;
(c) removal of all competitive weeds, especially lallang (Imperata
cylindrica) and bamboo grass (Ischaemum muticum). This should be
accomplished by chemical means as slashing merely aggravates the
nutrient uptake of these weeds;
(d) growing of suitable intercrops with adequate inputs.
/1 Benefits attributable to the Bukit Cheraka Scheme have not been included
in the economic analysis of this project.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
6.        Over half of all labor expended on the coconut holdings is devoted
to harvesting rather than cultivation, and half of the cultivation labor is
spent slashing weeds. Harvesting is done every two months, often by groups of
specialized laborers hired by the farmer or by contractors who buy the crop on
the palm. An estimated 35% of production is both harvested and processed into
copra by the farmers themselves.
7.        The estimated present average annual yield of coconut smallholdings
in the project area is .27 tons of copra per acre. This estimate is based on
an estimated average of 48 bearing palms per acre, an average yield of 28 nuts
per bearing palm per year, and a production of .447 lb (203 g) of copra per
nut. Kuala Selangor smallholdings generally exhibit fewer than average palms
per acre which is more than compensated for by a greater than average number
of nuts per palm, with Sabak Bernam exhibiting the reverse characteristics.
The average smallholder yield in the project area is slightly below the
estimated average for Peninsular Malaysia, possibly due to the relatively poor
drainage conditions and to the poor standard of husbandry, especially in the
Sabak Bernam area.
8.        The density of coconut plantings (75 palms/ac in Sabak Bernam)
is clearly excessive, as the optimum density for tall coconuts alone is
55/ac, and 50/ac is recommended for situations where cocoa will be inter-
cropped. Intended replacements for old palms contribute to the high densities,
but in some holdings the original stand approximates 75/ac. Replacement palms
frequently compete with the original palms and thinning would cause only a
temporary (2-3 year) decline in yield. Three years after thinning the yield
per acre would recover to its original level and subsequently a marginal yield
increase might be registered. The cocoa intercrop would benefit most from
thinning as yields are strongly correlated with the amount of incident sunlight
up to 75% of full sunlight. It is estimated that cocoa yields could be 25%
higher if stands were reduced to within the 50-55/ac range. This factor, and
the fact that replanting now with Malayan Tall coconuts would be unjustifiable
when much higher yielding MAWA seedlings will be available in 1980 (para. 2),
leads to the recommendation that both the CSDS /1 and the DOA extension staff
in the region should concentrate on the thinning and rehabilitation of existing
smallholder coconut stands until MAWA material is available, and should
discourage replanting in the interim. A program of interplanting cocoa,
improvement of on-farm drains, thinning of coconut stands, removal of weeds by
use of herbicides rather than slashing, and both manual and chemical measures
against the rhinoceros beetle would show quick and large results in increased
production and incomes among the region's coconut farmers.
9.        The Coconut Smallholders' Development Scheme (formerly the Coconut
Rehabilitation/Replanting Scheme) is an ongoing program initiated by the
Federal DOA in 1963 in an attempt to improve the smallholder coconut sector.
The objectives are:
/1 Coconut Smallholders Development Scheme (see para. 9).



ANNEX 3
Page 4
(a)  to increase the productivity of coconut smallholdings by
provision of monetary and material assistance to small-
holders to replant and rehabilitate their holdings;
(b)  to provide extension services to smallholders who parti-
cipate in the Scheme;
(c)  to assist smallholders to utilize their land for optimum
production through cashi-cropping, intercropping or mixed
farming; and
(d)  to manage coconut nurseries to introduce high-yielding
coconut varieties and suitable intercrops to smallholders.
10.       The Scheme is financed from development funds, provisionally amount-
ing to M$62.3 million under the Third Malaysian Plan. The Scheme makes phased
grants to smallholders completely replanting their coconuts (for holdings with
under 10 economically bearing palms per acre) or rehabilitating their holdings,
which involves thinning to 55 palms per acre and mandatory intercropping. The
terms and conditions and detailed breakdown of grants for rehabilitation and
replanting are available as working papers. Government is currently consid-
ering increasing the grant rates from M$600 per ac for replanting to M$900 and
from M$300 per ac for rehabilitation to M$600 in view of the increase in costs
of production since the inception of the Scheme.
11.       Intercropping is a compulsory condition of the Scheme for the
following reasons:
(a)  Tall coconuts as a sole crop afford only a low income.
To attain reasonable productivity of land intercropping is
considered necessary.
(b)  Replanted tall palms take about seven years to come into
bearing and it is essential that during the immature period,
participants should have other sources of income.
12.       In deciding what intercrops should be compulsory for a given
area, the following points are considered:
(a)   soil suitability and climatic conditions of the area;
(b)   experience and knowledge of the participants in growing
the crop; and
(c)   transport facilities, marketing possibilities and profit-
ability of the crop.
The intercrops which satisfy the above conditions in Northwest Selangor are
bananas, coffee and cocoa. In view of the success of cocoa intercropping,
emphasis is given to this under the Scheme.



ANNEX 3
Page 5
13.       The Scheme is implemented in compact areas of between 2,000 and 5,000
acres. The most important criterion is drainage, others being soil suitability,
accessibility, conditions of the holdings and pest (especially rhinoceros beetle)
control considerations. The Scheme has operated in Northwest Selangor since
1974, following the initiation of drainage improvements by DID. In 1974-76,
about 100 ac were replanted under the project, and 2,300 ac were rehabilitated,
representing about 3% of the smallholder coconut area in Northwest Selangor. A
proposed coconut replanting project, which would accelerate the replanting and
rehabilitation programs of CSDS in Northwest Selangor as well as in other
coconut areas, is being prepared for Bank financing.



MALAYSIA
NORTHWEST SELANGOR INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Chanpes in Main Tree Crop Distribution by Area
('000 acres)
Change
1974   1975   1976   1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1991   1996   2001   1978-2001
1.  Smallholdings
Rubber                               9.5    9.4    9.3    9.2    9.1    9.0    8.9    8.7    8.5    8.3    8.1             7.9    7.7    6.6    5.1    3.6          -5.5
Oil palm                             3.5    3.7    3.9    4.1    4.3    4.5    4.7    5.0    6.0    6.0    6.5    7.0    7.5    9.0   10.5   12.0                   +7.7
Coconut                             87.0   87.0   87.0   87.0   87.0   87.0   87.5   87.5   87.5   87.5   87.5   88.0   88.0   88.0   88.0   88.0                   +1.0
Coffee (sole crop)                   5.9    6.5    7.1    7.7    8.3    8.9    9.5   10.1   10.7   11.3   11.9   12.5   13.1   14.0   14.0   14.0                   +5.7
Main tree crops               105.9  106.6  107.3  108.0  108.7  109.4  110.6  111.3  112.7  113.1  114.0  115.4  116.3  117.6  117.6  117.6                   +8.9
2. Private estates
Rubber                              25.0   24.0   23.0   22.0   21.0   20.0   19.0   18.0   17.0   16.0   15.0   14.0   13.0    8.0    5.0    5.0    -16.0
Oil palm                            43.0   44.0   45.0   46.0   47.0   50.0   53.0   54.0   55.0   56.0   57.0   58.0   59.0   64.0   67.0   67.0    +20.0
Coconut                             10.8   10.8   10.8   10.8   10.8   10.8   10.8   10.8   10.8   10.8   10.8   10.8   10.8   10.8   10.8   10.8                    nil
Cocoa (sole crop)                    1.2    1.3    1.4    1.5    1.6    1.7    1.8    1.9    2.0    2.0    2.0    2.0    2.0    2.0    2.0    2.0                   +0.4
Main tree crops                80.0   80.1   80.2   80.3   80.4   82.5   84.6   84.7   84.8   84.8   84.B   84.8   84.8   84.8   84.8   84.8                    +4.4
3. Bukit Cheraka Settlement Scheme
Oil palm                              -      -       -       -      2.0    4.0    6.0    7.5    7.5    7.5    7.5    7.5    7.5    7.5    7.5    7.5                +5.5
Total main tree crops         185.9  186.7  187.5  188.3  191.1  195.9  201.2  203.5  205.0  205.4  206.3  207.7  208.6  209.9  209.9  209.9    +18.8
m .
 X
- t,



ANNEX 3
Table 2
MALAYSIA
NORTHWEST SELANGOR INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Smallholder Rubber Production
Mature area      Average yield (lb/ac)                 Production (tons)
Year         (acres)        With           Without      With       Without       Incremental
1974          8,500         700               700        2,700       2,700
1975          8,500         700               700        2,700       2,700
1976          8,500         700              700        2,700        2,700
1977          8,500         700               700       2,700        2,700
1978          8,400         700               700        2,670       2,670
1979          8,300         700              700        2,630        2,630
1980          8,200         730              695         2,710       2,580           130
1981          8,100         770              685        2,830       2,520            310
1982          7,900         810              680        2,900       2,440            460
1983          7,700         850              675        2,970        2,360           610
1984          7,500         850              670        2,890       2,280            610
1985          7,300         845               665       2,800       2,200            600
1986          7,100         840              660        2,700        2,130           570
1987          6,900         830              655         2,600      2,050            550
1988          6,700         825               650       2,510        1,980           530
1989          6,500         815              645        2,400        1,900           500
1990          6,300         805              640        2,300        1,830           470
1991          6,000         795              635        2,160        1,730           430
1992          5,700         785              630        2,030       1,630            400
1993          5,400         775              625         1,900      1,530            370
1994          5,100         770              620         1,780      1,430            350
1995          4,800         765              615         1,670      1,340            330
1996          4,500         760              610        1,550       1,240            310
1997          4,200         760              610         1,450      1,160            290
1998          3,900         750              600        1,330       1,060            270
1999          3,600         740              590        1,210         960            250
2000          3,300         730               580        1,090         870           220
2001-
2008         3,000         725              575          990         780            210



ANNEX 3
Table 3
MALAYSIA
NORTHWEST SELANGOR INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Smallholder Oil Palm Production
Average yield
Mature area (ac)          (ton ffb/ac)                Production (ton ffb)
Year       With     Without      With      Without        With      Without       Incremental
1974      2,400      2,400       5.0         5.0        12,000      12,000
1975      2,800      2,800       5.0         5.0        14,000      14,000
1976      3,200      3,200       5.0         5.0        16,000      16,000
1977      3,500      3,500       5.0         5.0        17,500      17,500
1978      3,700      3,700       5.0         5.0        18,500      18,500
1979      3,900      3,900       5.0         5.0        19,500      19,500
1980      4,100      4,100       5.2         5.0        21,320      20,500              820
1981      4,300      4,300       5.4         5.1        23,220      21,930            1,290
1982      4,500      4,400       5.7         5.3        25,650      23,320            2,330
1983      4,700      4,500       6.0         5.5        28,200      24,750            3,450
1984      5,000      4,650       6.0         5.5        30,000      25,575            4,425
1985      5,500      4,800       6.0         5.4        33,000      25,920            7,080
1986      6,000      5,000       5.9         5.4        35,400      27,000            8,400
1987      6,300      5,200       5.9         5.3        37,170      27,560            9,610
1988      6,600      5,400       5.8         5.2        38,280      28,080           10,200
1989      6,900      5,600       5.8         5.2        40,020      29,120           10,900
1990       7,200     5,800       5.7         5.2        41,040      30,160           10,880
1991       7,500     6,000       5.7         5.1        42,750      30,600           12,150
1992       7,800     6,200       5.6         5.1        43,680      31,620           12,060
1993      8,100      6,400       5.5         5.0        44,550      32,000           12,550
1994      8,400      6,600       5.4         4.9        45,360      32,340           13,020
1995      8,700      6,800       5.3         4.9        46,110      33,320           12,790
1996      9,000      7,000       5.3         4.8        47,700      33,600           14,100
1997      9,300      7,300       5.2         4.8        48,360      35,040           13,320
1998      9,600      7,600       5.2         4.8        49,920      36,480           13,440
1999      9,900      7,900       5.1         4.7        50,490      37,130           13,360
2000     10,200      8,200       5.1         4.7        52,020      38,540           13,480
2001-
2008    10,500      8,500       5.0         4.6        52,500      39,100           13,400



ANNEX 3
Table 4
MALAYSIA
NORTHWEST SELANGOR INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Smallholder Coconut Production
Mature area (acres)                      Average Yields (tons copra/acre)
With prolect               Without project         Malavan talls        MAWA hybrids        Production (tons copra)
Year  Malayan tall  MAWA hybrid  Malayan tall  MAWA hybrid  With  Without              With  Without   With   Without  Incremental
1974     77,000               -        77,000               -    .27       .27          -        -     20,790  20,790             -
1975     78,500               -        78,500               -    .27       .27          -        -     21,195  21,195             -
1976     80,000               -        80,000               -    .27       .27          -        -     21,600  21,600             -
1977     81,500               -        81,500               -    .27       .27          -        -     22,005  22,005             -
1978     83,000               -        83,000               -    .27       .27          -        -     22,410  22,410             -
1979     84,500               -        84,500               -    .28       .27          -        -     23,660  22,815           845
1980     85,500               -        85,300               -    .30       .28          -        -     25,650  23,884         1,766
1981     86,000               -        85,500               -    .32       .28          -        -     27,520  23,940         3,580
1982     85,500               -        85,000               -    .34       .29          -        -     29,070  24,650         4,420
1983     85,000               -        84,500               -    .35       .30          -        -     29,750  25,350         4,400
1984     84,500               -        84,000               -    .35       .30          -        -     29,575  25,200         4,375
1985     84,500             500        83,500             500    .35       .30          ,05      .05   29,600  25,075        4,525
1986     83,500           1,000        82,500           1,000    .34       .29          .33      .30   28,720  24,225         4,495
1987     82,300           1,500        81,300           1,500    .34       .29          .48      .43   28,702  24,222         4,480
1988     81,100           2,500        80,100           2,000    .33       .29          .49      .45   27,988  24,129         3,859
1989     79,900           3,000        78,900           2,500    .33       .29          .68      .62   28,407  24,431         3,976
1990     78,700           3,500        77,700           3,000    .33       .29          .79      .72   28,736  24,693         4,043
1991     77,500           4,500        76,500           4,000    .33       .29          .80      .72   29,175  25,065         4,110
1992     74,900           5,700        73,900           5,200    .32       .29          .83      .75   28,699  25,331         3,368
1993     72,300           6,900        71,300           6,400    .32       .29          .88      .79   29,208  25,733         3,475
1994     69,700           8,100        68,700           7,600    .32       .29          .93      .84   29,837  26,307         3,530
1995     67,100           9,300        66,100           8,800    .32       .29          .98      .88   30,586  26,913         3,673
1996     64,500          10,500        63,500          10,000    .31       .28         1.02      .92   30,705  26,980         3,725
1997     59,500          12,500        58,500          12,000    .31       .28         1.00      .90   30,945  27,180         3,765
1998     54,500          14,500        53,500          14,000    .31       .28         1.01      .91   31,540  27,720         3,820
1999     49,500          16,500        48,500          16,000    .31       .28         1.03      .93   32,340  28,460         3,880
2000      44,500         18,500        43,500          18,000    .31       .27         1.07      .96   33,570  29,460         4,130
2001      39,500         20,500        38,500          20,000    .30       .27         1.04      .94   33,170  29,195         3,975
2002      39,500         23,500        38,500          23,000    .30       .27         1.07      .96   36,995  32,475         4,520
2003      39,500         28,000        38,500          27,500    .30       .27         1.03      .93   40,690  35,970         4,720
2004      39,500         34,000        38,500          33,500    .30       .27          .99      .89   45,510  40,210         5,300
2005      39,500         41,000        38,500          40,500    .30       .27          .97      .87   51,620  45,630         5,990
2006     39,500          48,500        38,500          48,000    .30       .27          .97      .87   58,895  52,155         6,740
2007      39,500         48,500        38,500          48,000    .30       .27         1.14    1.03   67,140  59,835          7,305
2008      39,500         48,500        38,500          48,000    .30       .27         1.24    1.12   71,990  64,155          7,835



ANNEX 3
Table 5
MALAYSIA
NORTHWEST SELANGOR INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Smallholder Coffee Production
Average yield
Mature area (ac)        (lb parchment/ac)           Production (tons parchment)
ar        With      Without      With       Without       With       Without      Incremental
1974      5,000      5,000        400          400          907         907              -
1975      5,200       5,200       400          400          943         943-
1976      5,400       5,400       400          400          980          980             -
L977      5,600      5,600        400          400        1,016       1,016              -
978      5,900      5,900        400          400        1,070       1,070              -
1979      6,500      6,500        400          400        1,179       1,179
1980       7,100      7,100       450          440        1,449       1,417             32
1981      7,700       7,700       500          480        1,746       1,676             70
1982      8,300       8,300       550          520        2,070       1,957            113
1983      8,900      8,700        600          550        2,422       2,170            252
1984      9,500       9,100       600          550        2,585       2,270            315
1985     10,100       9,500       600          550        2,748       2,370            378
1986     10,700       9,800       600          550        2,912       2,444            468
1987     11,200       9,900       600          550        3,048       2,469            579
1988      11,600    10,000        600          550        3,156       2,494            662
1.989    12,400    10,000         590          540        3,318       2,449            869
1990     12,400    10,000         590          540        3,318       2,449            869
1991     12,800    10,000         580          530        3,367       2,404            963
1992     12,800    10,000         580          530        3,367       2,404            963
1993      12,800    10,000        575          525        3,338       2,381            957
1994     12,700       9,900       575          525        3,312       2,357            955
1995     12,700       9,900       565          515        3,254       2,312            942
1996     12,600       9,900       560          510        3,200       2,290            910
1997     12,600       9,900       555          505        3,171       2,267            904
1998     12,500       9,800       550          500        3,118       2,222           896
1999     12,500       9,800       540          490        3,061       2,178           883
2000      12,500      9,800       530          480        3,005       2,133            872
2G01-
2008    12,400       9,800       500          450        2,812       2,000           812



ANNEX 3
Table 6
MALAYSIA
NORTHIWEST SELANGOR INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Smallholder Cocoa Production
Average yield
Mature area      (lb dry beans/ac)                Production (tons)
Year          (ac)         With       Without       With      Without      Incremental
1974         8,000          50           50           181         181              -
1975        11,000          50           50           249         249             -
1976       14,000           50           50           317         317             -
1977        17,000         100          100           771         771             -
1978       20,000          200          200         1,814       1,814              -
1979       23,000          300          300         3,129       3,129              -
1980       26,000          350          340         4,127       4,009           118
1981        29,000         400          375         5,261       4,932           329
1982       33,000          450          410         6,735       6,136           599
1983       38,000          500          450         8,617       7,755           862
1984        43,000         500          450         9,751       8,776           975
1985       48,000          500          450        10,884       9,796         1,088
1986       53,000          500          450        12,018      10,816         1,202
1987       57,000          500          450        12,925      11,633         1,292
1988        60,000         510          460        13,878      12,517         1,361
1989       63,000          510          460        14,571      13,143         1,428
1990       65,000          515          465        15,181      13,707         1,474
1991        67,000         520          470        15,800      14,281         1,519
1992        67,000         520          470        15,800      14,281         1,519
1993        67,000         525          475        15,952      14,433         1,519
1994        67,000         525          475        15,952      14,433         1,519
1995       67,000          520          470        15,800      14,281         1,519
1996       67,000          515          465        15,649      14,129         1,520
1997       67,000          510          460        15,497      13,977         1,520
1998        67,000         500          450        15,193      13,673         1,520
1999       67,000          490          440        14,889      13,370         1,519
2000        67,000         480          430        14,585      13,066         1,519
2001-
2008      67,000          475          425        14,433      12,914         1,519



ANNEX 3
Table 7
MALAYSIA
NORTHWEST SELANGOR INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estate Rubber Production
Mature area        Average yield (lb/ac)                Production (tons)
Year      (acres)           With           Without        With   Without   Incremental
1974        24,000            900             900          9,820   9,820         -
1975       23,000             900             900          9,410   9,410         -
1976       22,000             900             900          9,000   9,000         -
1977       21,000             900             900          8,590   8,590         -
1978       20,200             900             900         8,260   8,260          -
1979       19,200             900             900         7,850   7,850          -
1980       18,200             920             895         7,610   7,400         210
1981       17,200             960             885          7,510   6,920        590
1982       16,200           1,000             880          7,360   6,480        880
1983       15,200           1,050             875          7,250   6,050      1,200
1984       14,200           1,045             870         6,745   5,620       1,125
1985       13,200           1,040             865         6,240   5,190       1,050
1986       12,200           1,035             860         5,740   4,770         970
1987       11,200           1,030             855         5,240   4,350         890
1988       10,200           1,025             850         4,750   3,940         810
1989         9,200          1,015             835         4,240   3,490         750
1990         8,200          1,005             820          3,750   3,060        690
1991         7,200            995             805         3,260   2,630         630
1992         6,600            985             790         2,960   2,370         590
1993         6,000            975              775        2,660   2,110         550
1994         5,400            970              770        2,380   1,890         490
1995         4,800            965             765         2,110   1,670         440
1996         4,200            960             760         1,830   1,450         380
1997         4,200            955              755        1,820   1,440         380
1998        4,200             950             750         1,810   1,430         380
1999        4,200             940              740        1,790   1,410         380
2000         4,200            930             730         1,780   1,390         390
2001-2008   4,200             925              725        1,770   1,380         390



ANNEX 3
Table 8
MALAYSIA
NORTHWEST SELANGOR INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estate Oil Palm Production
Average Yield
Mature area (ac)        (ton ffb/ac)               Production (ton ffb)
Year    With      Without      With     Without      With         Without   Incremental
1974   37,000    37,000         6.5         6.5        240,500    240,500             -
1975   38,000    38,000         6.5         6.5        247,000    247,000             -
1976   39,000    39,000         6.5         6.5        253,500    253,500             -
1977   40,000    40,000         6.5         6.5        260,000    260,000             -
1978   41,000    41,000         6.5         6.5        266,500    266,500             -
1979   42,000    42,000         6.5         6.5        273,000    273,000             -
1980   43,000    43,000         6.7         6.6        288,100    283,800        4,300
1981   44,000    44,000         6.9         6.6        303,600    290,400       13,200
1982   47,000    45,000         7.2         6.7        338,400    301,500       36,900
1983   50,000    46,000         7.5         6.8        375,000    312,800       62,200
1984   51,000    47,000         7.6         6.9        387,600    324,300       63,300
1985   52,000    48,000         7.7         7.0        400,400    336,000       64,400
1986   53,000    49,000         7.7         7.0        408,100    343,000       65,100
1987   54,000    50,000         7.8         7.0        421,200    350,000        71,200
1988   55,000    51,000         7.8         7.0        429,000    357,000        72,000
1989   56,000    52,000         7.7         7.0        431,200    364,000       67,200
1990   57,000    53,000         7.7         7.0        438,900    371,000       67,900
1991   58,000    54,000         7.6         7.0        440,800    378,000       62,800
1992   58,600    54,600         7.6         7.0        445,400    382,200        63,200
1993   59,200    55,200         7.5         7.0        444,000    386,400       57,600
1994   59,800    55,800         7.3         6.8        436,500    379,400       57,100
1995   60,400    56,400         7.1         6.6        428,800    372,200       56,600
1996   61,000    57,000         6.9         6.4        420,900    364,800       56,100
1997   61,000    57,000         6.7         6.3        408,700    359,100       49,600
1998   61,000    57,000         6.5         6.2        396,500    353,400       43,100
1999   61,000    57,000         6.4         6.1        390,400    347,700       42,700
2000   61,000    57,000         6.3         6.0        384,300    342,000        42,300
2001-
2008  61,000    57,000         6.2         6.0        378,200    342,000       36,200



ANNEX 3
Table 9
MALAYSIA
NORTHWEST SELANGOR INT]EGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estate Coconut Production
Average yield (tons copra/ac)
Mature area (ac)           Malayan tall    MAWA hybrid          Production (tons copra)
Year    Malayan tall  MAWA hybrid   With  Without   With  Without   With   Without  Incremental
1974       10,800             -         .54    .54          -        -   5,832    5,832            -
1975       10,600             -         .54    .54          -        -   5,724    5,724            -
1976       10,400             -         .54    .54          -        -   5,616    5,616            -
1977       10,200             -         .54    .54          -        -   5,508    5,508            -
1978       10,000             -         .54    .54          -        -   5,400    5,400            -
1979        9,800             -         .55    .54          -        -   5,390    5,292           98
1980        9,400           200         .56    .54        .10      .10   5,284    5,096          188
1981        9,000           400         .:57    .54       .50      .47   5,330    5,048         282
1982       8,600            600         .158    .53       .73      .69   5,426    4,972         454
1983       8,200            800         .60    .53        .90      .86   5,640    5,034         606
1984        7,800         1,000         .60    .53       1.04      .99   5,720    5,124         596
1985        7,400         1,400         .60    .53       1.01      .96   5,854    5,266         588
1986        7,000         1,800         .'59    .52      1.12    1.06   6,146    5,548          598
1987        6,400         2,400         .59    .52       1.13    1.07   6,488    5,896          592
1988       5,800          3,000         .58    .52       1.21    1.15   6,994    6,466          528
1989       5,200          3,600         .58    .52       1.28    1.22   7,624    7,096          528
1990       4,600          4,200         .57    .52       1.36    1.29   8,334    7,810          524
1991        4,000         4,800         .57    .52       1.43    1.36   9,144    8,608          536
1992       3,600          5,200         .56    .51       1.56    1.48  10,128    9,532          596
1993        3,200         5,600         .56    .51       1.65    1.57  11,032   10,424          608
1994        2,800         6,000         .55    .51       1.72    1.63  11,860   11,208          652
1995       2,400          6,400         .55    .51       1.77    1.68  12,648   11,976          672
1996       2,000          6,800         .55    .51       1.81    1.72  13,408   12,716          692
1997        1,600         7,200         .54    .50       1.85    1.76  14,184   13,472          712
1998        1,200         7,600         .54    .50       1.87    1.78  14,860   14,128          732
1999          800         8,000         .54    .50       1.89    1.80  15,552   14,800          752
2C00          400         8,400         .53    .49       1.90    1.81  16,172   15,400          772
2001            -         8,800           -       -      1.91    1.81  16,808   15,928          880
2002            -         8,800           -       -      2.01    1.91  17,688   16,808          880
2003            -         8,800           -       -      2.07    1.97  18,216   17,336          880
2004            -         8,800            -      -      2.11    2.00  18,568   17,600          968
2005            -         8,800                   -      2.15    2.04  18,920   17,952          968
2006            -         8,600           -       -      2.18    2.07  18,748   17,802          946
2007            -         8,400            -      -      2.20    2.09  18,480   17,556          924
2008            -         8,200                   -      2.20    2.09  18,040   17,138          902



MALAYSIA
NORTHWEST SELANGOR INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estate Cocoa Production
Average yield (lb dry beans/acre)
Mature area (acres)            With project          Without project               Production (tons)
Year   Sole crop  Intercrop    Sole crop  Intercrop  Sole crop  Intercrop    With   Without  Incremental
1974      1,200       2,900           350          650         350        650        1,050   1,050            -
1975      1,300       3,200           400          700         400        700        1,250   1,250            -
1976      1,400       3,500           400          750         400        750        1,450   1,450            -
1977      1,500       3,800           500          775         500        775        1,680   1,680            -
1978      1,600       5,000           625          825         625        825        2,330   2,330            -
1979      1,700       6,000           750          875         750        875        2,970   2,970            -
1980      1,800       7,000           950          950         900        900        3,800   3,600          200
1981      1,900       8,000         1,000          960         940        900        4,350   4,080          270
1982     2,000        9,000         1,050          970         980        900        4,920   4,570          350
1983      2,000       9,000         1,100          980       1,020        900        5,010   4,610          400
1984     2,000        9,000         1,150          990       1,060        900        5,100   4,650          450
1985      2,000       9,000         1,200       1,000        1,100        900        5,180   4,680          500
1986      2,000       9,000         1,190          990       1,090        890        5,130   4,630          500
1987      2,000       9,000         1,180          980       1,080        880        5,080   4,580          500
1988      2,000       9,000         1,170          970       1,070        870        5,030   4,530          500
1989      2,000       9,000         1,160          960       1,060        860        4,980   4,480          500
1990     2,000        9,000         1,150          950       1,050        850        4,930   4,430          500
1991     2,000        8,000         1,140          940       1,040        840        4,450   4,000          450
1992     2,000        8,000         1,130          930       1,030        830        4,410   3,950          460
1993     2,000        8,000         1,120          920       1,020        820        4,360   3,910          450
1994      2,000       8,000         1,110          910       1,010        810        4,320   3,860          460
1995     2,000        8,000         1,100          900       1,000        800        4,270   3,810          460
1996     2,000        8,000         1,090          890         990        790        4,230   3,770          460
1997      2,000       8,000         1,080          880         980        780        4,180   3,720          460
1998      2,000       8,000         1,070          870         970        770        4,140   3,680          460
1999      2,000       8,000         1,060          860         960        760        4,090   3,630          460
2000      2,000       8,000         1,050          850         950        750         4,050   3,590         460
2001-
2008    2,000        8,000         1,050          850         950        750        4,050   3,590          460
m X
0-  



ANNEX 4
Table 1
MALAYSIA
NORTHWEST SELANGOR INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Tanjong Karang Irrigation Works
Item                                             Quantity   Unit    Rate         Costs
(M$)      (M$'000)
1.  Sg. Bernam headwork improvement                    -     L.S.          -         500
2. Main canal
(a)  Earthwork                                   25      Mile   10,000          250
(b) Structures (spillway modification,
structure additions)                       -     L.S.          -       1,000
Subtotal                                                           1,250
3. Distributary canals
(a)  Earthwork /a                            18,786      Acre      4.24          80
(b)  Canal lining /a                         18,786      Acre   196.50        3,691
(c)  Turnouts to secondary canals /a              2       No.   30,000           60
(d)  Turnouts to tertiary canals /a               4       No.   20,000           80
(e)  Canal end controls /a                        4       No.    19,000          76
(f)  Structural tertiary canals              42,902      Acre   784.84       33,671
(g)  Turnouts to structural tertiaries          160       No.   15,000        2,400
(h)  Checks on structural tertiaries            270       No.     6,000       1,620
(i)  1-1/2" dia. syphons to fields           14,180       No.        20         284
Subtotal                                                          41,962
4. Drainage
(a)  Earthwork                               48,892      Acre    20.68        1,011
(b)  Field drain inlets                      16,300       No.        50         815
(c)  Checks and road culverts                   237       No.    17,000       4,029
(d)  Drain end controls                           4       No.    19,000           76
(e)  Modification or removal of
existing structures                        -     L.S.          -         250
(f)  Syphon structures                           10       No.   25,000          250
Subtotal                                                           6,431
5. Roads and bridges
(a)  New laterite surfacing                     126      Mile   15,000        1,890
(b)  Upgrading and rehabilitating               163      Mile    5,000          815
(c)  Laterite on 4' drain paths                 169      Mile    6,000        1,014
(d)  Bridges                                     20       No.     3,000          60
(e)  Light wooden bridges                        17       No.     1,700           29
Subtotal                                                           3.808
Total, Tanjong Karang irrigation works                            53,951
6. Engineering and supervision, at 8% of cost of
civil works                                                                 4,314
7.  Land acquisition                                 177     Acre    4,000           708
Total cost of Taniong Karang irrigation component                 58,973
/a Sg. Burong, Sekinchan and Sg. Leman area.



ANNEX 4
Table 2
MALAYSIA
NORTHWEST SELANGOR INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Tree Crop Drainage Works
Item                                            Quantity   Unit    Rate        Costs
(M$)     (X$ 000)
1.  Sabak Bernam & coastal strip
(a)  Coastal/river bund upgrading               90     Mile    8,000          720
(b)  Coastal/river bund reconstruction           8     Mile   20,000          160
(c)  Tidal control gate structures              20      No.  160,000       3,200
Subtotal                                                         4,080
2.  Sabak Bernam & coastal strip
(smallholders area)
(a)  Main drains                                95     Mile   16,000        1,520
(b)  Secondary drains                          290     Mile   11,700        3,393
(c)  Feeder drains                            450      Mile    1,450          653
(d)  Farm roads                                390     Mile    8,750        3,413
(e)  Bridges                                   160      No.    5,000          800
(f)  Culverts with controls                    350      No.    5,000        1,800
(g)  Culverts without controls                 325      No.    3,000          975
Subtotal                                                        12.554
3.  Sabak Bernam (estates area)
(a)  Main drains                                12     Mile   16,000          192
(b)  Bridges                                     8      No.    5,000           40
Subtotal                                                           232
4.  Kuala Selangor
(a)  Coastal bund upgrading                     57.5   Mile    8,000          460
(b)  Costal bund reconstruction                 12     Mile   20,000          240
(c)  Tidal control gate structures              10      No.  160,000        1,600
Subtotal                                                         2,300
5.  Kuala Selangor (smallholders area)
(a)  Main drains                                70     Mile   16,000        1,120
(b)  Secondary drains                          220     Mile   11,700        2,574
(c)  Feeder drains                             340     Mile    1,450          493
(d)  Farm roads                                290     Mile    8,750        2,537
(e)  Bridges                                   120      No.    5,000          600
(f)  Culverts with controls                    270      No.    5,000        1,350
(g)  Culverts without controls                 240      No.    3,000          720
Subtotal                                                         9*394
6.  Kuala Selangor (estates area)
(a)  Main drains                                55     Mile   16,000          880
(b)  Bridges                                    37      No.    5,000          185
(c)  Pump house, structure                       -     L.S.         -         200
(d)  Pump house, mechanical                      -     L.S.         -         470
Subtotal                                                         1.735
Total, tree crop drainage works                                 30.295
7. Engineering and supervision, at 8% of
civil works                                                               2,430
Total cost of tree crop drainage component                      32,725



ANNEX 4
Table 3
MALAYSIA
NORTHWEST SELANGOR INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Drainage and Irrigation Personnel Requirements
Project    Existing  Additional   Monthly  Annual  Total annual
Function                                        requirement   staff    requirement  salary   salary  salary costs
(M$)   (M$'000)   (M$'000)
Planning, Design & Drawing
Senior resident engineer (S.S.G.)                    1          -            1         2,400      28.8
Resident engineer (timescale)                        6          -            6         1,600    115.2
Technicians (S.G.)                                   7          -            7         1,000      84.0
Technicians (timescale)                             28          -           28           700    235.2
Junior technicians (draftsmen)                     10          -            10           400      48.0
Tracers                                              4          -            4           300      14.4
Quantity surveyors                                   I         -             1         1,500      18.0       543.6
Construction Staff
Chief resident engineer (S.S.F.)                     1          -            1         2,600      31.2
Deputy chief resident engineer (S.S.G.)              I          -            1         2,400      28.8
Senior resident engineer (S.S.G.)                   4          -             4         2,400    115.2
Resident engineer (timescale)                       15          -           15         1,600    288.0
Technicians (special grade)                        21           -           21         1,000    252.0
Technicians (timescale)                            84          -            84           700    705.6
Junior technicians (special grade)                 11          -            11           800    105.6
Junior technicians (timescale)                     44          -            44           400    211.2
Quantity surveyor                                    I         -             1         1,500      18.0
Executive officer                                    I          -            1         1,500      18.0
Chief clerk                                          1         -             1         1,000      12.0
Financial clerk                                      3         -             3           600      21.6
General service clerks                               3          -            3           600      21.6
Contract clerks                                      4          -            4           600      28.8
Stenographer                                         1         -             1           800       9.6
Typists                                              3          -            3           400      14.4
Telephone operator                                   1          -            1           300       3.6
Office boys                                          3          -            3           200       7.2
I.M.G.                                             30          -            30           250      90.0    1,982.4
Operation and Maintenance
Senior district engineer ("F")                       I         -             1         2,600      31.2
Deputy engineer ("G")                                1          1            -         2,400      28.8
D & I engineer (timescale)                           3          2            1         1,600      57.6
Technical assistant (superscale)                     2          2            -         1,800      43.2
Technical assistant (timescale)                      8          8            -         1,000      96.0
Plant superintendent                                2           1            1         1,000      24.0
Chief irrigation inspector                           1          1            -         1,500      18.0
Senior irrigation inspector                          2          1            1         1,000      24.0
Irrigation inspectors                               10          4            6           700      84.0
Irrigation overseer                                20         16             4           400      96.0
Drainage technician (superscale)                     2          -            2         1,500      36.0
Drainage technician (special grade)                  4          1            3         1,000      48.0
Drainage technician (timescale)                     12          6            6           700    100.8
Drainage overseer                                   36         15           21           400    172.8
Chief storekeeper                                    1          1            -         1,000      12.0
Storekeepers                                         2          1            1           700      16.8
Chief clerk                                          1          1            -         1,000      12.0
Clerks                                              8           6            2           800      76.8
Typists                                              4          4            -           500      24.0
Technicians (special grade)                          1          1            -         1,000      12.0
Technician (timescale)                               6          6            -           800      57.6
Draftsmen                                            2          2            -           500      12.0
Tracer                                               I          I            -           400       4.8
Office boys                                          3          3            -           200       7.2
I.M.G.                                            420        280          140            250  1,260.0    2,324.4
(of which
814.8 is
incremental)



MALAYSIA
NORTHWEST SELANGOR INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Equipment and Vehicle List and Capital and Operating Costs
Existing equipment                                                                     Additional plant
Kuala    Tanjong  Sabak   Additional                      Unit      Total                          Operating costs
Selangor  Karang   Bernam  requirement /a   Total    cost            costs /a       Unit /b   Annual /c   Total annual increment /d
-- (M$'000)              (M/r)(M$000)                                --------
Equipment (O&M)
1.  Excavators, 3/4 cu yd             5           17       12         6                40    100.0    600.0            20.00         36.0            216.0
2.  Tractors and trailers              1          11        5        10                27      65.0    650.0             3.50         6.3             63.0
3.  Graders, 120 hp                   -            3        2         3                 8      80.0    240.0            14.00        25.2             75.6
4.  Front-end loaders                 -            1        1         3                 5      75.0    225.0            10.50        18.9             56.7
5.  Vibrating roller, 5 tons           -           1        1         2                 4      40.0      80.0            4.50         8.1             16.2
6. Flat trucks, 6 tons with
hydraulic cranes                -           3        -         3                  6     40.0    120.0            10.00         18.0             54.0
7.  Tippers, 4 cu yd                  -            3        -         6                 9      36.0    216.0             7.40        13.3             79.8
8.  Bulldozers, 115 hp                 -           I        -         -                 1       -         -             16.50        29.7              -
Subtotal                                                                                     2,131.0                                        561.3
Vehicles                                                                                                                M$/mile
For O&M staff:
9. 4 wd long wheel base
station wagons                  1           4        3         8                16      16.2    129.6             0.338         5.1             40.8
Total O&M equipment and vehicles                                                             2,260.6                                         602.1
For construction staff:
10.  Saloon station wagons              -           -        -         2                 2      12.5      25.0            0.275         4.1              8.2
11. 4 wd long wheel base
station wagons                  -           -        -         3                 3      16.2      48.6            0.338         5.1             15.3
12. 4 wd long wheel base
pick-ups                        -           -        _         5                  5     14.0      70.0            0.338         5.1             25.5
Total construction staff vehicles                                                              143.6                                          49.0
Total equipment and vehicles                                                                 2.404.2
la To be procured under the project. Proposed list is subject to revision during project implementation.
/b Unit operating costs include fuel and lubricants, repairs, tires but no depreciation. Operators' and drivers' wages are included in personnel
costs (Table 3).
/c  Annual operating costs based on 1,800 hours for equipment and 15,000 miles for vehicles.  Equipment life - 10,000 hours; vehicle life - 100,000 miles.
/d  Incremental operating costs refer to additional equipment and vehicles financed by project only.
a. 



ANNEX 4
Table 5
MALAYSIA
NORTHWEST SELANGOR INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Incremental Operation and Maintenance Costs
Costs
(M$'000)
Incremental equipment and vehicle operations /a                       602.1
Incremental staff salaries /b                                         814.8
Materials /c                                                          251.2
Kuala Selangor drainage pump:ing costs                                 18.0
Total drainage and irrisgation O&M annual costs               1,686.1
Estimated laterite supply costs for road maintenance /d               484.5
Total incremental O&M annual costs                            2,170.6
Allocation of incremental O&M costs:/e
Drainage and
irrigation works      Roads
----- M$/acre --------
Tanjong Karang irrigation area                      15.10            2.95
Sabak Bernam and coastal belt
drainage areas                                    7.34             2.77
Kuala Selangor drainage area /f                      3.60            1.21
/a  Table 4.
tb  Table 3.
/c  Estimated at 2% of capital costs of structures annually.
/d  Estimated at M$500/mile for 969 miles of various classes of road
(see Tables 1 and 2). Assumes improved maintenance of currently
existing roads.
/e  50% of equipment, vehicle, and staff costs allocated to Tanjong Karang;
balance of such costs allocated between drainage areas on basis of
value of works. Materials and laterite costs allocated on basis of
value of structures and road mileage.
/f Includes drainage pumping costs.



ANNEX 4
MALAYSIA                                                 Figure 1
NORTHWEST SELANGOR INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TANJONG KARANG IRRIGATION AREA
TYPICAL LAYOUT
Main Canal and Roadway
Constant Head Orifice Turnouts
660'               660 '               660- '             660- '              660- '
New flumes             b
6" Pipe Drains
----------       . _i"_______             1/2" Siphon           New  Drain With 4' Path
1%" Siphon        Typical 3 Acre Farm  Lots
Existing Drain, Cleaned;
10' Roadway
*Existing CanaI Converted
to Drain; 10' Roadway
New flume
Existing Gated/Overflow Checks, Rehab  tated as Required
Check
Existing 10' road                         Gated Checks
V/2 Mile
World B..k-17618



AN4NEX 4
Figure 2
MALAYSIA
NORTHWEST SELANGOR INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Schedule of Implementation of Civil Works
YEAR       1977             19781991819192
PARTICULARS                          ACTIVITY
SABAK EERNAM DRAINAGE WVORKS
PLANNING
SURIVEYS
LAND ACQUISITION
BLOCK I                          DESIGN
CONTRACT TENDER, EVALUATION
CONSTFRUCTION
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - ~  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PLANNING -      --                                                                                              II--  1
COSTRUCTIO
BLOCK It                         LAND ACQUISITION
BLOCK III               ~~~~DESIGN 
CONTRACT TNE.EAUTO
CONSTRUCTION
KOALASELAGOR  RAINGE WRKS   PLANNING
SURVEY
LANDEAYCQUISITION
BLOCK II                         DEIN
CONTRIACT TNE,EAUTO
CONSTRUCTIONv
SURVEYS
BLOCK II                ~~~~LAND ACQUISITION
BLOCKI                  0~~~~~ESIGN
CONTRACT TNE.EAUTO
CONSTRUCTION
PLA N NG                   -
SuRVEYS
BLOCK II                         LAFND ACQUISITION
DE SiGN
CONTRACT TENDER, EVALUATION
C ON STRSU CTION
TANJOG KAAND RRIGAION  ORKS PLANNING
SURVEYS
BLOCK III              ~~~~LAND ACQUISITION                                                                                 .
IRRIGATIONFACILITIESDESIGN
CONTRACT TENDER. EVALUATION
CONSTRUCTION
TAZ-jNG KARANG IRRIGATION WORKS  PLA N NING0
RENVATON  F MIN  ANA.STUCTRESSURVEYS
DRAINGE WRKS,ROAD ANDANCILARY LAFND ACQUISITION
IORKS.   IO  ACLTISDESIGN
CON'TRACT TENDER. EVALUATION
CONSTRiUCTION
--            -     -    -     -          -    -     -     -     -  -
COSTLBET RINAGE WORKS, RLANNING
WOA            0 ANCILLARYSRVEY
LAND ACQUISITION
RKS.                     ~~~~~~~DESIGN
CONTRACT TENDER, EVALUATION
CON ST S UCT710N                 4
BUISTLDNS QUARTEDRSINAND WOKS         LANNING
FARMERS DEVELOPMENT        SRVEYS
CENTERS                     L~~~~~AND ACQUISITION
D)ESIGN 
CONSTRUCTION
CONTRACT TENDER. EVALUATION
WOrld B.nk- 17696



ANNEX 5
Page 1
MALAYSIA
NORTHWEST SELANGOR INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Services Component
A. EXISTING SERVICES
Background
1.        Several agricultural agencies are active in the project area.  They
may be divided into two broad categories - those controlled almost exclusively
at Federal level and those in which the State plays a major role. Agencies
in the first category include the following:
(a) LPN, Lembaga Padi dan Beras Negara, or the National Padi Authority,
which is responsible for controlling the marketing and processing
of rice, and maintaining a national stockpile.
(b) FOA, the Farmers' Organization Authority, which is responsible
for amalgamating rural cooperatives into viable area Farmers'
Organizations, which could effectively organize input supply,
credit, processing, storage and marketing operations for large
numbers of smallholders, and eventually be self-financing.
(c) BPM, the Bank Pertanian Malaysia, which is the key government source
of agricultural credit for production, inputs, equipment, and land
purchase.
(d) MARDI, the Malaysian Agricultural Research and Development Institute,
which is responsible at the national level for all agricultural
research, with the exception of rubber.
2.        The Department of Agriculture (DOA) operates under a two-tier system.
The State DOA is responsible for agricultural extension and state development
programs. The Federal Department of Agriculture provides technical assistance
and supplementary finance and staff, mainly through specialized technical
support units located in various States which assist the extension worker in
such fields as plant protection, crop production, and soil analysis, and
through Federal development and subsidy programs, e.g., for coconut replanting
and rehabilitation, plant protection, and other crop subsidy programs.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
3.        The Drainage and Irrigation Department (DID) is more centralized than
the DOA under the provisions of the Malaysian constitution. Nearly all develop-
ment expenditure by DID is financed by the Federal Government, and Federal DID
exercizes technical control over State DIDs. Operation and maintenance of DID
works is a State responsibility, however. DID, like most of the key agencies
serving the farmer, comes under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Agriculture.
Both DID and DOA are line departments within the Ministry, while BPM, FOA, FAMA
and MARDI also report to the Ministry. The current status of agricultural
services relevant to irrigation areas is discussed in some detail in IBRD
Report No. 1523-MA. The description provided here is thus restricted to a
summary of the status within the project area.
The Department of Agriculture
4.        Agricultural extension within the states is traditionally a state
responsibility under the direction of the State Director of Agriculture. The
State employs a basic number of staff and provides infrastructure facilities
and operating costs. The Federal Department provides staff and facilities
to run technical support units for crop production, crop protection, soils,
and farm mechanization. In addition, the Education and Training Branch provides
training for agricultural technicians, and the Extension and Advisory Branch
provides technical information on a national basis. In Selangor, there is
currently no State Extension Officer, and only one Agricultural Officer (AO),
three Agricultural Assistants (AAs) and a small number of Agricultural Techni-
cians (ATs) in the Federal Support Units to service the whole state. In
practice, there is currently no subject matter specialist in padi or tree
crops, the main crops in the project area, who can provide technical support on
a full-time basis to field extension personnel.
5.        Extension services within the project area are supervised by an
AO stationed at Kuala Selangor. He is assisted by one AA at Sungei Besar, who
supervises work in Sabak Bernami, and a second stationed at Tanjong Karang, who
is responsible for Kuala Selangor District. The AAs are assisted by 20 ATs who
are expected to service 32,000 farm families at a ratio of 1 AT to 1,600 farm
families. As the ATs are also responsible for regulatory duties, the ratio is
much wider in practice, and the ATs contact very few farmers in their area of
operation. In addition, there are two AAs and five ATs involved in seed
production and technical support work and 1 AA and three ATs running a Farm
Mechanization Training course for young farmers on tractor operation and
maintenance. The Department operates three field stations in the area for seed
and planting material production, at Sungei Burong, Jaya Setia and Parit Umpat.
6.        The Federally-managed Coconut Smallholders Development Scheme (CSDS)
program in the project area is supervised by one AO at Klang who supervises ten
ATs servicing the Klang and Kuala Selangor Districts. One AA and six ATs
located at the Sungei Besar District Office service the Sabak Bernam area.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
These officers process coconut reprocessing applications and inspect properties
for the CSDS, and arrange for the supply of cash, inputs and seedlings provided
under the program. Extension is left to the local ATs, as CSDS workers may
only see a farmer twice a year, and move on once the program is completed
on his property. Under the coconut rehabilitation project now being prepared,
an additional five ATs would be provided to service the Sabak Bernam area.
7.        In summary, most DOA units in Selangor, both Federal and State,
are understaffed. Many of the staff in the project area are relatively
young and inexperienced, and under present circumstances, have little impact
on the farming community. There is an urgent need to increase numbers,
improve competence through regular training and technical support, and
introduce a more effective method of operation, which will ensure that the
majority of farmers receive regular contact with the service. The recently
initiated National Extension Project (Loan 1493-MA) will provide some addi-
tional ATs and some training. However, there would still be insufficient ATs
to service the project area adequately, and a need to strengthen the technical
support units.
The Drainage and Irrigation Department
8.        The State Director of Drainage and Irrigation is responsible for
operation and maintenance of the irrigation and drainage systems in the project
area. A senior drainage and irrigation engineer supervises local activities.
The area is currently divided into four operational zones - Sungei Besar, which
covers irrigation and drainage works in Sabak Bernam; Tanjong Karang, which
covers the balance of the irrigation area and drainage works on the coast; and
two zones which cover the balance of drainage works in Kuala Selangor. Cur-
rently, the field staff available to supervise O&M in the irrigated padi area
comprise 1 chief inspector, 1 senior inspector, 4 inspectors, 14 overseers
and 22 gatekeepers. The O&M staff in the drainage areas comprise: 2 technical
assistants, 4 technicians, 30 overseers, and 21 gatekeepers. The service is
currently understaffed, and available staff do not receive adequate supervision
and technical support or regular in-service training. It is very difficult to
retain good personnel at the inspector and technical assistant level, due to
the low pay and status in relation to the responsibility of the position. An
added problem is the fact that this level of field staff bears the brunt of
farmers' complaints when water supply or drainage problems arise.
9.        There are District Drainage Boards and Irrigation Committees to make
recommendations on water and drainage charges, to discuss priorities for im-
provements in works and operations, and to set irrigation schedules. There is
also an Ordinance setting out rules governing the use and abuse of irrigation
and drainage facilities. According to local reports, the District Drainage
Boards rarely meet, and the Irrigation Committee does little more than set
the dates for water supply. In essence, there is no effective system to
bring the DID field staff into regular contact with the end-users, and lack of
communication and understanding is clearly a problem. With the existing physical
inadequacies of the system and political pressures, it is extremely difficult
for irrigation staff to enforce water supply and drainage regulations. The



ANNEX 5
Page 4
above are serious matters, and potential benefits from improving the physical
status of the systems will be limited unless steps are taken to increase the
number and standard of O&M field staff, improve the operational system, raise
the status of field staff, and organize the farmers into effective water-user
and drainage groups, with effective representation on active and effective
Drainage Boards and Irrigation Committees. Above all, DID must have the
full backing of District and State Government in the enforcement of basic
system operation rules.
The Farmers' Organization Authority
10.    - The Selangor FOA office is currently located in Kuala Lumpur, some
90 km from the project area. Headquarters staff comprise a State Director, a
Deputy, an administrative officer, two officers for development and organiza-
tion, a State Auditor, two admninistration assistants, eight audit assistants,
and six clerical staff. The Project area is currently served by three Farmers'
Development Centers (FDCs) located at Kuala Selangor, Tanjong Karang and Sungei
Besar. These are staffed by 3 General Managers (AA level), 15 field officers
(AT level), 3 clerks, I typist: and a driver, employed by FOA; and a total
of 19 laborers, storekeepers, drivers and cashiers, employed by the Farmers'
Organizations (FOs) based in the FDCs. There are currently about 76 Small
Agricultural Units (SAUs) - small groups of farmers which are subdivisions of,
and are served by, the FDCs, and paid-up FO members total about 7,000 or 22% of
farmers in the area. In addition there are 66 farmers' cooperatives in the
area. These comprise 28 multipurpose, 15 rice milling, 2 rubber and pineapple,
and 21 credit cooperatives, with a total membership of about 8,500. As many
farmers are members of both the cooperatives and FOA, it is difficult to assess
the total farmer membership in cooperative activity. The process of amalgamat-
ing the cooperatives with the FDCs to form unified FOs is still under way. The
FDCs and cooperatives are active in supplying inputs, credit and planting
materials, (e.g., cocoa and coffee seedlings), rice milling, rice marketing,
and in recent years have become involved in the marketing and processing of
cocoa beans.
11.       Key problems facing the FOA and individual FOs are:  difficulties in
successfully amalgamating many cooperatives into one viable organization; the
relatively low management skills of the cooperative member staff; the general
lack of business skills among the farmers, and their lack of responsibility in
handling credit. Local FOA staff are relatively young and inexperienced, and
their efforts are spread too thinly over too many activities. They receive
very little training before beLng placed in the field, and do not receive
sufficient day-to-day guidance from senior experienced staff. As a result, the
management and supervision of cooperative activities leaves much to be desired
and does not instill confidence among the farming community. Quite recently,
there have been serious problems with the misuse of cooperative funds by
cooperative committee members, and many farmers, while still members, have not
recently participated in credit: programs, through fear of becoming involved in
legal action. Under these circumstances, the prospects of expanding and strength-
ening FO membership and activities are poor, unless systematic changes are
instituted. Some of the more obvious measures are as follows:



ANNEX 5
Page 5
(a) Restriction of activities to a few well-defined revenue
earning lines of operation that can be handled by the level
of farmer and FOA personnel available, e.g., input supply.
(b) Promotion of these activities to serve all farmers, i.e.,
members and nonmembers, on an equitable and efficient basis.
(c) Increase in the number and quality of FOA field staff through
a more rigorous recruitment and training program.
(d) Adoption of an improved organization and management system
that provides for better use of FOA manpower and continuous
supervision and in-service training for field staff.
Currently, there is no financial provision for training of farmer leaders
and field staff within the State. This is a serious omission, as regular
local on-job training to improve the skills of grass roots staff in performing
their day-to-day tasks is a prerequisite to improving management.
Bank Pertanian Malaysia
12.       The Bank Pertanian Malaysia (BPM) maintains one Branch Office at
Tanjong Karang to service Kuala Selangor and Sabak Bernam. The staff comprise
a branch manager, one credit supervisior (AS level) and two credit assistants
(AT level) to supervise credit; a finance supervisor (AA) and a bookkeeper
(AT), plus four clerical staff and a driver. The key activity has been short-
term production loans for padi. Loans for tractors and equipment, land pur-
chase and other crops constitute only a small part of the business. For
the padi production credit scheme, the BPM operates through Local Credit
Centers (LCCs), such as FOs and cooperatives, and through groups of padi
farmers (Bank Pertanian Credit Groups). Each LCC usually has its own credit
officer responsible for the disbursement and recovery of loans. Normally, no
security is required of the farmer, and the LCC recommends the farmer for BPM
loans on the basis of character, credit standing in the community, and his
ability to repay the loan from padi sales. However, in principle, the LCC is
required to provide security before being registered with the Bank, and has
overall responsibility for repayment. Farmers pay 4.25% for a six-month loan,
plus a penalty charge of an additional 1% per month for overdue payments. The
LCC receives 1.25% interest as a service fee, and BPM receives 3% interest per
half year. In 1976, farmers could borrow up to M$462 (US$188) per ha to cover
cultivation, transplanting, fertilizers, and insecticides. Credit coupons are
issued for inputs which can be obtained from the FOs or registered stockists.
Cash is provided for cultivation and transplanting.
13.       The padi credit scheme reached a peak in 1973 when about 2,400 farmers
(20% of padi farmers) took credit each season. In the first season of 1976,
only 286 farmers, or about 2% of farmers, took loans. On the average, farmers
used only 43% of the total value of each loan approved.



ANNEX 5
Page 6
Most of the loan funds used were taken as cash for cultivation and trans-
planting, with much smaller amiounts utilized for urea and insecticides. The
dramatic recent decline in the BPM padi credit program was due largely to personal
scandals, but there also had bieen repayment problems, which largely reflected the
poor performance of the LCCs in disbursing and recouping credit. Recovery of
loans was made difficult by the turnover of LCC credit officers and difficulties
in identifying loanees. BPM is now restricting credit services to two FOs, four
cooperatives and two private retailing businesses, who appear competent to handle
credit.
14.       In summary, there is very little institutional credit reaching
the farmers at the present time. The basic problems may be summarized as
follows. The average farmer has little commercial orientation, and under the
present system there is no group or social pressure to encourage a responsible
attitude towards credit. In general terms, the farmers have become accustomed
to government handouts and feel that political pressure will work in their
favor in case of default on a commitment. To many, the BPM or FO is a remote
government organization to which they feel little responsibility. There is
currently no close supervision at field level, with the result that credit is
often used for nonproductive purposes, and profits from the sales of produce
are often used to buy consumer goods in preference to repaying a loan. A
concerted effort is required by BPM, the DOA extension service and the FOA, to
organize the farmers better and to provide intensive education on credit,
business and technical matters, in order that a credit program can be success-
fully developed. A key feature of any program should be the formation of small
farmers' groups, with responsibility for disbursement, use and repayment of
credit, vested in the farmers' group and its elected leader. Penalties for
default and improper use of credit should affect the whole group, so that
members feel a responsibility to the group and its elected leader.
MARDI
15.       MARDI operates a 16 ha field station at Tanjong Karang.  About 7 ha
is devoted to irrigated padi, and the remainder is under coconut and build-
ings. A resident manager and fLeld staff maintain the station and field
trials, under the direction of senior research personnel located at the
MARDI headquarters in Serdang. In addition, there is a Project Development
Officer stationed at Klang, who is responsible to the Cropping Systems Unit at
Serdang for the study and development of cropping systems in the area.
He is assisted by one research assistant and one junior technician. The field
staff have programs on padi, vegetables, cocoa and coffee. In the project
area, the field program covers padi, vegetables and cocoa. This adaptive
field research commenced in 1974, and is based on selecting progressive
farmers and checking improved varieties and management techniques under farm
conditions. The MARDI personnel supply inputs, supervise management and
measure yield and profitability, at the end of the season. The unit currently
runs about 46 field plots and has achieved some outstanding yields with padi
in the Tanjong Karang irrigation area. In addition, a MARDI economist from
Serdang is studying costs, yields and returns on a sample of padi farms
located on alluvial, organic muck and peat soils in Sawah Sempadan. These



ANNEX 5
Page 7
programs are highly relevant to the needs of the extension service and the
project area. Currently, the main contact between the MARDI field personnel
and the extension service is via the State Agricultural Research Develop-
ment and Extension Committee (SARDEC), chaired by the State Director of
Agriculture. At these meetings, the MARDI personnel report on their projects'
results, and discuss field research requirements and recommendations with the
DOA. Unfortunately, there is not sufficient staff at project area level.
Nevertheless, the present program provides an excellent basis for expanding
cooperative adaptive field trials jointly run by local MARDI and DOA staff.
The National Padi Authority, LPN
16.       The LPN is formally empowered to purchase all padi in the project
area. It currently operates five storage and milling facilities, four of
which are equipped with mechanical driers in addition to drying floors.
Total storage capacity is 44,000 tons and rated milling capacity is 26 tons
per hour. The rated drying capacity of the drying facilities is about
80 tons per hour, but since much of the padi received is above 20% moisture
content, actual capacity is about 50 tons per hour. In addition, LPN permits
the operation of about 46 small licensed cooperative mills and about 120 small
unlicensed mills in the area. Currently, the LPN buys most of its padi
during two three-month seasons and mills continuously throughout the year.
Padi is purchased via 30 cooperatives and 2 FOs. LPN provides advance
funds, gunny bags and padi graders to the agents, collects the padi, and
pays M$.40 per pikul 11 commission to the agents. Currently, the LPN handles
about 65% of the crop. Key problems are the high moisture content and trash
in the padi. Although the LPN has a grading system, with deductions for
moisture content and impurities, most farmers appear to receive about M$27.00
per pikul for wet padi marketed straight from the field, and hence, there is
no incentive for them to winnow and dry the crop. Naturally, most of the
wetter and lower grade padi is directed to LPN, which creates problems with
drying in the August-October period. Substantial improvements in padi drying
could be made with simple concrete drying floors located at FDCs.
Coordination of Activities
17.       There is very little coordination of activities among the agencies
servicing the project area. The only viable coordinating mechanism at
present is the SARDEC at State level, which is largely restricted to senior
staff. In practice, each agency plans and implements its own program inde-
pendently, although DID, DOA and MARDI have combined efforts successfully to
run the 32 ha pilot padi project at Sekinchan. However, this type of coordi-
nation is required on a broad scale if individual agencies are to have any
major impact in solving current social, economic, technical and management
problems prevalent in the area, and are to provide the farming community with
an effective agricultural support service.
/1 Equivalent to US$2.71/metric ton.



ANNEX 5
Page 8
Agricultural Service Project Formulation
18.       By national standards, levels of yield and production are quite
high in the project area, especially in the irrigated padi areas. There is
little scope for increasing production and incomes by expanding area, as most
of the better agricultural land has been utilized. Improvements must come
from raising production and incomes on existing land still further. This
calls for intensification, and, in physical terms, implies investment to
improve water control, flood control and water table control in the rainfed
areas, and more reliable water supply and drainage in the irrigated area.
However, improvement of the plhysical environment is only the first step in the
process. The farmers cannot fully benefit from the investment unless a
concerted effort is made to improve the organization and management of the
total system. This will require a dramatic improvement in the organization of
farmers, water management, extension services, research services, credit
supply, input supply and the processing, storage and marketing of farm produce.
All aspects are interdependent and complementary in determining the level of
success, which calls for integration of planning, implementation and progres-
sive evaluation by all agencies concerned. On the other hand, even the best
integrated organization and management system cannot function effectively
unless the agencies concerned fully commit themselves to the task, and each
officer in the system receives regular training and technical support to carry
out his duties competently and effectively.
19.       The above points were discussed at some length with the agencies
concerned and a general organization and management framework for the project
area was agreed to. The proposed system is designed to coordinate planning,
implementation, progress evaluation and continuous training of all levels of
personnel on a routine basis. This system, along with provisions of additional
personnel, equipment, vehicles, facilities and training programs, forms the
basis of the agricultural services component.  If the agencies involved fulfill
their commitment to the system by positive action in the field, and the
additional staff and facilities required to operate the system are provided
on schedule, the project can be highly successful.
The Concept
20.       The basic concept of the system is to effectively coordinate the
field activities of the DOA extension service, DID, FOA and BPM, to provide an
effective integrated agricultural service to the 32,000 farm families in the
project area. Main points may be summarized as follows:
(a) One set of small farmer groups would be organized in the
field by DOA, based Dn adjoining cultivated lots. The same
set of groups would be serviced by the field staff of all
agencies with aggregation into larger units or breakdown into
subunits on a systematic basis to serve the special needs
of water management, credit, etc.
(b) Group leaders would be nominated by the farmers and appointed
by the agencies to be the key contact point between the agencies



ANNEX 5
Page 9
and the groups, and to ensure that all farmers in each group
consult with field staff, join in group programs, and take
advantage of services available.
(c) Service field staff would visit each farmer group on a set
day at a set time and at a set meeting place in the field on
a strict schedule throughout the year. This would ensure
that farmers know exactly when and where they can meet a
field officer, enable service visits by the four agencies to
be synchronized to facilitate group discussion with farmers,
and provide each field officer with a clear-cut program,
which could be readily monitored by his supervising officers.
(d) Area supervisors would call their staff in on a set day,
bi-weekly, for program review and planning, discussion of
management and technical problems, and training sessions
relevant to the immediate work program of the field staff
given by specialists from headquarters. Portions of these
sessions would be conducted on an interagency basis, with
rotation of chairmanship, to facilitate joint program review
and planning by all agencies. A longer joint interagency
session would be provided every six months for seasonal
program review, and for planning and training purposes.
(e) Senior project or regional staff would meet once a month
at the Project Headquarters, with district and area super-
visors, to review progress and plan the next month's program,
on an interagency basis, with rotating chairmanship. Each
agency would then split off for its own monthly meeting. A
joint interagency session would be planned every six months,
to evaluate the past season's program and prepare a joint
master program for the following season.
(f) Following the regional six-month meeting, a special sitting
of SARDEC would be convened, to discuss the regional or
project report from each agency, to ratify the proposals for
the coming season, and to resolve policy issues.
(g) Five-day short training courses would be arranged by the
regional supervisors of each agency for all field staff every
six months, following the program evaluation and planning
sessions.
The above system provides for close working relationships at field areas,
district and regional levels. It would ensure the establishment of an effective
integrated service system, if all levels of staff adopt a positive attitude to
the system, realize that they are only offering one part of the package of
services required by the farmer, and that they are members of a team. The
continuous on-the-job training and technical support provided through the
bi-weekly meetings would rapidly build the confidence and expertise of the
field workers if the training is practical and relevant to their immediate



ANNEX 5
Page 10
requirements. The longer training courses held in conjunction with the semi-
annual program review would provide an opportunity for all staff to meet and
exchange views and experiences with common problems, and would provide more
in-depth training on priority topics relevant to the needs of the service
program.
B. The Agricultural Services Component
21.       Implementation of the component would require the following additional
operational staff, facilities, and equipment:
Department of Agriculture
(a) Recruitment and training of an additional 10 agricultural
technicians (ATs) to 'bring the average AT:farmer ratio to
1:800, allowing for tlhe additional ATs to be provided under
the proposed national extension project.
(b) Recruitment and training of an additional five agricultural
assistants (AAs), one district Agriculture Officer (AO), and
one senior project (regional) Agriculture Officer, to bring
the AA:AT ratio up to 1:8, and to strengthen District agri-
cultural programs by lthe appointment of experienced graduate
staff.
(c) Recruitment and trainiLng of five experienced graduate
specialists in rice production, tree crops, plant protection,
soils and farm mechanization, to provide the bi-weekly training
programs and technical support required by the extension field
staff, and also to service the rest of Selangor State.
(d) Recruitment and training of an additional four AAs and ten ATs,
to bring the Federal technical support units up to satisfactory
strength, to service the project in terms of seed production,
plant protection, soils assessment, tractor operation training
for farmers, and assistance with demonstration plots.
(e) Basic equipment and vehicles required by the additional staff,
not provided for under the proposed national extension project.
(f) Office storage and meeting room faciliites at ten multipurpose
Farmers' Development Centers (FDCs) to be provided under the project,
and housing for field staff, chiefly on FDC premises.
22.       The Farmers' Organization Authority
(a) Recruitment and training of one agribusiness specialist (AO) to
provide bi-weekly training and regular backup for field staff;



ANNEX 5
Page 11
three graduate FDC managers to strengthen and upgrade activities in
the three existing FDCs; and two agricultural assistants (AAs) to
provide a total of five area supervisors for the FDCs throughout
the area.
(b) Office space, storage and drying floors at the ten FDCs under the
project, plus housing for additional staff.
(c) Basic equipment and vehicles.
23.       DID's operation and maintenance staff, including the additional staff
to be recruited under the project (Annex 4, Table 3), would also function as
that agency's field extension staff. Because of their long field experience
and close relations with farmers, they are currently among the most effective
contact points with farmers on agricultural matters. Additional housing for
DID and BPM field staff, again largely on FDC premises, would be constructed
under the project.
Overall Organization
24.       The organization of the component has been designed to fit into the
normal State administrative system after the completion of the project. Each
agency, i.e., DID, DOA, FOA and BPM, would be responsible for implementing
its own part of the service program. However, during the implementation
phase, a Project Manager would be appointed within the Ministry of Agriculture,
to devote full time to monitoring progress on all phases of the project. He
would be guided on policy matters by a Steering Committee chaired by the
Secretary General of the Ministry of Agriculture and the State Secretary of
Selangor, and composed of State and Federal officials to be nominated by
them. The Project Manager would receive full support from the Steering
Committee to resolve any implementation problems. The Steering Committee
would meet regularly every six months, and as required.
25.       Each agency would appoint project supervisors to ensure that its part
of the program is efficiently implemented. At project completion, these staff
would revert to being regional supervisors within their own departmental structure.
During the implementation of the project they would meet monthly under the
chairmanship of the Project Manager to review progress, solve problems, and
plan the next month's work. A special meeting would be held every six months
to carry out a joint seasonal review of progress, and to prepare program
proposals for the Steering Committee. At the completion of the project, chairman-
ship of the monthly and special six-monthly meetings would be rotated among the
agencies at the direction of the SARDEC (para. 17).



ANNEX 5
Page 12
26.       Each agency would, in turn, appoint an experienced officer working
within each District as its District representative. The District representa-
tives, along with their area supervisors, would meet monthly under the chair-
manship of the District Officer or his nominee, to jointly review progress,
resolve problems arising within the District, and plan the program for the
following month. At six-month intervals, the group would hold a seasonal
review and planning session, as a preparatory step to meeting with the regional
supervisors, to conduct a review of the regional program.
27.       In addition to a regional center and two District centers of operation,
the project would have ten field subcenters, located at FDCs, as operational
headquarters for DOA, DID, FOA and BPM staff at field levels. Six of these
centers would be located in or adjacent to the padi area. One would be located
in the southern drainage area, to serve the Kuala Selangor District, and three
would be located in the northern part of the project area (Map 13026). Office,
storage and meeting room facilities would be provided for the FOA. Five of
these centers would be sited so as to serve as Grade 1 area centers, as sub-
divisions within a District. Each of these centers would be staffed by an AA
or equivalent from each service, who would act as area supervisor and be
responsible for the activities of field officers operating in his area, and
also coordinate field program activities with his counterparts. The five other
subcenters would be manned by AT-level field staff, operating under the super-
vision of the area AA./1
28.       Each field officer or AT would be allocated 16 farmer groups, of
about 50 farmers, i.e., 800 farmers, to service on a regular bi-weekly visiting
schedule. Staff from the DOA extension service, DID, FOA and BPM will work as
teams servicing the same groups to facilitate joint visits and discussions and
jointly to determine with eaclh farmer group, program priorities at the beginning
of each cropping season.
Farmer Groups
29.       The DOA would be responsible for the formation of farmer groups, with
assistance from the DID and FOA. In the Tanjong Karang irrigation area, farmer
groups would be formed on the basis of tertiary canals and drains to facilitate
farmer group action on water distribution, maintenance of the system and
scheduling planting to correslpond with the planned water delivery date to the
tertiary block. A typical tertiary canal would supply an area of 320 ac
(130 ha) and 80-112 farmers. The tertiaries would have a control structure at
1.6 km intervals, dividing the service area into two sections of 160 ac (65 ha)
each with 40-56 farmers. The 65 ha unit and group of 40-56 farmers would form
the basis of farmer group fonnation. DID would prepare a map of the whole
irrigation area, marking the logical boundaries of each farmer group area. In
consultation with DOA and FOA, the groups would be packaged into units of 16,
totaling about 800 farmers, as a service area for one field officer from DOA,
DID, FOA and BPM.
/1 FOA would provide three graduate (AO level) FDC managers and two additional
AAs to manage all regional FOA activities from the three large existing FDCs.



ANNEX 5
Page 13
30.       Each farmer group would have one Group Leader for overall super-
vision of the group's activities for extension, irrigation, agribusiness
and credit. He would be assisted by two assistant leaders, one primarily
responsible for extension and irrigation activities, and the second for credit
and agribusiness activities. Four subgroup leaders would be responsible
for a group of 10-14 farmers on a 16 ha section. Candidates for group and
subgroup leaders would be nominated by the farmers, and selected by the DOA
extension AT, with the assistance of the FOA and DID field staff and kampong
leaders, who may have background information concerning the suitability of
candidates. Selected candidates should own and operate land within the group
area and be prepared to assist the field staff of servicing agencies. The group
leaders would be the key points of contact for the team of ATs servicing the
group, and would encourage all members to consult with field staff, to ensure
that every member receives information and advice given by the visiting ATs.
31.       In tree crop areas, cultivated land would be divided into logical
service areas of about 800 farmers, and subdivided into groups of about
50 farmers, on the basis of access roads, drains and natural boundaries.
Similar procedures would be followed in appointing group leaders. However, in
the appointment of subgroup leaders, care would be taken to have them located
more or less in each quarter of the group area, so that they have ready access
to the 10-12 neighbors they are leading. As there would be no irrigation, one
group leader with overall responsibility for extension and credit would be
appointed; one assistant would be appointed for extension, and another for
credit. In drainage areas the assistant for extension would also be responsible
for liaison with DID field drainage staff, on behalf of the farmer group.
Extension Service Operation
32.       The field extension worker (AT) would visit his assigned groups on
fixed days, at fixed times and set locations in the fields throughout the
year. He would visit two groups a day, and take eight days to complete
the round, meeting the group leaders and subgroup leaders and as many farmers
in each group as they can encourage to attend. He would start the meeting with
a training session appropriate to the farmers' current field activities,
followed by a practical field demonstration where possible, and a general
discussion on the topic. He would then lead a farm walk through the group
area, to advise on the management of demonstration plots, inspect crops, and
give on-the-spot advice. His bi-weekly visiting schedule would be made avail-
able to all groups, so they would know exactly where to contact him should
problems arise between visits. He would spend eight days per fortnight on farm
visits, two days on general administrative duties, committee work, and special
visits to problem areas. One day per fortnight would be set aside to attend a
meeting with his supervising AA and a subject matter specialist to discuss
progress and problems, receive training appropriate to his work program, and
plan the next two weeks' work.



ANNEX 5
Page 14
33.       An area supervisor (AA) would supervise the work of about eight
ATs. He would visit each AT at least once or twice per fortnight on a random
basis to ensure he is maintaining his visiting schedule, observe problems
in farmer groups firsthand, and provide support to the AT as required. He would
arrange the bi-weekly meeting for his ATs and maintain close contact at all
times with the Irrigation Inspector, FOA Area Supervisor and BPM Credit Officer
assigned to his area. The bi-weekly meeting with field staff would be held on
the same day each fortnight, and would be fixed in consultation with the FOA,
DID and BPM, to ensure that their field staff can combine in a joint session at
the beginning of the meeting to review general progress in the service area,
discuss mutual problems, and plan remedial action for the next two weeks. Once
a month, the area supervisor (AA) would attend a meeting with his District Agri-
culture Officer on a fixed day, along with other AAs to review progress within
the District.
34.       The District Agriculture Officer would be primarily responsible
for the extension program, but would also oversee regulatory and develop-
ment work, and ensure that regulatory and subsidy programs within the District
are compatible with and complementary to the extension program. He would
supervise the extension activities of about two or three AAs and about 20 ATs.
He would make frequent random visits to the field every month, to visit each
AA and AT, to observe field work and field problems firsthand. He would
ensure that the bi-weekly programa review, planning and training sessions
for the AAs and ATs are run according to schedule, and that the type of subject
matter, and subject matter specialist, appropriate to the needs of his groups,
are supplied as requested. He will also arrange for the regular monthly
meeting with his staff on a fixecl day suitable to FOA, DID and BPM representa-
tives, so that a preliminary joint session of all agencies can be held to
review progress and problems at District level.
35.       The project or regional Agricultural Officer would be located in
the project headquarters. He would have overall responsibility for extension,
technical and regulatory programs in the project area. He would maintain
continuous contact with the District Agricultural Officers, their area super-
visors, AAs and ATs, through regular field checks at each District and service
area each month. He would have overall responsibility for combining work
programs prepared by ATs, area supervisors, and District AOs into one
project or regional agricultural program each season. He would ensure that the
final program is integrated with the programs of DID, FOA and BPM, and would
maintain close contact with their regional officers at all times regarding
program planning, implementation and evaluation. He would meet with District
and area supervisors on a fixed day each month agreed with his DID, FOA and BPM
regional counterparts to review progress and problems. He would be responsible
for preparing six-monthly program proposals, for presentation to the Project
Manager and the Steering Committee. He would also maintain close liaison with
MARDI personnel and assist wherever possible to integrate their field evalua-
tion programs with the extension program and demonstration plot program.



ANNEX 5
Page 15
36.       An AA for extension programs and training would be attached to
the State Extension Office. His prime responsibility would be to work with
the regional and district Agricultural Officers to determine bi-weekly training
requirements at District and/or area level, and to determine the types of
short course training required at the six-month program review and training
sessions held at the end of each cropping season. In addition, he will maintain
a training record for all extension personnel. He will work through the State
Extension Officer and State Director of Agriculture, to ensure that Subject
Matter Specialists attached to the technical units at State Headquarters
service the bi-weekly meetings, provide technical backup services as required,
and assist with six-month training at project level. He would liaise with the
Federal Extension Service to arrange special training courses and to obtain
outside expertise as required by the project.
37.       Subject Matter Specialists in padi and tree crops would be appointed
to the Federally-operated Crop Production Unit at State Headquarters. Plant
protection, soils and farm mechanization subject specialists would also be
appointed to the appropriate technical units. These specialists would be
seconded to the State extension service and would be administratively respon-
sible to the State Director, while maintaining professional links with their
Federal branches. Their prime responsibility would be to provide the bi-weekly
training sessions and technical support to ATs and AAs in the project area and
in other parts of the State as required. Their secondary responsibility would
be to provide technical guidance to the units to which they are attached.  They
would maintain close contact with MARDI units and personnel working in the
project area and ensure that MARDI field crop trials in farmers' fields and
demonstration plots conducted by the ATs in farmer group areas are integrated.
They would work with MARDI and extension personnel to evaluate the results
of demonstration and field trial plots, and continuously upgrade recommenda-
tions for use by the extension workers.
38.       A State Extension Officer would be appointed under the National
Extension Project. This officer would have overall responsibility for
extension in the State and in the project area. He would jointly plan
demonstration plot, seed production and farmer training programs with the
Subject Matter Specialists, the Federal technical units and the regional
Agricultural Officer. Demonstration plots would be established in each AT's
service area of 16 farmer groups by the AT, with assistance from the technical
support units. Farm group leaders' fields would be selected for this purpose,
and would become a focal point of attention during the AT's regular bi-weekly
visits. An AA and two ATs would be appointed for padi, tree crops, soils and
crop protection to assist in this program. The Crop Production unit would con-
tinue to be responsible for seed production. Pure seed would be obtained from
MARDI and multiplied on the padi field stations in the project area. The initial
aim of the program would be to supply sufficient new seed to plant one acre in
each farmer group area, on an exchange basis. This would produce sufficient seed
to supply the rest of the group in the following season. A simple program planned
along these lines would only require the production of four tons of good seed



ANNEX 5
Page 16
per season, and could be init:iated immediately. Until an outstanding improved
variety is available that competes in terms of yield, price and quality with
the local varieties, consideration must be given to working with MARDI to
select and multiply superior lines of the local material, for distribution to
the farmers.
39.       The Farm Mechanization unit would be provided with additional
staff and equipment to expand the training of farmers in the operation and
maintenance of two-wheeled tractors. An additional two ATs are provided
along with a service/demonstration unit, to run training sessions on correct
maintenance procedures and simple repairs at village level throughout the
project area. These special training sessions would be organized through the
area supervisors and ATs servicing the farmer groups. MARDI would continue
its program of adaptive research in farmers' fields, and has agreed in
principle to coordinate its program with the demonstration plot programs
conducted by the extension service. It has also agreed in principle that the
agro-economic program now being conducted in Sawah Sempadan could be linked
to the trial and demonstration plot program, to provide a proper economic
evaluation of trial and demonstration plot results and proposed technical
recommendations. This would be followed up during project implementation
when the Subject Matter Specialists are appointed.
Irrigation Service Operation
40.       DID O&M staff would operate along lines similar to those described
for extension. In establishing staff numbers, DID uses staff:area ratios
instead of staff:farmer ratios. Overall, this gives a higher number of
overseers and irrigation inspectors than extension ATs and AAs. This means
that the DID can match the staff numbers recommended for extension, and can
place 1 overseer to work with I AT, to service 16 farmer groups throughout
the irrigation and drainage areas. DID has accepted the proposed integrated
operational system in principle, and would work with the DOA to develop a
practical system of joint operation that takes into account the needs of
O&M.
41.       In general terms, the system would operate as follows.  One irriga-
tion overseer would be assigned to cover the same irrigation or drainage area
as an extension AA, i.e., 16 farmer groups. While his general duties are dif-
ferent from those of an AT, and he does not need to spend so much time with
the farmers, he would be presient for the final session of each AT's visit to
each farmer group, to discuss water supply, drainage and operational problems
with the farmers and the AT. He would attend a full field visit session at
the end of each cropping season to discuss the past season's performance and
work out a desirable irrigation schedule and cropping pattern for the next
season with the farmer group and the AT. He would maintain close contact with
the farm group leader and assistant group leader for irrigation, regarding
water supply and drainage matters throughout the cropping season, and advise
on the best methods of water distribution within the group, and construction
and maintenance of field bunds and on-farm water control structures. He would



ANNEX 5
Page 17
report to his inspector once every two weeks, and participate in the bi-
weekly joint program review and planning sessions, with the DOA, FOA and
BPM.
42.       Irrigation inspectors would be assigned to work with specific
extension AAs, and where practical would be stationed at the same subcenters.
They would supervise the activities of four overseers, and would maintain
close contact with the extension AAs regarding cropping and irrigation
schedules within their service area. They would call their irrigation
overseers in once a fortnight, on the day agreed with the Extension AA, to
hold a joint program review and planning session. A senior O&M engineer
would attend each bi-weekly session, and provide a training session for the
inspector and overseers. He would inspect a portion of their area at each
visit, and help to resolve operation and maintenance problems in their
service area. The irrigation inspectors would attend a monthly meeting at
the appropriate District Office, for a joint program review and planning
session with the DOA, FOA and BPM, and then break off to discuss their own
program in greater depth with the Senior Inspector and Chief Inspector. All
inspectors, senior inspectors, and district engineers would attend the
monthly regional meeting at project headquarters, where there would be a
joint discussion with DOA, FOA and BPM personnel, as well as an in-depth
review and planning session on O&M matters. Staff at area, district and
project or regional level would carry out a post-seasonal program review and
planning session, as a joint exercise with DOA, FOA and BPM, and ensure that
program proposals developed at all levels are compatible with the programs of
the other agencies. The Project Engineer would be responsible for ensuring
that staff at all levels follow the operating system agreed with the other
agencies. He would also be responsible for preparing and submitting the DID
plan of operation to the Project Manager and State Committee every six
months.
43.       To ensure that the interests of all farmer groups within an irri-
gation or drainage division are protected, the DID would take the initiative
in establishing irrigation and drainage committees. The basic committees
would comprise the 16 farmer group leaders in a service area, the irrigation
overseer, the agricultural extension AT and appropriate representatives
from the villages concerned. The main function of the committee would be
to meet regularly, to discuss problems of water distribution and drainage
and breaches of the Irrigation Ordinance, and to obtain local government
support for enforcement of agreed rules and operational schedules. At the
commencement of each season, the committee would reach a consensus regarding
the desirable irrigation and cropping schedule for the area. Two farmer
group leaders, one local governinent representative, the extension AT and the
Irrigation Overseer, would be members of an Irrigation Division Committee,
comprising about six service areas. The Irrigation Division Committee,
representing farmers on about 15,000 ac (6,000 ha) would meet at the end of
each season, to reconcile irrigation and cropping schedules requested by each
service area, and determine the irrigation and cropping schedules to be
adopted for the whole irrigation division for the next season. These commit-
tees would be chaired by the District Officer. In addition to setting up



ANNEX 5
Page 18
the irrigation schedules for each division, the Division Committees would
take action regarding breaches of the irrigation ordinance and operational
rules that the service area committees cannot handle. Representatives of the
three Irrigation Division Committees would form an Irrigation Area Committee
to determine the irrigation schedule for the whole irrigation area, and to
deal with problems beyond the scope of the Division Committee. The existing
Drainage Board structure would also be reviewed with a view to ensuring that
under the new management system, farm group leaders, and drainage and agri-
cultural field staff get adequate representation, and can influence management
decisions regarding the operation of the drainage system, including main-
tenance of water tables on the basis of local needs. Establishment of
effective committees, with grass-root representation, would provide support
for the enforcement of the Irrigation Ordinance and operation schedules.
FOA and BPM Operations
44.       FOA would work closely with DOA and BPM, and adopt a similar
operating system. In the Tanjong Karang area, FOA would appoint 1 field
officer to work with every 2 field extension workers and 32 farmer groups.
BPM proposes to appoint 10 cre,dit assistants to Tanjong Karang, so the basic
system would be 1 FO field officer working with 1 BPM officer, and 2 Extension
ATs, to service 32 farmer groups.  The BPM and FO field officers would make a
joint visit to each of the 32 Earmer groups once per month on the same
visiting schedule as the 2 extension field officers, and work with the farm
group leader and the assistant group leader for credit and agribusiness.
They would make other follow-up visits, as required. At each regular visit,
they would train the credit-agribusiness leader in some aspect of credit and
agribusiness operations, and remind farmers that they have a choice of taking
credit either via the FO or directly from the BPM on the same interest and
repayment terms. The agribusiness leader would be shown how to compile a
list of all cultivators in the group, along with pertinent details on the
area cultivated. He would arrange to bring two farmers forward for credit
assessment each time the BPM and FOA officer visit the group. The FOA and
BPM would adopt the same methods of credit assessment and would share the
responsibility of making the assessment. Copies of assessments would be
filed with the BPM credit supervisor and the FO.
45.       Those farmers who, in the opinion of the FOA and BPM field staff,
and the farm group credit/agribusiness leader, have a good credit rating,
would be issued a credit book. This would show their name, group number,
area cultivated, with columns showing the amount of credit requested for
cultivation, fertilizer, chemicals, and transplanting and harvest labor. A
farmer wishing to take credit would discuss his request with the credit/agri-
business leader at least six weeks before the planting season. He would fill
out his requirements in the book, which would be handed to the extension AT
during his next group visit. The technical merits of the request would be
discussed with the farm group leaders. It would be adjusted as required, and



ANNEX 5
Page 19
initialed by the extension AT. The book would also be initialed by the
farm group leader, as confirmation of the area to be planted. The completed
application would be submitted to the FOA and BPM representative at their next
visit. Depending on whether the farmer is seeking credit from the FO, or
direct from BPM, the FO or BPM officer would make follow-up enquiries, and
submit the book with his recommendation to his area supervisor, who would fix
the final amount of credit to be granted, and issue vouchers for the supply
of cash or inputs. These would be supplied to the farmer via his farm group
credit leader. When they are issued, the farmer taking credit would be
required to sign a standard letter of contract, which would be countersigned
by the farm group leader and credit leader. The standard contract would set
out the terms of the loan and commit the farmer, and the group leaders, to
repay the loan to either BPM or the FO, whichever the case may be. It would
also specify the stockists and FO depots from which inputs can be supplied,
and the points at which produce must be delivered as repayment. The credit/
agribusiness group leader would receive a commission on loan repayments. The
commission would increase with the percentage repayment to set a worthwhile
incentive for better than 90% repayment. The FO and BPM field workers would
issue a list of farmers taking credit approved, to the extension AT. As part
of his routine group visits and field inspections, he would check that the
farmers concerned are using the inputs effectively.
46.       Farmers with poor credit assessments, due to indebtedness or lack
of assets, but who are commended as sound citizens and good farmers, e.g.,
tenants, would be encouraged to form groups with their neighbors, where,
in the opinion of the farm group leader and credit leader, they have the
ability to make good use of credit, and would repay the loan from the extra
yield produced. Under a group credit system, a minimum of three farmers
would cross-guarantee the repayment of their loans as a group. As the system
developed, and the agribusiness leaders gained experience through regular
supervision and job-training visits from FO and BPM field staff, they would
be given more responsibility in the processing of credit applications, and
credit issue to reliable farmers who consistently repaid would be brought down
to a routine basis. The FO and BPM field staff would then concentrate most of
their efforts on assessing and following up farmers with low credit ratings, to
check the cause of the problems.
47.       In the tree crop areas, a similar system would be adopted.  In
these areas, 1 FO field officer would be assigned to serve 16 farmer groups
with I extension AT. They would carry the main responsibility for agribusiness
and credit operations. They would be supported initially in credit by four
BPM credit assistants, i.e., one BPM credit assistant to backstop five FO
field staff. If credit operations are successful under the new system, a
ratio of 1 credit officer to 800 farmers would be too large. In this event,
additional staff can be appointed to those service areas where credit demand
accelerates.
48.       In the irrigated areas, the FOA and BPM would appoint one area
supervisor at AA level, to work alongside the extension AAs and irrigation



ANNEX 5
Page 20
inspectors, at the larger FDCs. In tree crop areas, the FOA would provide an
area supervisor to work with the extension AAs.  Nevertheless, the BPM would
maintain an office at each of the ten FDCs. The FOA and BPM area supervisor
AAs would adopt the same practice as the extension AAs and irrigation inspec-
tors, and call their field officers in on a fixed day agreed with the DID and
DOA, to jointly review progress and problems in the area, plan the work
program for the coming two weeks, and provide a training session for their
field officers, on a topic relevant to their immediate work program. The area
supervisors would also make regular checks on their field personnel, and
every six months work together with the area supervisors of DID and DOA, to
review the progress in the area, and formulate the work program for the next
season. The area supervisors would also attend the regular monthly meetings
at District level.
49.       The FOA will have one District Officer in Sabak Bernam and two
in Kuala Selangor. The most senior and experienced officer in Kuala Selangor
would be nominated as the District FOA Officer, and as the chief FOA spokesman
at the monthly District meetings. BPM only has one branch manager. He would
oversee operations in both Districts, and attend the monthly District and
regional meetings. The BPM branch manager and the FOA State Director (who
will function as the FOA regional supervisor) would be responsible for
working with the regional representatives of DID and DOA to prepare an
integrated regional program for the project area every six months, and for
presenting their portion of the program to the Project Manager and the
Steering Committee. The BPM would appoint one officer from its Kuala Lumpur
Headquarters as a representative on the Steering Committee, to work with the
State Directors of FOA, DID and DOA on the overall supervision of project
implementation.
50.       With regard to input supply and marketing of produce, each of
the ten FDCs would be equipped with a store and drying floor, and staffed
withi a storekeeper and laborers. The FOA would supervise these facilities
for the FOs and establish them as centers for input supply, collection of
produce and provision of services. The LPN would register the centers
established in the padi areas as official collection agents. All centers
would be officially recognized as collection centers for farmers repaying
credit extended by BPM or the 'FOs and would also be registered as official
suppliers of inputs for the credit scheme. BPM, in consultation with FOA,
would also register private input suppliers in areas where it is not practical
for the farmers to obtain inputs through the FO system. The Regional FOA,
BPM and DOA supervisors would ensure that all stockists throughout the
project area have a list of the key recommended chemicals and fertilizers,
along with the official recommendation for each product. The State DOA, BPM
and FOA representatives would ensure that all FOs and officially registered
stockists carry the recommended chemicals and fertilizers, and limit their
range to a reasonable size so as to avoid confusion among the farmers.
51.       In areas where there are strong active Small Agricultural Units
(SAUs) already functioning at village level it would be necessary to integrate



ANNEX 5
Page 21
the field agribusiness groups with the SAU. In these situations, the field
group leader for agribusiness would automatically become a field represen-
tative of the SAU chiefs operating in the area. He would be the primary
contact for the farmers with the FO and all farmers would work through him to
obtain FO services. Unit chiefs would only act on the recommendation of the
field group leader with regard to approving requests for services. The
farmer receiving services would be primarily responsible to the field group
leader and the field group for proper use of services and repayment of credit
extended via the FO. However, he would also have to answer to the Unit Chief
in his own village when problems arise. This arrangement would extend the
potential coverage of existing SAUs and provide the Unit Chief with a field
supervision service to ensure effective use of services. Where SAUs are weak
or not active the opportunity would be taken to reorganize the system using
one or more field groups to form the basis of SAUs with appointment of the
most capable field agribusiness group leaders as SAU chiefs. The FO field
officers would visit the SAU chiefs or take them along on the regular visits
to field group leaders to ensure closer supervision and better coordination
of SAU activities.
Training
52.       Training for farm group leaders and all levels of field staff is an
essential component if the improved management system is to work well and the
staff are to perform their tasks satisfactorily. Several types of training
would be provided for farm group leaders. Following their appointment, all
group leaders within a service area of 16 farmer groups would be brought
together at a central point for project orientation training. At the first
session, the DOA, DID, FOA and BPM staff would explain the project concept and
management system to the group and outline the respon sibilities of the field
staff serving them. DID, FOA and DOA would then arrange a two-day, follow-up
training session within the service area, designed specifically for the irri-
gation, extension and agribusiness group leaders to provide more detailed
information on their specific task in the system, and to answer queries. In
the case of agribusiness/credit group leaders, who would be required to keep
records and assist with credit applications and disbursement, the FOA with the
assistance of BPM would run a series of 12 1-day training sessions over a
3-month period, i.e., I day per week. Once the system is established, the DOA,
DID and FOA would bring the group leaders together in each service area for two
days at the end of each cropping season, to review progress and problems and
outline the key points of the following season's program.
53.       The AAs and ATs of all services would receive regular bi-weekly
training sessions relevant to their immediate work programs, from Subject
Matter Specialists from State Headquarters, at the meetings to be convened by
the AAs. This continuous on-job training related to field problems the junior



ANNEX 5
Page 22
staff are facing is essential to raising the confidence and competence of
junior staff, and giving them an opportunity to obtain regular backstopping
from senior personnel. In addition, all AAs and ATs would be brought in to
regional headquarters at the end of each cropping season, for a general program
review and planning session, followed by short course training of four to five
days on key topics required for the new season's program. These courses would
utilize State Specialists, plus lecturers supplied with the assistance of
Federal DOA. As well as providing training in specialist subjects at regular
intervals, these training sessions would provide an opportunity for all field
staff in the project area to meet and exchange views and experiences on common
problems.
54.       For regular basic training of field staff, DID would utilize its
Water Management Training Center to be established in Kelantan, and DOA would
arrange training courses for key personnel with the Federal Extension and
Training units. However, in tlhe cases of FOA and DOA, special arrangements
would be made for the training of Subject Matter Specialists, to be recruited
under the project, along the lines indicated in the cost estimates. Early
recruitment and effective training of these personnel is basic to the success
of the component, as they are the main technical contact for the field staff
and would have a large influence on the effectiveness of field programs.
Two-week overseas training and study tours are recommended, and included in
cost estimates, for farm group leaders and field workers working on extension,
irrigation and agribusiness. A committee comprising regional and district
supervisors of all participating agencies would select a few outstanding farm
group leaders and field workers in each discipline who have achieved success in
furthering the aims of the project and the work program. Combined groups would
be selected and sent to Taiwan or Indonesia for a study tour in irrigation and
drainage areas. The program would be arranged so that participants may observe
farming practices and operational systems at the grass-root level, and discuss
mutual problems with farmers and field workers.
55.       Project Implementation.  The outline of the organization and
management system proposed for the project is based on a preliminary analysis
of the project area. While the system is currently being started in the
Sawah Sempadan pilot area, an iin-depth study based on a season's field
experience in implementing the system over the entire project area is required
to determine deployment of staff and detailed operating procedures for each
agency. A clear definition of all aspects of the system and the preparation
of a draft operations manual, setting out job descriptions and operating
procedures for all levels of staff, is a prerequisite to success. Assurances
have been obtained that the agencies concerned would appoint a working group
chaired by DOA to review the proposed system in greater depth, and would pre-
pare an Agricultural Services Operations Manual to guide field operations by
December 31, 1978.



ANNEX 5
Table 1
MALAYSIA
NORTHWEST SELANGOR INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Supporting Services
Summary Cost Estimates
1.  Buildings & facilities                                      M$
(a) Joint facilities
Farmers' Development Centers (10) /a             1,418,450
Project office                                     400,000
Project Manager's quarters                          46,500
(b) Staff housing
DOA (59 units, various classes)                  1,194,450
FOA (6 units)                                      117,400
DID (40 units)                                     970,600
MARDI (1 unit)                                      46,400
(c)  DOA plant protection unit                             10,000
Total construction cost                          4,203,800
Engineering & supervision /b                       336,200
Total base cost                                  4,540,000
2. Agricultural equipment
DOA equipment /c                                        617,700
FOA equipment /d                                        442,250
Total base cost                                  1,059,950
3. Incremental operating costs
DOA operations /e                                     2,443,000
FOA operations /f                                     1,283,000
Total base cost                                  3.726.000
/a Including 5 Grade 1 FDCs and 5 Grade 2 FDCs (see Table 2),
plus M$100,000 for site development.
/b At 8% of cost of facilities.
/c Table 3.
/d Table 4.
/e Tables 5, 6, and 7.
/f Tables 9, 10, and 11.



MALAYSIA
NORTHWEST SELANGOR INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Space & Facility Requirements at Farmers Development Centers
Drainage &          Farmers'            Bank
Department of        Irrigation        Organization        Pertanian
Agriculture         Department          Authority         Malaysia              Total
Area      Cost      Area    Cost       Area    Cost    Area    Cost         Area       Cost
(ft2)     (M$)      (ft2)    (M$)      (ft2)   (M$)      (ft2)    (M$)      (ft2)      (M$)
Grade 1 centers (5)
Office space              600    15,000    603       15,000      600   15,000    200    5,000   2,000    50,000
Meeting area              750    18,750        -                   -         -       -          -      750     18,750
Toilet block              150     4,500        -          -        -         -       -                 150      4,500
General storge           200       4,000     200      4,000      750   15,000        -          -   1,150      23,000
Garage space             200      3,000    200        3,000      200    3,000    200    3,000         800      12,000
Drying floor                -          -       -          -   3,000   10,000         -          -   3,000      10,000
Subtotal                    45,250             22,000             43,000             8,000              118,250
Land acquisition        2 ac    20,000                    -                  -                  -              20,000
Misc. expenses                     3,620              1,760              3,440               640                9,460
Total                       68,870             23,760             46,440             8,640              147,710
Grade 2 centers (5)
Office space              400     10,000    400      10,000      500   12,500      200    5,000   1,500        37,500
Meeting area              400     10,000       -          -        -          -      -          -      400     10,000
Toilet block              100      3,000       -          -        -                            -      100      3,000
General storge            150      3,000     150      3,000      750   15,000        -          -   1,050    21,000
Garage space             200       3,000    200       3,000      200    3,000      200    3,000        800     12,000
Drying floor                -          -       -          -   3,000   10,000         -          -   3,000      10,000        >
Subtotal                    29,000             16,000             40,500             8,000               93,500 X
Land acquisition       1.5 ac   15,000                    -                  -                  -              15,000
Misc. expenses                     2,320              1,280              3,240                640               7,480
Total                       46,320             17,280             43,740             8,640              115,980



ANNEX S
Table 3
MALAYSIA
NORTHWEST SELANGOR INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
Cost Estimates - Equipment and Vehicles
Cost  (M$)                                                                                Cost  (M$)
Item                                        No.      Unit       Total                Item                                               No.    Unit        Total
40 Field Extension Workers (ATs)                                                     Project Agriculture Officer (AO)
Basic estension tools                            40         200       8,000          1 mobile extension unit                                  1    30,000       30,000
Visual aid materials                             40         200       8,000          4-wheel drive vehicle                                    1    27,000       27,000
Basic office furniture                           40         400      16,000          Slide projector & accessories                            1      1,500       1,500
Subtotal                                                          32,000         Overhead projector                                       1      2,500       2,500
Camera                                                  1        400          400
5 Extension Supervisors (AAs)                                                          Duplicating machine                                      1      3,000       3,000
4-wheel drive vehicles & trailers                 5      28,000     140,000          Photostat machine                                        1     3,000        3,000
Typewriters                                       5       1,000        5,000         Typewriter                                               1      1,000       1,000
Electronic calculators                            5         300        1,500         Electronic calculator                                    1        300         300
Ceiling fans                                      5         250        1,250         Whiteboards                                              2        200         400
Filing cabinets                                   5         250        1,250         Filing cabinets                                          2        250         500
Blackboards                                       5         200        1,000         Office furniture                                                1,200       1,200
Office furniture                                  5         700       3,500             Subtotal                                                                70_800
Subtotal                                                         153.500
Crop Production Unit
District Extension Officers (AOs)                                                      4-wheel drive vehicle & trailer                          1    28,000       28,000
4-wheel drive vehicles                            2      27,000      54,000          Grain moisture meter                                     2     1,500        3,000
Slide projectors & accessories                    2       1,500       3,000          Scales                                                   2      1,500       3,000
Cameras                                           4         400        1,600         Knapsack sprayers                                        6        250       1,500
Typewriters                                       2       1,000       2,000         MIotorized sprayers                                       4      1,200       4,800
Electronic calculators                            2         300          600         Cyanogas pumps                                           2        300         600
Filing cabinets                                   4         250        1,000         Electronic calculator                                    1        300         300
Blackboards                                       2         200          400         Office furnishing & equipment                            -      1,500       1,500
Office furniture                                  2       1,000        2,000         Miscellaneous demplet equipment                          -        -         1,000
Subtotal                                                          64,600             Subtotal                                                               43,700
Plant Protection Unit                                                                Soils Unit
4-wheel drive vehicles & trailers                 2      28,000      56,000          4-wheel drive vehicle                                    1    27,000       27,000
Motorized sprayers                               10       1,200       12,000         Soil field equipment                                     -      5,000       5,000
Knapsack sprayers                                10         250       2,500          Electronic calculator                                    1        300         300
Motorblowers                                     10       1,200       12,000         Office furnishing 6 equipment                            -        -         1,500
Fogging machines                                 10       1,500      15,000             Subtotal                                                                33,800
Hi tree sprayers                                 20       1,000      20,000
Cyanogas pumps                                   10         300       3,000        Mechanization Training Unit
Electronic calculator                             1         300          300         4-wheel drive vehicle & trailer                          1    28,000       28,000
Office furnishing & equipment                     -       1,500        1,500         Service/demonstration vehicle                            1    28,000       28,000
Subtotal                                                         122.300          2-wheeled training tractors                             3      6,000      24,000
Complete tool sets                                      1      2,500       2,500
Basic student tool sets                                10        700       7 000
GRAND TOTAL                                                      617,700          Cut-out Model 10 hp diesel engine                       1      2,000       2,000
Slide projector & accessories                           1      1,500       1,500
Miscellaneous teaching aids                             -      2,000       2,000
Additional office furnishing & equipment                -      2,000       2,000
Subtotal                                                              97,000



ANNEX 5
Table 4
MALAYSIA
NORTHWEST SELANGORt INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FARMERS ORGANIZATION AUTHORITY
Cost Estimates - Equipment and Vehicles
Cost (M$)
Item                                      No.     Unit       Total
Regional Supervisor (AO)
4-wheel drive vehicles                         1      27,000     27,000
Overhead Projector                              1      2,500       2,500
Slide projector & accessories                  1       1,500       1,500
Duplicating machine                             1      3,000       3,000
Photostat machine                              1.      3,000      3,000
Typewriter                                      1      1,000       1,000
Electronic calculators                          1        300         300
Whiteboards                                     1        200         400
Filing cabinets                                2         250         500
Office furnishing                               2      1,200       1,200
Subtotal                                                      40,400
District Supervisors (AOs)
Slide projectors & accessories                 2       1,500       3,000
Cameras                                        2         400         800
Electronic calculators                         3         300         900
Grain moisture testers                          3      1,500       4,500
Hi tree sprayers /a                            6       1,000       6,000
Motorized sprayers /a                           6      1,200       7,200
Cyanogas pumps /a                               6        300       1,800
4-wheel drive vehicles & trailers              3      28,000     84,000
Subtotal                                                     108,200
Subcenters
Pick-up trucks /a                              5      15,000      75,000
2-wheeled tractors /a                          6       6,000      36,000
4-wheeled tractor & implements /a              4      30,000    120,000
Grain moisture testers                          6      1,500       9,000
Sets of scales                                  9      1,500      13,500
Typewriters                                     9      1,000       9,000
Filing cabinets                                 9        250       2,250
Office safes                                    9        600       5,400
Blackboards                                     9        200       1,800
Electronic calculators                        23         300       6,900
Grade I center office furniture                 5      2,000      10,000
Grade 2   "       "       "                     4      1,200       4,800
Subtotal                                                     293,650
Total                                                        442,250
/a  Revenue earning items.



ANNEX 5
Table 5
MALAYSIA
NORTHWEST SELANGOR INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cost Estimates - DOA Incremental Operating Costs
-------------------Cost (M$ '000)-----------------
Item                     Total        1978      1979      1980      1981      1982
Salaries and travel /a               1,514       148       298       356        356       356
O&M, Buildings                         158        -          21        39        49        49
O&M, Vehicles                           70          2        14        18        18        18
O&M, Equipment                          72          2        10        20        20        20
General supplies/Administration        213          9        24        60        60        60
Farm group leader training             176        33         35        36        36        36
Local extension staff training          76          4        18        18        18        18
Technical specialist training /b    74             32        28        14         -
Overseas study tours /b                 90        -          -         30        30        30
Total                          2.443        230       448       591       587       587
/a See Table 6
/b Disbursements would be made against these items (Annex 8). See Table 7 for
details on DOA training activities under project. Total overseas and specialist
training would amount to M$ 248,000 (US$100,000), of which M$ 164,000 would be for
DOA activities and M$ 84,000 for FOA (Table 9).



ANNEX 5
Table 6
MALAYSIA
NORTHWEST SELANGOR INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
Salary and Travel Costs of Incremental Staff
Year            1        2       3        4        5
Field Extension Workers (ATs)              6        4       -        -        -
Cumulative total                         6       10      10       10       10
Annual cost (M$4,800)              28,800  48,000  48,000  48,000  48,000
Extension Supervisors (AAs)                2        3       -        -        -
Cumulative total                         2        2       5        5        5
Annual cost (M$9,960)               19,920  49,800  49,800  49,800  49,800
District Supervisors (AOs)                 I        -       -        -        -
Cumulative total                         1        1       1        1        1
Annual cost (M$13,200)              13,200  13,200  13,200  13,200  13,200
Subject Matter Specialists (AOs)           2        2       1        -        -
Cumulative total                         2       4        5        5        5
Annual cost (M$15,600)             31,200  62,400  78,000  78,000  78,000
Project Agricultural Officer (AO)          1        -       -        -        -
Cumulative total                         1        1       1        1        1
Annual cost (M$17,500)              17,500  17,500  17,500  17,500  17,500
Technical Support (AAs)                    1        2       1        -        -
Cumulative total                         1        3       4        4       4
Annual cost (M$9,960)                9,960  29,880  39,840  39,840  39,840
Technical Support (ATs)                    2        4       4        -       -
Cumulative total                         2       6       10       10      10
Annual cost (M$4,800)                9,600  28,800  48,000  48,000  48,000
Clerk/Typists                              3        5       -        -       -
Cumulative total                         3       8        8        8       8
Annual cost (M$3,600)               10,800  28,800  28,800  28,800  28,800
Drivers                                    3        5       6        -       -
Cumulative total                         3       8       14       14      14
Annual cost (M$2,400)                7,200  19,200  33,600  33,600  33,600
Total (M$)                    148,180  297,220 356,380 356,380 356,380
GRAND TOTAL (M$) 1,513,74C1



ANNEX 5
Table 7
MALAYSIA
NORTHWEST SELANGOR INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
Cost Estimates for Training
mandays       Cost (M$)
Farm Group Leader Training
Project Orientation Training (Year 1 only)
640 group leaders                                1,920           7,680
3,200 subgroup leaders                           6,400          25,600
Subtotal                                                   33,280
Preseason Program Orientation Training (every year)
640 group leaders                                2,560          10,240
3,200 subgroup leaders                           6,400          25,600
Subtotal                                                   35,840
Project Extension Staff
Project Orientation Training (Year 1 only)
60 agricultural field staff                        120           3,600
Local preseason Program Planning/Training (every year)
60 agricultural field staff                        600          18,000
Subject Matter Specialists
Rice specialist:  6 months IRRI Philippines                       14,000
Tree crop specialist:  12 months Local Estates                    18,000
Farm mechanization: 6 months overseas with
manufacturers                                                  14,000
Plant protection:  6 months overseas training                     14,000
Soils specialist:  6 months overseas training                     14,000
Subtotal                                                  74,000
Training and Study Tours (Years 3-5)
Two-week group tours to Taiwan for 3 groups
1 Agricultural Officer                                           2,500
2 Agricultural Assistants                                        5,000
9 Agricultural Technicians                                      22,500
24 Farm Group leaders                                            60,000
Subtotal                                                  90,000
Note: Regular in-service technical training for field staff will be
provided by the National Extension Project.



ANNEX 5
Table 8
MALAYSIA
NORTHWEST SELANGOR INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Department of Agriculture Staff Requirements
No.     Staff         Supplied by
Positions                      Grade  req'd   available   NEP /c    Project
State Extension Unit
Project Agricultural Officer       AO/a   1        - I                     1
District AO, K. Selangor           AO      1        1          -
District AO, S. Bernam             AO      1                              1
Extension Assistant (training)   AA        1       -           _           1
Extension Supervisors              AA      6       2           -           4
Field extension workers            AT    40       10          20          10
Regulatory workers                 AA      2        2          -           -
Regulatory workers                 AT    10        10          -
Crop Production Unit
Rice Specialist                    AO/b   1        -           -           1
Tree Crop Specialist               AO/b   1        -           -           1
Assistant Rice                     AA      1       -           -           1
Assistant Tree Crops               AA      I       -           -           1
Technician Rice                    AT      2       -           -           2
Technician Tree Crops              AT      2       -           -           2
Plant Protection Unit
Crop Protection Specialist         AO/b   1        -           -           1
Assistant Rice                     AA      1        1          -           -
Assistant Tree Crops               AA      1        -          -           1
Technician Rice                    AT      2        2          -           -
Technician Tree Crops              AT      2       -           -           2
Soils Unit
Soils Specialist                   AO/b   1        -           -           1
Assistant Soils                    AA      1        -          -           I
Technician                         AT      2        -          -           2
Farm Mechanization Unit
Farm Mechanization Specialist    AO/b   1           -          -           1
Assistant                          AA      1        1          -           -
School Technicians                 ATs    3        3           -           -
Field Technicians                  AT      2       -           -           2
Secretary/typists (for AOs)                3       -           -           3
Clerk/typists (for AAs)                    5       -           -           5
Drivers (for AOs)                          4        -          -           4
Drivers:  (for extension)                  5        -           -          5
Drivers:  (for technical specialists)   5           -           -          5
/a Superscale G.
/b Senior time scale: To serve the whole state.
/c National Extension Project.



ANNEX 5
Table 9
MALAYSIA
NORTHWEST SELANGOR INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cost Estimates - FOA Incremental Operating Costs
-------------------Cost (M$ '000)----------------
Item                    Total        1978     1979      1980      1981      1982
Salaries and travel /a                702        52      145       168       168       169
O&M, Buildings                         86        -         11       25        25        25
O&M, Vehicles /b                       22         2         5         5        5         5
O&M, Equipment /b                      33         2         6         8        9         9
General supplies/Administration        74         5        15       18        18        18
Agribusiness leader training          123        23        54        15       15        15
Local field staff training             69         9        15        15       15        15
Senior staff training                  90        90                 -
Overseas study tours A                 84        -         -        28        28        28
Total                         1,283       183       251       282       283      284
/a See Table 10
/b Excludes revenue earning items.
Ic  Disbursements would be made against this item.  See Table 11 for details on FOA
training activities under the project.



ANNEX 5
Table 10
MALAYSIA
NORTHWEST SELANGOR INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FARMERS ORGANIZATION AUTHORITY
Staff Requirements
Number       Number       Provided
Position                    Grade      Required   Available   Under Project
Agribusiness Specialist    AO             I            -              I
Area Managers                AD           3            -              3
Area Supervisors             AA           5             3             2
Field Officers               AT          15           15             -
Typists/Clerks               -            5            -              5
Storekeepers                 -            9            -              9
Laborers                     -            9            -              9
Drivers                      -           10            -             10
Guards                       -            9            -              9
Salary and Travel Costs of Incremental Staff
--------------Year-------------------
1        2          3         4          5
Agribusiness Specialist            1      -         -          -          -
Annual Cost (M$15,600)    15,600   15,600    15,600   15,600    15,600
Area Managers                      2         1      -          -          -
Cumulative Total                2         3          3         3          3
Annual Cost (M$13,200)   26,400   39,600    39,600   39,600    39,600
Area Supervisor                 -           2       -          -          -
Cumulative Total              -           2          2         2          2
Annual Cost (M$9,960          -      19,920    19,920   19,920    19,920
Typist Clerks                   -           5       -          -          -
Cumulative Total              -           5          5         5          5
Annual Cost (M$3,600)         -      18,000    18,000   18,000    18,000
Storekeepers                    -           5          4       -         -
Cumulative Total              -           5          9         9          9
Annual Cost (M$2,400)         -      12,000    21,600   21,600    21,600
Drivers                           4         5       -          -           -
Cumulative Total                4         9          9         9          9
Annual Cost (MS2,400)       9,600   21,600    21,600   21,600    21,600
Labor/Guards                    -          10          8       -         -
Cumulative Total              -          10         18        18         18
Annual Cost (M$1,800)         -      18,000    32,400   32,400    32,400
Total                   51,600   144,720   168,720  168,720   168,720
Grand Total                                  702,480



ANNEX 5
Table 11
MALAYSIA
NORTHWEST SELANGOR INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farmers Organization Authority
Cost Estimates for Training
Cost M$
1.     Training for Agribusiness Farm Leaders
Project Orientation Training (Year 1 only)
640 Agribusiness Leaders                              1,920 man days       7,680
Local Business Management Training
Year 1, Padi Area           320 Leaders               3,840 man days      15,360
Year 2, Tree Crop Area      320 Leaders               3,840 man days      15,360
Subtotal         30,720
Local Specialized Pre-season Refresher Courses
Main Season                 640 Leaders               1,920 man days       7,680
Off-Season                  640 Leaders               1,920 man days       7,680
Subtotal         15,360
2.     Project Field Staff
Project Orientation Training (Year 1 only)
30 Field Staff                                           60 man days       1,800
Local Pre-season Program Planning/Training (Every year)
50 Field staff                                          500 man days      15,000
3.     Senior Staff Training
1 Agribusiness Specialist: 6 months Business Management)
2 months Bank Pertanian      )              18,000
4 months Estate Companies   )
3 District Supervisors)
5 Area Supervisors    )      6 months Business Management                 72.000
Subtotal         90,000
4.     Overseas Training and Study Tours /a (Years 3-5)
1 District Supervisor                                                      4,000
2 Area Supervisors                                                         5,000
6 Field Officers                                                          15,000
24 Agribusiness Leaders                                                    60,000
Subtotal         84,000
/a Disbursements would be made against this item.



ANNEX 6
tALAYSIA
NORTHWEST SELANGOR INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cost Summary
Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total/a Exchange
---- M$ Million -----           US$ Million ----         (%)
Tanjong Karang Irrigatibn
Headworks improvement                 0.25    0.25       0.50   0.10    0.10       0.20       50
Main canal improvement                0.64    0.61       1.25   0.26    0.25        0.50      49
Distributary canal construction  22.66   19.30    41.96   9.14    7.78    16.92               46
Drain construction                   3.23    3.20        6.43   1.30    1.29       2.59      50
Roads and bridges                     2.11    1.70       3.81   0.85     0.69      1.54      45
Land acquisition                     0.71      -        0.71   0.29       -        0.29       0
Engineering and supervision          3.87    0.44        4.31   1.56    0.18       1.74      10
Subtotal                       33.47   25.50    58.97  13.50   10.28    23.78           43
Tree Crop Drainage
Coastal/river bunds                 0.87    0.71       1.58    0.35    0.29        0.64      45
Tidal control gates                 2.16    2.64       4.80    0.87    1.06        1.94       55
Drain construction                  8.92    6.75    15.67    3.60    2.72          6.32      43
Roads and bridges                   4.41    3.17        7.58    1.78    1.28       3.06      42
Pump station                        0.19    0.48       0.67    0.08    0.19        0.27       72
Engineering and supervision         2.19    0.24       2.43    0.88    0.10        0.98      10
Subtotal                      18.74   13.99    32.73    7.56    5.64    13.20           43
Buildings and Facilities
Farmers development centers        1.00      0.43    1.43    0.40        0.17      0.58      30
Project offices                    0.28      0.12    0.40    0.11        0.05      0.16      30
Staff quarters                     1.66      0.71    2.37    0.67        0.29      0.96      30
Engineering and supervision        0.31      0.03    0.34    0.13        0.01      0.14      10
Subtotal                      3.25      1.29    4.54    1.31        0.52      1.83      28
Equipment
Agricultural                       0.11      0.95    1.06    0.04        0.38      0.43       90
Operation and maintenance          0.12       2.28    2.40    0.05       0.92      0.97       95
Subtotal                      0.23      3.23    3.46    0.09        1.30      1.40      93
Incremental Agricultural
Services                             3.36       0.37    3.73    1.35       0.15       1.50      10
Base cost estimate           59.05    44.38  103.43   23.81    17.89    41.71           43
Physical contingencies                7.38      6.29   13.67    2.96        2.54      5.51      46
Expected price increases            17.82    13.81   31.63    7.17          5.57    12.74       43
Total proiect cost           84.25    64.48  148.73   33.94    26.00    59.96           43
/a  Subtotals may not sum due to rounding.



ANNEX 7
Table 1
MALAYSIA
NORTHWEST SELANGOR INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Expenditures
Total                   Calendar years
cost /a   1978   1979   1980   lJ81   1982   1983
------------- (US$ million) -----------
Tanjong Karang
irrigation                  27.03      2.54/c 5.56   6.10   6.54   5.99   0.30
Tree crop drainage            15.02      0.84   3.22   5.70   3.87   1.14   0.25
Buildings and facilities       2.13      0.20   0.37   0.80   0.40   0.36         -
Equipment procurement          1.54      0.07   0.14   0.15   0.40   0.78         -
Incremental agricultural
services                     1.50      0.13   0.22   0.32   0.38   0.45         -
Subtotal                47.22      3.78   9.51  13.07  11.59   8.72   0.55
Expected price
increases lb                12.74     0.19   1.36   3.10   3.90   3.91   0.28
Total project cost      59.96
/a Includes physical contingencies.
/b Annual rates of price escalation used were (para. 4.14):
1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983
Civil works and services
Annual percentage increase        9       9       8      8       8      8
Compounded escalation factor        .045   .139   .236   .334   .441   .519
Equipment
Annual percentage increase        7.5    7.5    7        7       7
Compounded escalation factor        .038   .115   .196   .280   .369
/c  Includes expenditure of US$0.7 million in 1977.



ANNEX 7
Table 2
MALAYSIA
NORTHWEST SELANGOR INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL
DIEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD fiscal year                                   Accumulated disbursements
and semester                                       US$ million equivalent
1979
1st                                                      0.7
2nd                                                      1.7
1980
1st                                                      3.8
2nd                                                      6.4
1981
1st                                                     9.2
2nd                                                    13.3
1982
1st                                                    17.0
2nd                                                    20.6
1983
1st                                                    24.0
2nd                                                    26.0



ANNEX 8
MALAYSIA
NORTHWEST SELANGOR INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Proposed Allocation of the Proceeds of the Loan
Estimated
Estimated   foreign
total    exchange    Proposed
Category                    cost     component  allocation    Disbursement
--------- (US$ million) --------    ---- (%)
1. Civil Works
Tanjong Karang Irrigation            22.0        10.1
Tree crop drainage                   12.2         5.5
Buildings & facilities                1.8         0.6
36.0        16.2
Price contingencies (part)           10.7         4.7
Subtotal                       46.7        20.9          22.4             48
2.  Equipment & Vehicles                                                      100% of foreign ex-
Agricultural equipment                0.4         0.4                  penditures, 100% of
O&M equipment                         1.0         0.9                  local expenditures
1.4        1.3                   ex-factory, or 80%
of items procured
Price contingencies (part)            0.4         0.4                  locally
Subtotal                        1.8         1.7           1.7
3.  Training                                0.1         0.1           0.1      100% of foreign
expenditures
4. Unallocated
Engineering & supervision /a          2.9        0.3
Incremental operating costs /a       1.5          0.2
Remaining price contingencies         1.5         0.3
Physical contingencies                5.5        2.5
Subtotal                       11.4         3.3           1.8
Total                          60.0        26.0          26.0           (43)
/a No disbursements would be made against these items.



ANNEX 9
Page 1
MALAYSIA
NORTHWEST SELANGOR INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Production, Marketing, and Prices
A. Rice
Production, Import and Consumption of Rice
1.        Data on production, imports and consumption of rice for Malaysia /1
are given in Table 1. Over the ten-year period 1964 to 1974 (three-year mov-
ing average) production increased by over 70% to 1.28 million tons of milled
rice; during the same period there was a corresponding decline in imports
of 38% and an increase in the degree of self-sufficiency to 83% in 1973.
2.        The most recent projection of production, consumption and imports
of rice for Peninsular Malaysia (Table 2) indicates that Malaysia will
continue to import rice despite planned efforts to increase production in
the present project area and in the Krian-Sungei Manik and Muda areas. Thus,
incremental project production, estimated at 46,000 tons of padi (30,000 tons
of milled rice) per annum at full development, will replace imports and is
not expected to result in any marketing problems.
Marketing
3.        Prior to 1967 padi marketing in northwest Selangor was an official
monopoly of cooperative milling societies. However, owing to dissatisfaction
with the performance of that system, the Government established the Federal
Agricultural Marketing Authorilty (FAMA) in 1967, which in turn set up a Padi
and Rice Marketing Board to manage and control the padi marketing activities
of the cooperatives. In September 1971 this Board was merged with part of
the Ministry of Trade and Industry to form the National Padi and Rice
Authority - LPN (see Annex 5, para. 16). LPN controls the supply and price
of rice directly through purchase of padi by its own mills, by the licensing
and regulation of private sector milling and marketing concerns, and since
1973 through control of rice imaports.
4.        Within the project area LPN controls the marketing of all rice
through farmers cooperatives. Two new LPN milling complexes were recently
commissioned in the Tanjong Karang area, which will substantially augment
milling and storage capacity and increase drying capacity fourfold. Thus,
/1 For a more complete review of rice production and consumption in Malaysia
see Appraisal of the National Small-Scale Irrigation Project: Malaysia,
IBRD Report No. 1523-MA, Annex 12.



ANNEX 9
Page 2
it is not anticipated that there will be serious problems in handling
additional production. It would be possible, however, to reduce the high
moisture content of the grain purchased by LPN agents in the field by enfor-
cing the standard LPN deduction system for moisture content. Most farmers at
present receive the standard price of M$27.00 per pikul /1 of padi with no
deductions for moisture; thus, there has been no incentive for the farmers to
dry their grain prior to its sale to LPN. This results in farmers making no
effort to sun dry grain prior to delivery to LPN, while they do make such
efforts for private millers. LPN is thus forced to redry large volumes of
padi during the peak August-September period, with attendant high costs and
losses. LPN will supply moisture meters to its buying agents to enable them
to enforce the official system of discounts for lower grades of rice. These
actions will provide sufficient incentive for improvement in padi drying
through the use of concrete drying floors to be provided at the FDCs by the
project.
Prices
5.        Financial farm-gate prices are based on an annually determined
guaranteed minimum price from which deductions are made for the presence of
impurities, moisture and shortness of grain. The current price is M$30.00 per
pikul /2 for long grain padi, M$28.00 for medium length and M$27.00 for short
grain padi, all of 14% moisture content. The implementation of the official
price system depends on padi selectors appointed by LPN. Of the various
categories received at the buying centers, local LPN staff estimate a distri-
bution of 75% Grade B, 20% Grade C, and 5% Grade Cl; purchases in the other
categories are insignificant. This distribution and a reported average 20%
moisture content imply an average farm-gate price of M$25.61 per pikul.
However, the average price recorded in a recent survey is M$26.90. This
higher price probably reflects both the failure to apply standards of moisture
control and higher standards of production than those estimated by LPN. For
farm budgeting purposes the farm-gate price has therefore used a price
of M$27 per pikul based on the LPN schedules and the padi survey results.
6.        Economic farm-gate prices are based on Bank price projections for
Thai rice, 5% broken f.o.b. Bangkok with a 10% discount for the generally
lower quality rice produced in Tanjong Karang (Table 4).
/1 One pikul is equivalent to 133.33 lbs or .06 metric tons.
/2 US$203/ton.



ANNEX 9
Page 3
B. COCONUTS
Production, Consumption and Trade
7.        Acreage of coconuts and estimated copra production in Peninsular
Malaysia are set out in Table 5. Estimated acreage has remained fairly
constant at around 520,000 acres over the past decade./l Copra production
has similarly stagnated at around 160,000 tons. Statistics on trade in
coconuts and copra (Table 6) indicate that Peninsular Malaysia has been a net
exporter of oil and an importer of copra.  The 1970 Bank Sector Survey
estimated that domestic consumaption, which accounts for about half of the
country's production, would inicrease at 5% per annum and reduce exports to
zero by 1985.  Regardless of when Malaysia ceases to be a significant exporter
of coconut oil, the incremental production from the project, estimated to be
around 4,500 tons copra equivalent in 1990 (Annex 3, Tables 4 and 9), would
not present any marketing problems.
Marketing
8.        The marketing of coconuts and copra is almost totally done by the
private sector. FAMA's involvement in the marketing of coconuts is limited
to a copra drying unit in Sabak Bernam; the unit has three copra drying
houses with potential throughpiut of about 20,000 nuts per day and a sun drying
yard with a possible throughput of about 3 tons per day. During the last two
years the unit has operated at less than 50% capacity because many smallholders
are tied by credit to private traders. Despite this disappointing performance,
the FAMA facility at Sabak Bernam has performed the useful function of
improving the quality of smallholders copra and reducing private marketing
margins to more competitive levels. Increases in BPM credit to be supported
by the project would allow more farmers to sell their copra to the highest
bidder. Consequently, it is thought that the productive efficiency of the
FAMA processing unit would increase in the future.
Prices
9.        Financial farm-gate prices have followed closely the sharp fluctua-
tion in world prices, declining from high levels in 1974 to much lower ones
in 1976 (Table 7). Economic farm-gate prices are based on Bank price projec-
tion for Philippine copra c.i.f. Europe (Table 8). Copra drying costs used
in the calculation are based oin the FAIA operation at Sabak Bernam and are
higher than the rates quoted by farmers by approximately M$5 per 1,000 nuts.
However, the lower private drying costs are offset by the lower quality of
privately produced copra. Thus basing the estimates of economic prices
on FAMA production costs does niot bias the results downward.
/1   Main crop coconut acreage is concentrated in three large drainage
areas - the Western Johore (973-IA) project area, the present
project area in Selangor, and the Bagan Datoh area of Perak.



ANNEX 9
Page 4
C. COCOA
Production and Exports
10.       Because domestic usage of home produced cocoa is very small, pro-
duction increases would be directly reflected in increased exports. Malaysia's
exports of cocoa beans have risen from 2,700 tons in 1973 to 6,200 tons in
1975; in addition exports of cocoa butter in 1973 and 1974 averaged 600 tons
(Table 9). With the current rapid increase in cocoa planting accompanying
the spectacular recent rise in cocoa prices, exports are expected to rise
sharply. Incremental production from this project is estimated at 2,000 tons
of dry beans in 1990 (Annex 3, Tables 6 and 10), which is not expected to
have any deleterious effect on Malaysia's trading position in cocoa at that
time. With the expansion of processing facilities (para. 11), this incremental
production is unlikely to cause any serious marketing problems in the project
area.
Marketing
11.       With the exception of one small fermentary and drying unit run by
the Sabak Bernam Farmers Cooperative /1, all processing and marketing of cocoa
in the area is done by the private sector. Cocoa is a relatively new crop to
the area, but large numbers of private entrepreneurs have already developed
simple processing units for fermenting beans and then sun drying them on bamboo
screens. In addition FAMA plans to establish a smallholder cocoa processing
center in Sabak Bernam by 1978. In order to maintain the quality of Malaysian
exports as the percentage of smallholder production increases, FAMA will
establish a statutory grading scheme for cocoa bean exports by mid-1978.
Prices
12.       In line with the recent sharp increases in world prices, farm-gate
prices have risen from M$.41 per lb. in 1974 to over M$3.00 at the end of 1976
(Table 10). Economic farm-gate prices are based on Bank projections for cocoa
beans c.i.f. New York; but because Malaysian beans have a poorer quality and
a higher shell content than other sources, the forecast has been discounted
by 5% (Table 11).
D. OIL PALM AND RUBBER
Production
13.       Improved drainage is expected to result in increased yields of oil
palm and rubber in the area. Incremental production in 1990 is estimated at
79,000 tons of fresh fruit bunches (equivalent to 14,000 tons of pericarp oil
/1   The unit, based on the Samoan drier design, was built for the cooperative
by Selangor DID.



ANNEX 9
Page 5
and 2,700 tons of unsplit kernels) and 1,200 tons of dry rubber. This repre-
sents in the case of palm oil less than 0.4% of Malaysian exports, and less
than .03% of projected rubber exports. Total production of rubber within the
project area will decline greatly during the project because old rubber trees
are being replaced by oil palm, coffee, and cocoa, crops which are better
suited to the local soil conditions.
Marketing
14.       Malaysia is the largest exporter of natural rubber and oil palm pro-
ducts in the world, and the necessary infrastructure and institutions for
marketing and processing incremiental project production are already well
developed in the project area.
Prices
15.       Financial prices are based on current ex-mill prices in Kuala Lumpur.
Economic prices are based on Bank projections for Malaysian palm oil and
rubber c.i.f. Europe and New York (Tables 12 and 13).
F. COFFEE
Production and Imports
16.       Coffee is of minor importance as a crop both in Malaysia and in
the project area. Domestic procluction is confined to Liberica which is
preferred locally but not internationally. Coffee imports are of Robusta,
Arabica and instant coffee.
Marketing
17.       Farmers sell their berries to private processors who wash and dry
them and then sell the beans to wholesalers. For the small incremental
project production estimated at 850 tons of parchment, processing facilities
in the area are adequate and marketing is not expected to present any problem.
Prices
18.       Since the Liberica variety grown in Malaysia is not traded inter-
nationally, an analysis has been made of the relation of domestic and
international prices over the period September 1974 to June 1976; the
results show highly correlated proportionate movements. Therefore, the
future trends of the economic and financial farm-gate prices have been
projected to follow the Bank's long-term projection of Arabica coffee.



ANNEX 9
Table 1
MALAYSIA
NORTHWEST SELANGOR INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rice Production - Net Imports and consumption 1964-74
(Three-Year Moving Average)
Production   Imports       Consumption
(3 year      (3 year       (3 year    Estimated   Consumption
moving       moving        moving    population    of rice
Year   average)      average)      average)      million        per head
-         --------- (tons '000) ----------            --- (lb) --
Peninsular  1964         639         349            988         7.621           290
Malaysia  1965         645         289            934         7.815           268
1966       668          250           918         8.032           256
1967       702          244           946         8.228           258
1968       767          248         1,015         8.439           269
1969       852          240         1,092         8.534           287
1970       922          208         1,131         8.775           289
1971       969          168         1,137         9.018           282
1972     1,032          133         1,165         9.261           282
1973     1,091          153         1,244         9.512           293
1974     1,123          141         1,264         9.769           290
Sabah        1964         47           31            78         0.520           336
1965        48           31             79        0.539           328
1966        50           31             81        0.560           324
1967        52           29             81        0.582           312
1968        57           29             86        0.601           320
1969        60           31             91        0.624           327
1970        64           36            100        0.649           345
1971        70           39            109        0.668           365
1972        72           44            116        0.686           379
1973        74           45            119        0.704           379
1974        73            -              -        0.724             -
Sarawak      1964         63           54           117         0.826           317
1965        65           58            123        0.852           323
1966        63           59            122        0.878           311
1967        64           55            119        0.905           295
1968        72           53            125        0.927           302
1969        83           53            136        0.948           321
1970        90           58            147        0.972           339
1971        92           60            151        0.999           339
1972        88           63            152        1.026           332
1973        87           73            160        1.055           340
1974        86            -              -        1.085             -
Malaysia      1964       749          435         1,184         8.967           296
1965       759          378         1,137         9.206           277
1966       781          340         1,121         9.470           265
1967       818          328         1,145         9.715           264
1968       896          330         1,223         9.967           275
1969       995          324         1,316        10,106           292
1970     1,076          302         1,374        10.396           297
1971     1,131          267         1,393        10.686           293
1972     1,192          241         1,427        10.973           292
1973     1,252          271         1,515        11.271           303
1974     1,282            -              -       11.578             -
Source: Padi Statistics, Peninsular Malaysia.
Agricultural Statistics, Sabah.
Agricultural Statistics, Sarawak.
Statistics Department, Malaysia.



ANNEX 9
Table 2
MALAYSIA
NORTHWEST SELANGOR INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Projected Rice Production, Consumption and Imports
Per capita                           Local
rice            Total rice    production    Net imports
Year   Population   consumption /a   requirements         of rice        of rice
(millions)       (lb)           -------------- ('000 tons) -------------
1973     11.641          292               1,529           1,250           279
1974     11.962          287               1,663           1,329           334
1975     12.300          278               1,405           1,269           136
1976     12.629          267               1,505           1,314           191
1977     12.973          267               1,546           1,365           181
1978     13.332          267               1,590           1,409           181
1979     13.707          267               1,634           1,457           177
1980     14.097          267               1,681           1,525           156
1981     14.475          267               1,726           1,580           146
1982     14.872          267               1,773           1,633           140
1983     15.279          267               1,821           1,687           134
1984     15.708          267               1,873           1,742           131
1985     16.155          267               1,925           1,802           123
1986     16.535          267               1,971           1,858           113
1987     16.992          267               2,025           1,917           108
1988     17.436          267               2,078           1,976           102
1989     17.896          267               2,132           2,038            94
1990     18.375          267               2,190           2,099            91
/a  1973-75 per capita consumption is a moving three-year average of local
rice production and net imports.
Source: "Projection of Padi Acreage, Production, Consumption and Imports,"
Ministry of Agriculture, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.



MALAYSIA
NORTHWEST SELANGOR INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Price of Padi per Pikul /a Paid to Farmers at Buying Centers in Northwest Selangor
1 9 7 4                                          1 9 7 5                                                   1 9 7 6
1st season              2nd season              1st season                 2nd season                    1st season                      2nd season
Category    Description /b    Long  Medium  Short   Long  Medium  Short   Long  Medium    Short   Long   Medium    Short                 Long   Medium    Short        Long    Medium  Short
Grade A   Good, clean dry
paddy (maximum
moisture content
14%)                23.00   21.00  19.00  29.25   27.25  25.25  29.25   27.25    25.25  27.25    25.25    23.25    29.25    27.25    26.25    29.25                   27.25  26.25
Grade B   Good, clean dry
paddy (maximum
2% impurities &
with moisture
content 14-16%)      21.85   20.0   18.05  27.75   25.85  23.95  27.75   25.85    23.95  25.85    23.95    22.05    27.75    25.85    24.90    27.25                  25.85  24.90
Grade C   Good, clean dry
paddy (maximum
3% impurities &
with moisture
content from
17-20%)             21.15   19.50  17.50  26.85   25.00  23.15  26.85   25.00    23.15  25.00    23.15    21.35    26.85    25.00    24.10    26.25                   25.00  24.10
Grade Cl  Good, clean
paddy (maximum
5% impurities
& moisture
content 17-20%)      20.70   19.00  17.10  26.25   24.45  22.65  26.25   24.45    22.65  24.45    22.65    20.85    26.25    24.45    23.55    26.25                   24.45  23.55
Grade D   Good, clean
lb     paddy (maximum
6% impurities
& moisture
content from
20.1-25%)                -       -       -       -        -      -       -        -         -  23.05/b  21.35/b  19.65/b  25.75/b  23.05/b  22.20/b  24.75            23.05  22.20
/a One pikul is 133.33 lbs.
/b  There have been slight alterations in the categories over the 6 seasons.  The descriptions listed refer to the 2nd season of 1976.
a z
(DX



ANNEX 9
Table 4
MALAYSIA
NORTHWEST SELANGOR INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Derivation of Economic Farm-Gate Price of Rice
(1978 currency values per ton)
1978        1979       1980 and
thereafter
In US$
Thai 5% broken                                330.00      372.10       421.40
10% discount for quality                     297.00       334.89       379.26
Freight, Bangkok to Port Klang                 19.32       19.32        19.32
Insurance                                       1.11        1.24         1.40
c.i.f. Port Klang                             317.43      355.45       399.98
In M$
c.i.f. Port Klang                             787.23      881.52       991.95
Port Klang handling charges                    11.81       11.81        11.81
Transport to Ampang Godown                      8.86        8.86         8.86
Value at Ampang Godown                       807.90       860.85       971.28
Haulage, Tanjong Karang to Ampang                    12.51
Loading                                               1.10
Gunny sack cost                                       8.78
Milling cost                                         70.33
Millers' profits                                     27.43
Subtotal cost Tanjong Karang to Ampang         120.15
Less value of by-products                     53.44
Net cost Tanjong Karang to Ampang               66.71
Rice price Tanjong Karang (ready
to mill)                                    741.19      794.14       904.57
Paddy price Tanjong Karang (ready
to mill) (assuming 63.3% recovery)         469.17       502.69       572.59
Drying cost                                           12.50
10% weight loss                                      55.70
Handling (into driers and off-trucks)                 10.71
Transport from purchasing center to mill               7.14
Commission for buying agents                           7.14
Subtotal delivery buying centers to mill    93.19
Price delivered at buying center              375.98      409.50       479.40
Transport farm to buying center                 1.00        1.00         1.00
Economic farm-gate price of padi per ton  374.98          408.50       478.40



ANNEX 9
Table 5
MALAYSIA
NORTHWEST SELANGOR INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Acreage of Coconuts and Estimated Production of Copra
in Peninsular Malaysia-/a
Coconut acreage       Estimated copra production
Year                 '000 acres                   '000 tons
1967                      504                         166
1968                      517                         170
1969                      523                         160
1970                      527                         160
1971                      524                         157
1972                      522                         157
1973                      538                         161
1974                      526                         158
/a  Sources:  For 1967-70, Appraisal of the Western Johore Agricul-
tural Development Project (IBRD Report
No. 314a-MA).
For 1971-74, Ministry of Agriculture acreage figures
and mission estimate of copra production
based on an average yield of 0.3 tons of
copra per acre per year.



ANNEX 9
Table 6
MALAYSIA
NORTHWEST SELANGOR INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
International Trade in Coconuts and Coconut Products - Peninsular Malaysia
Exports                    Imports                     Net trade
Commodity                          Volume        Value          Volume       Value         Volume           Value
M$                         M$                             M$
1973
Coconut fresh (nuts)           5,986,000       725,300         23,000        4,500   +5,963,000          +720,800
Copra (tons)                         294       162,200          2,960   1,318,300         -2,666      -1,156,100
Crude coconut oil (tons)          25,245   26,900,500             613      297,800       +24,632    +26,602,700
Refined coconut oil (tons)         2,182    2,593,300           2,263   1,938,900             -81        +654,400
Copra cake (tons)                    911       175,900          4,102      679,000        -3,191         -503,100
Total                         30,557,200                   4,238,500                     26,318,700
1974
Coconut fresh (nuts)           4,448,700    1,298,377          74,500       13,529   +4,374,200       +1,284,848
Copra (tons)                       1,043       942,586            535      498,040          +508         +444,546
Crude coconut oil (tons)          40,152   94,995,436              82       29,392       +40,070    +94,966,044
Refined coconut oil (tons)         2,817    6,193,600             535      873,000        +2,282      +5,320,600
Copra cake (tons)                     14         4,204          7,263   1,596,061         -7,249      -1,591.857
Total                         103,434,203                  3,010,022                    100,424,181
1975
Coconut fresh (nuts)           5,718,289    1,466,144          44,100        5,418   +5,674,189       +1,460,726
Copra (tons)                      139.53       118.038      3,398.20   1,857,611    -3,258.67          -1,739,573
Crude coconut oil (tons)       29,917.88   30,838,723          248.32      171,782   +29,669.56    +30,660,941
Refined coconut oil (tons)   3,520.68    5,739,899             423.19      804,618   + 3,096.49       +4,935,281
Total                          38,162,804                  2,845,429                     35,317,375
Source:  Import and Export Trades in Food and Agricultural Products, Ministry of Agriculture and
Rural Development.



MALAYSIA
NORTHWEST SELANGOR INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Average Monthly Ex-farm Copra Prices at Sabak Bernam and Kuala Selangor
(M$ per pikul)
Years and Grades
---  -----------------19 75  -  _ - -     _------1976-          
Grade 1           Grade 2           Grade 3           Grade I          Grade 2           Grade 3           Grade I           Grade 2           Grade 3
Months           S.B.    K.S.       S.B.    K.S.    S.B.    K.S.    S.B.    K.S.    S.B.    K.S.    S.B.    K.S.    S.B.    K.S.    S.B.    K.S.    S.B.    K.S.
January                                                               44.19   45.00   39.56   39.00   37.50   34.40   36.00   34.13   33.30   30.13   31.00   27.63
February                                                              41.84   38.88   37.51   34.81   35.56   30.94   36.50   34.63   33.50   30.63   31.00   28.13
March                                                                 35.88   35.63   32.65   32.13   30.66   28.69   36.95   35.88   33.78   31.88   31.33   29.38
April                                                                 32.62   32.40   29.60   29.15   28.09   26.20   35.70   34.20   32.40   30.60   30.20   28.00
May                                                                   33.10   31.60   30.52   27.65   28.54   25.20   35.60   33.50   32.70   30.00   30.80   27.50
June                                                                  29.69   27.88   27.38   24.88   24.44   22.38   39.30   37.00   35.80   34.50   33.90   31.50
July            79.88      -       73.53      -     70.79      -      30.70   29.10   28.60   26.00   26.20   23.40   46.60   45.50   42.60   43.00   39.20   40.00
August          79.50      -       74.00      -     70.00      -      37.38   34.08   34.98   30.63   30.75   27.38   44.50   45.00   41.00  '42.00   38.50   39.00
September       67.25      -       61.63      -     58.03      -      34.50   31.50   32.38   28.00   28.88   25.53   47.50   47.50   45.50   44.00   42.00   41.00
October         64.68   55.00    59.00   53.00   56.00   51.00   33.75   31.75   30.63   27.75   27.75   25.25   46.10   47.00   43.50   44.00   40.90   41.00
November        62.50   56.88    58.00   52.50   54.00   48.25   31.75   31.50   29.88   27.50   26.88   25.00   51.20   52.00   47.40   49.00   44.70   46.30
December        50.25   48.00    45.25   41.00   42.75   38.00   34.13   32.63   32.00   28.63   29.38   26.00   52.50   56.50   49.50   53.50   47.50   51.00
S.B. - Sabak Bernam                K.S. = Kuala Selangor
Grade I - 97%-100 dry by visual inspection.
Grade 2 - 94%- 96% dry by visual inspection.
Grade 3 - 90%- 94% dry by visual inspection.
Prices reported by FAMA field staff.
2
_ IS



ANNEX 9
Table 8
MALAYSIA
NORTHWEST SELANGOR INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Derivation of Economic Farm-Gate Price of Copra
(1978 currency values per ton)
1978        1979       1980         1985
In US$
Copra c.i.f. Europe                  425.00       378.50      391.20      464.60
Ocean freight differential            32.40        32.40       32.40       32.40
c.i.f. Port Klang                    392.60       346.10      358.80      432.20
In M$
c.i.f. Port Klang                    973.65       858.33      889.82   1,071.86
Handling charges Port Klang           12.40        12.40       12.40       12.40
Transport Port Klang to
Sabak Bernam                        10.33        10.33       10.33       10.33
Drying & sacking cost at
Sabak Bernam                       39.93         39.93       39.93       39.93
Transport farm to drying unit          5.20         5.20        5.20        5.20
Commission to buying agent            10.42        10.42       10.42       10.42
Economic farm-gate price
per ton                            895.37       780.05      811.54      993.58
Economic farm-gate price
per nut /a                           0.24         0.21        0.22        0.27
/a Based on a conversion factor of 225 nuts from Malaysian talls per pikul
of copra.



ANNEX 9
Table 9
MALAYSIA
NORTHWEST SELANGOR INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
International Trade in Cocoa - Peninsular Malaysia
Exports                    Imports                    Net trade
Commodity                         Volume         Value         Volume       Value         Volume          Value
M$'000                     M$'000                        M$'000
1973
Cocoa bean raw or
roasted ('00)                  60,302      6,456.9        42,094      4,187.0         +18,208        +2,269.9
Cocoa powder
unsweetened ('00 lb)            3,151        254.2         17,424     2,299.0          14,273        -2,044.8
Cocoa paste defatted
or not (lb)                   426,155        134.9         11,011          7.0      +415,144           +127.9
Cocoa butter (lb)             1,397,736      3,214.3         93,216        133.2    +1,304,520         +3,081.1
Total                          10,060.3                     6,626.2                      + 3,434.1
1974
Cocoa bean raw or
roasted ('00)                 113,726    16,776.2         19,335      3,501.3         +94,371       +13,274.9
Cocoa powder
unsweetened ('00 lb)              794        126.1        30,522      4,156.4         -29,728        -4,030.3
Cocoa paste defatted
or not (lb)                         -             -       56,793          35.3        -56,739           -85.3
Cocoa butter (lb)             1,300,148      2,371.8         45,985         85.3    +1,254,163         +2,286.5
Total                          19,274.1                     7,828.3                      +11.445.8
1975
Cocoa bean raw or
roasted ('00)                 139,778    18,174             4,030        204        +135,748        +17,970
Cocoa powder
unsweetened ('00 lb)            2,323        263            1,725      2,162          -14,928        -1,899
Cocoa paste defatted
or not (lb)                          -          -         165,445        264         -165,445          -264
Cocoa butter (lb) /a            414,874       1,196         111,438      1,171         +303,436            +25
Total                          19.633                       3.801                        +15,832
/a Part year only.
Source:  FAMA Commodity Bulletin.



MALAYSIA
NORTHWEST SELANGOR INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Average Monthly Ex-farm Cocoa Prices, 1974-1976 /a
(M i/lb)
-- ------ 1974                 -1975                                       -1976
Wet beans             Dry beans             Wet beans              Dry beans             Wet beans              Dry beans
Kuala    Sabak        Kuala    Sabak        Kuala    Sabak        Kuala    Sabak         Kuala    Sabak        Kuala    Sabak
Months         Selangor  Bernam    Selangor  Bernam    Selangor  Bernam    Selangor  Bernam    Selangor  Bernam    Selangor  Bernam
January            -          -           -         -          40        50          95         -           45        50         155        165
February            =         -           -         -          35        50          80         -           55        55         180        170
March               -         -           -         -          40        52          80          -          60        55          185       170
April                                     -         -          43        45          90         -           55        55         180        170
May                                       -         -          45        40          85         -           57        69         175        177
June                                      -         -          40        35           -         -           73        80         225        200
July                -         -                                35        30         120       110           77        89         270        250
August              -         -           -         -          30        35         100        120          66        76         260        241
September           -         -           -         -          30        35         100       130           70        90         270        268
October             -         -           -         -          35        40         110       150           90       104         285        294
November           55       55          125         -          40        45         125       160          110       130          325       370
December           40       55          100         -          40        45         135       160          120       130          385       390
/a  Prices reported by FAMA field staff.                                                                                                           F-X
I..    ,



ANNEX 9
Table 11
MALAYSIA
NORTHWEST SELANGOR INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Derivation of Economic Farm-Gate Price of Cocoa
(1978 currency values per ton)
1978      1979        1980        1985
In US$
Cocoa beans c.i.f. New York           1.130       1.024      0.939       0.614
5% discount for lower quality        1.074       0.973       0.892       0.583
Ocean freight & insurance            0.065       0.065       0.065       0.065
c.i.f. Port Klang                     1.009      0.908       0.827       0.518
In M$
c.i.f. Port Klang                     2.502       2.251      2.051       1.285
Handling charges Port Klang
& transport to Sabak Bernam        0.010       0.010       0.010       0.010
Fermenting, drying & transport
cost to farm                       0.058       0.058       0.058       0.058
Economic farm-gate price per lb    2.434         2.183       1.983       1.217
Economic farm-gate price /a
for wet beans per lb               0.811       0.728       0.661       0.406
/a Conversion wet to dry beans at 3:1.



ANNEX 9
Table 12
MALAYSIA
NORTHWEST SELANGOR INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Derivation of Economic Price of Palm Oil, Palm Kernel and Fruit Bunches
(1978 currency values per ton)
1978       1979        1980        1985
PALM OIL
In US$
Malaysian palm oil c.i.f. Europe        495.00      437.20      443.30      455.60
Ocean freight                            32.00       32.00      32.00       32.00
f.o.b. Port Klang                       463.00     405.20      411.30      423.60
In M$
f.o.b. Port Klang                    1,148.24   1,004.90   1,020.02   1,050.53
Handling charges Port Klang              12.80       12.80       12.80       12.80
Transport from Kuala Selangor             9.84        9.84        9.84       9.84
Economic price ex-mill
Kuala Selangor per ton             1,125.60      982.26      997.38   1,027.89
PALM KERNEL
In US$
Nigerian palm kernels
c.i.f. Europe                        332.00      288.40      282.50      328.60
Ocean freight and insurance              50.00       50.00       50.00      50.00
f.o.b. Port Klang                       282.00     238.40      232.50      278.60
In M$
f.o.b. Port Klang                       699.36      591.23     576.60      690.93
Handling charges Port Klang              15.75       15.75       15.75       15.75
Transport from Kuala Selangor             9.84        9.84        9.84        9.84
Economic price ex-mill
Kuala Selangor per ton               673.77      565.64      551.01      696.84
FRESH FRUIT BUNCH
In M$
18.5% of oil plus
3.5% of kernel                          231.82      201.52      203.80      214.55
Processing costs & margins               35.00       35.00       35.00       35.00
Economic price ex-mill
Kuala Selangor per ton                196.82      166.52      168.80      179.55



ANNEX 9
Table 13
MALAYSIA
NORTHWEST SELANGOR INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Derivation of the Economic Price of Rubber
(1978 currency values per lb)
1978     1979      1980      1985
In US$
RSSI rubber spot, New York           0.44      0.46      0.47      0.46
Ocean freight and insurance          0.03      0.03      0.03     0.03
c.i.f. Port Klang                    0.47      0.49      0.50     0.49
In M$
f.o.b. Port Klang                    1.17      1.21      1.25      1.22
Handling charges, Port Klang         0.01      0.01      0.01     0.01
Transport from Kuala Selangor        0.01      0.01      0.01     0.01
Processing cost                      0.12      0.12      0.12     0.12
Processing losses                    0.09      0.09      0.09     0.09
Economic dry rubber price at
Kuala Selangor per lb              0.94      0.98      1.02     0.99



ANNEX 10
Page 1
MALAYSIA
NORTHWEST SELANGOR INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Budgets and Incomes
1.        Annexes 2 and 3 contain discussions of the existing and projected
cropping patterns. This annex shows representative farm models for the
project.
2.        The irrigation area is divided into two distinct production areas.
In Sekinchan a relatively high degree of social organization, other social
factors and a comparatively dependable water supply have resulted in the use
of relatively productive techniques; in the other areas - referred to collect-
ively as non-Sekinchan - highly variable timing of the arrival and quantity
of water has resulted in the use of low-risk, low-yield techniques of pro-
duction. Separate farm models have been constructed for padi farms in the
two areas (Tables 1-4). Estimates of available family labor were subtracted
from estimates of projected labor inputs (Table 1) to arrive at the estimates
of hired labor (Table 2). Estimates of present input use are based on
government surveys of the area and interviews with farmers during appraisal.
Without the project, yields are projected to increase in Sekinchan owing to
better planting techniques and in the other areas, to better general use of
chemicals. Future input levels for the "with project" conditions are based
on current best practices and M4ARDI-supervised farmer-managed field trials
(Table 2).
3.        Farm budgets for the two padi areas are calculated according to
cash flows and incremental net farm benefits. Financial labor costs include
only hired labor which is costed at M$8.00/day. Changes in off-farm income
are reflected in the changes in net farm cash flow. As the padi area was
developed and distributed to smrallholders relatively recently (1930s-1950s)
commercial renting of land is not a significant feature. About 84% of the
land is owner-operated and most: of the remainder is "rented" from blood
relatives, where the distribution of returns is based more on family than on
economic considerations.
4.        In Sekinchan (Table 3) cropping intensity does not change with the
project. Irrigation charges increase by M$12 per hectare with the project.
Incremental net benefits are relatively low because farmers in this area are
by any standard already at very high yields.
5.        Cropping intensities in the other areas (Table 4) increase from
97% to 100% in the main season and from 70% to 95% in the off-season. A
major change during the project would be the financing of purchased inputs
through credit. These inputs are to some extent financed at present by
working first as wage-laborers in Sekinchan or other areas and then using the



ANNEX 10
Page 2
cash so obtained to purchase seeds and fertilizers. This pattern disrupts
cropping schedules throughout Tanjong Karang. With the extension of intens-
ively supervised BPM credit as part of the proposed agricultural services
program, institutional credit would rise to about M$550 per ha per annum. In
addition to the M$12 per ha increase in irrigation charges, zakat payments
would rise by approximately M$110 per ha per annum with the project /1.
6.        Data for the coconut area are based on a detailed socioeconomic
survey of the area./2   Since 94% of coconut farms are owner occupied,
the models assume complete owner occupation of the farms. Yields, investment
and production costs are based on estimates made by the staff of the Coconut
Smallholders Development Scheme (CSDS). It is assumed that hired labor is
used for initial felling, on-farm drain improvement and weed eradication, and
for harvesting coconuts; estimated labor requirements are detailed in Table
5. The drainage area is represented by models of a 7 acre (2.8 ha) farm
of existing Malaysian talls replanting 4 of the 7 acres with MAWA hybrids
(Table 6), rehabilitating the 7 acres with intercropped coffee (Table 7),
and rehabilitating the 7 acres with intercropped cocoa (Table 8).
Incomes
7.        The farm budgets presented in the accompanying tables represent
single-family farms typical of the irrigation and drainage areas of Northwest
Selangor. Surveyed farm families in the region average 6.0 members in
size. The present annual per capita income in the non-Sekinchan padi areas is
about M$583 (US$235), compared with the estimated national relative poverty
line of about M$840 (US$340),/3 the estimated national absolute poverty line
of M$533 (US$215), and national per capita income of about M$2,130 (US$860).
Per capita incomes in the tree crop areas are lower (averaging M$370 or
US$150) and tree crop farmers are heavily dependent on off-farm incomes.
About 85% of smallholder families in the project area subsist on total
incomes below the relative poverty line, while 65% live in absolute poverty.
In general, the project area is not among the poorest padi or rainfed areas
in the country, but in no sense can it be considered wealthy or prosperous.
The level of smallholder incomes, farm sizes, and agricultural practice of
the area is such that the project is anticipated to lift the bulk of the
/1 Zakat, the official Moslem religious tax, is obligatory for all Malay
farmers. Virtually 100% of the farmers in the non-Sekinchan areas are
Malays.
/2 "Coconut Smallholdings in Lower Perak, Kuala Selangor and Sabak Bernam,"
S.Selvadurai, Ministry of Agriculture, August 1974. Additional
information derived from surveys of the smallholder rubber areas in
1976/77.
/3 Equivalent to the total of personal income tax deductions for a family
of six, divided by six.



ANNEX 10
Page 3
poor in the project area out of absolute poverty, and to place those cur-
rently living on incomes above the absolute poverty line more securely and
permanently outside the absolute poverty group. With the project per capita
income in the non-Sekinchan padi areas would rise to M$735 (US$296) in con-
stant terms by 1987, while tree crop farmers would by 1990 earn the equiv-
alent of between M$938 (US$378) and M$1,528 (US$616), depending on choice of
primary crops and intercrops. A total of about 17,000 farm families would
be lifted out of the absolute poverty group. The most advanced and pros-
perous single identifiable group of farmers, the Sekinchan padi farmers, are
expected to benefit least from the project, with per capita incomes rising
from M$1,100 (US$444) now to M$1,150 (US$464) with the project.
Rent and Cost Recovery
8.        Rent and cost recovery are discussed in detail in paras. 5.09-5.11
of the main text. Table 9 presents a summary of the data used to calculate
the rent and cost recovery indices.



ANNEX 10
Table 1
MALAYSIA
NORTHWEST SELANGOR INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Projected Labor Inputs for Padi
(Man-days per hectare)
Sekinchan                      Non-Sekinchan
Future   Future                 Future   Future
without   with                  without   with
Present  project  project       Present  project  project
Land Preparation /a
Clearing straw             7.4      7.4       7.4          2.5       2.5      7.4
Repairing bunds, etc.    2.5        2.5       4.9          7.4       7.4      4.9
Plowing                   0.6       0.6       0.6          1.7       1.7      0.6
Seed Beds /b                 3.9      3.9       4.4          7.4       7.4      3.9
Transplanting /c            18.5     18.5      22.2         16.1      16.9     19.8
Applying fertilizer /d       2.2      2.4       3.0          0.9       1.2      2.5
Applying chemicals /d
Handweeding /e              12.4     12.4      19.8          4.9       6.2      14.8
Water management and
supervision /f           19.8      19.8      24.7         14.8      14.8     19.8
Harvest /&                  24.7     24.7      29.7         26.7      24.7     29.7
Total               92.0      92.2    116.7         82.4      82.8      91.4
/a Extra time will be spend on maintaining bunds, etc., with improved system.
/b There will be better preparation and closer supervision of seed beds.
/c Closer spacing and row planting will increase transplanting time.
/d More time spent on spraying - more intensive technique.
/e More handweeding (chemical treatment and handweeding in future). Handweed-
ing can be handled by family labor in off-peak periods.
/f More attention to cover management when control available to every farmer.
/g  More time spent on winnowing and drying if proper grading introduced.  More
labor required off season crop due to less favorable harvest conditions.



MALAYSIA
NORTHWEST SELANGOR INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Technical Coefficients and Production Costs Per Hectare
Farm Model A                                                             Farm Model B
Sekinchan                                                            Non-Sekinchan
Present          Future w/o project /d    Future w/ proiect /d             Present          Future w/o project  Future w/ project /d
Item                             Main Off-season        Main   Off-season         Main   Off-season        Main   Off-season       Main   Off-season    Main   Off-season
Technical Coefficients
Yields  (tons/ha)                5.00      5.20        5.10       5.30           5.40       5.70          3.00        3.50           3.25       3.75       4.40       4.70
Cropping intensity (%)             100      100         100        100             100       100             97          70            97         70        100         95
Production Costs (M$/ha)
Land preparation:
Plowings (M$56/ha)           112.00   112.00       112.00    112.00          112.00    112.00          92.70       92.70          92.70      92.70    112.00    112.00
Seeds /a                      11.60    11.60        11.60      11.60          15.40      15.40         11.60       11.60          11.60      11-60      15.40      15.40
Urea 46% N (M$0f50/kg)        24.70    24.70        26.00      26.00          43.00      32.50         25.00       25.00          26.00      26.00      38.00      32.50
Mixed fertilizer /b          148.20   148.20       140.00    140.00          100.00    100.00          44.50       44.50          50.00      50.00      81.50      81.50
Insecticides (13.6/ltr)       61.80    42.00        60.00      40.00          52.50      36.80         14.83        8.90          13.60      13.60      44.62      29.02
Herbicide (9.7/ltr)           24.70    24.70        24.70      24.70          20.60      20.60                                     9.70       9.70      12.38      12.38
Rat control /c                    0         0           0          0           7.20       7.20             0            0             0          0       7.20       7.20
Total cost of physical inputs  383.00   363.20         374.30    354.30          350.70    324.50          188.60      182.70        203.60    203.60    311.10    290.00
Labor Input (man-days/ha)
Land preparation                  10.5     10.5        10.5       10.5            12.9      12.9           11.7        11.7          11.7       11.7       12.9       12.9
Seed beds                         3.9       3.9         3.9        3.9            4.4        4.4            7.4         7.4           7.4        7.4        3.9        3.9
Transplanting                      2.2      2.0         2.4        2.2             3.0        2.8          16.1        16.1          16.1       16.1       19.8       19.8
Fertilizing/spraying              18.5     18.5        19.0       19.0           22.2       22.2            0.9         0.9           1.1        1.1        2.5        2.5
Handweeding                       12.4     12.4        12.4       12.4            19.8       19.8           4.9         4.9           5.2        5.2       14.8       14.8
Water management                  19.8     19.8        19.8       19.8           24.7       24.7           14.8        14.8          14.8       14.8       19.8       19.8
Harvest                          24.7      25.7        24.7       25.7           28.7       31.0           22.7        23.7          22.7       23.7       26.7       28.7
Total labor requirements            92.0     92.8        92.7       93.5           115.7      117.8          78.5        79.5          79.0       80.0      100.4      102.4
Hired labor, man-days/ha         24.7      25.9        25.2       26.4           37.5       40.3           25.1        26.3          25.1       26.3       31.5       33.9
/a Traditional seeds, M$0.46/kg; improved varieties, M$0.55/kg.
/b 15:15:7.5, M$0.85/kg.
/c 20 kg of broken rice @ M$7.00; 988 gm Warfarin @ M$3.61 and 198 gm zinc phosphate @ M$12.80/kg; assumption is 70% control.
/d At full development in 10 years.
0& 



ANNEX 10
Table 3
MALAYSIA
NORTHWEST SELANGOR INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Model A - Sekinchan Area
Cultivated Padi Area 1.5 ha
Future /a Future /a
Without      With
Present   Project    Project
Cropping Intensity (Z)
Main season                        100        100        100
Off season                         100       100        100
Total                        200        200        200
Yield (tons/ha)
Main season                      5.00       5.10       5.40
Off season                       5.20       5.30       5.70
Production (tons)
Main season                       7.50      7.65       8.10
Off season                       7.80       7.95       8.55
Total                      15.30      15.60      16.65
___-M$                 ----
Cash Inflow
Rice sales                   6,414.14  6,550.64  7,028.38
Credit                       1,364.85  1,365.90  1,728.72
Total cash inflow       7.778.99  7.916.54  8.757.11
Cash Outflow
Operation costs
Land preparation             336.00    336.00    336.00
Seeds                         34.80      40.50      46.20
Fertilizer and chemicals   748.50    722.10    630.60
Hired labor                  607.20    619.20    933.60
Subtotal                1.726.50  1.717.80  1.946.40
Credit repayment             1,501.34  1,492.59  1,802.19
Taxes and water charges
Irrigation rate               37.05      37.05      55.58
Quit rent                      7.35       7.35       7.35
Subtotal                   44.40      44.40     62.93
Total cash outflow    3.272.24  3.254.79  3.811.52
Cash flow from padi
production                   4.506.75  4.661.75  4.945.58
Off-farm income                1,350.00  1,300.00  1,180.00
Income from nonpadi
production                     230.00    230.00    230.00
Net farm cash flow             6.086.75  6.191.75  6,355.58
- Off-farm income            1,350.00  1,300.00  1,180.00
+ On-farm consumption          547.37    547.37    547.37
Net farm benefit               5.284.12  5.439.12  5,722.95
Incremental net benefit             -          -       283.83



ANNEX 10
Table 4
MALAYSIA
NORTHWEST SELANGOR INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Model B - Non-Sekinchan Area
Cultivated Padi Area 1.2 ha
Future         Future
without         with
Present     project         project
Cropping Intensity (Z)
Main season                                97            97            100
Off season                                 70            70             95
Total                               167           167            195
Yield (tons/ha)
Main season                             3.00           3.25           4.40
Off season                               3.50          3.75           4.70
Production (tons)
Main season                              3.52          3.81           5.32
Off season                               2.96          3.18           5.40
Total                              6.48          6.99          10.72
-  - -  (M$) ---- ---- ---_
Cash Inflow
Rice sales                          2,524.40      2,730.80       4,330.23
Credit                                  0.00          0.00         664.00
Total cash inflow              2,524.40      2,730.80       4,993.46
Cash Outflow
Operation costs
Land preparation                    187.32        187.32         264.26
Seeds                                23.44         23.44          36.34
Fertilizer and chemicals            165.38        200.66         409.19
Hired labor                         413.89        413.89         616.66
Subtotal                         790.03        825.31       1,326.45
Credit repayment                        0.00          0.00         692.22
Taxes and water charges
Irrigation rate                      29.89         29.89          44.83
Quit rent                             5.98          5.98           5.98
Zakat                               206.39        222.63         341.43
Subtotal                         242.26        258.50         392.24
Total cash outflow             1,032.29      1,083.81       2,410.91
Cash flow from nadi
Production                          1,492.11      1,646.99       2,682.55
Off-farm income                        1,350.00     1,340.00          950.00
Income from nonpadi production          230.00        230.00          230.00
Net farm cash flow             3,072.11      3,216.99       3,862.55
- Off-farm income                     1,350.00      1,340.00          950.00
+ On-farm consumption                    424.00        450.00         547.37
Net farm benefit               2,146.11      2.326.99       3,459.92
Incremental net benefit                       -             -       1,132.93



ANNEX 10
Table 5
MALAYSIA
NORTHWEST SELANGOR INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Additional Family Labor Ploquiremnt. for Tree Crovs
Present                                        -With Project----
Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Year 4 Year 5 Year 6 Year 7 Year 8 Year 9-25
d-------------- ---tays per farm  ---------------------
MODEL C
3 acres nonreplanted                  28             28       28       28       28        28       28       28       28         28
4 acres replanted with HAWA
Fertilizer application         )                      5        5        5         5        5        5        5        5          5
Weeding                        )      40              -       70       35       35        35       18       18       18         18
Clearing drains                )                      -        -       70        18       18       18       18       18         18
Planting                       )                     40       25       25       25       25        20       10       10         10
1.0 acre other crops                  40             40       40       40       40       40       40        40       40         40
Total family labor requirements  108                113      168      203      151      151       129      119      119        119
Reduction in days of off-farm
employment                           -              -        -        -        -        -        -         -        -          -
MODEL D
Fertilizer application         )                      9        9        9        9         9        9        9        9          9
Weeding                        )      68              -      120       60       60        30       30       30       30         30
Clearing drains                )                      -        -      120       30        30       30       30       30         30
Coffee                         )                     48        5        5        5         5        5        5        5           5
Coffee harvesting                      -              -        -       82      164      246       328      369      410        410
1.0 acre other crops                  40             40       40       40       40       40       40        40       40         40
Total family labor requirements  108                 97      174      316      308      360       442      483      524.       524
Reduction in days of off-farm
employment                           -              -        -        -        -       40      122      163      204         204
MODEL E
Fertilizer application         )                      9        9        9        9         9        9        9        9           9
Weeding                         )     68              -      120       90       90        60       60       30       30          30
Clearing drains                 )                     -        -      120        30       30       30       30       30          30
Cocoa                                                30        5         5        5        5        5        5        5           5
Cocoa harvesting                       -              -        -       48       84       108      132      144      156         168
1.0 acre other crops                  40             40       40       40       40       40       40        40       40         40
Total family labor requirements  108                 79      174      312      258       252      276      258      270        282
Reduction in days of off-farm
employment                                        -          -             -        -             -        -        -          -
/a  Assuming 600 man-days of farmer and family labor available per year antd present off-farm
employment of 280 days.



ANNEX 10
Table 6
NALAYSIA
NORTWEIST SSLAIGOR IYEGRtATED AGRICULTURAL DKVKLOPMZIN P80JSCY
Fare Model C
Coconut Are& 7 Acres with 4 Acres Replanted tava Hybrids at 65 Palms/Acre
Present                                 -                            With Project
Year 1  Year 2  Year 3  Year 4  Year 5  Year 6  Year 7  Year 8  Year 9  Year 10  Year 11  Year 12  Years 13-25
Production La
Coconuts ('000 nuts) - talls         9.7           4.0      4.0      4.0      4.0      4.0     4.0      4.0      4.0      4.0      4.0       4.0       4.0           4.0
- Maw-         -             -        -        -        -       1.6    18.3    23.8    27.5    31.2    36.9          41.9      45.0          45.0
Cash Inflow
Inco from sale.
Cocon-ts /b                      1,583           614      614      614     614      838   3,176   3,946   4,464   4,982   5,780    6,480    6,914                6,914
Replanting subsidy Le                  -         2,100      600      600      600     600         -       -        -        -        -         -         -             -
Total cash inflow        1.583         2.714   1.214   1.214   1.214   1.452   3.176   3.946   4.464   4.982   5,780    6 480    6.914                   6.914
Cash Outflow
Investment costs d
Felling and drains                   -         1,401        -        -        -       -        -        -        -        -        -         -         -             -
Weed eradication                     -           492        -        -        -       -        -        -        -        -        -         -         -             _
Planting materials                   -           878        -        -       -        -        -        -        -        -        -         -         -
Total inveatment costs       -         2.771             -        -       -        -        -        -            -         -        -           -
Operating costs le
Fertilizer                           -           300      300      300     225      225      225      225      225      225     225       225       225            225
Plant protection                    21           109      234      109      109     109       59       59       59       59       59        59        59            95
Harvesting .L                      388           160      160      160      160     224      892   1,112   1,260   1,408   1,636    1,836         1,960          1,960
Subtotal                   409           569      694      569      494      598   1,176   1.296   1.566   1.714   1.942    2.142    2.266               2.266
Land tax and drainage chargea /it  51               51       94       94       94       94      94       94       94       94       94        94        94            94
Total operating costs    460             620      788      663      588      692   1.270   1.490   1.660   1 805   2.036    2.236    2.360               2.360
Total cash outflow         460         3.391      788      663      588      692   1.270   1.490   1.660   1,08   2.036    2.236    2.360                2.360
Cash balance from the
coconut area                     1,127          -677      426      551     626      760   1.906   2,456   2,804   3,174   3,744    4,244    4,554               4,554
Off-fare net incomo /h             1.120         1,120   1,120   1,120   1,120   1,120   1,120   1,120   1,120   1,120   1,120    1,120    1,120                   1,120
Net farm cash flow                 2.243           443   1.546   lu671   1,746   1.880   3,026   3.576   3.924   4.294   4.864    5,364    5,674                   5.674
Nonproduction Inflow
Replanting subsidy                     0         2,100      600      N00      600      600       0        0        0        0        0         0         0             0
Off-farm income                    1,120         1,120   1,120   1,120   1,120   1.120   1,120   1,120   1,120   1,120   1,120    1,120    1,120                   1,120
Net Farm Benefit                     1.123        -2,777    -174       -49       26      160   1,906   2.456   2,804   3.174   3,744    4,244    4,554               4,554
Incremental Net Farm Benefit             -        -3,900  -1,297  -1,172  -1,097    -963         783   1,333   1,681   2,051   2,621    3,121    3,431              3,431
/a  Assuming yield build up shown in Annex 3, Table 4.
/b  At M$0.17 per nout for talls and MS0.14 per nut for Mewa hybrids.  Annual totals exclude subsistence consumption valued at M$66, equivalent to 4Z of
without production.
1c  At M$900 per acre, of which MS420 in Year I and M$120 in Years 2 to 5 as proposed for the Coconut Replinting Scheme to be carried out during the Third
Malaysian Plan.
Id  Costs estimated by CSOS staff.  At present the amount of subsidy paid for felling and drains is only MS160 per acre compared with a cost of MS280 per acre.
/e Weeding, clearing drains snd fertiliser applic-tion are assumed to be crrried out by the farmer and his family.
/f For coconuts M$20 per 1,000 nuts for picking and MS20 per 1,0010 for husking, splitting and carrying to roadside.
TX  Land tax at M91 per acre.  Drainage charges increase fros MS5 per acre for the without situation end Year I to MS10 per acre from Year 2 onwards.
/h Assuming no reduction in off-farm income as a risult of the additional farmer and family labor requirements detailed in Table 5.



ANNEX 10
Table 7
MALAYSIA
NORTHWEST SELANGOR INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Model D
Coconut Area 7 Acres Rehabilitated Malaysian Talls. Underplanted Coffee
Present                                              ----With Project--------------
Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Year 4 Year 5 Year 6 Year 7 Year 8 Year 9 Years 10-25
Production /a
Coconuts ('000 nuts)                 9.7            9.7      9.7    10.8    11.9    13.0    13.0    13.0    13.0    13.0              13.0
Coffee berries (piculs) /a            -              -        -     57.4   114.8   172.2   229.6   258.2   287.0   287.0             287.0
 _  _ ____  _ ______ _ -__  - -- -----NM$ - ---- - - - - --- ------
Cash Inflow
Income from sales
Coconuts at M$0.17/nut lb        1,583         1,583   1,583   1,770   1,957   2,144   2,144   2,144   2,144   2,144               2,144
Coffee berries at M$15.5/picul    -                 -        -     890   1,779   2.669   3.559   4.004   4.448   4.448             4.448
Rehabilitation subsidy /c              -          3,060   1,020   1,020          -        -        -        -       -        -            -
Total cash inflow        1.583          4.643   2.603   3.680   3.736   4.813   5.703   6,148   6.592   6,592              6.592
Cash Outflow
Investment costs /d
Felling and drains                   -         1,524        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -           -
Weed eradication                     -            571        -       -        -        -        -        -        -        -           -
Planting materials
Coconut                            -            91        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -           -
Coffee                             -           383        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -           -
Total investment costs        -         2.569        -        -        -        -        -        -       -        -            -
Operating costs ke
Fertilizer                           -           961      825      850      850      850      850      850      850      850         850
Plant protection                    21           272      196      170      106      106      106      106      106      106         106
Harvesting /f                      388            380     388      432      476      520      520      520      520      520         520
Subtotal                   409          1,621   1.409   1.452   1,432   1.476   1.476   1,476   1.476   1,476              1.476
Land tax and drainage charges /g   51                51       94       94       94       94      94       94       94       94          94
Total operating costs    460            1.672       1.503   1,546   1.526   1.570   1,570   1.570   1,570   1,570          1.570
Total cash outflow         460          4,241   1,503   1.546   1.526   1.570   1.570   1.570   1.570   1.570              1.570
Cash balance from the
coconut area                     1,123           402   1,100   2,134   2,210   3,243   4,133   4,578   5,022   5,022              5,022
Off-farm net income th             1,120          1,120   1,120   1,120   1,120        960      632      468      304      304         304
Net farm cash flow                 2.243          1,522   2.220   3.254   3.330   4.203   4.765   5.046   5.326   5,326              5.326
Nonproduction Inflow
Rehabilitation subsidy                 0          3,060   1,020   1,020         0        0        0        0        0        0           0
Off-farm income                    1,120          1,120   1,120   1,120   1,120        960      632      468      304      304         304
Net Farm Benefit                     1,123         -2,658       80   1,114   2,210   3,243   4,133   4,578   5,022   5,022             5,022
Incremental Net Farm Benefit              -       -3,781  -1,043        -9  -1,087   2,120   3,010   3,455   3,899   3,899             3,899
/a  1 picul - 133.3 lb.
lb  After deduction of subsistence consumption equivalent to 42 of present production value at K$66.
/c  At M$600 per acre of which M$360 in Year I and M$120 in Years 2 and 3 as proposed for the Coconut Rehabilitation Scheme to be
carried out during the Third Malaysian Plan.
/d  Costs estimated by CSDS staff.
/e  Weeding, clearing drains, fertilizer application and picking of coffee are assumed to be carried out by the farmer and
his family.
/f  At M$20 per 1,000 nuts for picking and M$20 per 1,000 nuts for husking, splitting and carrying to roadside.
14  Land tax at M$1 per acre.  Drainage charges increase from M$5 per acre for the preproject situation and Year I to N$10 per
acre from Year 2 onwards.
th  Assuming a reduction in off-farm net income due to additional farmer and family labor requirements detailed in Table 5.



ANNEX 10
Table 8
MALAYSIA
NORTHWEST SELANGOR INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Model E
Coconut Area 7 Acres Rehabilitated Malaysian Talls. Underplanted Cocoa
Present                                         ----With  Project - - -- ------- ------ - --------
Year L Year 2 Year 3 Year 4 Year 5 Year 6 Year 7 Year 8 Year 9 Years 10-25
Production
Coconuts ('000 nuts)                 9.7            9.7      9.7    10.8    11.9    13.0    13.0    13.0    13.0    13.0               13.0
Cocoa (wet beans - '000 lb)           -              -        -       5.1      9.0    11.6    12.9    14.2    15.0    15.5             15.5
Cash Inflow
Income from sales
Coconuts at MS0.17/nut /a        1,583         1,583   1,583   1,770   1,957   2,144   2,144   2,144   2,144   2,144               2,144
Cocoa at M$0.41/lb wet beans         -              -        -   2,091   3,690   4,756   5,289   5,822   6,150   6,355             6,355
Rehabilitation subsidy /b               -         3,060   1,020   1,020          -        -        -        -        -        -           -
Total cash inflow        1.583          4.643   2.603   4.881   5.647   6,900   7.433   7.966   8.294   8.499               8.499
Cash Outflow
Investment costs /c
Felling and drains                   -          1,524        -        -        -        -       -        -        -        -            -
Weed eradication                     -            571        -        -        -        -        -        -       -        -            -
Planting materials
Coconut                            -            91        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -            -
Cocoa                              -           383        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -            -
Total investment costs        -         2.569        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -           -
Operating costs /d
Fertilizer                           -            961      825     850      850      850      850      850      850      850          850
Plant protection                    21            272      196      170      106      106      106      106     106       106         106
Harvesting coconut /e              388            380      388      432     476      520      520      520      520      520          520
Subtotal                   409          1.621   1,409   1.452   1.432   1,476   1.476   1.476   1.476   1.476               1.476
Land tax and drainage charges /f   51                51       94       94       94       94       94       94       94       94          94
Total operatina costs    460            1.672   1.503   1.546   1.526   1.570   1.570   1.570   1.570   1,570               1,570
Total cash outflow         460          4.241   1.503   1.546   1.526   1,570   1.570   1.570   1.570   1.570               1.570
Cash balance from the
coconut area                     1,123            402   1,100   3,335   4,121   5,330   5,863   6,396   6,724   6,929              6,929
Off-farm net income LA             1,120          1,120   1,120   1,120   1,120   1,120   1,120   1,120   1,120   1,120               1,120
Net farm cash flow                 2.243          1.522   2.220   4.455   5.241   6.450   6.983   7.516   7,844   8.049               8.049
Nonproduction Inflow
Rehabilitation subsidy                  0         3,060   1,020   1,020          0        0        0        0        0        0           0
Off-farm income                    1,120          1,120   1,120   1,120   1,120   1,120   1,120   1,120   1,120   1,120               1,120
Net Farm Benefit                      1,123        -2,658       80   2,315   4,121   5,330   5,863   6,396   6,724   6,929              6,929
Incremental Net Farm Benefit              -        -3,781  -1,043   1,192   2,998   4,207   4,740   5,273   5,601   5,806               5,806
/a  After deduction of subsistence consumption equivalent to 4% of preproject production valued at K$66.
/b  At M$600 per acre, of which M$360 in Year I and M$120 in Years 2 and 3 as proposed for the Coconut Rehabilitation Scheme
to be carried out during the Thrid Malaysian Plan.
/c Costs estimated by CSDS staff.
/d Weeding, pruning, clearing drains, fertilizer application and picking and splitting of cocoa are assumed to be carried out
by the farmer and his family.
/e  At M$20 per 1,000 nuts for picking and M$20 per 1,000 nuts for husking, splitting and carrying to roadside.
/f  Land tax at M$1 per acre.  Drainage charges increase from M$5 per acre for the preproject situation and Year 1 to M$10 per
acre from Year 2 onwards.
/y Assuming no reduction in off-farm income due to addiitional farmer and family labor requirements detailed in Table 5.



MALAYSIA
NORTHWEST SELANGOR INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rent and Cost Recovery Analysis /a
(X$)
Gross     Value of    Farm               Manage-                                       Indirect         Direct
value of   purchased   cash    Pamily   ment and  Project   Zakat    Irrigation   rent recov-   rent recov-   Cost recov-
production    input    income  labor lb  risk /c    rent    payments   charges           ery /d (X)    ery /d (X)    ery /e (X)
(1)         (2)        (3)      (4)       (5)        (6)       (7)        (8)       (7 + 8) * 6        (9)            (10)
Sekinchan 1.5 ha farm            477         228        249    120          74        54         0          18             34            34               9
Non-Sekinchan 1.2 ha farm    1,697           501      1,196    390         358       477       118          14             30             5               37
/a  All figures are incremental.
/b  From Tables 3 and 4.
/c  Calculated at 30X of incremental income.
/d  It is assumed that farm incomes, project rent and water charges build up to full development levels with proportional time streams.  Consequently,
discounting the flows will not affect the rent recovery ratios.
/e  The cost recovery index was derived by discounting base costs (Annex 4, Table 1) distributed in time according to the implementation schedule
(Annex 7, Table 1), and OEM charges, by 13.81 over a period of 25 years.  Payments were phased as per the tables in Annex 2 and also discounted                  m x
by 13.81.                                                                                                                                                        %O J



ANNEX 11
Page I
MALAYSIA
NORTHWEST SELANGOR INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Analysis
Numeraire
1.        The common unit of account used in the economic analysis is
consumption measured at domesstic economic prices.
Foreign Exchange
2.        Recent calculations indicate that the standard conversion factor
for Malaysia is about 1.00, so that the market rate of exchange (M$2.48 to
US$1.00) is the appropriate rate to use to convert border values into the
common unit of account.
Labor
3.        Labor availability would exceed labor utilization throughout the area
except during the periods of land preparation and harvest of padi./l Accord-
ingly, the recorded daily wage of M$8.00 actually paid to hired laborers
during the peak periods has been used to value all labor during those periods.
During the remainder of the year labor has been valued at M$4.80 per day,
equal to standard casual labor wage rates in the region.
Benefits
4.        Expected cropping patterns and incremental production are discussed
in Annex 2 for padi and in Annex 3 for tree crops. Economic farm-gate prices
are calculated in Annex 9 while crop production costs are derived in Annex 10.
Tables 1 and 2 calculate the net incremental benefits of the irrigation compo-
nent with an effective integrated agricultural services system.
Investment Costs
5.        Investment costs are expressed in 1978 constant prices and have
been adjusted to exclude taxes and price contingencies. The foreign exchange
component of each investment item has been converted into Malaysian dollars
at the economic rate of exchange (para. 2). Annual O&M costs and the costs
of the agricultural supporting services system have been treated similarly.
/1 L.J. Fredericks, "Some Socio-Economic Characteristics of Rural Labor
with Special Reference to a Rice Double-Cropping Area in Selangor, West
Malaysia," Mimeo, University of Malaya, October 1976.



ANNEX 11
Page 2
Development Period
6.        Construction of the irrigation component would be phased over a five-
year period beginning in 1978 and effectively ending in 1982. The impact
of the phasing of construction on cropped area is shown in Annex 2. Full
benefits for the irrigation component would be achieved in 1987. Construction
of the drainage component would also be phased over a similar five-year
period, but owing to the dependence of tree crop yields on age, the effects
of this project on production would be felt until the year 2008 (see Annex 3,
Table 4).
Economic Rate of Return
7.        Using the foregoing assumptions and a 31-year period of analysis,
the best estimate of the economic rate of return for the overall tree crop
drainage component is 22%. A detailed analysis allocating investments
primarily either to smallholder or estate areas indicates that the economic
rate of return of the drainage works in the former would be about 15% and in
the latter about 30%. The difference is due to the higher sunk cost of
existing works constructed by the estates themselves, and management factors.
The best estimate of the economic rate of return for the Tanjong Karang irri-
gation component is 19%, and the composite rate of return for the entire
project is 21%.
Risk Analysis
8.        The major risk in this project derives from the uncertainties
associated with the implementation of the integrated agricultural supporting
services system. If the proposed training and visit system of extension is
implemented in the manner proposed by the Malaysian Government, the internal
rate of return of the irrigation component would be 19%. In the event that
only 50% of the projected padi yield increases with the agricultural service
system are attained,/l the rate of return of the Tanjong Karang component
would fall to 16%. The project would remain viable, but would have a reduced
impact on economic development. However, the Malaysian Government is taking
the measures necessary to avoid this potential economic loss. A pilot
program to test the implementation of the supporting services system has
already begun in the Sawah Sempadan block, which has a completed distributary
system identical to that proposed under the project. Furthermore, a similar
version of the training and visit system of extension is being implemented
with considerable success in the North Kelantan project area (Loan 1294-MA),
providing both a model and a training ground for the present project. Smaller
risks are associated with the drainage component, since the required changes
in production techniques are much simpler.
/1 Equivalent to 85% of projected final yields.



ANNEX 11
Table I
MALAYSIA
NORTHWEST SELANGOR INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Tanlong Karant Irrigation Component
Padi Production Values and Costs /a
(M$'000)
Gross value of production        Production cost (M$ '000)   Incrementa]
Ws    Wns       W5     Wns      Ws      Wns     WS      Wns      Benefits
Main season       1   4,301  20,974  4,301  20,932  1,857  10,886  1,857  10,865              -21
2   4,951  24,175  4,960  24,307  1,856  10,898  1,864  10,954               77
3   5,717  28,138  5,751  28,743  1,855  10,934  1,875  11,176             377
4   5,728  28,416  5,842  30,706  1,854  10,970  1,903  11,760           1,565
5   5,751  28,694  5,855  33,648  1,853  11,006  1,905  12,632           3,930
6   5,762  28,971  5,922  37,249  1,852  11,042  1,926  13,696           5,710
7   5,774  29,249  5,990  39,314  1,851  11,078  1,947  14,299           6,964
8   5,784  29,519  6,022  40,336  1,850  11,113  1,957  14,601           7,460
9   5,795  29,797  6,044  40,804  1,848  11,149  1,964  14,738           7,551
10-25   5,808  30,074  6,055  41,273  1,846  11,185  1,967  14,876           7,634
Off season        1   4,473  17,658  4,473  17,625  1,829   7,867  1,829   7,852              -18
2   5,138  20,344  5,188  21,368  1,827   7,879  1,847   8,284             649
3   5,944  23,579  6,058  27,540  1,826   7,904  1,874   9,255           2,676
4   5,956  23,780  6,149  31,211  1,825   7,940  1,904  10,475           5,010
5   5,979  23,980  6,146  35,307  1,822   7,977  1,905  11,836           7,552
6   5,990  2,180   6,225  38,596  1,821   8,013  1,931  12,924           9,630
7   6,001  24,381  6,3:15  39,755  1,820   8,050  1,961  13,304         10,293
8   6,011  24,375  6,358  40,636  1,818   8,050  1,976  13,596          10,904
9   6,022  24,715  6,380  41,260  1,817   8,123  1,984  13,801          10,998
10-25   6,034  24,975  6,391  41,883  1,816   8,159  1,987  14,005          11,248
/a  These values assume successful implementation of the agricultural extension system
described in Annex 5, and are based on yield and cropping intensity assumptions
presented in Annex 2, Tables I and 2.
/b W = without project; W - with project; s = Sekinchan; ns = non-Sekinchan.



MALAYSIA
NORTHWEST SELANGOR INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Tanjong Karang Irrigation Component
Incremental Costs and Benefits /a
Incremental costs
Total                               Agricultural             Total      Incremental
incremental       Irrigation          service system         incremental       net
benefits    Construction  O&M  Construction  Operation         costs       benefits
Main season       1         -39         5,879        0         272         280         6,431        -6,470
2        736         12,889       91         583        473        14,036       -13,310
3      3,053         14,145      271       1,158        583        16,157       -13,104
4      6,575         15,155      450         545        586        16,736       -10,161
5     11,482         13,771      631         545        586        15,533         -4,051
6     15,340            813      714           0        586         2,658         12,137
7     17,257              0      714           0        586         1,845         14,867
8     18,364              0      714           0         586         1,845        15,974
9     18,549              0      714           0         586        1,845         16,159
10-25     18,882              0      714           0         586         1,845        16,492
--3 
/a   Incremental benefits from Table 1.                                                                                 ( X



MALAYSIA
NORTHWEST SELANGOR INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Tree Crop Drainage Component
Incremental Production Benefits
(M$'000)
Incremental production benefito
Smallholder  Smallholder  Smallholder  Smallholder  Smallholder  Estate   Estate   Estate  Estate    Total incremental benefits
Rubber       Oil Palm         Copra        Coffee         Cocoa       Rubber  Palm Oil  Copra   Cocoa         Smallholder  Estate  Total
Year (78)  1          0              0              0            0               0          0          0        0        0               0          0        0
(79)  2         0               0           785            0               0          0          0       91        0             785         91      876
(80)  3       355            168          1,706           77             609        573        882      182   1,031           2,915       2,668   5,583
(81)  4       845            264          3,458          168           1,697      1,609      2,706      272   1,392           6,432       5,979  12,411
(82)  5    1,255             478          4,269          271          3,089       2,400      7,565      438   1,805           9,362    12,208  21,570
(83)  6    1,664             707          4,250          605          4,445       3,273    12,752       585   2,063          11,671    18,673  30,344
(84)  7    1,664             907          4,226          756          5,028       3,068    12,978       576   2,321          12,58;    18,943  31,524
(85)  8    1,590           1,532          5,337          597          3,452       2,783    13,932       693   1,586          12,508    18,994  31,502
(86)  9    1,511           1,817          5,301          739          3,813       2,571    14,084       705   1,586          13,181    18,946  32,127
(87) 10    1,458           2,079          5,284          914          4,099       2,359    15,403       698   1,586          13,834    20,046  33,880
(88) 11    1,405           2,207          4,551        1,045          4,318       2,147    15,576       623   1,586          13,526    19,932  33,458
(89) 12    1,325           2,358          4,689        1,372          4,530       1,988    14,538       623   1,586          14,274    18,735  33,009
(90) 13    1,246           2,354          4,768        1,372          4,676       1,829    14,689       618   1,586          14,416    18,722  33,638
(91) 14    1,140           2,629          4,847        1,520          4,819       1,670    13,586       632   1,428          14,955    17,316  32,271
(92) 15    1,060           2,609          3,972        1,520          4,819       1,564    13,673       703   1,459          13,980    17,399  31,379
(93) 16       981          2,715          4,098        1,511          4,819       1,458    12,461       717   1,428          14,124    16,064  30,188
(94) 17       928          2,817          4,163        1,507          4,819       1,299    12,353       769   1,459          14,234    15,880  30,114
(95) 18       875          2,767          4,332        1,487          4,819       1,166    12,245       793   1,459          14,280    15,663  29,943
(96) 19       822          3,050          4,393        1,436          4,819       1,007    12,137       816   1,459          14,523    15,419  29,942
(97) 20       769          2,882          4,441        1,427          4,819       1,007    10,730       840   1,459          14,341      14,036  28,377
(98) 21       716          2,908          4,505        1,414          4,819       1,007      9,324      863   1,459          14,365    12,653  27,018
(99) 22       663          2,890          4,576        1,394          4,819       1,007      9,238      887   1,459          14,342    12,591  26,933
(00) 23       583          2,916          4,871        1,376          4,819       1,034      9,151      911   1,459          14,565    12,555  27,120
(01) 24       557          2,899          4,688        1,282          4,819       1,034      7,832   1,038   1,459           14,245    11,363  25,608
(02) 25       557          2,899          5,331        1,282          4,819       1,034      7,832   1,038   1,459           14,888    11,363  26,251
(03) 26       557          2,899          5,567        1,282          4,819       1,034      7,832   1,038   1,459           15,124    11,363  26,487
(04) 27       557          2,899          6,251        1,282          4,819       1,034      7,832   1,142   1,459            15,808    11,467  27,275
(05) 28       557          2,899          7,065        1,282          4,819       1,034      7,832   1,142   1,459           16,622    11,467  28,089
(06) 29       557          2,899          7,949        1,282          4,819       1,034      7,832   1,116   1,459           17,506    11,441  28,947
(07) 30       557          2,899          8,616        1,282          4,819       1,034      7,832   1,090   1,459            18,173    11,415  29,588
(08) 31       557          2,899          9,229        1,282          4,819       1,034      7,832   1,064   1,459           18,786    11,389  30,175
I l



ANNEX 11
Table 4
MALAYSIA
NORTHWEST SELANGOR INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Tree Crop Drainage Component
Incremental Production Costs
(M$'000)
Incremental production costs                                      Total incremental
Smallholder                                 Estate                        production costs
Rubber  Oil Palm  Copra  Coffee  Cocoa    Rubber  Palm Oil  Copra  Cocoa    Smallholder  Estate  Total
Year 1978      0        116        79      0       0         0      3,996       0       0            195    3,996   4,191
1979     0        188       427      0       0          0     5,232      50       0            615    5,282   5,897
1980    97        415    1,261      25      44        229     6,479      95      95          1,842    6,898   8,740
1981   231        488    1,680      56    123         644     4,421    143    128            2,578    5,207   7,799
1982   342        419    1,967      90    224         960     4,758    230    166            3,042    6,114   9,156
1983   454        429    2,258    200    323        1,310     4,692    307    190            3,664    6,499  10,163
1984   454        438    2,098    250    365        1,228     3,680    302    213            3,605    5,423   9,028
1985   446        469    2,136    300    407        1,146     2,668    298    237            3,758    4,349   8,107
1986   424        434    1,999    371    450        1,059     1,888    303    237            3,678    3,487   7,165
1987   409        420    1,992    460    484          971     2,065    300    237            3,765    3,373   7,338
1988   394        432    1,730    525    509          884     2,088    268    237            3,590    3,477   7,067
1989   372        447    1,679    690    534          819     1,949    268    237            3,722    3,273   6,995
1990   350        446    1,708    690    552          753     1,969    266    237            3,746    3,225   6,971
1991   320        473    1,736    764    568          644     1,833    302    218            3,440    2,997   6,437
1992   298        387    1,423    764    568          644     1,833    302    218            3,440    2,997   6,437
1993   275        366    1,468    760    568          600     1,670    308    213            3,437    2,791   6,228
1994   260        346    1,491    758    568          535      1,656    330    218           3,423    2,739   6,162
1995   246        315    1,551    748    568          480     1,641    341    218            3,428    2,680   6,108
1996   231        316    1,573    722    569          415     1,627    351    218            3,411    2,611   6,022
1997   216        280    1,590    718    569          415     1,438    361    218            3,373    2,432   5,805
1998   201        282    1,613    711    569          415      1,250    371    218           3,376    2,254   5,630
1999   186        281    1,639    701    568          415     1,238    381    218            3,375    2,252   5,627
2000   164        283    1,744    692    568          426      1,227    391    218           3,451    2,262   5,713
2001   156        281    1,679    644    568          426      1,050    446    218           3,328    2,140   5,468
2002   156        281    1,909    644    568          426     1,050    446    218            3,558    2,140   5,698
2003   156        281    1,994    644    568          426      1,050    446    218           3,643    2,140   5,783
2004   156        281    2,239    644    568          426      1,050    491    218           3,888    2,185   6,073
2005   156        281    2,530    644    568          426     1,050    491    218            4,179    2,185   6,364
2006   156        281    2,847    644    568          426      1,050    473    218           4,496    2,167   6,663
2007   156        281    3,085    644    568          426      1,050    468    218           4,734    2,162   6,896
2008   156        281    3,309    644    568          426      1,050    457    218           4,958    2,151   7,109



MALAYSIA
NORTHWEST SELANGOR INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Tree Crop Drainage Component
Net Incremental Benefits
(M$ 000)
Incremental investment and support costs
Smallholder area                Estate area
Net incremental               Drainage             Service            Drainage
production benefits        Construc-           Construc-  Opera-  Construc-                      Subtotals               Net incremental benefits
Smallholder  Estates  Total        tion      O&M       tion    tions         tion    O&M  Smallholder  Estates  Total  Smallholder  Estates  Total
Year 1978        -195    -3,996  -4,191        1,939         0      109        29        1,133      0       2,077      1,133   3,210       -2,272    -5,129   -7,401
1979         170    -5,191  -5,021    6,789           60      350       123        2,550    56        7,322      2,606   9,928       -7,152    -7,797  -14,949
1980       1,073    -4,230  -3,157   12,284          377      695       309        1,077   187       13,665      1,264  14,929    -12,592    -5,494  -18,086
1981       3,854        772   4,626    8,406         907      327       397          567   241       10,037        808  10,845       -6,183         -36   -6,219
1982       6,320      6,094  12,414    2,909    1,269         327       423          340   270        4,928        610   5,538         1,392      5,484    6,876
1983       8,007    12,174  20,181           0    1,395         0       484            0   288        1,879        288   2,167         6,128    11,886   18,014
1984       8,976    13,520  22,496           0    1,395         0       484            0   288        1.879        28R   2,167         7,097    13,232   20,329
1985       8,750    14,645  23,395           0    1,395         0       484            0   288        1,879        288   2,167         6,871    14,357   21,228
1986       9,503    15,459  24,962           0    1,395         0       484             0   288       1,879        288   2,167         7,624    15,171   22,795
1987     10,069    16,673  26,742            0    1,395         0       484            0   288        1,879        288   2,167         8,190    16,385   24,575
1988       9,936    16,455  26,391           0    1,395         0       484            0   288        1,879        288   2,167         8,057    16,167   24,224
1989     10,552    15,462  26,014            0    1,395         0       484            0   288        1,879        288   2,167         8,673    15,174   23,847
1990     10,670    15,497  26,167            0    1,395         0       484            0   288        1,879        288   2,167         8,791    15,209   24,000
1991     11,094    14,322  25,416            0    1,395         0       484            0   288        1,879        288   2,167         9,215    14,034   23,249
1992     10,540    14,402  24,942            0    1,395         0       484            0   288        1,879        288   2,167         8,661    14,114   22,775
1993     10,687    13,273  23,960            0    1,395         0       484            0   288        1,879        288   2,167         8,808    12,985   21,793
1994     10,811    13,141  23,952            0    1,395         0       484            0   288        1,879        288   2,167         8,932    12,853   21,785
1995     10,852    12,983  23,835            0    1,395         0       484            0   288        1,879        288   2,167         8,973    12,695   21,668
1996     11,112    12,808  23,920            0    1,395         0       484             0   288       1,879        288   2,167         9,233    12,520   21,753
1997     10,968    11,604  22,572            0    1,395         0       484             0   288       1,879         288   2,167        9,089    11,316   20,405
1998      10,989    10,399  21,388           0    1,395         0       484             0   288       1,879        288   2,167         9,110    10,111   19,221
1999     10,967    10,339  21,306            0    1,395         0       484            0   288        1,879        288   2,167         9,088    10,051   19,139
2000      11,114    10,293  21,407           0    1,395         0       484             0   288       1,879         288   2,167        9,235    10,005   19,240
2001     10,917    9,223   20,140            0    1,395         0       484             0   288       1,879         288   2,167        9,038      8,935   17,973
2002      11,330    9,223   20,553           0    1,395         0       484             0   288       1,879         288   2,167        9,451      8,935   18,385
2003      11,481    9,223   20,704           0    1,395         0       484             0   288       1,879         288   2,167        9,602      8,935   1A,537
2004      11,920    9,282   21,202           0    1,395         0       484             0   288       1,879         288   2,167       10,041      8,994   19,035
2005      12,443    9,282   21,725           0    1,395         0       484             0   288       1,879         288   2,167       10,564      8,994   19,558
2006      13,010    9,274   22,284           0    1,395         0       484             0   288       1,879         288   2,167       11,131      8,986   20,117
2007      13,439    9,253   22,692           0    1,395         0       484             0   288       1,879         288   2,167       11,560      8,965   20,525
2008      13,828    9,238   23,066           0    1,395         0       484             0   288       1,879         288   2,167       11,949      8,950   20,899
2008  13,828    9,238   23,066                                                                                                   w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 



ANNEX 11
Table 6
MALAYSIA
NORTHWEST SELANGOR INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Analysis of the Prolect
Net incremental benefits
Year         Drainage           Irrigation       Project
1978          - 7,401             - 6,470         -13,871
1979          -14,949             -13,300         -28,249
1980          -18,086             -13,104         -31,190
1981          - 6,219             -10,161         -16,380
1982            6,876             - 4,051           2,825
1983           18,014              13,227          31,241
1984           20,329              15,957          36,286
1985           21,228              17,064          38,292
1986           22,795              17,249          40,044
1987           24,575              17,582          42,157
1988           24,224              17,582          41,806
1989           23,847              17,582          41,429
1990           24,000              17,582          41,582
1991           23,249              17,582          40,831
1992           22,775              17,582          40,357
1993           21,793              17,582          39,375
1994           21,785              17,582          39,367
1995           21,688              17,582          39,270
1996           21,753              17,582          39,335
1997           20,405              17,582          37,987
1998           19,221              17,582          36,803
1999           19,139              17,582          36,721
2000           19,240              17,582          36,822
2001           17,973              17,582          35,555
2002           18,386              17,582          35,968
2003           18,537                    0         18,537
2004           19,035                    0         19,035
2005           19,558                    0         19,558
2006           20,117                    0         20,117
2007           20,525                    0         20,525
2008           20,899                    0         20,899






MALAYSIA
-,     'go ;9s, 6er&9sNorthwest Selangor Integrated Agricultural
t LIV                                          Development Project
/                                                                              -         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Main Canals
Roads
-LDraiins
j              ~~~~~Tanjong Karang Irrigatton Areas
/                                                                  *    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Esisting Tidal Control Gate
/ I                                                    ~~~~                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N r.  Proposed Tidal Cantrol Gate
a     Replacement Tidal Control Gate
Sz>~~~~~                 A ~~~  Proposed Pump House
-'V                                                                                  *-.-   Existing Bund ro be upgraded
~~~    -117                                                      - - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Proposed Bind Reconstructian
--~~~~\~~  >~~~~   4~~~~111  ~  ~          ~         ~         ~              Propased FDC's
7                                                          -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ - ~~~~~~~~~District Boundaries
State Boundaries
S       I X   - '   0 0   00 0  DBeXr  EB E R N A M                                                        HEADWORKS
ULU SELANGOR
FEEDER     DISTRICT
S;;    0: f;:  3 t r aiX t   ofb /0  0 400 D C ;   : 0  >> ty <\                                                     \   > CANAL
TANJONG KARANG                               \
M a/o ca  c                                                                    EAT SWAMP                                 '7
KUALA SELANGOR
KILOMETERS
00f     o : - X    0:   02'                Sm            inuf         To n 1o n .  :    0 . X  . 0 ; ; ~';                 D I S T R I C TISRI:
g t1  p        -r,5THAI, AND                     a t                                                                                               1
S~~~~~~~~ f nWvznkn2Si05' i<% 
7                    ~~~~Ch)na 
PtA/AN    /       KELANTAN1'
-    PEIRAK                      T TPFNGGA          $                                                                  F      ;      t2 
.D ~ ~ ~ uo~           fj>,  rA   -          '        fX :                      E     :    ;:Q           A       iJlA
r-IPA I ANGA/
AREA.        I    ,                    le
M.L                                                    M.r"  I  of                                                        PETALING
-zp  MOatu                  OHOP         s-            *                                                   KELA G                TLN
me    I                                                 ereafETo ,        M h l.V                                                          DISTRICT
\  be Aeret a.eonm a M.                                         DISTRICT
0::  : '  E                                  eVO ta2e on .h ti  uO of                                                   ( :              oc






IBRD 13027R
SANtVARY 19ig
MALAYSIA                                                                                   A M
Northwest Selangor Integrated Agricultural
Development Project
Typical Drainage Layout (Sabak Bernam)
Main Drain
Secondary Drain
- --    ~ Feeder Drain
*     Culvert Gate
-     Culvert
Flow                                                                           ------
Farm Roads
*     Tidal Control Gates
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  /~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
S7 
(Approximate Scales)                                /                                                                   onio>g
,                   1                    ?2F  ,?                                                                +  <t
MLES                                                        Z 4V
4                                 0
KILOMETERS                                                                                             *' C,   o
Th0 obAso (or  rdby toy ! k oWdd f-kff oektt-y ft'lhoof             C - -
tf ,,,of 0 fo ,oOah 1010 ot oy    aotdof d tZOn=
0000001000000,0, ff0  oo  d  t-00, 00 0~~o t- fl   -  Wo,dRo  x  t  0
SH -UO    ba,dan ot a  t,. 00   rtS000   Ort,rr0y0000000



