Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15688
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
ENTERPRISE AND FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(Loan 3352-AL)
June 4, 1996
Private Sector, Finance and Infrastructure Division
Country Department I
Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipienis only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Algerian Dinar (DA)
End of period
Dinars/US Dollar
1988                        6.73
1989                        8.03
1990                       12.19
1991                       21.39
1992                       22.78
1993                       24.12
1994                       42.89
1995                       52.18
1996 (Jan. - Mar.)         53.57
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BA                            Banque d'Algerie (Central Bank of Algeria)
BAD                           Banque Algerienne de Nveloppement
CNEP                          Caisse Nationale d'Epargne et de Prevoyance
EFSAL                         Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
ERL                           Economic Rehabilitation Support Loan
FdP                           Fonds de Participation (holding companies)
ICR                           Implementation Completion Report
IMF                           International Monetarv Fund
MIM                           Ministere de l'Industrie et des Mines (Ministry of Industry and Mines)
PE                            Public Enterprise
PR                            President's Report
SAL                           Structural Adjustment Loan
SME                           Small and Medium Scale Enterprises
TOR                           Terms of Reference



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
ENTERPRISE AND FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(Loan 3352-AL)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY ...................................................................i
A. Program Obiectives and Desin .1...................................................................I
B. Achievement of Ob iectives ....................................................................3
C. Maior FactorsA  ffecting the Project .................................................................... 10
D. Prozram  Sustainabilitv ...................................................................                                                          11
E. Bank performance ...................................................................  12
F.  Borrower performance ....................................................................                                                           13
G. Assessment of outcome ................................................................... 14
H. Future operation ................................................................... 14
I. Key Lessons Learned .................................................................... 15
STATISTICAL  TABLES .....................................................................                                                               16
dT s document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients oniy in the performanoe of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiihout World Bank authorization.                                                    I






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
ENTERPRISE AND FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(Loan 3352-AL)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Enterprise and Financial Sector
Adjustment Loan (EFSAL) to the Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria. The Loan in the amount of
US$350 million equivalent was approved by the Board on June 21, 1991 and made effective on June 27, 1991.
The loan closed on June 30, 1995, two years after the original loan closing date of June 30,
1993. The first tranche of US$175 million, released upon effectiveness, was fully disbursed on June 30, 1994.
The second tranche was released on July 21, 1994, and the entire loan amount of US$350 million was fully
disbursed by December 7, 1995. The Export Import Bank of Japan provided cofinancing for the loan in the
amount of US$300 million equivalent.
This ICR was prepared by Laurie Effron of the Private Sector, Finance, and Infiastructure
Division, Country Departnent 1 of the Middle East and North Africa Region and reviewed by Amir Al-Khafaji,
Division Chief and Rend Costa, Project Advisor in Country Department 1.
Preparation of the ICR is based on material in the project files and interviews with task
managers who appraised and supervised the project, as well as material in the files and interviews with task
managers on associated loans and grants to Algeria connected with this loan. The report has been sent for
comment to the Govemment.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
ENTERPRISE AND FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(Loan 3352-AL)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
(i)           The Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustmnent Loan (Loan 3352-AL), EFSAL, was approved
by the Board on June 21, 1991. It was the second adjustment loan to the country and was closely coordinated
with IMF support and adjustrnent programs. The Government had put in place a number of legal and regulatory
reforms to move away from the centrally-planned and administered economy and wanted to pursue the
adjustment process with accelerated deregulation and further institutional reform to decentralize decisions and
strengthen market forces (paras. 1-4).
Proeram Obiectives and Desien
(ii)          As presented in the Letter of Development Policy, the main objectives of the Government's
reform program were:
(a) to re-establish macro-economic equilibria through rigorous budgetary and monetary
policies and a flexible exchange rate policy;
(b) to implement trade and price liberalization, in order to enable most prices to be market
determined and allow decentralized decision-making;
(c) to effect structural change, with a view to decentralizing economic decision making and
creating a level playing field for all enterprises, private as well as public; the ultimate aim was to create an
economy driven by competitive forces and market discipline; and
(d) to strengthen social and employment policies to protect the most disadvantaged groups
from the negative effects of the reforms (para. 5).
(iu)          The EFSAL that supported this reform program had an enterprise and a financial sector
component. Both components envisaged legal and regulatory measures and financial and institutional
restructuring and the enterprise component also included price liberalization (para. 6).
(iv)          Evaluation of objectives. Given the long experience with a centrally planned and adminitered
economy, Government's intention to liberalize prices and establish enterprise and bank autonomy and encourage
decentralized decision making represented a radical departure from their past. At the same time, however, the
objectives were to some extent inherently inconsistent: the objective of encouraging market forces and creating a
level playing field between public and private enterprises was incompatible with continued controls over the
exchange rate and other prices. Access to basic resources continued to be centrally administered, with preference
given to public enterprises (PE). In addition, given Government's unwillingness to consider privatization or
closures of PEs, it was questionable whether sustainable PE restructuring would be achieved. Finally, the



ii
EFSAL should have established easily monitorable indicators to measure whether the stated objectives were being
achieved (paras. 7-10).
Implementation Experience and Results
(v)           Achievement of results. Virtually all of the reforms envisaged under the EFSAL, to be carnied
out within a one-year period or by April 1992 for the second tranche release, took longer than expected. In the
enterprise component, legal and regulatory measures were put in place with an average of some two years' delay,
and in some cases, such as for the establishment and operation of the stock market, the implementing decrees
were not in place as of mid-1996 (paras. 17 and 18). Price liberalization also took about two years longer than
expected (paras. 14 and 15). In terms of restructuring PEs, the process proved more complex, difficult and costly
than foreseen, particularly for the non-autonomous PEs which were also the largest loss-makers. The EFSAL
conditionality required diagnostic studies for the 22 non-autonomous PEs, and based on these studies, measures
to reduce losses and action plans and timetables for restructuring studies for at least 15 of the 22 PEs. This
process took over two years longer than expected (paras. 21-25). For the autonomous PEs, systematic
information is not available on the extent of restructuring, but anecdotal information suggests that substantial
restructuring in other than a financial sense has yet to occur (para. 19). The total cost of financial restructuring
of the enterprises has been enormous (para. 26). Since 1994, the Government has adopted a policy of
privatization and closures, which it had firmly resisted in 1991. This suggests that the measures undertaken in
the context of the EFSAL were insufficient to achieve the objective of greater PE efficiency and market
orientation (para. 27).
(vi)          Similarly in the financial sector component, the legal and regulatory reforms took longer than
expected by roughly two years, and in some cases have been countered by other measures to undennine the
objectives, such as in the insurance industry (paras. 28 and 29). The bank restructuring foreseen under the
EFSAL also proved more timely, costly and difficult than foreseen; at the time of second tranche release, waivers
were required for the restructuring of both the specialized banks and the commercial banks. For the specialized
banks, the waiver was requested on the basis that such restructuring was no longer required for one of the
specialized banks and was being taken care of under a separate Bank operation in the case of the other specialized
bank. For the commercial banks, the Bank argued that measures had been identified for the necessary financial
restructuring and Government had demonstrated its commitmnent by financing a first injection of capital to the
banks. The banks did not reach the 4% capital-asset ratio until 1996, on the basis of audits of 1993 accounts; for
1995, a 5% ratio is required and it is likely that the banks wi require considerably more capital once the results
of the 1995 audit are available (paras. 30-32). In addition, as of mid-1996 the Banque d'Algerie has certified
only two of the five commercial banks; it considers that the others have not made sufficient progress on their
institutional action plans (Table 5, Statistical Tables). The reform of the financial sector was not generally
achieved, and further measures have been necessary (para. 38).
(vii)         Sustainability. Certain elements of the reform program supported by the EFSAL are likely to
be sustainable: these include trade and price liberalization and opening of the economy to private investors
(paras. 40 and 41 (b)). The sustainabilky of the reforms of the enterprises and banks, however, depends on a
number of factors, including Government commitment to privatization and/or closure where required for
enterprises and to provide further capital infusions if required for banks, and the ability of the banks to maintain
portfolio quality and to assess adequately credit risks of private and public sector clients (para. 41 (a) and (c)).
The sustainability of the heart of the reform supported by the EF;S4L should be considered uncertain



(viii)        Key factors. Among the key factors affecting the reform process were: (a) the price of Algerian
crude oil fell during the period, which m turn affected the overall performance of the economy and the ability of
the authorities to restore macro-economic stability and effect structural change; (b) the detenorating political
climate, including civil unrest and violence, which resulted in changes in Government and varying degrees of
commitmnent to structural reform; (c) absence of change in the goverance of PEs or incentives for PE managers
(paras. 35-39).
(ix)          Bank and Borrower performance.  The Bank's identification, preparation, appraisal and
supervision of the EFSAL are all considered satisfactory. Two caveats can be added to this assessment: the
degree of difficulty of enterprise and bank restructuring was underestimated (four extensions were required the
Loan closed two years later than expected) and easily monitorable indicators should have been established to
measure the success in reducing PE losses (paras. 42-45). The Borrower's comnmitment to the reform program
was uneven over time and across various Government levels. At the highest level, the strong commitment
perceived in 1991 weakened in 1992 and 1993, due in part to changes in Government and in external conditions;
it was renewed in 1994. In addition, the commitment to reform expressed at the highest levels was not uniformly
shared by the civil service charged with inplementing the reformns. Overall, for the 1991-94 period under
review, the Borrower's commitment to and performance of the agreed reform measures are considered
unsatisfactory (paras. 46-48).
(x)           Assessment of outcome. Given the uneven progress and the lengthy delays on reform measures
under the EFSAL and the uncertainties over the sustainability of most of the measures, the overall outcome of the
EFSAL is considered unsatisfactory (para. 48).
Future Operation and Key Lessons Learned
(xi)          Periaps as a result of the difficulties of restructuring the enterprises and the banks, it became
clear to Government and the Bank that additional reform measures were required to attain the objectives as stated
under the EFSAL. Starting in 1994, Government adopted a policy and a program for privatization and
liqwudation of PEs and committed to further financial sector reform, including opening the capital or the
management of at least one bank to the pnvate sector; these efforts have been supported through continued Bank
loans for adjustment. Future support should concentrate on furthering the refonns in selected sectors, such as the
financial sector (para. 49).
(xii)         The key lessons learned from this operation are: (a) the importance of: (i) establishing reform
objectives that are consistent with measures that the Borrower is prepared to commit to, and (ii) being realistic in
terms of the time and effort involved in any sort of restructuring exercise; (b) to the extent possible, Bank staff
should include in the design of the adjustment program measures to ensure that necessary implementing decrees
follow legal or regulatory refonn, and (c) easily monitorable indicators should be defined at the beginning,
including a baseline measure against which progress in achievements can objectively be measured (paras. 50-52).






1
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
ENTERPRISE AND FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(Loan 3352-AL)
A. Program Obiectives and Design
Background
1.           From independence in 1962 to the mid-1980s, Algeria followed a socialist model of
development, using its abundant hydrocarbon resources to finance investments in a centrally-planned,
publicly owned industrial base. With the precipitous decline in oil prices starting in 1986, the country faced
a 45 percent decrease in its terns of trade. An initial effort to maintain investment and consumption levels
through external borrowing resulted mainly in a sharp increase in external debt (from US$17 billion in 1985
to over US$24 billion in 1987). Algeria then embarked on a program of structural adjustment to disengage
the state from direct management of the economy. The major objectives of the reform program were to
provide greater managerial autonomy for public enterprises (PEs) and banks and to allow a greater role in
the economy for the private sector. The first dramatic reform involved the 1987 breakup of state fanrs,
occupying the most productive land in the country, into private cooperatives with long-term usufruct rights
to the land. Legal reforms followed to ease private sector access to credit and foreign exchange, to abolish
state import monopolies, to establish the autonomy of most PEs, and to deregulate domestic prices.
Monetary policy and banking supervision were formally transferred to the Banque d'Alg6rie (BA), the
central bank.
2.           This phase of structural reforms was supported by both the Bank and the International
Monetary Fund (IMF). In May 1989 the IMF approved a first standby arrangement and a compensatory
financing package for a total of SDR 471 million, and in August 1989 the Bank approved a first adjustment
loan, the Economic Reform Support Loan for US$300 million. The IMF support focused on short-term
macroeconomic adjustment, covering monetary, fiscal and exchange rate policies, while the Bank support
focused on medium term adjustment, including the incentive structure, and reforms in the financial sector
and in the productive sectors.
3.           By mid-1990, the Government had laid the basic legal and regulatory groundwork for
economic reform and wanted to pursue the process with accelerated deregulation and further institutional
reform, and requested further support from the IMF and the Bank. The macroeconomic situation remained
fragile, with depressed oil prices and export earnings and a large and growing debt service requirement. In
its reluctance to request formal debt rescheduling, the Government was required to cut back sharply on non-
food imports and public investments, to increase non-hydrocarbon taxes, and to rely increasingly on
refinancing and multi-lateral financing arrangements.
4.           In June 1991, shortly before the EFSAL was presented to the Bank's Board, the IMF
approved a second standby arrangement for SDR 300 million, focusing on exchange rate adjustment, import
liberalization, price liberalization, and performance criteria for credit expansion in the banking system, non-
concessional foreign borrowings and the level of external reserves. Thus Bank support for structural
adjustment was closely coordinated with IMF support.



2
Objectives
5.           As expressed in the Letter of Development Policy, the objectives of the Government's
reform program, supported by EFSAL conditionality, consisted of four main aspects:
(a) to re-establish macro-economic equilibria through rigorous budgetary and monetary
policies and a flexible exchange rate policy;
(b) to implement trade and price liberalization, in order to enable most prices to be market
determined and allow decentralized decision-making;
(c) to effect structural change, with a view to creating an economy driven by competitive
forces and market discipline; this involved creating a level playing field for all enterprises, private as well as
public, and ensuring that PEs were managed according to commercial rules. It involved restructuring PEs
and creating a restructured, competitive banking system; and
(d) to strengthen social and employment policies to protect the most disadvantaged groups
from the negative effects of the reforms.
6.            Program Design. In support of this reform program, and more specifically the third
objective of effecting structural change in the enterprise and banking sectors, the EFSAL had two main
components, an enterprise component and a financial component. The enterprise component consisted of:
(a) price liberalization; (b) creation of legal and regulatory framework conducive to private enterprise
development; and (c) restructuring autonomous PEs and strengthening their governance; (d) stopping the
losses of and restructuring non-autonomous PEs. The financial component consisted of:  (a) putting in
place an acceptable prudential framework; (b) reorganization of two specialized banks, Banque Algerienne
de Developpement (BAD) and Caisse Nationale d'Epargne et de Prevoyance (CNEP); (c) restructuring all
five commercial banks; and (d) eliminating the Government's monopoly in the insurance sector.
Evaluation of obiectives
7.            The Government's reform program and the measures envisaged in the EFSAL to support it
were wide-ranging, complex and ambitious. The intent was to dismantle more than twenty-five years of a
centrally planned and administered economy, where all decisions on prices, resource allocation, distribution,
and other myriad aspects of hundreds of enterprises' operations had been taken by Government officials.
The hope was that by decentralizing, granting PE autonomy and restructuring them financially and
physically, a supply response would be generated to provide the basis of economic growth and permit
continued transition to a market economy. The Government was also committed to restructuring the
commercial banking sector by changing its role from that of Treasury's cashier to the PE sector to one of
autonomous financial intermediaries, with restructured portfolios and proper recapitalization.  The
Government was prepared to commit substantial resources to the process. In a sharp departure from the
past, a greater role for the private sector was envisaged, with equal access to foreign exchange, imports, and
credit; the expectation was that this would provide competitive pressure for PEs to improve their
performance. In an atmosphere of substantial political uncertainty and growing social unrest, the objectives
of the reform program can be considered courageous.



3
8.            In the Algerian context, however, the objectives of macro-economic stability, PE
restructuring with preferential access to foreign exchange and credit, and a level playing field between
private and public enterprises were inherently inconsistent. In an effort to re-establish macro-economic
stability, a gradual approach was used to liberalizing prices; Government therefore maintained tight controls
on the exchange rate and monetary expansion, while maintaining negative real interest rates. In these
circumstances, access to foreign exchange at the offcial rate and domestic and foreign credit was still
administratively allocated, with preferential access given to PEs to allow them to restructure. The private
sector continued to be crowded out of access to basic resources at official prices.
9.            Two other salient features of the reform programn were the absence of privatization as a
means of moving towards a market economy and the reluctance to allow market signals to dictate closure of
PEs. During the internal Bank review process for the EFSAL considerable skepticism was voiced, including
at the Operational Committee, over whether such fundamnental enterprise reform could be achieved without a
commitment and a significant program for privatization. In 1991, the Government was unwilling, however,
to consider privatization as a useful instrument for PE reform. Second, the measures for the non-
autonomous PE restructuring included the elimination of deficits of activities (not enterprises) deemed to be
"irremediable loss-makers." No definition or methodology was established, however, either in the Loan
Agreement or in the terms of reference of the consultants carrying out the diagnostic studies, of how these
"irremediable loss-makers" were to be determined. The focus of the efforts was on stopping the losses of
PEs through financial restructuring and additional investments and organizational restructuring. The
possibility that some PEs might be non-viable in a market economy was neither considered nor pursued. It
was to take another four years before Government embraced these privatizations and closures, supported by
further Bank adjustment lending (para. 27).
10.           Finally, given the importance for the Government and the EFSAL conditionality of public
enterprise restructuring and the expected outcome of reduced financial losses, the EFSAL lacked easily
monitorable indicators. If it had been possible, it would have been useful to establish a baseline of annual
operating deficits (as of 1989 and 1990) of the PEs and to monitor whether these deficits decreased over time.
B. Achievement of Obiectives
11.           The political setting.   Towards the end of 1991, Algeria canceled the first free
parliamentary elections since independence, which ushered in an era of increasingly radicalized opposition,
escalating violence on all sides, and political turmoil.1 In this political context, the authorities struggled
with fostering the resumption of economic growth while coping with high unemployment, the housing crisis
and shortages of basic necessities. In the 1992-93 period, there was a marked slowdown in the reform effort
and it was not until 1994 that the pace of reform resumed.
Objective 1: macro-economic stability
12.           In addition to mounting civil unrest, the period between 1991 and 1994 was characterized
by falling oil prices and increasing external debt service payments. The Government was reluctant to
consider debt rescheduling, resulting in severe strain on the economy. Trade and payments restrictions were
tightened in 1992 and a broad list of imports was prohibited. Imports were compressed in 1993 to about one
third below their 1990 level in real terns, the exchange rate appreciated in real terms by 50 percent, and
1      To date, an estimated 40,000 people have died (NY Times, April 7, 1966).



4
activity on the parallel market increased, widening the gap between the official and parallel rates. Output
stagnated or declined and real per capita incomes decreased continuously over this period (Table 10,
Statistical Appendix).
13.          By 1994 a broad consensus had emerged on the need for reform and a new Government
resumed efforts to stabilize the economy and promote growth; the dinar was devalued and adjusted a number
of times, so the premium for fbreign exchange on the parallel market dropped from a high of over 400
percent in mid-1993 to less than 100 percent by end 1994. In March 1994, a macroeconomic stabilization
program was agreed with the IMF, including a range of measures on further trade and price liberalization,
and tighter fiscal and monetary policies. The Government twice rescheduled its official debt twice with the
Paris club, thereby easing the debt service burden. At the same time, the structural reform program for
enterprises and banks was given new impetus and the measures foreseen under the EFSAL received renewed
focus. In January 1995, the Bank approved an Economic Rehabilitation Support Loan (ERL) to further
structural reforms. Most of the selected indicators in Table 10 in the Statistical Appendix show that as of
1995, macro-economic stability had yet to be achieved, although measures to achieve it are currently on
track with the IMF program and with achieving such stability by early 1998.
Objective 2: Trade and Price Liberalization
14.          During the 1991 to 1993 period, efforts to liberalize trade and prices were pursued only
partially. With the authorities' unwillingness to adjust the dinar until mid-1994 or to reschedule the debt, as
noted above, foreign exchange and access to foreign credit had to be sharply rationed. An ad hoc inter-
ministerial committee was established to allocate foreign exchange and external credit to "priority" imports,
but the opaqueness of the allocation process resulted in high non-tariff protection for those firms, usually the
PEs, fortunate enough to benefit from it. While tax and tariff reforms were put in place and a number of
domestic prices were liberalized, the spirit of trade and price liberalization suffered a setback during the
1992/93 period and was resumed only in 1994. Since then, however, Government has made considerable
progress in liberalizing the price and incentives framework: prices are now substantially free and subsidies
have been virtually eliminated; the external trading system is open, and for the first time the private sector
has access to foreign exchange on a market basis for trade transactions; ceilings on lending rates and on
bank interest rate spreads have been eliminated.
15.           With respect to the specific measures to liberalize prices, as defined in the EFSAL, the
Government was to transfer "about 50" families of products from the list of controlled margins to the list of
free prices within about twelve months, or by April 1992. In June 1992, Government announced the
transfer of 41 groups, of which 37 groups had been required under EFSAL and 4 had not. Because the
products whose margins were still controlled involved about 10-15% of the total value of transfers required
by the EFSAL, including some of economic significance such as animal feed and agricultural equipment, the
Bank considered that this condition was not yet met. In June 1994, the Government sent evidence (copy of
the Journal Officiel) that more families of products had been transferred in April 1994 from the list of
controlled margins to the list of free prices. The Bank considered that the spirit of the condition had been
respected, with roughly a two-year delay.
Objective 3: Structural change. increase in market forces
16.          The drive to decentralize the economy and to promote market forces was to involve both
legal/regulatory changes and financial and physical restructuring of the enterprise and banking sectors. In



5
both sectors, the process proved to be more complex, difficult and costly than what had been envisaged in
1991. The following paragraphs describe progress made since 1991 and compliance with the measures
specified under the EFSAL.
Enterprise sector
17.          In terms of changing the legal and institutional framework, little progress was made in
1991 and 1992. By contrast, between 1993 and 1995, Government put in place a series of legal and
institutional reforms that ensures, from a legal standpoint, a level playing field for private and public sector
firms. In early 1993, Government promulgated a revised Commercial Code, which provided for bankruptcy,
dissolution, and liquidation procedures for enterprises, and which was subsequently modified to include PEs.
In 1994, Government passed the implementing decree establishing the means for dissolving and liquidating
certain categories of PEs. A new Investment Code was put in place in October 1993, which authorized
private joint stock companies and the establishment of an investment agency (actually set up in late 1994) to
serve as a one-stop window to help both domestic and foreign private investors. In 1993 and 1994, the
necessary laws were passed that put in place the framework for the operation of a stock market.2 In mid-
1994, legal provisions were introduced that opened the capital of EPEs to private investors up to 49 percent
and allowed the sale of PE assets to the private sector. Also in 1994 a Ministry of Industrial Restructuring
and Participation was established to lead the privatization process. In late 1994, Government adopted a
policy for outright privatization and for private sector management under concessions. In 1995 a
privatization law was promulgated, which establishes a comprehensive and consistent legal framework for
privatization. Thus, the Algerian authorities have gone much farther than envisaged in 1991 in the context
of the EFSAL to bring about structural adjustment in the legal, regulatory and institutional environment.
18.          In terms of specific conditionality related to the EFSAL, Government was to establish the
legal and regulatory framework for the establishment and operation of a stock market, joint ventures,
commercial agencies, and distributorships, and enterprise bankruptcies, dissolutions and liquidation
procedures. The expectation was that this would be done by April 1992, for the release of the second
tranche. The required legislation, including expanding the relevant provisions of the Commercial Code to
autonomous PEs (April 1993), was finally complete to the satisfaction of the Bank in June 1994, about two
years behind schedule.
19.          The efforts atfinancial and physical restructuring of the PEs was focused on two groups:
the autonomous Entreprises Publiques Economiques (EPE), and the non-autonomous PE. The 300 EPE
were under the jurisdiction of eight Governmental fiduciary agents, the Fonds de Participation (FdP), and
their restructuring was to include diagnosis, recapitalization, investments, and improvement in governance
through establishment of an incentive system for the FdP board members tied to the performance of the
EPE. It was soon clear to both the Government and the Bank that the FdP were ill-equipped, in terms of
both human and financial resources, to undertake such a task and in 1992 Government informed the Bank
2     Several important amendments to the law on the operations of the stock market that were recommended by
the Bank were adopted in late 1995 as a pre-Board condition of the SAL. In addition, the implementing decrees
related to the activities of the stock exchange commission will only be implemented sometime in 1996/97, in the
context of the SAL.



6
that the FdP were to be dissolved.3 Little systematic information is available on progress of physical
restructuring of the EPE, but in spite of considerable financial restructuring (para. 26), operating losses
have apparently continued, and by 1994, Government acknowledged the need for further measures,
including privatization and tighter budget constraints, which have been supported through two more
adjustment loans (para. 27).
20.           The EFSAL conditionality related to EPE restructuring was focused on the FdP and
because the FdP were ineffective, proved to be quite weak. Government was required to ensure that each
FdP: (a) issued a report for 1991 on the achievements during the year in evaluating its portfolio; the report
was to include objectives for 1992 on financial performance; and (b) adopted resolutions that ensured that
the board members' remuneration was based on the respective FdP's financial performance during the
preceding year; estimated compliance date was by April 1992. Towards the end of 1992, the Bank had
received the required annual report for 1991, without any financial objectives for 1992. In mid-1993, the
Bank noted that various resolutions linking board members' remuneration to financial performance had been
passed in the FdP since 1988, so this condition was considered to be met. Also in 1993, the Bank received
FdP reports with projected financial statements for the following year, which it accepted as fulfilling the
conditionality for establishing financial objectives. So conditionality relating to the FdP was fulfilled a little
over one year behind schedule.
21.           Restructuring 22 non-autonomous PEs. These firms included most of the country's largest
PEs, such as the national steel company and the fertilizer producer, and accounted for about one-third of
industrial production. As non-autonomous enterprises, they had virtually routine access to Treasury
financing and guarantees; their bad bank loans were made good through budgetary appropriations. The
ultimate objective of the restructuring was to create viable enterprises that could be passed to autonomy,
with subsequent perfonnance becoming the responsibility of the enterprises and the FdP. This process
consumed an enormous amount of time and effort on the part of the Government, the PEs and Bank staff.
22.           The Government was to carry out quick diagnostic studies of all of the 22 PEs, with
consultants' input.4 For at least 15 of the 22 enterprises, on the basis of the studies, the Government was to
take measures to reduce short-term losses, limit wage increases and impose credit ceilings, and draw up
medium-term restructuring plans. This whole process was to be completed within a twelve month period, by
April 1992. In the event, the studies were completed and sent to the Bank with some five months' delay. It
was the follow up to these diagnostic studies that was to occupy such effort and time on the part of the
Government and the Bank over the ensuing two years.
23.           Most of 1992 and 1993 were spent discussing the follow up to the diagnostic studies, which
had not analyzed the economic viability of the PEs, nor identified any irremediable loss-makers. A number
of Bank missions worked with industrial PEs and the Ministry of Industry and Mines (MIM) to agree on
action plans, which included terms of reference for restructuring studies, including the requirement for an
analysis of the PE's economic competitivity. The same consulting firms that had done the diagnostic studies
3      It was only in 1995, however, that Government began the process of replacing the FdPs with holding
companies. As of mid-1996, the holding companies are not yet fully established and it is too early to tell whether
they will make any substantial difference in the performance of the EPE.
4      Financed by two Bank loans, the Technical Assistance (TA) Project, Loan 3176-AL, the Industrial
Restructuring Demonstration Project, Loan 3213-AL, and the loan from the Export Import Bank of Japan that co-
financed the EFSAL.



7
were hired during 1993 and 1994 to help carry out the action plans, including drawing up the proposals for
restructuring and, in some cases, drafting performance contracts. Meanwhile, Government had already been
involved in assuming some of the debt of these PEs as early as 1992, and had fixed ceilings for the increase
in their wage bills and for their access to credit. The restructuring plans that were developed in 1993 for the
first group of 6 PEs, however, still failed to address the fundamental question of their economic viability. In
April 1994, the Bank and the Government agreed to include such economic analysis for all 15 of the PEs
that were to have medium term restructuring plans. No evidence exists that such analysis has been done.
24.           By mid-1994 the reform efforts in at least 14 industrial PEs under the MIM, for which
information is available in the files, had been identified, which included programs for closures or cessation
of activity creation of subsidiaries and spinoffs for certain activities, and further detailed analysis and
restructuring for all of the remaining activities, covering the gamnut from inventory control to marketing, and
including training and internal reorganization. By early 1996, the decision had been made to grant
autonomy to all but one of the non-autonomous PEs, thus cutting off direct budgetary support and
Government committed itself to closing its Restructuring Fund, which had been used to cover PEs' foreign
exchange losses and tax and social security arrears. Most importantly, autonomous PEs can now legally be
privatized and, in the event of continued losses, closed. Nevertheless, no systematic evidence exists that the
PEs have in fact been restructured, other than financially, and anecdotal evidence suggests that losses
continue to mount and that inter-enterprise arrears are on the increase.
25.           Specific EFSAL conditionality on non-autonomous enterprise restructuring focused on the
follow up to the diagnostic studies: for at least 15 of the non-autonomous PEs, and based on the results of
the diagnostic studies, Government was to: (a) carry out all short term actions necessary to reduce
immediate losses; (b) impose individual ceilings on wage increases and on access to credit for 1992; and (c)
establish action plans for all those PEs that required more substantial restructuring, including terms of
reference for the restructuring studies and a program for the elimination of deficits caused by irremediable
loss-making activities. These actions were to be taken by April 1992, but it was only in June 1994 that
Government produced evidence satisfactory to the Bank that all required measures had been taken (except
for the last one: since no irremediable loss makers were identified, this legal condition became irrelevant).
26.           The full cost of the financial restructuring of all categories of PEs is difficult to estimate,
but by any measure it has been substantial. In late 1993, the IMF estimated that the total cost to
Government over the 1992-93 period, including financial restructuring, assumption of foreign exchange
losses, and payment of tax and social security arrears for EPEs, non-autonomous PEs, local PEs, and
assumption of debt for dissolved PEs, was about DA 325 billion (or about US$14.4 billion). Of this
amount, DA 275.5 billion represents non-performing bank loans which were transformed into long-term (12-
20 year) bonds, representing almost 24% of GDP and 40% of total bank assets at the end of 1993. Since
1992, the Government has been paying the claims against it at a rate of DA35-50 billion per year (and as of
early 1995, had paid off DA157.3 billion). These figures exclude the amount of Government funding
required for banks' recapitalization to bring them up to adequate capital ratios.5
27.           Although no quantified indicators were established to monitor the impact of the reforms
supported under the EFSAL in terms of PE performance, the evidence points to the likelihood that operating
losses have continued for a large number of PEs. Government has now put in place more far-reaching
5      According to the Ministry of Finance, expenditures from the Restructuring Fund over the 1991-95 period
totaled DA441.5 billion. This represents part of the cost of restructuring estimated by the IMF.



8
reforms. Since 1994, Government has moved towards privatization, first creating the legal framework and
then, in 1996, starting the process; where privatization is unlikely or unrealistic, it has moved to impose hard
budget constraints, seek private management or private minority participation, and close down or spin off
various activities. These reforms have been supported by two adjustment loans, the ERL (Loan no. 3834-
AL), approved in January 1995, and the Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL), approved in April 1996. The
fact that the Government has moved to privatization and closures, which it resisted in 1991 (para. 9),
strongly suggests that the restructuring efforts supported by the EFSAL did not achieve the objective of
causing the PEs to become more market oriented and efficient.
Financial sector
28.          In terms of legal and regulatory changes in the financial sector, as early as 1991 the
Government issued new prudential regulations for the banking sector, which were amended in 1993 and
again in November 1994 as recommended by the Bank, and are now in line with international standards.
Full compliance with the prudential regulations by the banks, however, depended on their financial
restructuring and recapitalization to enable them to meet capital ratios (para. 30). Legislation was also
required that would eliminate Government's monopoly over insurance activities and permit the creation of
private insurance companies. A draft law was presented to the Council of Government only in June 1994,
more than two years later than foreseen, and although it has since been put into effect, Government has also
put in place reinsurance requirements and controls over insurance premiums that effectively limit the
autonomy of companies to manage their own funds and set their own premiums, thereby discouraging the
establishment of private insurance companies.
29.           The EFSAL conditionality on legal and regulatory changes in the financial sector required
the issuance of prudential ratios and minimum capital adequacy ratios for commercial banks, and
presentation of a draft law removing Government's monopoly in the insurance sector. The conditionality
was met with roughly a two year delay, somewhat more quickly for the prudential regulations and minimum
capital adequacy requirements than for the insurance sector.
30.           The restructuring exercise for the commercial and specialized banks proved to be more
difficult to carry out than the legal and regulatory reforms. Financial and institutional audits of the five
commercial banks started in November 1992, on the basis of 1991 accounts, and the reports were available
in March 1993, about one year behind schedule.6  By the end of 1993, action plans for financial and
institutional restructunng had been developed for the banks and approved by the BA. The outstanding issue
for the commercial banks was their recapitalization, which was to have enabled them to reach a capital/asset
ratio of 4% by 1992.7 In the event, the banks did not reach the 4% capital-asset ratio until 1996, and this
was on the basis of audits of 1993 financial statements; in an inflationary environment such as that of the
6      Neither the Government nor the Bank were satisfied with the all of the audits, which had cost about
US$2.5 million and been financed by a Japanese grant (No. TF27060). The Bank asked that several of the
financial audits be redone, which they subsequently were, in late 1993.
7      A critical factor in the measurement of the capital ratio was the appropriate valuation of the Government
bonds that had replaced the bad PE debts and that accounted for over 40% of the banks' assets. The long term zero
coupon bonds paid a fixed interest rate of 5 percent in an inflationary environment of 23 to 30 percent per annum.
Government agreed in April 1994 to replace these bonds with ordinary bonds of shorter maturity paying market
interest rates. In spite of this, recapitalization took more years than expected and is still not, in substance,
achieved.



9
Algerian economy, considerably more capital is likely to be required to reach the 4% ratio once the results of
the 1995 audits are available, and, in addition, for 1995, a 5% ratio is now required.
31.          The financial sector reform program included restructuring of two specialized banks, BAD
and CNEP. In 1993 Government provided evidence to the Bank that it had limited the role of BAD to that
of the Treasury's agent, and since BAD no longer served the function of financial intermediary, Government
argued that its restructuring was no longer necessary; the Bank agreed. The responsibility for the
reorganization of CNEP, the housing finance bank, was transferred from the EFSAL to the Housing
Completion and Sector Development Project (Loan 3561-AL), approved in March 1993. Under that
project, a number of agreements have been reached and are in the process of being implemented to change
CNEP's mandate and to restructure it.  The process has been slower than anticipated, including
implementing institutional and financial audits, and as of April 1996 reforms in housing finance are still on-
going.
32.          The specific EFSAL conditionality concerning bank restructuring, to be met by April
1992, included requirements that: (a) the BA was to review and approve action plans for the restructuring
and long-term development of the five commercial banks; (b) the Government had provided the conmmercial
banks with sufficient equity to allow them to reach a capital adequacy ratio of 4% in 1992; and (c)
Government had issued the necessary decrees for the reorganization of BAD and CNEP, on the basis of
methodologies previously given to the Bank.. Action plans for the commercial banks were developed, with
about an eighteen month delay, but the recapitalization of the banks by 1992 was not met, even by the time
of the second tranche release in July 1994. A waiver for this condition was requested on the basis that
agreement had been reached with the Government on the additional measures necessary for the banks to
reach adequate capital/assets ratio in 1995. The request for the second waiver related to the reorganization
of BAD and CNEP. The decrees were never issued, for BAD on the basis that its mandate had changed, as
noted above, and so reorganization was no longer necessary, and for CNEP on the basis that the framework
for its restructuring had been agreed under a separate Bank operation.
33.          The measures supported by the EFSAL for the reform of the financial sector were not
generally achieved. While the banks have now had their portfolios restructured and been recapitalized as of
their situation end-1993, by 1995 Government was seeking more fundamental solutions to improving the
banks' performance: management contracts have been put in place with all the public commercial banks
and Govenmment has agreed (under the SAL) to open the capital or to seek a private management contract
for at least one of the five banks. Again, further measures have been necessary to improve the
performance of the state banks, suggesting that the reforms in thefinancial sector supported under the
EFSAL did not meet their objectives.
Objective 4: protect disadvantaged groups from negative impact of reforms
34.          The EFSAL had limited measures to address this objective, and included mainly an
allocation of DA3.2 billion in the 1991 budget to pay for the social costs of adjustment, related to the
reduction in general subsidies agreed under the IMF program which were to be replaced with targeted cash
payments to needy families. Although not a formal part of the EFSAL, programs for targeted subsidies
were examined by Bank staff working with Algerian counterparts. In the event, however, the funds for such
targeted programs proved inadequate, as more families than expected applied for the cash transfers, and
larger budgetary allocations were necessary. Government has continued to remove subsidies and to expand



10
and improve various targeted programs of support for lower-income households. Since 1994, Government
has put in place a number of social safety net measures, including unemployment insurance, public works
programs, cash assistance, and a low-mcome housing program. These programs are currently being
supported by the SAL and by a Bank-financed Social Safety Net project, approved in April 1996.
C. Maaor Factors Affectinz the Proiect
Factors not subiect to Government control
35.           One major factor that affected the overall performance of the economy, and thus the ability
of the authoritiPs to restore macro-economic stability, promote growth, and effect structural change, was the
price of hydrocarbons. At the time the EFSAL was put in place in 1991, the average price of Algerian
crude oil had dropped from $24/barrel in 1990 to $20/barrel, and the assumption underlying the
macroeconomic projections was that it would remain at $20/barrel in real terms over the following three
years, 1992-1994. In fact, the price of oil continued to decline in real terms over this period, so that by
1994, it had reached about $15/barrel.8 Ihe total debt service ratio increased from an already high level of
65% in 1991 to an untenable level of 73% in 1993. Arrears began to appear and access to foreign credit
became more difficult. By the end of 1993, Government realized that it was necessary to seek rescheduling
from official as well as private creditors.
36            The other major factor not directly under the control of Government was the political
climate of the country, which in turn affected the ability of the authorities to undertake structural adjustment
that would have social repercussions. With unemployment already at over 20% and an acute housing
shortage, civil unrest and the move toward extremist factions may have understandably caused the
authorities to shy away from taking dramatic actions that could have resulted in further unemnployment and
overall unpopularity. As a result, the reform program was delayed for roughly two years, 1992 and 1993,
while the Government tried to restore political stability.
37.           These risks were ciearly identified at the time of Board approval of the EFSAL, but the
importance of factors countering the nsks (for example, in terms of the political risk, the PR stated that
'inost of the basic policy changes have now been carried out') was overestimated. Nevertheless, it was
clear at the time the EFSAL was put in place that the risks were non-negligible, but the potential pay-off, in
terns of a satisfactory supply response and political support to continue the reforms, justified the risks.
Factors subject to Government control
38.           Four major factors in the implementation of the reform program can be considered within
the Government's control: the macro-economic management of the economy in the face of decreasing
hydrocarbon prices, the approach to debt rescheduling, the policy on the exchange rate, and the dual
commitment to change the incentive framework for PE managers and to provide opportunities for private
sector development. Even as the price of oil fell in 1992 and 1993, Government continutued to pursue an
expansionary policy in response to mounting social unrest. After an overall Treasury surplus in 1990-91,
the deficit reached 9.2% in 1993, virtually of all which was monetized, contributing to excess liquidity and
inflationary pressure. As the debt service mounted, Govenmment was reluctant to consider formal
rescheduling or to devalue the dinar to any meaningful degree. The impact of these policies throughout the
s      In 199k terms, iusing the Banks' index of unit value of manufactured exports.



11
economy cannot be underestimated, as access to foreign exchange for importing investment goods.
intermediate goods, and consumption goods became ever more difficult; capacity utilization of enterprises
suffered; severe compression of imports was imposed through administrative controls; and the private sector
was effectively crowded out. It was only in 1994, with formal debt rescheduling at the Paris and London
clubs and significant (almost 100% in nominal terms) devaluation of the dinar, that the Government's
renewed commitment to re-establishing macro-economic stability was evident.
39.           The lack of supply response from restructured PEs and from private enterpnses was also
due to some degree to a lack of commitment, particularly during 1992 and 1993, on the part of Government
to: (a) a fundamental change in PE govemance; (b) a change in incentives for PE managers; and
(c) facilitating entry and development of the private sector. It soont became apparent that granting autonomy
to PEs under the FdP was not sufficient to ensure that they would become more efficient or profitable; and
there were no sanctions for failing to do so.9 In addition, in spite of legislation that removed constraints on
private sector activity, other restrictions were imposed that discouraged pnvate investment. Private sector
access to foreign exchange (paras. 8 and 14) and to the insurance industry (para. 28) are two examples of
this contradictory approach.
D. Proeram Sustainability
40.           In terms of the prices that were liberalized under the EFSAL as well as iu the context of
other agreements with the IMF and Bank, they are likely to remain free. In addition, provided the authorities
maintain a realistic exchange rate, the trade regime is also likely to remain relatively liberalized. In this
respect, the achievement of trade and price liberalization is uniikely to be reversed, and should be
considered sustainable.
41.           In terms of structural economic change, however. the objectives sought under the FFSAL,
were achieved only partially, and their ultimate success depends on subsequent reforms:
(a) for the PEs, in spite of the costly, ambitious, and time-consuming program of financial
restructuring (particularly for the non-autonomous PEs), the incentive system for PE managers changed
little until most recently, when the possibilities of closures and privatization were introduced. Even if some
of the PEs have been successfully restructured so as to now be profitable, there is no assurance that they
will remain so; if they start to make losses, possibilities still exist of financing these losses by increasing
arrears to other PEs, suppliers and their own staff. Unless and until either privatization oT ciosure occurs,
the sustainability of the PE reform program supported under the EFSAL should be considered
uncertain.
(b) in tenms of easing entry of the private capital, it is no Tonger legally excluded from most
spheres of economic activity. In some areas, however, such as insurance. Government has established other
provisions that create disincentives to private entry. Nevertheless, Government is unlikelv to reverse their
position. Thus, the opening of the economy to private investors, both domestic andforeign, is likely to
be sustainable.
9      In addition, although autonomous PEs no longer have direct access to Treasury financing, it is not clear to
what extent the public commercial banks can impose credit ceilings on the PEs, or to assess the risks of lending to
the PEs and make credit decisions accordingly.



12
(c) in the financial sector, solid prudential regulations have been established, the banks'
portfolios have been restructured and the banks have been recapitalized (to 4%/o, based on end-1993
accounts). The sustainability of these measures depends on: (a) the ability of the BA to enforce the
prudential regulations; (b) the necessity of further capital infusions in the future based on 1995 accounts and
the willingness of the Government to provide these; (c) the ability of the banks to maintain sound portfolios
in the face of the financing needs and overall credit quality of the PEs; and (d) the ability of the banks to
assess credit risks of private sector clients. In addition, in 1995 the required capital asset ratio was
increased to 5%, thus making it more difficult for the banks to reach an adequate level of capital. In light of
these factors, the sustainability of thefinancial sector reforms undertaken in the context of the EFSAL
should be considered uncertain.
E. Bank performance
42.           The Bank's identification, preparation and appraisal of the EFSAL were satisfactory. In
terms of the conceptual approach, the Bank realized that the initial efforts to put in place a financial
adjustment loan had to be accompanied by enterprise reform, particularly in light of the fact that 85% of the
banks' portfolios consisted of PE debt. The preparation and appraisal in particular were based on extensive
sector work in the banking and industrial sectors. In addition, appraisal and negotiations took place within a
period of one month, extraordinarily quickly, in order to ensure that the reforms would be in place before the
national elections, which were planned for the end of the year.
43.           For financial sector reforms, the Bank provided extensive technical collaboration to the
Algerian authorities, bringing in central bank experts and advisors on prudential regulations. The Bank also
provided additional support, through its lending program and by arranging grant financing and co-financing
to assist the Government in carrying out the measures supported by the EFSAL.10
44.           Two caveats can be added on Bank's generally satisfactory appraisal:
(a) the degree of difficulty of restructuring such complex enterprises was underestimated,
particularly for an already over-stretched administration, and the timetable was too optimistic; almost every
component, measures that were to have taken 12 months took between two and four years, and, in some
cases, are still not finished (i.e., bank recapitalization). In the end, four extensions were required, the first
because the second tranche had not been released and the last three to allow sufficient time for
disbursements of the second tranche. The Loan closed two years later than expected and disbursements took
two and half years more than planned. and
10     n 1990, a Technical Assistance Loan (3176-AL) was approved, which was to provide training and
technical assistance to the financial and accounting sectors, and a Japanese PHRD grant was put in place to support
reforms in the financial sector. Both the grant and TA loan financed technical assistance to carry out diagnostic
studies and audits and develop action plans for the enterprises and the banks. In addition, financing was provided
under the Industrial Restructuring Demonstration Project (Loans 3210-14-AL) to finance technical assistance for
the restructuring studies to be carried out as agreed under the EFSAL. Finally, the Bank sought and arranged for
co-financing of US$300 million from the Export-Import Bank of Japan, which was put in place in 1992, for the
release of the second tranche.



13
(b) it would have been useful if the appraisal had defined monitorable indicators, which
could have measured in particular the progress in restructuring the autonomous and non-autonomous PEs
(such as using 1989 and 1990 operating deficits as a baseline - pam. 10).
45.           Supervision is considered highly satisfactory.  According to the Bank's information
system, during a three year period, 180 staffweeks were spent on supervision (excluding the time of Bank
managers, which was not insignificant), of which at least 80 were in Algeria", but this underestimates the
degree of effort involved in supervision. Although there may have even been too much involvement in some
of the details of the enterprise restructuring plans, monitoring of progress across all components was
frequent, thorough, and persistent, even in the face of disagreements with Government counterparts, as for
example on the extent to which the Bank should review and agree on the content of the PE action plans.
Delays in compliance with covenants were substantial, but once the Bank was satisfied that the spirit of the
agreements had been sufficiently complied with, it requested waivers for two conditions. The Bank was thus
consistent in its approach to the spirit of the reforms supported under the EFSAL, while showing some
flexibility as to the application of the legal requirements.
F. Borrower nerformance
46.           The Borrower's commitment and implementation capacity to carry out the reform program
supported by the EFSAL were weak for most of the period under review, 1991-1994, due at least in part to
changes in Government composition and policy orientation during this period. Government commitment
started out firm in 1991, but wavered and even regressed in 1992 and 1993, resulting in substantial delays
and, in some cases, reversals in the implementation of the reform program.  For example, due to
Government's unwillingness to devalue the exchange rate or to liberalize interest rates in 1992 and 1993,
access to foreign exchange and credit had to be rationed, in spite of Government's stated commitment to
liberalize trade and prices. As a consequence, the private sector was effectively crowded out, regardless of
the legal changes and Government's stated objective to establish a level playing field for the private sector.
It was only in 1994, after a change in Government's composition, that there was renewed effort at putting in
place more fundamental refonns, including a larger role for the private sector. In addition, the initial
commitment to reform was mainly at the highest levels, and was not shared uniformly by the civil service
charged with implementing the reforms. As a result of all these factors, the reform process was halting and
uneven. During 1991-93 Government put in place a number of legal and regulatory changes as agreed
under the EFSAL, but most of them required at least some modification (as in the case of the banking
prudential regulations and the Commercial Code) to be satisfactory, or they were accompanied by other
restrictions (as in the insurance sector) that undermined the spirit of the reform. In most cases, the legal
reforms took several years longer than anticipated to put in place.
47.           Government did not show strong commitment to the objective stated in its Letter of
Development Policy of 'tnsuring that public enterprises are managed according to commercial rules." Once
it became clear, for examnple, that establishment of the FdP was not a satisfactory formula for ensuring
autonomy, effective restructuring, or efficient operation of the EPEs, Government was unwilling, until 1996,
to seek more dramatic solutions, such as private management contracts, private participation in capital,
privatization, or even closure. For non-autonomous PEs Government was resistant to analyzing their basic
I      MThis compares to an average of 20 staffweeks per year to supervise the average Bank operation, or up to 40
staffweeks total to supervise an adjustment loan; even accounting for the two year delay, "normal" supervision
would have been 60 staffweeks.



14
financial or economic viability and was similarly reluctant to seek more dramatic solutions.'2  In the
financial sector, while the Government's commitment was strong to establishing acceptable prudential
regulations and restructuring the banks, the implementation of that reform was considerably delayed.
Ultimately, Government made use of 1993 bank audits to recapitalize them in 1996, to the level that had
initially been agreed for 1992 under the EFSAL. It is not clear whether the banks will have adequate capital
once the results of the 1995 audits are available. Two areas in which the Borrower should be given credit
are: (a) its willingness to fund the financial restructuring of the PEs and the banks, at considerable cost for
the budget; and (b) the relatively consistent role of the BA in pushing for banking reform and taking
responsibility for overseeing the restructuring of the banks.  Overall, however, the Government's
commitment to and performance of the agreed reform measures are considered unsatisfactory, in the
context of the EFSAL.
G. Assessment of outcome
48.           The overall assessment of the achievements supported by the EFSAL is unsatisfactory.
With the exception of trade and price liberalization, which can only partly be attributed to EFSAL reforms,
and some opening of the economy to private operators, the objectives were in general either not achieved,
except in the most narrow sense, or, where they were achieved, the sustainability of the results is uncertain.
The reform program aimed at the PEs and the EPEs has involved enormous effort and cost, and while the
Government appears committed with respect to imposing a hard budget constraint and the BA appears
equally firm about limiting access to credit by PEs, it is not yet clear that inter-enterprise arrears, and
arrears to suppliers and personnel will be controlled. Much will depend on the willingness of those in
charge of the PEs to take all steps necessary to stop losses, including downsizing, liquidation and closure, if
required. Similarly in the financial sector, the sustainability of the reforms depends on whether the public
banks will be able to maintain the quality of their portfolios and their new level of capitalization in the face
of the demand for credit from both the public and private sector clients. Given these considerations, the
overall outcome of the EFSAL cannot be considered satisfactory.
H. Future operation
49.          In 1994, as a result of the experience in trying to restructure the PEs, it became clear to
both the Government and the Bank that the objectives expressed in the context of the EFSAL were not being
met. Additional reform measures were agreed and supported by follow up adjustment operations. The first
of these was the ERL, approved in early 1995, which had the same objectives as the EFSAL, but went
further in several significant areas: the Government formally adopted a privatization policy that would
allow the privatization of EPEs, established the necessary implementing decrees that would govern
liquidation of local EPEs, and strengthened the social safety net with better targeted support measures. In
1996, Government continued the reform efforts, supported by the SAL. Government has: (a) started the
process of privatization, in the form of pilot programs; (b) conmmitted to continue privatization in a large
number of sectors; (c) started the process of liquidation of small local PEs; (d) undertaken measures to
tighten and monitor hard budget constraints on PEs; and (e) committed to further financial sector reform,
including opening the capital or the management to the private sector for at least one public commercial
12    Furthermore, some Government counterparts were unwilling to discuss with Bank staff the process of
developing action plans or terms of reference for restructuring plans. In spite of this, the Bank did manage to
become involved in providing direct assistance and arranging finance for further consultants' input where needed so
that the process could move forward.



15
bank. Much remains to be done for Algeria to move to a full market-driven economy, but now that the
Govermment is committed to using the measures of privatization, liquidation, and private management
contracts to improve the performance of the enterprise and banking sectors, the reform program may have
the necessary elements to become sustainable. Future support from the Bank should concentrate on
supporting reforms in particular sectors, such as the financial sector, and in providing assistance to the
private sector to enable it to play a full role in the economy.
I. Key Lessons Learned
50.           The Government's objective of moving towards a market economy was unlikely to be
realized without a commitment to shrink the size and favored status of the public enterprise sector. The
general question is whether the Bank should support a reform program that it feels is unlikely to meet its
stated objectives with the measures proposed, yet has enough important elements, such as trade and price
liberalization and audits of economic agents, that need to be carried out in any event. The best solution is
probably to be more realistic, and therefore more modest, in establishing the objectives of the reform
program tofit the measures that the Government is willing to undertake. This is the first lesson to emerge
from the experience of the EFSAL.
51.            Second, legal reforms are easily undermined by failure to promulgate implementing
decrees or by other regulations or practices that counter the spirit of the reform. While it is difficult to
ensure that this will not happen, Bank staff should be aware of this risk and attempt to protect against it to
the extent practical, by specifying, for example, legal requirements on implementing decrees and
institutions.
52.          Monitorable indicators, whether specific actions or quantified indicators, can save the
need to judge subjectively whether actions taken are "satisfactory". For requirement that the Borrower
"carry out... .a set of measures for the immediate reduction of all deficits" of a set of PEs, it would have been
useful had there been a baseline of what those deficits were, and evidence that the measures had succeeded
in reducing them by some target amount by a target date.



16
Implementation Completion Report
Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria
Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
(Loan 3352-AL)
STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:       Summary of Assessments
Table 2:       Related Bank Loans
Table 3:       Project Timetable
Table 4:       Loan Disbursement: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:       Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:       Studies Included in Project
Table 7:       Status of Legal Covenants
Table 8:       Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 9:       Bank Resources: Missions
Table 10:      Indicators of Macro-economic stability, 1991-1995



17
Implemntation Completion Report
Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria
Entexprise and Financial Sector Adjusm t Loan
(Loan 3352-AL)
Table 1: Summary of Assments
A. Achievement of Objective       Substantial       Paal          Negligibe      Not aplicable
Macro policies                       0                 3              0m               3
Sector policies                       3              M                 3               3
Financial objectives                 0               0                0J              0
Institutional development             3               O              0                O3
Physical objective                   0                0               0               0m
Poverty reduction                    0                0               0m              0
Gender issue                         0                E3             O                 3
Other social objective                3               0               0               0
Environmental objective              a                0               o               0
Public sector management             O                0              (R               a
Pnvate sector management             E3               0 3I                            0
B. Proiect sustainay                      Likely             Unlikely
0                   0                   El
C. Bank performance                  Highlv satisfactory    Satisflir            Deficient
Identification                              O                   El                  0
Preparation                                 0                   El                  0
Appraisal                                   0                   E                   0
Supervision                                 E                   0                   0
D. Borrower gerformance              Hizll satisfaco        Satisat              Deficient
Preparation                                 0                   El                  0
Implementation                              0                   0 C]
Covenant Compliance                         0                   0                   El
E. Assessment of outcome             Hil satisfactory       Sati    r            Deficient
O                   0                   El



18
Implementation Completion Report
Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria
Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
(Loan 3352-AL)
Table 2: Related Bank Loans
Loan number
name
amount                             Purpose                   Date of Board approval                 Status
.......................................   ....................................... ........................................................................................................................  .............................................
Preceding operations
Loan 3117                       To restore macro-coonomic equilibria         August 31, 1989             Closed on 12/31/91
Economic Reform Support Loan    and sustainable econonic growth: focu                                 Essentially fully disbursed
USS 300 M                       on gradual traufcmaion from centrally                                 (ca tion of USS 1.2m)
planned economy into a more
decentraliz  market onented system
Loan 3176                       To strengthenthe financial sector and         March6,1990                Closed on 12/31/95
Technical Assisance Loan        accounting and auditing capability in the
US$ 26 M                        cuntry                                                                  US$18.6 m disbursed
Lo  3210-14                     To support restructuring and                   May 5, 1990              Closed on 6/30/95 and
Industrial Restructuring       ocmpoizafion of four rpnesetative                                              12/31/95
Demonstration Project           public enterprises
USS 99.5 M                                                                                              USS69.3 m disbursed
Following operations
Loan 3834                       To support deepening of macroeconomic       January 12, 1995          On going, expected closing
Booioraic Rehabilitation Supportabilization and stuctura reform                                        date December 31, 1996
Econoia    eaiiain (ERL'        proganz measures include dervaluation,
(E   )             ~~~~~trade reform, prioe and interest rate
USS150 million                  liberalization, granting autonomy to
remaining public etpriss, pnvate
sector development measwua, a small
pnvatizaion progam, and strengthening
ofthe social protection system
Loan 4005                       To transform the economy quickly             April 25, 1996               Not yet effective
Stuctural Adjustment Loan       towards a market-based one. Measures
US$ 300 million                include: public expenditure reform,
largeo-scale program of privatization of
nail enterprises, closure of local public
enterprises, banking refonn,
ngthening ofthe social safety net



19
Implementation Completion Report
Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria
Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustnent Loan
(Loan 3352-AL)
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle                                Dale plamed                  Date achial!
latest estimate
Identification                                                         July 881"                      July 88
Preparation                                                            November 88/February 89"       Nov. 88- Nov. 90
Appraisal                                                              April 89"                      May 5-9,91
Negotiations                                                           na                             May 20-24,91
Letter of development policy                                           na                             June 1, 91
Board presentation                                                     July 91                        June 21, 91
Signing                                                                July 9 1                       June 25, 91
Effectiveness                                                          Sept 91                        June 27, 91
First tranche release                                                  Sept 91                        June 27, 91
Midterm review                                                         Jan/Feb 92                     Odober 93
Second tranche release                                                 March/April 92                 July 21, 94
Loan closing                                                           June 30, 93                    June 30, 95
Source: World Bank Management Information System, Back to Office Reports, Presidenfs Report
1/ These planned dates refer to plans for a Financial Sector Adjustment Loan, from which the EFSAL eventually evolved.
Table 4: Loan Disbursement: Cumtulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions)
FY 91         FY 92         FY 93         FY 94         FY 95           FY 96
Appraisal estimate'                        175           350           350          350            350              350
Actual                                                   147           169          175            326.5            350
Actual as % of estimate                                  42            48            50             93               100
Date of fmnal disbursement                                                                                        12/07/95
I/       President's report noted that dhsbursements were to take place 'in two equal tanmches ofUSS 175 m ec



20
Iplmentation ComWletion Report
Demnocratic and Popular Republic of Algena
Enteprise and Financial Sector Adjushtnet Loan
(Loan 3352-AL)
Table 5: Key locton for Program Inaekenm*aos'
Iey inplemeatedicdaon meaoitored during splerviam
Estimated                                        Actual
ENTERPIISE CONPONENT
1. Studes of non-auonomouw public entepries (PEs)
Diagnostic studies of 22 non-autonomous PEr                                       Oct. 91        Completed by February 92
2. Acdonfor IS non-autonomous PEs
All necessary measue to be taken for immediate loss reduction                     April 1992     In April 1994 Bank received evidence on actions taken on 14 industrial PE and agreed
action plan for 15th
For PEa remaining non-autonomous:                                                 April 1992
(a) individual ceilings on the increase in the wage bill during 1992 (ceilings not specified);  In June 1992, Government informed Bank that wage bill increase would not exceed 30%
for 1992 (inflation in 1992 was 32%);
(b) global ceiling on the increase in credit in 1992 (not specified);
In June 1992 a flow of funds matrix was discussed with Bank, which included a credit
ceiling (DA 12.3 bn compared to DA 6.5 bn in 1991)
For PEa remaining non-autonomous requiring detailed resttucturing studies, prepartion of    April 92  By April 1993, Bank had reviewed 14 draft action plans. In June 1994 evidence received
action plan, to include:                                                                      that action plans approved by Government and Bank and Government agreed on TOR for
Terms of reference and timetable for restructuring studies;
Program for gradual elimination of deficits caused by activities deemed irrtrievably loss-
making                                                                                         No irremediable loss-makers were identified, so this indicator became irrelevant
3. Autonomous public e,urprises (EPE)
Financial and accounting audits to be carried out under auspices of CEEF          April 1992     Studies were on-going in 1993
For loss-makers, restructuring plans to be prepared                               April 1992     During 1992-95, individual restructuring plans prepared for many EPEs; financial
restructuring took place throughout 1992-95, funded by Government
For uncreditworthy EPEs, access to credit linked to FdP guarantees as part of restructuring    April 1992  No information
program



21
Key implmnentation indicators monitored during supervision
Estimated                                       Actual
4. Restuctuiring Fund (to f enanefinancial and physical resucturing of PE and EPE and
Projected disbursements for 1992 to be DA 42.5 bilion                                           1992: 59.5 b; 1993: 83.8 bn; 1994: 122.5 bn; 1995: 148.5 bn (eat.)
5. Fonds de Paticipation
Publish 1991 activities report, including progress on portfolio evaluation and financial  April 1992  Nov 92 Bank received 91 reports, without financial objectives; Government announced
objectives for 1992                                                                            intention to abolish FdP, so objectives became irrelevant; by mid-1993, FdP .dl existed,
so Bank required evidence on objectives; end-93 such evidence submitted to Bank
Adopt remuneration criteria for FdP Board members based on financial results in preceding   April 1992  In June 1993, the Bank accepted evidence that the eight FdP had adopted such criteria
year                                                                                           through various resolutions since 1988
Shareholder Assembly to evaluate 1991 performance                                April 1992    Not monitored after 1992
6. Price liberalizaton
All products subject to ceilings on margins, except for 12 groups of basic consumer goods,   April 1992  In April 1992, Government transferred products as agreed to list of those with freo prices,
to be tnsferred to category of goods for which prices are free                                 except for 7 product groups and parts of 2 product groups. Bank considered condition not
yet mat. In April 1994, Government tnmsferred more product groups and Bank
considered that condition had been met in spirit.
Z Saidy of smalU and mediwn-scalk enterprises                                   by April 92    Study (financed under TA Loan) was due to be finished in mid-1993; no further
information available
8. Commercial code to providefor establishmnt and operaton of:                   end 1991      June 1992 draft laws covering all topics below submitted to Bank; Bank found legisation
unsatisfactory and requested amendments
Stock exchange                                                                                 June 1993, Bank received new draft law etablishing stock exchange; still lacked
implementing legislation and was not satisfactory; in June 1994, Government ent two
legislative decrees defining the stock market institutions, which Bank accepted as satisfying
the condition. As of mid-1996, critical implementing decrees for the operation of the stock
market and the stock exchange commission have not been drafted.
Joint ventures                                                                                  By June 1993, Bank satisfied with new legislation
Wholesalers and concession holders                                                             By June 1993, Bank satisfied with new legidation
Procedures for bankruptcy, dissolution, and liquidation                                        By June 1993, Bank utisfied that new draft legislation applied to EPE
9. Social costs of restructuring
Additional allocations in 1991 budget to defry social cost of adjusument         end 1991
Additional allocations in 1992 budget to defray social costs of adjustment       1992           In 1992, Government instituted new sytem of cash transfers, expected to cost DA26 bn in
1992;



22
Key mi eta_t  indicators moitored ding supenim
stimeted                                        Actua
10. Ejvironret
Streogthening institutions monitoring an managing enviromnental problems       April 1992
Preparing tudies on major environmetal isuea, such as hazardous wastes         April 1992     Study on hazardous waste carried out in 1992; on cement ector in 1993
FINANCIAL SECTOR CO[PONENT
1. Interest rates
Poaitive intet rtes to be achieved on term depoaita                            by Dec 91      As of end-1995, interest rates on term deposits still negative in real terms
Adjustment of interbank money market rate                                       12% in mid-   Oct. 91: from 12% to 17%; mid-95: 21-22%
91
Rate on commercial bank overdrfts at BA to be raised                            15% in mid-   As of mnid-95, 24%
91
BA reference rate (rediscount rate?) to be sa in line with interbank money market rato  10% in mid-   As of mid-95, 15%
91
2. Banking regulaton
New prudential regulations to be issued by BA for all commercial banks, acceptable to         BA isued regulations in Aug. 91; modifications as requesed by Bank issud in late 1993
Bank
BA to require capital adequacy ratios of 4% for 1992, 5% for 1993               End-91        Issued in 1991, to be effective as of 01/01/92; specified 4% for 1992, 5% for 1993
3. Bank accoawdng sumdards
New accounting sdrds, based on international norms, to be required for all commercial         Draft accounting plan prepared by end-92; as of 1995, not yet adopted
banks, startng in 1994
New format for bank financial statements to be put in place as of 1992                        As of end 95, not yet in place
4. BA institional strengdening
Implementation of a reorganization and modernization plan                      April 1992     Started process towards end of 1991; as of early 1993, still in the planning stage.
Improvement in BA procedures for bank inspection                               April 1992     Proces started in 1992 with draft texts; plan for srengthening inspection approved by BA
in 1994; implementation of plan in 1995.
S. CommercilW banks
Diagnotic studies including financial and institutional aspects                End 1991       Studies were started only in late 1992, completed in first half of 1993. Several were not
satisfactory to Government and Bank and were revised.
Action plans reviewed and accepted by BA for portfolio restructuring and long-term  Early 1992  By end 1993, action plans had been adopted by BA.
development of commercial banks



23
Key implemtatien indicators montored during supermision
Estimated                                       Actual
Portfolio restucturing and recapitalization of banks to enable them to reach 4% capital ratio   April 1992  In 1996, banks were recapitalized to reach the 4% capital ratio on the basis of audits of
by 1992.                                                                                        1993 accounts.
Certification by BA of all comnmercial banks, following portfolio restucturing and bank  By April  By mid-1996, two of five banks certified; BA considers that other three banks have not
recapitalization                                                                 1992          made sufficient progress on their institutional action plans
6 Specizedfinancial wsbttions
Promulgation of a decree on the financial reorganization of BAD                  April 1992     In September 93, Govt argued that BAD's finction had changed, reorganization no longer
necessary. Bank agreed.
Promulgation of a decree on the financial reorganization of CNEP                 April 1992    Under Housing Completion Loan approved in March 93, framework for CNEP
reorganization agreed. Reorganization on-going as of April 1996
7 Odter financial markts
Reorganize insurance market through law removing Government monopoly             April 1992     In June 1994, Bank received evidence that law had been presented to Council of
Government
Isue Government paper at competitive rates and establish secondary market        April 1992    Between 1991 and mid-1995, Treasury financed itself through other means; net ismueas
were negative (except for claims for repurchase of bank loans). Since mid-95, Treasury
has defined new Treasuty bills and issued some, but the secondary market remains
inactive.
Money market reforms: broaden access by non-bank financial institutions, increase range    April 1992  Carried out in 1991.
of financial instruments 
No specific monitoring indicators were identified in the President's Report The following is taken from Task Manager's list of indicators that was updated frequently



24
Implementation Completion Report
Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria
Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
(Loan 3352-AL)
Table 6: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as defned at apprisal
Study                                                         Status                     Impact of`study
Diagnostic study of 22 large   Enterprise level diagnostic    Completed by mid 1993          Studies lacked analyxis of
loss-maing PE.                 studies ofthe underlying                                      economic viabilit3r, were used,
problems to develop detailed                                  however, a basis for further
strategies regarding future                                   action plan for 15 of22PEs
operations and restructuring
Studyonthedevelopmentof        Assess policiesandinstitutionsto   Tohavebeencompletedby July   Nofollowup
small and medium scale         support SMEs; develop a        1993; subsequent information on
enterprises (financed under Loan   proposa for a project to develop    study is missing from files
3213, IRDP).                  the SMiE sector
Study on major environmental   To develop a progran forthe    Carried out in 1992 and 1993   Bank-supported projectto
issues, focusing on the storage    management and disposal of                                improve pollution control and
and disposal oftoxic wastes    industrial pollution and toxic                                 orae and disposal oftoxic
wates.                                                        wastes
Diagnostic study on commercial                                Done in mid-93                 Action plan approved by BA by
buans' situation (financed under                                                             end-93. Management contracts
the Japanese Grant).                                                                         drawn up and signed in 1995.
Banks recapitalized only in 1996
Study on living standard       To examine the feasibility of  As of 1996, survey still on-going   Results not yet available
(financed under Loan 3176, TA    achieving a more effective
project)                       coverage ofthe social security
system, as well as a better
targeting of consumer subsidies



25
hnplementation Completion Report
Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria
Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
(Loan 3352-AL)
Table 7: Status of Legal Covenants
smuo  Covnam         praciitatu_      Oi___________dat                     Coffunenfts                                          Desuipfion of coveant
Article m          I        CP                                         Audits for FY94 due 6/95, FY95 (due   Borrower to account for use of fuids and send audit report on use of fuinds within 6 nwrfr
6/96) not yet received.               of end of fiscal year
Schedule 1         5        CP                                         Evidence incomplete: Audit report for  Limit of use of loan proceeds to US$70 million each for imports of petroleum products and
Section 2                                                              FY93 had qualified opinion on use of  for foodstuffi
(g)                                                                    funds due to incomplete documents;
audits for FY94 and FY95 not received
Schedule 4        12        CD                 April 92                Fulfilled on April 1994               The Borrower was to transfe all remaining products subjeat to ceilings on the margins to
Al                                                                                                           the category of goods for which prices are free, except for twelve agreed categories of
products
Schedule 4        11        C                  April 92                                                      Based on diagnostic studies, for at least 15 non-autonomous PEs:
A.2                                                                    (a)April 94, saisfactory evidence     (a) Borrower to carry out all measures to reduce immediately the deficits ofthese PEs
received-,                           (b) for all PEs which are to remain non-autonomous as of 12/31/91, Borrower to fix
(b)June 92, satisfactory evidence     ceilings on the increase in individual wage bills for FY92 and to ensure that BA fixes
received on both wage and credit ceilings   overall credit ceiling for the PEs for FY92, to be then allocated to each PE
(c) (i) June 94, action plans for 14 PEs    (c) for all PEs requiring restncuring. Borrower to submit to Bank an action plan to
and satisfactory TORs for 15 th accepted   include:
by Bank                                (i) terms of reference and timetable for restructuring study,
(c) (ii) No irremediable loss-makers
idenfified by the diagnostic studies    (ii) a program of mnasures for progressiv ehrninaton of deficits caused by enaerpries'
activities deemed to be irrfemeiable loss-makers
Schedule 4       1, 12      CD                April 92                                                       Ihe Borrower will cause each FdP to:
A.3                                                                    (a) Nov 92, Bank received FY91        (a) issue a report for FY91, including progress achieved in evaluating the FdP's asset
financial reports, without objectives; end- portfolio and financial objectives for FY92;
93, Bank received anmusl reports with
financial projections                 (b) adopts resolutions to tie the remunrtion of the FdP's administrators to the FdP's
performance in the preceding year.
(b) June 93, Bank accepted evidence on
remuneration criteria



26
Section     Covenant       Present Status  Original fulfihment date            Comments                                            Descripfio of covenant
type
Sdiedule 4        12       CD                April 92                                                     Boffower will establish the leg  snd regulory franework, satisfactory to the B     for
(a) June 94, Bank accepted draft
legislation                          (a) the stock exchange
(b) June 93                          (b) joid veture
(c) June 93                          (c) commercial agencies and distributorships
(d) June 93                         (d) entrprise bankruptcies, dissolutions and liquidation procedures
Schedule 4        12       NC                April 92                Condition waived on the basis that  The Borrower has provided for the reorganization of BAD and CNEP, on the basis of
B.5                                                                  BAD's  function  had  changed,  so  criteria and methodologies previously furnished to the Bank by the Borrower
reorganization  unnecessary,  CNEP's
reorganization had been agreed in
principle under a separate Bank
operation
Schedule 4        12       CD                April92                 August 91, regulations issued, requiring  BA has issued regulations, applicable in FY92,  covering prudential ratios for all
B.6.a                                                                modifications;                        ommcal banks, acceptable to the Bank and the Borrower
Late 93, satisfactory modifications issued
Schedule 4        12       C                 April92                 End 91, to be effective in FY92,  BA has issued regulations setting the minimum capital adequacy ratio applicable to all
B.6.b                                                                specifying 4%  for 92, 5%  for 93;  comnercial banks for FY93
condition satisfied
Schedule 4        12       CD                April 92                End 93                               BA has reviewed and approved action plans, based on TOR satisfactory to the Bank and
B.7                                                                                                       Borrower, for restructuring portfolios and for long-term development of all conmiercial
banks
Schedule 4        12       CD                April 92                June 94, evidence submitted, satisfactory  Borrower has presented to its Council of Ministers, for consideration and adoption, a draft
B.8                                                                 to Bank, that draft law  had been  law removing the Borrower's monopoly over insurance activities
submitted to the Council of Government
Schedule 4      2,12       NC                April 92                Commercial banks reached 4% capital  Borrower has furnished satisfactory evidence that Borrower has allocated equity to each
B.9                                                                  ratio only in 1996, on the basis of 1993  commercial bank from the PE Restrncturing Fund so as to ensure that banks have reached
audits.                              a capital adequacy ratio of 4% during 1992
Covenant types:                                                            Codes:
I    =  Accounts/audits                                                    C   =  Covenant complied with
2     =  Financial performance/revenue generation for beneficiaries        CD  =  Complied with after delay
5    =  Management aspect of the project or executing agency               CP  =  Complied with partially
11   =  Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation  NC  =  Not complied with
12   =  Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/regulatory institutional action
13   =  Other



27
Implementation Completion Report
Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria
Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
(Loan 3352-AL)
Table 8: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of project cycle                Planned Weeks                               Actual Weeks
Preparation to appraisal              n a.                                        194.7
Appraisal                             n.a.                                        1.0
Negotiations through Board approval    aa.                                        20.9
Supervision                           na                                          179.9
Completon                             7.0                                         not yd oanpleed
TOTAL



28
Implementation Completion Report
Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria
Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustrnent Loan
(Loan 3352-AL)
Table 9: Bank Resources: Missions
PeFformance  rating       _     _    _
Date       No of    Days      Speciaiz  staf     Implementation    Develop-        Typblemsf
m       skills represented                     ment
Stage of project cycle                       field                                          objectives
Preparation to appraisal   July 88     5       12      DC, E, B             La.              na.          na.
Nov. 88        11      11      TM, E, B             n.a.             Ias          n.a.
April 89        1     na       F
May/June        1     7        DC
89
Oct 89",       9       12      B, E                 na. aa.                         a.
JaL 90         10      11      B, E, T, DC          n a.             nas          na.
June90         2      6        B                    n.a.              a.          nMa.
Nov. 90        7       12      DC, E, F, I, L       rLa.             as.           a.
April 91        1     2        E                    na.              as.            a.
Appraisa through Board   May 91        5      5        E, lawyer            ias.             a.            as.
June 91         1     4        DC                   na.               a.          rLa.
Supervision            July 91         4      4        E                    HS               HS           M,P,T,TA,S
Sept 91        4       10      TM, E                HS               HS           M,P, T, TA, S
Dec. 91        3       12      TM, E, C             S                H            M, T, TA, S
June 92        6       17      TM, E, lawyer, F, C    S              HS           M T, TA, S
July92         6       14      I,YP,E,F,C           Ma.              nas          na.
Oct.92         3      9        TM,E                 U                S            L,M,P,T,TA,S
Dec.92         4      8        I                    na.               a.          as.a
April 93       6      8        YP,C                 as.               an. as.
June93         2      3        DC,E                 na.               a.          as.a
Sept93         2      7        B, A                 na.              as.           as.
Dec. 93         1     8        E                    na.              na.           ia.
______________   April 94               1      52      PSD, E               U                S             L      M,P, T,TA, S
August 94      2      2        P, E                 na.               an. as.
Completion            I                      I                                             I             I                 I



29
Table 9: Bank Resources: Missions
(continued)
Key to Table
Types of Specializations:                                             Types of Problems:
A        = Auditor                                                    P        = Prourement progrs
B        = Banker                                                     L         = Compliance with legal covenant
C        = Consultant                                                 M         = Project management perfomnoe
DC       = Division chief                                             T         = Traning program
E        = EconomistT                                                 A         = Technical assisanc program
F        = Financial analyst                                          S         = Studies program
I        = Industrial specialist
L        = Labor specialist
TM       = Task manager
PSD      = Private Sector Development Specialist
YP       = Young Professional
I The mission of October 89 was labeled a support mission to the Central Bank and was not formally a prepartion of the then-called FSA14 it limited
itself to institutional recommendations that subsequently became part of the conditionality of the EFSAL
2/ Mission took place in Washington, D. C.



30
Implementation Completion Report
Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria
Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
(Loan 3352-AL)
Table 10: Macroeconomic indicators: projected and actual
(in percent)
1990        1991            1992             1993            1994             1995
A      P       A       P       A       P        A       P       A        P      A
GDP growth rate        -1.3     3.0    -1.2      3.5     1.6     3.6    -2.2     4.0    -1.2      4.4     3.5
GDP per capita
growth rate            -3.8    -0.8    -3.6    -0.1    -0.9      1.0   -4.6       1.6   -4.0      2.0     0.9
Inflation rate'        16.6   <10      22.8   <10      31.8   <10       20.5    <10     29.0   <10      29.6
Market exchange        340              2702   100    3402    100    4002    100         100     100
rate/official rate
Current Account         2.3     0.7     4.9      1.4     2.1    -0.1     1.6    -0.9    -4.3      1.5    -7.3
balance/GDP
I As measured by the Consumer Price Index, which includes some goods whose margins and hence prices are controlled.
2 Source: Country Economic Memorandum: Transition to a Market Economy (Report No. 12048-AL); Table 1.3 and para 7.09
Source: Unless otherwise indicated, projected figures are from the PR for EFSAL (no. P-5567-AL), and actual figures are from PR for the SAL
(no. P-6855-AL, April 4, 1996).












IMA( ING
RMeport No:       15688
Type: ICR



