W.o,2 3 7 SZ - Al
,00ume~at of
The World Bank
FOR OMCLL USE ONLY
Report No. P-5567-AL
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INj  BM'T0ITM7ANR FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
/IvTEW,44-voi,*-        TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED ENTERPRISE AND FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$350 MILLION
TO
THE DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
MAY 31, 1991
This document has a retdcted distibution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their off_cal dutie  Its cotents may not otherwise be discosed witbout World ank autorization.



CURRENCY  EUVALENT
Official Fxchane Rates
SDR 1.0 - Dinars (DA) 26.80         (end April 1991)
End of Period
Dinars/US Dollar
1985                                       4.773
1986                                       4.824
1987                                       4.936
1988                                       6.731
1989                                       8.032
1990 June                                  8.931
1990 Dec.                                 12.194
1991 March                                17.765
1991 April                                17.833
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRON_MS
RA          Banque d'Algerie (Central Bank of Algeria)
BAD         Banque Algerienne de Developpement
BADR        Banque Alg6rienne de D6veloppement Rural
BDL         Banque de Developpement Local
BEA         Banque Exterieure d'Algerie
BIS         Bank of International Settlements
SNA         Banque Nationale d'Algerie
*CNEP        Caisse Nationale d'Epargne et de Prevoyance
CPA         Cr6dit Populaire d'Alg6rie
CNP         Conseil National de la Planification
EPE         Entreprise Publique Economique (Autonomous Public Enterprise)
EPSAL       Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
ERSL        Economic Reform Support Loan
Fd?         Fonds de Participation
GDP         Gross Domestic Product
ICB         International Competitive Bidding
ICORS       Incremental Capital-Output Ratios
IFC         International Finance Corporation
LEC         Law on Money and Credit
NETAP       Mediterranean Environment Technical Assistance Program
)IGA        Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
HLT DOD     Medium and Long Term Debt, Outstanding and Disbursed
PE          Public Enterprise
SOE         Statements of Expenditure



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
DEKOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
ENTERPRISE AND FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LAN
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:         The Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria.
Artount:          US$350 million equivalent.
Terms:            17 years, including 5 years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate.
Description:      The proposed policy-based loan consists of an enterprise
component interlinked with a financial sector component,
accompanied by a supportive macroeconomic, legal and
institutional measures   Changes in the macroeconomic
framework, including price and import liberalization,
exchange rate adjustments and tight monetary and fiscal
policies, are being supported under a second IMF program,
presented to the IMF's Board in early June. Changes in the
_eZal and institutional framework include the dismantling of
import monopolies, the introduction of market based foreign
exchange allocation, the opening of the Algerian economy to
foreign investment and joint ventures, the introduction of a
new Commercial Code, which removes distinctions between
private and public enterprises, and new labor legislation,
which removes wage rigidities ar  increases opportunities
for labor mobility.
For the enterprise sector, the program supports reforms in
five key areas. First, the rapid introduction of
competition through the use of market based pricing and
allocation systems. Second, a proactive approach to the
development of the private sector which has hitherto played
a limited role in the Algerian economy. Third, the
implementation of the process of "corporatization" for
public enterprises aimed at separating the roles of the
State as owner and as regulator of economic activity.
Fourth, initiating the process of restructuring of public
enterprises, with a special focus on the largest loss-
making PEs. and fifth, developing a program to mitigate the
social costs of enterprise restructuring.
In the financial sector, the loan would support reforms in
the following four areas: First, limiting the role of the
Treasury as an agent for financial intermediation and
reforming its relationship with the Central Bank. Second,
rationalizing interest rate and credit policies. Third,
establishing a prudential, regulatory and accounting
framework for the banking system together with a
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipb.. ts di ly in the performance
of their official auties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wi hout WV id Bank authorization.



- ii -
strengthening of the Central Bank. And fourth, starting a
multi-year program to restructure the portfolio of existing
banks.
enefits
and rinks:        The principal benefits of the reform program will emerge
over the medium term in the form of: first, better
macroeconomic performance and improved incentives promoting
the efficiency and profitability of private and public
enterprises; and second, a modern financial system which
will allow financial intermediation based on competition and
transparency, including the diversification of instruments,
markets and institutions.
The risks of the proposed program are due to the inherent
complexity of radical systemic transformation and to the
macro-economic and political environment in which it will be
carried out. Implementation of the reform program will
entail difficult problems of coordination and management at
both the strategic and operational levels. Various
arrangements have been established to support this heavy
management burden, but the program will require close
monitoring by senior national policy-makers and continued
support by the Bank. In terms of the macro-economic
context, Algeria's short-term external financing needs
remain high, and its ability to mobilize them is dependent
both on domestic policy performance and oil price prospects.
Estfimaged
Disbursements:    The proceeds of the loan would be disbursed in two equal
tranches of US$175 million each: the first tranche upon loan
effectiveness and the second tranche after a mid-term macro-
economic and program review and the completion of a number
of specific actions crucial to the success of the program.
&Mraisal Repgt1: None.



- iti -
DJNOCRATIC AND POPUlAR REPUBLIC OF 0LGERI
ENTERPRISE AND FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOA
Table of Qntents
INRQUCTION
MI I:  BACKGRQUND AND COUNTRY CONTEXT . . . . . . . . . . . . .     1
PART_II:  THE ENTERPRISE SECTOR REFORM PROGRAM  . . . . . . . . .   5
A. Historical Role and Structure of the Enterprise
and Financial Sectors .        ........  .. ........          5
B. The Enterprise Sector Reform Program  . . . . . . . . . . .   7
(a)  Introduction of Market-Based Pricing and
Allocation Systems  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  7
(b)  Encouraging the Development of the
Private Sector  .... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  9
(c)  Ownership and Management Reform for
.the Public Enterprise Sector  . . . . . . . . . . . .  12
(d)  Restructuring the Largest Loss-Making
Public Enterprises ................ .                   15
(e)  Managing the Social Dimensions of
Restructuring .....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  18
&3ARTII: THE FINANCIAL SECTOR REFORM PROGRAM. . . . . . . . .      20
A. Introduction  .... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  20
B. The Financial Sector Reform Program . . . . . . . . . . . .  20
(a)  Limiting the role of the Treasury in the Financial
System, and Strengthening of the Central Bank . . . .   20
(b)  Interest Rate and Credit Policy . . . . . . . . . . .   21
(c)  Establishing a Prudential, Regulatory
and Auditing Framework  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   23
(d)  Restructuring the Portfolio of Existing Banks . . . .   26
(e)  Reform Imple-intation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   32



- iv -
PART IV: THE PROPOSED LOAN . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  34
A. Macroeconomic Context and Outlook . . . . . . . . . . . . .  34
B. Country Assistance Strategy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  41
C. Loan Coverage and Conditionality  . . . . . . . . . . . .   44
D. Loar Implementation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  46
E. Risksc, of the Proposed Operation . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  47
PART V:  RECOMMENDATION  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  48
LIST OF TEXT TABLES:
Table l.1:Key Macroeconomic Indicators, 1981-95  . . . . . . .2
Table 2.L:Chronology of Legislative and Regulatory Developments
Concerning the Private Sector . . . . . . . . . . . . .  11
Table 2.2:Share Distribution among the Fonds de
Participation - Numbers of Enterprises
held per Fund in each Category  . . . . . . . . . . . .  14
Table 2.3:The Twenty-Two Large Loss-making
Enterprises: Turnover, Operating
Profits and Employment, 1988-90 . . . . . . . . . . . .  16
Table 3.1:Accounting Framework for Financial Flows
for Enterprise and Bank Restructuring, 1991  . . . . .  28
Table 3.2:Bank Claims on the Economy, End-1990 . . . . . . .   30
Table 4.1:External Resource Constraints, 1987-95 . . . . . . .  35
Table 4.2:Exchange Rate Adjustment, 1987-91  . . . . . . . . .  35
Table 4.3:Impact of Key Reforms, 1987-95 . . . . . . . . . . .  36
Table 4.4:Macroeconomic Adjustment, 1987-95  . . . . . . . . .  37
Table 4.5:N4acroeconomic Balances, 1987-95  . . . . . . . . . .  38
Table 4.6:External Financing Plan, 1987-95 . . . . . . . . . .  39
Table 4.7:Hydrocarbon Exports, 1990-95 . . . . . . . . . . . .  41



v 
ANNEXER:
I. Social Indicators of Development: 1990
II. Key Economic Indicators
Key Macroeconomic Indicators
Balance of Payments
External Capital Flows and Debt
III. Letter of Development Policy
Letter
Attachment to Letter
IV. Matrix of Policy Reforms
V. Supplementary Program Data Sheet
VI. Bank Group Operations in Algeria



REPORT AND DECONJIENDATION 0F THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED ENTERPRISE AND FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
:N AN ANOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$350 MILLION
TO THE DEIOCRATIC AND POPUMAR REPMBLIC OF ALGERIA
INTRODUCTION
I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan for the equivalent of US$350 million to the Democratic and Popular
Republic of Algeria. The loan would support Algeria's program of reforming
the financial and industrial sectors during the transition from a centrally
planned to a market economy. The reform program aims at enabling these sectors
to operate efficiently in a liberalized and competitive economic environment,
thereby contributing to improved mobilization, allocation and utilization of
resources. The loan would have a term of 17 years, including 5 years of grace,
at the standard variable interest rate.
PART I - BACKGROUND AND COUNTRY CONTEXT
1.01        Since about 1986, Algeria has embarked upon a wide ranging program
of economic and structural reforms to transform a statist and centrally
planned economy into one based on the decentralized operation of markets. The
initial phase of these reforms concentrated on changes in the country's legal
and institutional framework--including the adoption of a new constitution--to
enable the state to disengage from the direct management of the economy, and
to permit enterprises and banks to operate with greater managerial autonomy.
The role of the central government in the selection and direct financing of
productive investments was sharply curtailed, and the Central Bank and banking
system were granted much greater independence and autonomy in the management
of monetary policy and in the allocation of credit. In parallel, restrictions
on the nature and scope of private sector activity were progressively lifted.
As a first step in this regard, state farms in the agricultural sector were
dismantled starting in late 1987 and the land previously held by them was
distributed to private farmers. The rules for private entry into trade,
commerce and industry were also progressively liberalized. And finally,
controls on prices and the procedures for the allocation of foreign exchange
for imported inputs were made more flexible and less onerous.
1.02        This first phase of structural reforms was supported by both the
Bank and the IMF. In particular, the Fund approved a first standby
arrangement, as well as a compensatory financing package for a total of



- 2 -
SDR 471 million in May 1989. The Bank approved a $300 million Economic Reform
Support Loan in August 1989, which was the first adjustment operation in
Algeria. The implementation of the reform program has also been supported by
a series of investment prrjects, notably an agricultural credit operation
(Loan No.3009) to respond to the financing needs of the newly privatized
farming eector; a wide ranging technical assistance project, focussing on
strengthening the financial sector and accounting and auditing capability in
the country (Loan No.3176); and a first industrial restructuring demonstration
project (Loan No.3210-14) to support the restructuring and corporatization of
four representative public enterprises. After initial delays caused by
changing responsibilities and personnel in the various counterpart agencies,
these projects are now under implementation.
1.03       The launching of Algeria's structural reform efforts coincided
with, and to some extent was precipitated by, a sudden and sharp deterioration
in the country's macroeconomic position, as a result of the 1986 collapse in
world oil prices. With hydrocarbons accounting for 98% of total exports in
1985, the fall in oil prices translated into a 40% drop in export earnings in
the next year. Faced also by a large and growing debt service requirement,
and given a determination to honor these payments when due, the Algerian
authorities chose to cut back sharply on nonfood imports and on public
investments and to raise additional revenues through non-hydrocarbon taxes.
Although this strategy has succeeded in containing domestic macroeconomic
disequilibria and in avoiding external debt restructuring, it has entailed a
substantial worsening of living standards (see Table 1.1 below).
Table 1.1         Algeria: Key macroeconomic Indicators, 1981-95
1981-85 1986-89   1990   1991   1992  1993-95
Algerian Crude Price (US$ bbl)  32.9   17.0   24.2   20.0   20.2   20.6
Hydrocarbon Exports (billion US$)  13.1    8.1   12.4   11.3   11.6   13.3
GDP Growth Rate (S p.a.)         5.7    0.4    1.1    3.0    3.5    4.0
Per Capita Cons. Growth Rate (Z p.a.)  1.8   -3.0   -2.9    3.8    0.7    1.9
Treasury Balance/GDP (2)        -8.6   -9.3    3.2    1.3    4.7    6.1
Broad Money (M2)/GDP (Y)        69.0   83.4   72.3   56.2   51.2   50.0
Current Account Deficit (-)/GDP (X)  0.3   -2.3    2.S   -0.7   -1.4    0.8
MLT Debt Service (incl. IMF)/XGS (2)  31.3   63.1   57.8   64.4   52.9   43.3
Gross Reserves (excl. gold)      2.0    1.2    0.6    1.3    1.7    2.0
(in months of imports (fMGS))
Source: Algerian Authorities and WS estimates.
1.04       As regards the future, Algeria's medium-term, macro-economic
prospects remain sound, giv-n extensive hydrocarbon reserves and the potential
for raising the productivity of the currently under-perform!.ng industrial
base. Continued tight fiscal and monetary policy, efficiency gains from the
implementation of reforms, and the projected increase in the volume of natural
gas exports, can all combine to bring about a steady improvement in key macro-
economic indicators over the next five years. Nevertheless, the short-term



- 3 -
financing situation remains finely balanced and heavily dependent on
fluctuations in oil prices. In particular, the mobilization of Algeria's
large external financing requirements, of the order of $6 billion per year
over the next three years, will continue to be a preoccupation for the
authorities and their international economic partners. Bank staff analysis
indicates that the country should be able to mobilize the required financing
without resorting to rescheduling, even if oil prices were to fall somewhat
below the already conservative assumption: underlying the projections
presented in this report. Somewhat higher oil prices, on the other hand,
would allow more rapid growth and could attra:t substantially higher foreign
capital flows, accelerating Algeria's transformation into a more open and
competitive market economy.
The Next Phase of Economic Reform
1.05        Having laid the basic legal and institutional framework for reform
by the first half of 1990, the Algerian authorities then took stock of the
progress made and the options available to complete the systemic transition.
The basic outcome of the review was a decision at the highest political level
to sharply accelerate the pace of reform implementation and to rapidly
identify and eliminate remaining obstacles to the functioning of a mixed
market economy. In August 1990, the Government wrote to both the Bank and the
IMF asking for stepped-up technical and financial support for this new phase
of economic reform. The staff of both institutions have worked closely
together in providing such support in recent months
1.06        The first results of these efforts are embodied in a second
standby arrangement for SDR 300 million, which is being considered by the
Fund's Board on June 3, 1991.Y The Fund program focuses particularly on an
ambitious program of import liberalization, supported by a substantial
adjustment of the exchange rate, the liberalization of most domestic prices
and the adjustment of the remaining administered prices towards their economic
costs. The program envisages tight controls on fiscal and monetary policy
with a view to containing inflationary pressures and expectations during a
period of substantial price liberalization. To monitor the progress in
achieving the Government's macroeconomic objectives, the Fund program includes
quarterly quantitative performance criteria relating to: (a) growth in net
domestic assets of the banking system with separate subceilings on credit to
the Government and to a selected number of non-autonomous public enterprises;
(b) non-concessional foreign borrowings; and (c) the level of external
reserves. The macroeconomic framework underlying the Fund program is
consistent with the projections and analysis presented in paras. 4.01 to 4.13
of this report, with minor exceptions stemming mainly from different
institutional projections for hydrocarbon prices after 1991.
1.07        As regards the Bank, the proposed Loan is the next building block
in support of Algeria's reform efforts. The enterprise and financial sector
J/    The Fund's Board will also consider an associated external contingency
mechanism, in an amount not exceeding SDR ?10 million, to cover
unanticipated movements in the price of Algeria's hydrocarbon exports.



- 4 -
reforms address the core supply side issues that Algeria must now tackle to
translate its overall reform objectives into a rapid and viable supply
response. The central objective of the proposed EFSAL is to complete the
break with the practices of the past twenty years and replace them with new
market-based rules. For the enterprise sector, this translates into the
establishment of a legal and commercial framework under which public and
private enterprises operate on an equal footing and in response to market
signals, where long-term profitability is the key concern for enterprise
managers, and where owners expect to receive a satisfactory return on their
assets and bave the means availdble to take remedial action when this return
is not forthcoming.
1.08        For the financial sector, major changes made since 1986 in the
legal and institutional framework provide the groundwork necessary for the
establishment of a more efficient and modern financial system. Specifically,
the program envisages the creation of a financial sector where, over time,
eu4tonomous and profit-oriented banks play a key role in the mobilization and
efficient allocation of resources to the economy, guided by a sound prudential
and regulatory framework in the context of stable monetary, interest rate and
credit policies. It also envisages a strong and independent Central Bank as
the key agent for guarding monetary stability and supervising the banking
system. Finally, financial sector reform aims to rationalize the previously
unhealthy relationship between the Treasury and the enterprise and financial
sectors, as well as to promote the development of financial and capital
markets as the appropriate channel for the term financing of decentralized
enterprise investments.
To achieve the above objectives, the EFSAL includes specific
measures to: (a) introduce market-based competition through the rapid
liberalization of imports and domestic prices, the easing of barriers on
enterprise entry and exit and the elimination of state monopolies in
production, imports and distribution; (b) promote the private sector's
development in industry and commerce by eliminating remaining restricticns;
(c) rationalize the governance of public enterprises to isolate them from
Government interference ard to enable them to operate as commercial entities,
subject to market discipline and hard budget constraints; (d) initiate a
proactive restructuring program for the largest loss-making public
enterprises, so as to minimize their drain on the rest of the economy over the
short run and begin to address tough long-term choices that would strengthen
those activities with good potential, but quickly curtail those which are
unlikely to be economically viable; (e) improve the policy, regulatory and
prudential framework for the financial sector; and (f) initiate the
restructuring and institutional strengthening of the existing commercial
banks. These measures, to be implemented over 1991/92, are presented in the
Government's Letter of Development Policy (Annex III) and the Matrix of Policy
Reforms (Annex IV) and are discussed in further detail in Parts II and III of
this report.
1.10        Algeria's erforts towards economic liberalization are being
accompanied by sweeping political changes, which are transforming the one-
party system into a multiparty democracy. The first open multiparty municipal
elections were held in June 1990. Free and competitive parliamentary



elections are scheduled for June 27, 1991 with a second round on July 18.
Although there is a wide range and number of parties actively contesting the
elections in an eatmosphere of complete political freedom, all the major
parties are committed to the broad objectives of economic liberalization. The
direction of the reform program now underway is therefore not expected to be
threatened in any significant way by the precise outcome of the forthcoming
national elections.
PART II - THE ENTERPRISE SECTOR REFORM PlOGRAg
A.     Historical Role and Structure of the Enterpaise and Financial Sectors
2.01        In the two decades following independence in 1962, Algeria
followed a development strategy based on statism and self-reliance. Central
planning was used to promote import-substituting industrialization. Planning
in physical terms largely replaced the allocative role of price signals.
Revenues from exports of hydrocarbons were used to create capital-intensive
public enterprises (PEs) in a number of industrial sectors. The enterprises
(which number around 470 today) were to serve as growth poles for industrial
development.
2.02        The efficient performan;e of these PEs was, however, hampered by
extreme protection and controls through extensive regulations. Each was
assigned to one of the state-owned banks, whose primary task was to meet its
credit needs. More generally, financial intermediation was largely seen as an
administrative matter for the Treasury, to whom the Central Bank remained
subordinated.  Interest ra  s wer-e set administratively, not only for
different types of activities, but frequently also at the level of individual
projects, to ensure their financial viability. The official value of the
dinar was strictly controlled, resulting in a growing overvaluation of the
domestic currency and the creation of a very substantial parallel market 2/.
Private enterprises were discouraged both by law and by restrictions on access
to credit and foreign exchange. Nonetheless, even after two decades of largc
invest-.3nt in PEs and various disincentives, by the late 1980s, the private
sector still accounted for about 20X of value added in manufacturing.
2.03        The pursuit of a strategy of rapid iz4tustrialization through
inward-oriented and capital-intensive PEs produced much the same pattern of
results as in most other centrally planned economies. Despite sustained high
investment rates (around 40X of GDP), GDP growth rarely exceeded 6X per year.
The resulting excessive overall capital-output ratios stemmed from the high
capital intensity of investment in public enterprises and low capacity
utilization caused by foreign exchange shortages, as well as production and
marketing problems. The time needed to train the labor force to operate and
maintain the new and often quite sophisticated industrial equipment was often
underestimated. Moreover, many PEs suffered from an excessive degree of
2/   By mid-1990, the official exchange rate of about DA9/US$ compared with
roughly DA35/US$ in the parallel market.



- 6 -
vertical integration, which resulted in both production bottlenecks and excess
capacity in different Farts of their operations. Pervasive price controls and
subsidies generated multiple distortions and rigidities. Periodic shortages
became endemic for most products and were mirrored by the build-up of excess
liquidity in the money market. Inflation was repressed but at the expense of
hoarding, parallel markets and smuggling. Since PEs were also subject to
price controls and burdened with excess staff, in an attempt to contain
unemployment, many of them became major loss-makers.
2.04        Losses of the PE sector were financed by both the Treasury and the
banking system. As a result, the Treasury incurred sizeable overall deficits,
which in turn were largely monetized. The development of the financial system
was hampered by the dominant role played by the Treasury, and by the policy of
interest rate controls and directed lending. All banks were state-owned and
served distinct sectors of the economy, according to directives laid down by
the GovernmentV. They relied heavily on central bank rediscounts to
supplement a meager deposit base. There was hardly any competition in credit
allocation, and none in deposit mobilization. Lending and deposit rates were
generally negative in real terms (even with inflation measured at artificially
low official prices). Credit was de jure predominantly short-term, but de
facto largely long-term, because much short-term credit was systematically
rolled over. Moreover, unpaid accrued interest was routinely capitalized.
Since PEs accounted for well over half of lending by commercial banks, a
growing proportion of non-performing loans was thereby hidden in their
portfolios. Non-bank financial institutions played no independent role.
There were no financial markets until the establishment in 1989 of a small
interbank money market.
2.05        Despite these weaknesses, it is worth noting that in purely
physical terms, many Algerian public enterprises have plant of relatively
recent vintage and internationally accepted quality. Unlike, for example, the
industrial base of many Eastern European countries, the bulk of Algeria's
industrial equipment dates from the 1970's and 80's and was frequently chosen
precisely because it embodied the latest available technology. This is
particularly the case in the engineering sector, where the main problem has
been, rather, the inadequate maintenance and poor operation of this equipment.
While these problems will not be easy to resolve, the situation does imply
that there is a considerable potential for extracting productivity gains and a
supply response from the existing industrial infrastructure. What will be
i/    There are five commercial banks and two specialized financial
institutions. The commercial banks are Banque Nationale d'Algerie (BNA,
whose clients are mainly PEs producing for the domestic market), Banque
Extdrieure d'Algerie (BEA, which deals mainly with PEs engaged in
foreign trade), Banque Algdrienne de Developpement Rural (BADR, rural
sector), Banque de Developpement Loe.al (BDL, local ventures), and Credit
Populaire d'Algerie (CPA, conistruction). The two specialized financial
institutions are Banque Alg6rienne de Developpement (BAD, which
undertook only term lending in industry and infrastructure) and Caisse
Nationale d'Epargne et de Prevoyance (CNEP, housing).



- 7 -
important is to ensure that any new investments made to rejuvenate these
plants follow strict criteria of economic efficiency, and are accompanied by
the necessary changes in operating and management structures which would make
these productivity gains sustainable over the longer term.
B.    The Enterprise Sector Reform Program
2.06        Reversing the outcome of two decades of inappropriace economic
policies will not be an easy task, because it implies not only a change of
policies, but also of behavior at all levels. It will also take time . set
up the technical and administrative infrastructure and to develop the shills
which are essential for the effective functioning of a market-based economy.
These skills are lacking in Algeria, which has operated under central planning
for longer than the professional careers of most of its technocrats. The
situation is further complicated by the limited tolerance for further social
dislocation and -transitory hardship in an economy where unemployment levels
are already in excess of 20X and where the population has lived through
declining living standards since 1986. Nonetheless, having concentrated on
putting into place the requisite legal and institutional framework during the
first few years of the reform process, the Government has come to the
conclusion that a second accelerated phase of introducing market forces in the
economy is now essential. It is the implementation of this second phase that
the proposed EFSAL will support.
2.07        For the enterprise sector, this phase comprises measures which can
be grouped into five areas. These are: (a) the rapid introduction of
competition in the industriai sector through the use of market-based pricing
and allocation systems; (b) the promotion of the development of the private
sector; (c) the implementation of ownership and management reform for public
enterprises; (d) the isolation of the negative impact on the rest of the
economy of the largest loss-making PEs and initiating a concerted program for
their restructuring; and (e) the mitigation of the social costs of PE
restructuring to prevent these costs from becoming an obstacle to reform
implementation.
(a) Introduction of Market-Based Pricing and Allocation Systems
2.08        The two key areas covered by these measures relate to the pricing
of industrial inputs and products, ard the system governing access to foreign
exchange and, therefore, to imported inputs. A related issue is the
liberalization of foreign trade to permit import-based competition for often
monopolistic domestic industrial enterprises.
2.09        Following the adoption of a new price law in mid-1989, price
controls were relaxed significantly and the prices of most products were
themselves substantially raised to reduce enterprise losses. Under this law,
products fell into one of three categories: those with administered prices
(through price ceilings), those whose prices are subject to a ceiling on the
margin of markup, and those whose prices are determined freely. These
measures were supported under the Bank's first Economic Reform Support Loan,
approved in August 1989. As a result of their application, by the end of
1990, most industrial products had been moved from the first to the other two



categories and over 40X (on a weighted basis) of the prices in the consumer
price index were determined freely, as compared with 102 at end-l988. Despite
these improvements, price controls continued to be an obstacle for enterprise
restructuring and competitive behavior. In particular, the heavy reliance on
cost-plus-margin pricing for industrial products reduced any incentive to
improve efficiency or lower costs. Moreover, these prices were still below
market clearing prices for many industrial products and thus contributed to
continuing shortages and rent seeking in the economy.
2.10        To address these problems, in early 1991, the Algerian authorities
sharply accelerated the pace of price refor. In April 1991, all but a
handful of around twenty products (subsidized basic necessities, public
utilities and energy products) were transferred out of the administered price
category. In addition, all but fifty products were shifted immediately from
controlled margins to free prices. With the exception of a dozen basic
consumer goods, the remaining fifty will also be shifted to liberalized prices
as competitive conditions permit, but no later than by early 1992. In the
interim, the minimum delay for adjusting the price of products in the fixed-
margin category has been reduced from six to three months. As a result of the
implementation of these measures, by mid-1992, the prices of all products and
services, with the exception of a few basic necessities and energy products,
will be determined by market forces.
2.11        This acceleration of price liberalization is only possible because
of the concomitant program to accelerate the liberalization of imRorts. In
the past, progress in this area had been hampered by the use of administrative
allocation procedures for underpriced foreign exchange. Although these
procedures were streamlined in various ways during 1989 and 1990, substantial
trade liberalization remained an elusive goal without more direct action on
the exchange rate. By the middle of 1990, it had become clear that an
accelerated phase of exchange rate depreciation would be a necessary
prerequisite for any substantial program of trade liberalization and, hence,
for the introduction of import based competition in the Algerian economy. To
this end, exchange rate depreciation accelerated during the first three months
of 1991. Following the 30X real effective depreciation of the exchange rate
during 1990, most of which took place in the second half, the real effective
exchange rate was depreciated by a further 28X in the first three months of
1991. At the same time, the strengthening of demand management policies has
resulted in a stable parallel market rate, with the ratio between the parallel
rate (as reported by European banks) and the official rate, falling from about
three in late 1990 to below two in March 1991. The authorities have committed
themselves to use the exchange rate in conjunction with other policies to
achieve their objective of convertibility of the dinar for most current
transactions by early 1992.
2.12        In April 1991, the Algerian authorities took a major step toward
their goal of convertibility by permitting the convertibility of the dinar for
all merchandises imports apart from certain goods, which continue to be
prohibited for moral, social or health reasons, as well as precious metals and
stones. However, foreign exchange can be requested for the import of all
other products at the official exchange rate, provided that payment is
arranged through an Algerian bank and that, for imports over $2 million,



- 9 -
suitable foreign credit lines are used before engaging in a cash transaction.
This new regime eliminates the differences in treatment of the public and
private sectors with regard to imports. Imports for resale also come under a
new system of wholesalers and concession holders. Any entity on the
Commercial Register is automatically entitled to become a wholesaler and thus
an importer. This new system represents a radical break with the past
practice of administered allocation of foreign exchange in the Algerian
economy. Its effectiveness clearly depends on an appropriate flexible
exchange rate policy, an objective supported by the Fund program to which the
authorities have committed themselves. Insufficient flexibility in the
exchange rate could prevent the practical implementation of these sweeping
reforms.
2.13        By allowing scarce foreign exchange to be allocated where its use-
value is highest, exchange reform will help alleviate persistent external
resource constraints on growth. In the short run, import liberalization
shculd increase the capacity utilization of many firms by improving their
access to imported intermediate goods and spare parts, thereby providing the
economy with a sorely needed boost. Complemented by a flexible exchange rate
policy and a major overhaul of the tariff system planned for 1992, trade
reform should also introduce greater competition into the Algerian economy.
Over the medium term, this should lead to a more efficient and diversified
economy.
2.14        In addition, to complement the new, more level commercial playing
field, the authorities have initiated a broad reform of domestic taxes, aimed
at improving the neutrality, transparency, and efficiency of the domestic tax
net. Under this fiscal reform, the current system of multiple indirect taxes
will be replaced with a single value-added tax. In addition, the complex
array of taxes on personal income and wealth will be eliminated and a unified,
more progressive individual income tax put in place.  Similarly, the corporate
tax system will be simplified. Implementation of the proposed tax and tariff
structure reform is expected to be supported by the Bank through a Trade and
Fiscal Reform Loan, which is currently under preparation. The Loan would also
address the issue of reforming Zhe tariff system, which currently is
characterized by too much complexity and rate dispersion, although the overall
level of tariffs is not a major impediment to the implementation of trade
reform.
(b)   Encouraging the DeveloRment of the Private Sector
2.15        Despite the dominance of the public sector in Algeria, private
enterprise has been a significant feature of the economy. There are about
7,000 small and medium private enterprises in the country, accounting for
about a fifth of industrial value added. The contribution of private activity
to industrial value added fell from 47X in 1974 to less than 20X by 1987.
This decline was attributable to two factors. First, the rapid growth that
occurred in the public sector. And second, the legal, financial and resource
constraints faced by private firms. For example, until 1987 all private firms
needed a license to operate, but these licenses were only given for a narrow
category of approved investments and frequently only to firms which
established themselves in the backward regions of the country. The private



- 10 -
sector was also starved for new materials and access to foreign exchange, and
there were limits on the size of investments that could be undertaken: DA 12
million for individuals and DA 35 million for incorporated enterprises.
Multiple investments of the same type, or the horizontal or vertical
concentration of activities by an investor were forbidden. Bank credit
available to private investors was limited to 30X of the cost of the
investment.
2.16        The reform program launched in 1986 envisaged a reversal of this
trend and a much expanded role for private enterprise in Algeria. The most
immediate change was in the agricultural sector, where state farms were
effectively privatized starting in late 1987. In the rest of the economy, the
constraints impeding private sector activity were also progressively
eliminated through a series of laws and regulations passed since 1988. The
permitted domain for private sector activity was progressively expanded;
limits on credit and on investment size were removed; foreign exchange
allocation procedures were simplified; the volume of foreign exchange
allocated to the private sector was substantially increased&-; and the rules
governing joint ventures between local public and private firms and with
foreign partners were made less restrictive. Following the passage of the Law
on Money and Credit (LAC), private companies were authorized to hold accounts
in foreign currency and also retain their export earnings in foreign currency.
Joint ventures of all types between local and foreign private companies are
now legal and there are no limits on the type or size of private activity,
with the exception of the hydrocarbons sector, where a separate law is still
applicable.
èg/   Total foreign exchange allocated to the private sector rose from DA 8.7
billion in 1989 to DA 14.5 billion in 1990.



Table ZI:                  Algr  Chronoloy of Legis4ate an  peguloyOeveA*r                       t Concerning The Private S WtOr
Reghue Puerto 198*      Now Law and Reutatkwae:Low on Mcey and CrEt                           ~           Rent Chu"~e
.________________________________________ .    19& -1 989                        Apri    1990                           (1991)
Qatr*On                            A" tezate -M     sz   fhupn tedtopuiovat  e  Cc}e  o the towt v-u ef ofit vcatc  bawca ieprfmkopd
ay sdt stoofactvity           DA 12 Mforerivi&als                               }ev     clasan to4ihnmt pea                                                      c,pris Wilbe peamittd (CO  de
and OWB=ft                     DA 3SM for  biorted et"Prses;                   - Contafes on hodzota/vericad                                           Cme w)
- No vet   or hbonW ineratIo aAiow4                ieniente remove4d
- Sector of scavity of vestbn And loca    sbject    - Roe rdm t f pdior authoiat
to oe_Tmt aqrvl;                                 lbr new itwetet eiahrtd
Conhulean Pow&              - Subjct to prp-jea apoa by Oo--nt                  Allocation rsprebiltyznovcd to   - Alloatio r      c_posi    al      - Freeaes to freig  chAne atm sk
av  Alao                      4ger.                                           the C      erof C  ea                 oved toe oame    t         forAU daallwd,te
clint,
Cntzrt     pit lfor         - Not pewifed for pvate operat.'                 - Not poem d for prvate qoptoen      - Not pzmicad forprivatc opeto      - Pautd edeAr &C - Atons for
Resale                                                                                                                                                 _whale lesagel conceujed;d s
CGtols a n     t -O Vtk   dit  wti to 30_ ef iosbtn val:                      - Cog on propuio of ea eldt
C*o D oen     t Forn        - Fotpict vjow  ama with prfive Alerin            - No-edent Aerian cftie             - Privt forci let           of op to
hIwstnant                    entrpilses not pemnftle foein pinvate  tveten    ahowed to invest                    IO1S foeg Own-*Ppitc41
wfith pic entis sbject to 50% equItY ceig:                                          - Joint ven       wh pvate
- Amgri  citfzns sdet omerss ntpennitted to                                                rantprhpe-aiSp4t
Evil naee _i gas            -1lack of explicit procedwee for public entotpflse                                                                       -  *nte aral public op euteiafrpsne wig fwe the
tonk,ytcy. lqehlatlon                                                                                                     -m  heiikiW*cr rin. lckarpsocedinu will
.                                                                                                      e^w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~mmpt fi OldAdW
(4   de Contmeree)
Private  *Dewiqinpwt        - oO    of   tI piwtin h           nt            - Bra pandssoltl of ete fa           - Ap         lrc ge apojecs    _   aa                   1971-73
State foon;                                     Abou 34Wm st hfams of WH  ecb c       mWaesis    privatc ivmens           neOt   to fouer priOvl
bIok  do" to 10 Ha privat  ras       thru  the t      SYSt,             oueSu
.   .Jcd for 9,∞yeats  ts  to trnsr  driven by prAeezai_n
and ihetaftrSycar
- Privnte din7 o outete for
- Opersp ad Anangment of
._____ ______ _____   ._____ ________         cooperativespans sed to  tbe  farmes;   I             ._                       .     _   .    _   ..
Somur A4grA        tfes



. 12 -
2.17        Most recently, the operating framework for the private sector has
been substantially improved as a result of the accelerated program of price
and trade liberalization. Private companies should now be able to obtain
imported inputs on the same terms as public enterprises, and they can sell
their output at market prices without being undercut by subsidized competition
from public enterprises. Perhaps most important, the private sector can now
participate fully in the newly liberalized international trading business,
which hitherto had been the exclusive domain of the public sector.
2.18        These changes, which are illustrated in Table 2.1, have begun to
show results both in terms of new private industries being set up in areas
which were previously reserved for the public sector, as well as in terms of
foreign joint ventures in both the industrial and financial sectors. By April
1991, sixteen joint ventures had been established with foreign partners in
activities such as manufacturing, energy exploration and production, trading
and banking. Another significant step forward for the Algerian private sector
was Algeria's joining of the IFC, in September 1990. The IFC is now
discussing the possibilities of collaboration on the construction of new
cement plants in the region of Oran. The possibilities of collaboration in
the manufacture of float glass, and in the setting up of a leasing company
through one of the commercial banks are also being explored.
2.19        The final set of measures to establish full equality of treatment
between private and public enterprises is embodied in a draft new Commercial
Code, which the Government has just submitted for parliamentary approval. The
Code, which has been reviewed by Bank staff, contains the following features:
(i) the authorization of different forms of private ownership, including sole
proprietorships, partnerships, limited liability companies and joint stock
companies; (ii) provisions for the establishment of a stock exchange for
trading enterprise shares and other financial instruments; (iii) provisions
for the establishment of new joint ventures between private and public
enterprises, and finally, (iv) substantial clarifications in laws regarding
bankruptcy. The new provisions establish the procedure for bankruptcies,
through the introduction of laws for depositing such cases, establishing
liquidation agents to sell the assets of bankrupt firms, etc. The draft
Commercial Code represents a radical improvement in the legal and regulatory
framework for enterprises. While its full implementation will require some
time, putting these important measures into place is a key to obtaining a
level playing field for all types of enterprises. Progress in this area will
therefore be a key element in the review of the overall enterprise reform
program to be carried out prior to the release of the second tranche.
(c)   OwnershiD and Msnagement Reform for the PE Sector
2.20        Notwithstanding the growing importance of the private sector in
the Algerian economy, for historical and practical reasons, public enterprises
will continue to be major economic agents in the near future. This is
particularly so, because any wholesale program of privatization of public
enterprises at this time has been ruled out by the Algerian authorities as
being practically and politically premature. The Algerian authorities'
approach to privatization is thus a gradual one, with "corporatization" and



- 13 -
"free entry" being the key objectives of this phase of reform. The
authorities have pointed out that the historical and political context in
which the reform process unfolds is very different from that in other parts of
the world. In Algeria, just a generation ago, large scale private property
was associated with foreign colonial rule. Public property was not imposed
from abroad, but emerged as a "national" solution to nvercome a colonial
ligacy. Today, perceptions and ideology have changed and the experience of
transitions in others parts of the world influence the Algerian search for the
most durable form of organizing a market economy. A fragile social fabric and
the difficulties of moving to a fall parliamentary democracy in a very
sensitive region of the world provide good reasons for a pragmatic and
flexible approach. Too much gradualism in the transformation of the
industrial sector is also a danger, however. The challenge facing Algerian
policymakers is, therefore, to move rapidly enough to generate tangible
results, yet with sufficient caution to preserve social peace and prevent
reactions that could derail the whole process of change. Developing
appropriate approaches to privatization in the Algerian context is an
important element of the Bank's ongoing dialogue with the authorities.
2.21        In this strategy, it is all the moze important that the rules of
operation and management for PEs be rationalized to isolate them from
government interference and to enable them to adapt quickly to a market-based
economic environment.  To achieve this, the basic strategy adopted by the
Algerian authorities is to establish a system of governance for public
enterprises, which clearly separates the role of the State as the regulator of
overall economic activity from the role of the State as shareholder (owner) of
public enterprises. Following a review of all public enterprises, 303 of them
were converted into autonomous companies (EPEs). Their balance sheets were
also improved to start them off on a sounder financial footing.
2.22        The new system envisages a key role for eight asset management
companies (Fonds de Participation) which have been set up to safeguard the
State's "ownership" interest in these EPEs, to prevent their decapitalization
and establish sanctions against poor performance. These Funds hold shares in
the public enterprises. The shares of each PE (including the commercial
banks) are distributed among three to four Funds. As shown below, each Fund
holds shares in around 100 to 150 EPEs, and is the dominant Fund for around 20
to 85 enterprises. The State is the shareholder of the Funds, who in turn are
the shareholders of the EPEs. The Funds are thus asset tanagers on behalf of
the State, with EPE management in charge of daily operations.



- 14 -
Table 2.2:    Algeria: Share Distribution Among the Fonds de Participation-
Numbers of Enterprises held per Fund in Each Category
Fund e       Fl      F2      F3      F4     F5       F6      F7     F8
Agro-  Mines,  Engg.  Const-  Chemic Electro  Other   Ser-
Share &    Inds.  Hydro-  goods  ruction -als   -nics,   Inds.  vices
Telecom
35-40%
(dominant)   35     35       27     84      25       18      19     54
25-35%        61      78      82     54      67       93      72      63
10-20%         7     12        6      8       5       12       8     12
TOTAL        103    125      115    146       97     123      99    129
Source: Fonds de Participation.
2.23        The Funds themselves are constituted as autonomous enterprises,
managed by their own Boards of five to nine members. As such, they have the
same structure, and are subject to the same limitations, as the enterprises
which they manage. The Funds exercise control over EPEs through the
Shareholder Assemblies of each enterprise, where they are represented in
proportion to their shareholding. The Shareholder Assemblies appoint the
general manager of the EPE, members of the Board, auditors, and a notary
public. The autonomous enterprise is free tco determine its activities of
production and investment, but where these decisions entail explicit or
implicit obligations on the owners, they are subject to the review and
approval of the Shareholder Assembly.
2.24        Each Fund was endowed with an initial capital of DA 30 million.
In addition, they have received investment funds from the Treasury budget
amounting to DA 1.5 billion in 1989, DA 3.0 billion in 1990, and DA 4.5
billion in 1991, augmented by a programmed DA 4.0 billion from the central
Restructuring Fund created in 1991 (see Table 3.1).
2.25        The priority now is to put in place measures which will generate
the expected results by both the Funds and the enterprises for which they are
responsible. In particular, some of the enterprises which are now autonomous
are still in a precarious situation, with poor results in terms of production
or a poor financial situation. Consequently, an examination of the
restructuring requirements of such enterprises will be undertaken with the
approval and support of their holding Funds. Appropriate restructuring
programs will then be initiated, utilizing the funds described above. A
program to improve enterprise accounting and auditing has also been launched,
with the setting up of the CIEF (Centre d'Ing6nierie et d'Expertise
Financibre). The Bank is supporting this program under the FY90 Technical
Assistance Project.
2.26        More generally, actions need to be taken to ensure that the
directors of the Funds are themselves held accountable against pre-defined
performance targets in terms of generating an adequate return on the assets
that they are managing. Furthermore, the Funds must have at their disposal



' 15 -
adequate tools and accounting expertise to evaluate the financial standing and
performance of enterprises and banks whose shares they hold. The authorities
propose to do this, first, by having each Fund complete, by end-1991, a report
on its activities, including a preliminary evaluation of its assets and a
proposed set of overall financial objectives for 1992 and second, by linking
the remumeration of Fund managers to the realization of these financial
objectives. In April 1991, a set of rules was adopted to link the
remuneration of the EPE managers to the financial performance of their
enterprises.
2.27        Only preliminary results can be expected with respect to asset
valuation in nine months' time. The valuation of assets will have to follow
some general rules of thumb because of the nascent state of corporate
accounting in the country. Linking remuneration of the EPE and Fund managers
to financial performance alone may also run into some resistance.
Nevertheless, these questions need to be tackled now if the overall structure
for PE management that the Algerian authorities are putting into place is to
generate the results expected. A review of progress in both these areas will,
therefore, be a key element of the overall review of the enterprise reform
program that will be carried out prior to the release of the second tranche of
the EFSAL.
(d)   Restructuring the largest loss-making PEs
2.28        As in most other centrally planned economies, there is in Algeria
a core of large PEs which poae special problems because of their size, their
accumulated financial losses and the complexity of the basic restructuring
options regarding their future operation. This core group of PEs has not yet
been rendered autonomous and cannot be made so until some basic problems are
addressed. Moreover, the economy cannot afford to wait for the effects of
increased competition and an improved incentive system to gradually induce an
improvement in their performance, as this would imply a continuation of their
present losses. These have important repercussions on the rest of the
economy, in particular the banking sector, which cannot be expected to
continue to finance their losses. Moreover, the industrial and social
implications of the restructuring strategy adopted for any one of these
enterprises are so sensitive that these choices cannot be expected to be made
by the recently decentralized economic agents. A more surgical and proactive
approach is, therefore, needed to curtail their financial losses in the short
term, until restructuring programs can be worked out and implemented over the
longer term, on a case-by-.case basis.
2.29        The core group of such enterprises in the Algerian context
comprises 22 of the largest and most important producing units in the country.
About two-thirds of these enterprises belong to the industrial sector (with
about half in engineering and capital goods), while the rest are concentrated
in the construction and transport sectors. These enterprises account for some
13X of total value added in industry and construction, which, in turn, account
for around 301 of GDP. Total employment in these enterprises is close to
130,000 people. Their combined turnover in 1990 was over DA 43 billion, but
operating losses in the same year totalled DA 9 billion. Their overdrafts



- 16 -
account for 20X of total commercial bank credit and the figure is
substantially higher for some banks. Large accumulated losses imply that some
of these enterprises have negative net worth.
2.30            The  financial  difficulties  of this core group of enterprises  are
mirrored by the variety and complexity of operational problems that they face.
For example, the steel giant, SIDER, faces major decisions concerning the use
of domestic versus imported raw material, due to problems of ore quality,
which in turn will affect its deciston on the establishment of a direct
reduction plant. Its production facilities at Annaba are faced with a water
shortage, which is a problem that also affects CELPAP, the pulp and paper mill
at Mostaganem. Detailed geological surveys, and water availability and
allocation studies, will have to be undertaken to resolve these problems. One
of the production units of the fertilizer enterprise, ASMIDAL, has suffered
considerable damage in an explosion. Its rehabilitation requires the
examination of several options regarding plant design and layout, the
installation of new plant or the rehabilitation of the present unit. ASMIDAL
also has serious environmental problems (as do many of the other problem
enterprises), which need to be tackled to prevent a further deterioration in
the overall level of industrial pollution. Finally, in some cases, the
restructuring will inevitably entail the closure of certain production lines
and an associated reduction in staff.
Table 2.3:               Algeria: The Twenty-two Large Loas-making Enterprises
Turnover, Operating Profits and Employmont, 1988-90
Turnover     Operating Profits        EUployment
(DAm)        (Losses) (DAm)          (No of staff)
1989    1990      1989    1990      1988   1989    1990
Groun 1: EnineerTina CGoods
1 MNF (foundry)                  248     278       (287)  (266)   2,642   2.674   2,646
2  EIMLP (constr. equipt)      2,135   2,300       (757)   (611)    7,539   8,005   8,100
3  SNVI (industrial vehicles)  3,188   5,555    (1,209)   (838)   17,868  16,744  17,221
4 ENl24  (agr. machinery)      1,815   2,030       (352)  (243)   7,300   7,210   7,127
S EUNli  (pumpslbydr. equipt)   640      827       (156)   (111)   3,291   3.332   3,413
6  SIDER (steel)               9,878  12,945    (2,846)   (835)  22,389  22,547  23,379
Group 2: C  struction and Transport
7 EC ORAl (constr.)              225     170       (117)   (226)    4,395   3,557   3,400
8 EC OUARGLA (constr.)           405     510       (243)   (110)    4,730   4.584   5,100
9 EC SIDI MXUSSA (constv.)       273     913       (157)    (95)    3,694   3,832   3,800
10  IC ALGER (constr.)            443     450       (282)   (248)    7,350   7,703   7,447
11 ECTA (constr.)                 357     660       (397)   (300)    3,245   3,332   3,370
12  ERCW  (constr.)               570     517       (175)   (293)    8,300   8,351   8,200
13 COAR (shipping)              2,412   2,435       (332)   (412)   2,815   2,639   2,103
14  NYDIOUC (constr., dams)    2,136   2,300        (261)   (230)    3,000   3,000   3,000
15  SH-NYPROC (shipping oil)    981       953       (181)   (674)    1,124   1,340   1,343
Grout 2r Other Industries
16 ASmIDAL (fertilisers)        1,320   1,317    (1,256) (1,011)    4,849   4,914   4,930
17 ELATEX (textiles)              704   1,200       (411)   (803)    5,394   5,384   5,152
18  INDITEX (textiles)            724     840       (332)   (204)    6,709   6,500   6,571
1S CELPAP (paper & pulp)          984   1,008       (535)   (600)    2,939   2,937   2,770
20  ENMGP (wood products)         952   1,483       (345)   (300)    6,297   6,371   6,602
21 ENEPAC (packaging)           1,160   1,500       (426)   (600)    2,942   2,867   3,073
22 ENPC (rubber, plastics)      2,746   3,436         72    (---)    5,221   5,256   5,256
TOTAL All 22 Enterprises       34,298  43,627  %10,999) (9,007)  133,813 133,379 134,003
Note: Combined employment in industry, construction and services (in millions) was:
2.023 in 1988, 2.042 in 1989 and 2.117 in 1990
Source: Banque d'Alg6rie.



- 17 -
2.31        Given the complexity and size of the 22 enterprises, the basic
approach adopted by the Algerian authorities is: (i) to take immediate
measures to contain their losses and to prevent their difficulties from
impacting upon the rest of the economy; and (ii) to carry out, during 1991,
enterprise level diagnostic stedies of the underlying problems affecting each
of these complexes, so as to be able to take basic decisions regarding their
future operations by the end of this year, following a joint review with the
Bank of the results of the diagnostic studies. This will then enable detailed
implementation strategies, reflecting these decisions, to be worked out and
executed during 1992-93. The advantage of this approach is that it allows
immediate actions to be taken to prevent further hemorrhaging in terms of
operating losses, while basic restructuring options are being analyzed.
2.32        Initial steps in implementing this strategy have already been
taken. First, the access of these enterprises to foreign exchange and credit
is being restricted through the establishment of quantitative credit ceilings,
as well as the requirement that all new loans to them must receive prior
Treasury approval. This ceiling will reduce the share of these enterprises in
net credit to the economy from 24X in 1990 to a maximum of 191 in 1991.
Second, wage increases in these enterprises during 1991 are also subject to
the same ceiling as for the public administration, which is expected to be
considerably below the wage settlements in the rest of the economy. And
third, controlled output prices for a number of these enterprises have been
substantially raised or liberalized, which should have a major impact on their
cash flow. The net result of these actions is that the operating losses of
these enterprises are expected to fall by over half during 1991 from the 1990
level of DA 9 billion.
2.33        In parallel to these financial restructuring measures, enterprise
level diagnostic studies are being launched to identify short and long-term
measures to improve operational performance, restructure and reorient
production lines towards internationally competitive activities and identify
and initiate the termination of those activities, or lines of business, which
cannot be made economically viable. These first phase diagnostic studies are
expected to take around two to three months. They will be conducted with the
help of highly qualified international experts. Following a review of the
terms of reference for these studies by Bank staff, invitations to submit
proposals were sent to reputed international firms. Following an evaluation
of their proposals, contracts are now being prepared for the selected
consultants. It is anticipated that contracts will be signed with suitable
consulting firms in the next four weeks. The diagnostic studies are to be
financed under the existing Bank-supported Industrial Restructuring
Demonstration Project.
2.34        As a result of these studies, the enterprises should be in a
position, by the end of 1991, to initiate immediate operational efficiency
improvements or other minor restructuring actions needed to improve short-
term financial performance. However, the studies will also identify those
activities or enterprises where more basic restructuring or liquidation is
required. In these cases, the consultants will prepare, and submit to the
Government, an action plan for the implementation of these more fundamental
changes. Decisions on the implementation of the action plans for at least 15
enterprises will be taken prior to the release of the second tranche of the
proposed loan. In the cases where detailed restructuring studies are deemed
necessary, the action plans will be complemented by agreed terms of reference
and a timetable for the execution of such studies.



- 18 -
2.35        In the context of the proposed reform program, measures necessary
to overcome existing environmental problems or safeguard against new ones will
be included in the restructuring plans for each enterprise.  The plans will
also lend assistance to the pollution and safety monitoring units within each
enterprise to guard against the recurrence of problems. In addition, the
Government will also undertake a special study on hazardous industrial wastes,
financed under the Mediterranean Environment Technical Assistance Program
(METAP), and is preparing an Environmental Management Project, which will
strengthen the institutional capability to handle environmental issues,
provide for air and water pollution surveillance equipment, and review the
legal framework for environmental issues.
(e)   Managing ithe Social Dimension of _estructuring
2.36        Industrial and financial restructuring will have a human
dimension, as a different skills profile for the labor force will be required
in the long run. Labor will have to be redeployed and ne-w skills acquired,
while labor market mobility would be expected to increase and wage
determination to become more flexible. A more immediate issue is the loss of
jobs, which is likely to occur as a result of industrial restructuring. This
is rendered more pressing by the already very high rate of open unemployment
(officially at 23Z) and the rapid growth of the labor force, due to rapid
population growth. The issue was exacerbated, until recently, by the lack of
provisions for severance pay.
2.37        The Government is aware of the trade-off between greater
industrial efficiency and the social costs of adjustment. To improve the
overall efficiency of the labor market, major changes were made in 1990 to the
existing labor legislation, which had remained essentially unchanged since the
early 1970s. The new framework represents a substantial departure from
previous practices in the following areas:
(i)   Flexibility in wage setting. Th.4 standard national grid for public
sector salaries no longer applies to autonomous PEs. Except for
determining the national minimum wage (this too now in conjunction
with relevant unions), the Government has no role in the
determination of either the structure or level of wages within an
enterprise. An important implication is that private and public
enterprises now have the same level of flexibility in wage
determination.
(ii)  Acceptance of labor shedding for economic reasons.  Previously,
dismissal of labor was only possible in cases of severe
indiscipline. The new law permits the shedding of labor for
economic reasons.
(iii) Establishment of norms for severance pay. A provision has been
made for one month's pay for each year of work, up to a maximum of
fifteen months' pay.
(iv)  Acceptance of the right to strike.  Until the new legislation
appeared, employees of public enterprises did not enjoy this right



- 19 -
officially. The new law codifies the circumstances in which
strike action can be envisaged, together with procedures regarding
notification, conciliation, etc.
(v)   Reco_nition of trade union pluralism. Under the new labor laws,
the monopoly on union activities previously held by the only
recognized trade union (Union Generale des Travailleurs Algeriens)
was abrogated and different modes for establishing worker
representation are now permitted. A few small unions have already
been created in response to the introduction of union pluralism.
2.38        In parallel, the Government has launched measures targeted
specifically at promoting the employment of youth (programme de jeunes
entrepreneurs), which offer young individuals some seed capital and provide
guidance on business and trade opportunities. For 1991, the National Fund for
the Employment of Youth is projected to receive an allocation totalling DA 5
billion from parafiscal taxes and a budgetary appropriation. A program
totalling DA 3.5 billion is already under way to provide jobs for youth,
including training, salaried jobs for new local initiatives and partial
financing of equipment for new entrepreneurs. Under the program, 130,000 new
jobs (split about equally between permanent and temporary positions) are being
created for young persons in small enterprises, handicrafts and services, in
part through the establishment of 10,000 cooperatives, while another 87,000
young persons are benefitting from training.
2.39        The introduction of severance pay benefits will facilitate the
redeployment of labor resulting from industrial restructuring. Moreover, the
Government has started to explore means for introducing a general unemployment
insurance scheme. In addition, it is examining the feasibility of achieving a
more effective coverage of the social security system, as well as a better
targeting of consumer subsidies.
2.40        While these longer-term systemic improvements are put in place, a
more pressing need is to tackle the social dimension of the proposed
restructuring of the large loss-making non-autonomous public enterprises. To
this end, agreement has been reached that, before the end of 1991, in
consultation with IMF and Bank staff, the Government will have defined the
criteria for meeting these social costs, including the basis on which they are
to be shared between the enterprise and the central budget.
2.41        Conclusion.  In sum, the Government's enterprise reform strategy
is based on the simultaneous pursuit of reforms in the following four areas.
First, corporatization of public enterprises is being implemented to enable
public enterprises to operate efficiently, according to commercial criteria,
in the emerging market economy. Sacond, the problem of large loss-makers is
being addressed directly so that they do not contaminate the rest of the
system and so that the losses can be quickly contained while longer-term
solutions are being designed and implemented. Third, barriers to the entry of
the private sector, whether domestic or foreign, are being removed under a
proactive program to promote the role of the private sector in the economy.



- 20 -
Fourth, the regulatory 'ramework is being reformed to provide a level playing
field for the public and private sectors in order to strengthen domestic
competition, through measures which include the liberalization of imports and
distribution systems.
PART III - THE FINANCIAL SECTOR REFORM PROGRAM
A.    Introduction
3.01        The preceding program of enterprise restructuring is a
precondition for any sustained improvement in the operation of the financial
sector in Algeria. This is mainly because the banks are so deeply enmeshed
with public enterprises, which account for about 60X of all outstanding
commercial bank loans. Thus, any sustained cleanup in the portfolio of banks
can only come about if PE performance is improved. But the linkage also runs
the other way, in that changes in the operating rules and practices of the
financial sector are themselves essential to enforce the financial discipline
which enterprises are now expected to observe. Moreover, reform of the
financial sector has a broader objective in terms of improved resource
mobilization, allocation and utilization, the control of inflation and the
rationalization of public finances. It is because of these linkages that the
Algerian authorities have embarked on parallel and integrated programs of
enterprise and financial sector reform. It is also these considerations which
guide the content and timing of the specific program of financial sector
reform measures to be supported by the proposed EFSAL.
B.    The Financial Sector Reform Program
3.02        Measures to reform the financial sector fall into five broad areas
which are discussed below. These cre: (a) enforcing the new clear rules
governing the relationship between the Treasury and the financial system, and
strengthening the Central Bank (Banque d'Alg6rie) in its capacity as regulator
of the financial sector; (b) rationalizing interest rate and credit policies
and making them more responsive to market forces; (c) establishing and
enforcing a new prudential and regulatory framework for the banking sector, as
well as the rules governing the creation and operation of banks; and (d)
restructuring the portfolio of existing banks.
(a)   Limiting the Role of the Treasury in the Financial Sector.
and Strengthening the Central Bank
3.03        A central element in the financial sector reform program has been
the change in the role of the Treasury vis-a-vis the Central Bank and
commercial banks. Until 1989, the role of the Central Bank was essentially
passive and subordinated to the requirements of the Treasury, which played a
direct role in the financing of enterprise investments and in bailing out
enterprises in financial difficulty. Due to a lack of restraints on the
Treasury's spending, it accumulated large debts to both the Central Bank and
commercial banks.
3.04        With the passage of the Law on Money and Credit ( M ), the Central
Bank now enjoys considerable autonomy, and the role of the Treasury has been



- 21 -
restrained. The rules of the game are clear. First, the Treasury has
discontinued the direct financing of new enterprise investments, which are
henceforth to be undertaken by the banks on market-based principles. Second,
past arrears of the Treasury to the commercial banks, and advances from the
Central Bank, are to be repaid. The first repayments will be financed by the
budget surplus, which results from devaluation-induced increases in petroleum
tax revenues and expenaiture restraint. In 1991, this balance will also be
used to repay some DA 10 billion of the Treasury's commercial bank debts. The
entire outstanding stock of debt to the Central Bank is to be repaid over
fifteen years. Finally, the LMC also imposes a statutory limit on the
repayment period of new Central Bank advances to the Treasury. New loans have
to be repaid within the year, or within 240 days, whichever comes first. Thus
the Treasury can no longer borrow on a year-to-year basis from the Central
Bank. Of even greater importance than the regulatory changes is the increased
authority bestowed on the Central Bank to empower it, for the first time, to
conduct an autonomous and effective monetary policy. The rules for appointing
the Governor of the Central Bank have been changed to protect his independence
and tenure of office. The President of the Republic appoints the Governor for
a six-year term (once renewable). The Governor can be removed only by an act
of the President on grounds of disability or gross misconduct. As a result,
the Central Bank has achieved a vastly enhanced independence, enabling it to
achieve a corresponding institutional strengthening over time.
3.05        The responsibility for implementing the ambitious program of
financial sector reform now rests largely on the Central Bank. An important
element of Bank support of the Algerian authorities' reform efforts in the
financial sector is, therefore, to help the Central Bank in carrying out its
own planned reorganization of management operations, staffing requirements and
training needs. The Central Bank has also benefitted from technical assistance
provided by the IMF in the areas of timely collection and analysis of monetary
data, as well as the preparation of draft bank accounting and auditing plans.
Staff training will be crucial, since the Central Bank will operate in a
different setting and with different instruments for which new skills,
hitherto in little demand, will be required. There is also a need to project
a stronger image to the banking sector. A draft modernization and
reorganization plan, complete with a new organizational structure and unit
tasks, was prepared at the beginning of 1991 and is expected to be finalized
shortly, including a detailed implementation timetable. Computerization will
be an important component of the modernization envisaged. In addition, the
plan will cover training and technical assistance needs, a related financing
plan, as well as a timetable for implementation. By early 1992, a review of
the execution of the modernization and reorganization plan will be carried out
and adjustments will be made in light of experience gained.
(b)   Interest Rate and Credit Policy
3.06        Since 1988, considerable progress has been made in moving away
from a system where virtually all credit was directed, monetary policy was
essentially passive, and interest rates highly negative. In particular, the
eligibility criteria for interest subsidies have been progressively tightened
and today limit these to a small number of activities. Moreover, as of May
1990, all interest subsidies have been explicitly budgeted in the Treasury's
accounts and the practice of Central Bank rediscounts at preferential rates



- 22 -
eliminated, thereby requiring banks to mobilize funds in order to provide
eligible borrowers with preferential borrowing terms. The 1990 budget
allocation for interest subsidies was not fully used. The total amount
budgeted for interest subsidies in 1991 is less than $35 million. In
parallel, the structure of interest rates has been rationalized and the levels
increased. Banks are now free to set deposit and lending rates for individual
clients, as long as they do not exceed a ceiling currently set at 20%, or
twice the Central Bank reference rate. In parallel, the Central Bank has also
acted to control the pace of credit expansion, aided by the substantial
repayment of Treasury debt to the Central Bank in 1990. The 1990 National
Credit Plan spelled out ambitious targets for credit expansion and deposit
mobilization, for each bank. Nevertheless, total credit to the economy grew
by 23% in 1990, with heavy reliance on Central Bank rediscounting by the
banking sector, because bank deposits increased more slowly than planned.
3.07        The twin objectives of controlling inflation and financing the
costs of enterprise and bank restructuring require a tighter and improved
management of monetary policy. A tighter credit policy is a keystone of the
standby agreed with the Fund. The intention is to limit the growth of broad
money (M2) to 12% in 1991, which will contribute to easing inflationary
pressures and will be achieved by the setting of quantitative credit ceilings.
Ceilings will also be set on the access of each bank to rediscounting (linked
to their performance in deposit mobilization) and on advances to the Treasury.
All these ceilings have been quantified on a quarterly basis and incorporated
into the standby agreement with the Fund. The means and incentives are thus
in place for the implementation of a tighter credit policy in 1991. The
squeeze will be on the public sector so as to leave room for increased credit
to the expanding private sector.
3.08        Despite this rapid progress over the last two years in moving to a
modern, market-oriented financial sector, the setting of the Central Bank's
rediscount rate is still an administrative, not a market-driven decision.
This has been addressed by the Fund program. Interest rate policy will be
reviewed with the objective of achieving more market-determined rates, which
are positive in real terms. More specifically the Government has committed
itself, as part of the Fund standby, to create conditions which will result in
banks paying positive real interest rates on term deposits by end-1991, as
measured by the inflation rate anticipated for 1992. The Central Bank
rediscount rate will, therefore, have to be adjusted in light of periodic
macroeconomic reviews. Upward pressure on interest rates will also be exerted
through a series of practical measures. For instance, the interest rate on
consolidated old bank claims on PEs will be negotiated freely within the
overall 20% ceiling, which will lead to higher rates. In parallel, the
rediscount rate will itself become more market-determined, as the Central Bank
limits the degree of its intervention on the interbank money market. This
will force the banks to compete harder to mobilize deposits, one consequence
of which will be higher deposit rates. The higher cost of bank resources will
inevitably be reflected in higher lending rates, the implicit objective being
the attainment of positive real lending rates, without which the past
administrative credit allocation system cannot be replaced by a market-based
system. A further implication is that all economic agents, whether public or
private, should face a hard budget constraint as reflected in credit priced by
market forces, with repayments made on schedule.



- 23 -
3.09        Reserve requirements have so far not been used by the Central
Bank. With a view to equipping itself with the full array of monetary policy
instruments to influence liquidity and interest rates, the Central Bank is
currently exploring means to introduce reserve requirements. Initially, these
would be set at a low and uniform level for all types of deposits. This would
give the Central Bank an additional potent instrument of indirect control over
credit.
3.10        Moreover, in order to encourage the development of financial
markets and instruments, the Government intends to make the necessary
preparations in 1991 to enable the issue of securities at competitive interest
rates (and create a secondary market in these securities), as well as the
issue of other financial instruments. The Government will also introduce,
during 1991, new regulations governing the money market, the primary aim of
which will be to open the market to insurance companies and to develop the
interbank market. Central Bank intervention on the money market is targeted
to be within an interest range of 10 to 15X in 1991, considerably higher, and
wider, than the 8-10 range preserved in 1990 through ample infusion of
liquidity. The role of the Central Bank as a liquidity supplier of last
resort will be correspondingly circumscribed during the transition period
(however, over the medium term, the Central Bank would become a significant
provider of liquidity by recycling the projected Treasury surpluses to the
commercial banks). Preparations are under way for the opening of a stock
exchange. The new Commercial Code, once approved, will authorize the issuing
and trading of many different forms of private securities and stocks.
Although public enterprise shares are expected to dominate the market
initially, over time, the stock exchange should be conducive to the
development of an active private capital market.
3.11        By the beginning of 1992, a new law will be prepared to define the
legal framework for a more liberalized insurance industry whereby the State's
current monopoly in this sector would cease. Other institutions that are
likely to emerge in the new liberalized environment include investment banks
and financial services companies, mutual funds, credit unions and private
pension funds. The broadening of the range of active financial institutions
will be particularly beneficial when complemented by the foreseen development
of new financial markets, where a greater diversity of financial instruments
are traded under competitive conditions, including eventually instruments
issued by non-financial institutions.
3.12          Finally, to encourage a better quality of banking services, the
prohibition on the establishment of foreign banks has been lifted. Three
major European banks have already set up local representative offices and one
new joint venture bank has recently been authorized with a Saudi business
group. The Government continues to encourage other foreign banks to establish
local offices and subsidiaries.
(c) Establishing a Prudential. Regulatory and Auditing Framework
3.13        The LMC provides the Central Bank with the mandate and
responsibility for establishing the prudential and regulatory framework for
the banking sector. So far, progress in this area has been limited by the



- 24 -
need to strengthen the Central Bank's own capacity to develop and apply such a
framework and by the more pressing need to tackle the problems of portfolio
quality and liquidity management of the banking sector. However, the Central
Bank recognizes that action in this regard has now become a precondition for
providing the banks (and through them, their clients) with clear operat4ng
rules and regulations. It also recognizes that whatever framework is adopted
as an ultimate objective, its application will necessarily have to be
progressive to take account of the starting situation, both in terms of the
banks' financial condition and the time required to develop the necessary
expertise in this field, as well as the current lack of transparency in bank
accounts. With the help of specialized international consultants and the
input of Bank staff, the Central Bank has therefore developed the following
program covering bank certification, accounting, auditing and prudential
regulations.
3.14        Certification.  All banks will need new certification to continue
to operate. A temporary certification is targeted to be completed by September
1991. The certification will not be granted as a matter of course, but will
be used to enforce standards. The new certification rules spell out entry
conditions, standards of bank operations and competition, as well as exit
conditions. Banks are encouraged to break out of the straightJacket of
exclusive customer assignments and hence diversify their portfolios while
increasing competition. As a prelude to receiving final certification, each
bank will have to be audited and demonstrate that it has embarked on a program
to make the internal changes in policies, practices and skills development
which will enable it to compete effectively in a different environment. This
will take the form of an action program comprising: first, a portfolio
restructuring plan synchronized with the envisaged financial and industrial
restructuring of major PEs (autonomous and non-autonomous) in order to deal
with the problems of the past, and second, a strategy and development plan,
including better credit evaluation and portfolio monitoring, in order to
address the challenges of the future. Two banks have already submitted
proposals to the Central Bank concerning the assessment of their portfolio
problems and a strategy weighing alternative options to address this problem.
The proposals also comprise a strategy for the concomitant organization and
development of operations, including the monitoring of loan portfolios.
3.15        During 1991, decisions will also be taken with regard to the rules
and operating procedures for two specialized financial agencies - the Algerian
Development Bank (BAD) and the housing finance bank (CNEP). Both BAD and CNEP
will be streamlined by spinning off quasi-fiscal functions, hitherto handled
on behalf of the Treasury, to autonomous state financial agencies. This will
enhance transparency, diminish multiplicity of objectives and enable the
Treasury to concentrate on fiscal matters.
3.16        Accounting and Auditing.  A new accounting system for banks is an
indispensable component of the reform and development of the banking system.
The accounting system will have to provide for a transparent recording of
costs, revenues, profits and risks against a background of commercial
operating criteria. It will thus provide a critical instrument for a more
objective assessment of resource mobilization costs, credit risks and, over
time, the profitability of a wider range of financial instruments.



- 25 -
3.17        The Central Bank is currently preparing, with the assistance of
international consultants, an action program for the introduction of a new
accounting system for banks and accompanying audit regulations. As a first
step, the Central Bank will issue guidelines in the coming weeks, which spell
out the contents and timetable for the application of new bank accounting
standards. This will comprise: (a) the preparation of a table of equivalency
defining the exact meaning of each entry in each bank's current accounting
system, and (b) standardized published financial statements for each bank,
beginning with the accounts of 1991.
3.18        After review, the new accounting standards, including instructions
for their application, will be implemented by the banks from beginning 1992.
This will be followed by gradual movement toward a new accounting system for
banks, consistent with international norms, to be fully implemented by 1994.
The financial statements of banks will be audited externally according to
international standards, starting with the statements for 1992, but
provisional audits will be carried out on 1991 financial statements in early
1992.
3.19        Prudential Regulations.  On the basis of the new IMC, the Central
Bank has started to prepare new prudential regulations. As an intermediate
step toward the adoption of international norms, minimum capital/risk asset
ratios of 31 for 1991 and 4X for 1992 have already been adopted. Funds
amounting to DA 8.8 billion have been set aside in this year's budget to
finance the projected bank recapitalization necessary to reach the ratio for
1991 and a further recapitalization of DA 2.0 billion is foreseen in 1992 to
achieve the 4% target. The aim is to reach, by 1995, the international BIS
norm of a minimum of 81 for the capital/risk assets ratio (weighted according
to risk evaluation criteria) V. A draft instruction has been prepared
defining the full scope of prudential regulations to be enforced. In addition
to the capital adequacy norms set out above, the instruction covers the
following areas:
Mi) Risk concentration: Loans to any one beneficiary may not exceed 301
of total bank capital. This is higher than the international norm, but it is
a significant first step in an economy which only recently had exclusive
assignment of clients to banks. The Algerian authorities have indicated that
they expect this ratio to be brought down to international levels in the
medium-term and will establish a timetable to this end.
(ii) Risk classification and grovisioning: Risky assets are defined to
encompass three categories: claims with potential problems (3-6 month delays
in interest payments), very risky claims (6 months - 1 year), and compromised
claims (more than 1 year). Provisioning guidelines are set on these risks
(101, 301 and 100l respectively). The new prudential regulations will be
implemented progressively from the start of 1992. A transition period of
about three to four years is foreseen for the banks to meet fully the new
prudential requirements based on international norms. These will include the
>/   The objective is to adopt the recommendations of the Cooke Commission
that elaborated the norms, weighing criteria etc. since adopted by the
BIS.



- 26 -
discontinuance of the accrual of interest on doubtful assets. The implication
of the programmed tightening of prudential rules, and complementary hanges in
the regulatory framework, is that banks will progressively be induce" to
allocate credit on the basis of commercial criteria.
3.20        The strengthening of bank inspection will proceed in parallel with
the other changes in the regulatory framework. The Central Bank has recently
prepared an action program for bank inspection, which covers the rules to
apply, and training and recruitment needs of the Central Bank's Inspection
Department. Progress in the implementation of the program will be reviewed
before end-1991. The autonomy the banks have been granted will thereby be
counterbalanced by an effective inspection system to ensure that the new
regulations are followed and abuses prevented.
(d)   Restructuring the Portfolio of EXisting Banks
3.21        Financial restructuring of the banking sector is a complex and
difficult process in any context, but it is particularly so in the case of
Algeria for a number of reasons. First, because the issue here is not the
restructuring of the portfolio of one or more banks, but of all the banks.
Second, because the restructuring entails the cleaning up not of a few problem
clients in each bank, but the majority of their clients. Third, because the
extent of existing losses is hidden by the absence of any commonly followed or
clear rules governing loan classification. Fourth, because the ability of the
public enterprises to repay part of their outstanding loans is clouded by
their own inadequate accounting. And fifth, because the financial situation
of enterprises and banks is undergoing rapid change, itself the result of the
implementation of the reform and macro-economic stabilization program. In
particular, enterprises will experience improvements in their cash flow
through widespread price liberalization, but both they, and the banks, will
suffer from devaluation to the extent that they hold loans denominated in
foreign currency. Some enterprises will also experience financial
difficulties in the face of increased competition from imports and the
expanding domestic private sector, as a result of the accelerated pace of
trade and price liberalization, and more competitive access to foreign
exchange and credit.
3.22        Given these factors, the Algerian authorities recognize that the
financial rehabilitation of the banking sector cannot be achieved
instantaneously. The urgency of securing effi_ent market-based financial
intermediation at the earliest possible date has to be set against the
inclination to proceed gradually with the complex and delicate rehabilitation
of the banking sector. In its absence, the anticipated supply response will
not materialize, and the return to sustained, rapid and non-inflationary
growth will be correspondingly postponed. Hence a trade-off is unavoidable.
Given the issues at stake, the relative emphasis will have to be on the speedy
financial rehabilitation of the banking sector. Ultimately, the banks will
only be financially sound when the bulk of their clients have attained some
degree of financial stability.
3.23        Nevertheless, because the process cannot be instantaneous, the
Government also recognizes that some interim rules of the game must be put in
place to govern the relationship of banks and enterprises during the period of



- 27 -
transition. These rules, which will guide the design of the specific
financial restructuring measures adopf!ed by the Algerian authorities for the
next two years, attempt to reflect tb following principles. First, the
timely repayment of external foreign currency loans by banks and enterprises
must be ensured to protect the country's overall creditworthiness. Second,
the banking sector must have access to enough liquidity to permit the economy
to function, but not so much that the overall ceilings on monetary expansion
are threatened. Third, all new transactions between banks and public
enterprises should take place on the basis of arms-length commerciality to
foster the behavioral change that the reform program is trying to instil in
both groups of actors.  And fourth, the stock of past bad debts should be
isolated and progressively replaced by performing assets, but in a manner
which encourages the real restructuring of the non-performing enterprises. In
particular, given the past experience of financial restructuring programs in
Algeria, the Government is especially concerned to avoid a situation where a
wholesale write-down of assets and liabilities is seen by enterprise and bank
managers as obviating the need for any further operational or management
improving action on their partV. A critical outcome of the restructuring
process is to impose hard budget constraints on both enterprises and banks.
Cleaning up the excesses of the past, with no tightening of future discipline,
will address only symptoms and not underlying causes, thereby buying only
temporary, and costly, relief.
3.24        The preceding four rules have two major implications.  First,
criteria will have to be spelled out for ensuring the availability of
resources to meet the future incremental flows, while developing mechanisms to
control these flows. Second, precise procedures will have to be defined for
the treatment of past debt stocks.
3.25        As regards the flows, the Government's principal concern is to set
aside the bulk of the Treasury surplus resulting from devaluation for
financing part of the additional foreign debt service needs of enterprises, as
well as the costs of the proposed restructuring of enterprises and banks. To
acnieve this, it has created a Restructuring Fund which will receive an
estimated DA 16.9 billion from this year's budget. The amount is based on an
exchange rate of DA 16.2/US$l but will increase as further exchange rate
adjustment is pursued during 1991. This fund will be used to inject DA 8.8
billion into the banks as part of their initial recapitalization-'. The
remainder has been set aside for meeting the incremental foreign debt
servicing and restructuring needs of public enterprises during 1991. Although
the disbursements from the Restructuring Fund will be in the form of grants,
they are not to be confounded with subsidies to cover continuing
inefficiencies and losses. As part of a package of measures to impose a hard
i/    There have been attempts to improve the performance of public
enterprises through financial restructuring alone in the past, most
notably in 1982. These attempts failed because they did not address the
underlying causes of poor financial performance at the level of the
enterprise or in the economy at large.
2/    This sum will be allocated to each bank in a manner that enables them to
meet the 3X capital adequacy ratio set for 1991.



- 28 -
budget constraint on enterprises and banks, while meeting temporary needs
during the transition period, disbursements from the Restructuring Fund will
be linked to the elaboration of restructuring plans. In particular,
disbursements will be subject to the recipient proving that it will be able to
operate profitably in competitive markets upon its restructuring. Repetitive
bailouts are not to be permitted. Intrinsically unprofitable enterprises, or
production lines, will have to be liquidated.
3.26          In parallel to the restructuring, budgetary funds will be used to
redeem DA 5.5 billion of treasury bonds held by the banks in an attempt to
alleviate their immediate liquidity problems. A further DA 3.2 billion has
been set aside to mitigate the social costs of industrial restructuring, with
disbursement categories and criteria to be defined by end-1991. These
resources should provide at least some cushion to the Algerian authorities
during the immediate future, as the first effects of devaluation and trade and
price liberalization are felt in the enterprise sector. An estimate of the
various flows of funds in support of enterprise and financial sector
restructuring during 1991 is shown in Table 3.1 below. The numbers shown have
been incorporated into the standby negotiated with the Fund.
Table 3.1 : Algeria: Accounting Framework for Financial Flows for Enterprise and Bank Restructuring: 1991 (DA billion)
1        2           3           4            5
Sources of finaUncin  Budget  Restructu- Social Programs Commercial  Treasury and     Treasury
Allocation ring Fund  in Support of    Bank    Investment           Bonds
Industrial    Credit   bonds (interest  TOTAL  (provi-
Uses of funds I                       Restructuring              paid and           sioning)
(Treasury)              redemption by
the Treasury)
1. Autonaomous PEs (FdP)  4.5         4             0       28.Sa/         0.2    37.2
i) Restructuring        4.5         4
and financial                                                                   0
clean-up
ii) Financing                                             28.5
Requirements
iii) Interest Recei v                                                    0.2      0.2
on Treasury Bonds
2. Non-autonomous PEs( )    0         9              0       6.5             0     15.5
i) Restructuring                    1                                              1
ii) Sigher Debt                     5                                              5
Service in Dinars
(10 enterprises)
iii) Financing                      3                     6.5                    9.5
Requirements
3. Social Costs             0         0            3.2         0             0      3.21
4. Banks                    0        8.8            0          0           5.5 b/  14.3
i) RecapitaLizatiou               8.8                                            8.8
ii) Maturing Treasury                                                    5.5     5.5
& Investment Bondi
iii) Treasury Bonds in                                                              0    12.9
Replacement of Debt
Write-off$ (claims
on dissolved PRO
S. Total for the Year     4.5       21.8           3.2        35           5.7    70.2    12.9
S. Carry-over               0       -4.9            0          0             0    -4.9
TOTAL                      4.5      16.9           3.2        35           5.7    65.3
a/ Credit to the economy, excluding credit to the 22 nen-autonomous PEs.
b/ of which: DA 3.1 billion Treasury bonds and DA 2.5 billion investment bonds.
Source:     Conseil National de la Planification, minist4re de L'Econcmie et Banque d'Algdrie.



- 29 -
3.27        Tackling the issue of the stock of past debts, is a more complex
and drawn out affair. In the first instance, the Algerian authorities have
adopted an approach that differs across three types of public enterprises--
those which are no longer in existence, but whose loans remain on the balance
sheets of the banks; the twenty-two large loss-making PEs which are being
treated through a special program; and the remaining, autonomous public
enterprises. Table 3.2 below summarizes the preliminary breakdown of the
outstanding loans in the three preceding groups. The first group, i.e.,
enterprises which were dissolved some years ago, represent around DA 34
billion or 14X of all outstanding bank loans. These loans have not generated
any interest for some years (although the banks have continued to account for
this by increasing the nominal loan amount). These loans will be replaced by
non-interest bearing Treasury bonds of equivalent nominal value redeemable
only on maturity, in twenty years. In essence, this amounts to a partial
write-off of these loans against a no-risk asset of lower value11. In terms
of liquidity this has no immediate impact on the banks, since the bonds are
currently non-negotiable.
L/   The precise current value of the bonds depends on the projections of
interest rates and inflation over the next twenty years. For
provisioning purposes, the banks will write off bA 12.9 billion in the
first year and 5X cumulatively in each subsequent year. The annual
write-offs are tax deductible, which, with a profit tax of 502, means
that the effective yield of the bonds is 7.52 for banks with taxable
income.



- 30 -
Table 3.2 :        hLGERIA: Bank Claims on the Economy (Notionally Short-Term)
End-1990 (millions of Dinars) I/
Category of Claims         BEA   BDA    CPA   BADR    8DL   Total
Claims an Dissolved Enterprises
(All to be Consolidated)  10,549  2,417   2,406  13,845  5,047  34.264
Claims on Non-Autonomous
Lose-Making Enterprises 2/    17,405  24,114  8.877  1,042   6,195  57,633
Normal Credits         6,537  5,833  2,728    975   3,276  19,349
Credits to be Consolidated 10,868  18,281  6,149  67  2,920  38,285
Claims on Autonomous
Loss-Making Enterprises    3,211   5,664  20,356  4,390    682  34,303
Normal Credits         2,948   3,867  8,186  4,028    -    19,029
Credits to be Consolidated  263   1,797  12,170    362    682  15,274
Sub-Total                 31,165  32,195  31,639  19,277  11,924 126,200
Other Claims
(Public and Private)      18,174  34,612  25,754  43,515  2,384 124,439
Total                     49,339  66,807  57,393  62,792  14,308 250,639
Of Which: Credits to be Cleaned Up
or Consolidated
In Dinars             21,680  22,495  20,725  14,274   8,649  87,823
In Percent of Total    43.94X  33.672  36.112  22.73X  60.452  35.04S
In Percent of GDP       4.50X  4.672  4.30X  2.96X   1.792  18.222
i/ End-October for BEA, BNA and CPA; end-November for BDL and end-December for BADR.
2/ Including local public enterprises and pilot farms.
3/ Short-term credits (overdrafts) exceeding nine moths of the turnover of the previous
year (1988 or 1989).
Source: Benque d'Algerie.
3.28         In terms of active public enterprises, the approach is to separate
that part of their existing debt which they should be able to service
normally, and that which they are clearly not in a position to service. In
the case of the former, as well as for all new lending to PEs, the banks will
be obliged to apply commercial lending criteria. Since the banks are already
autonomous and responsible for their financial performance, they have, a
pri.ori, the means and incentives to operate accordingly. The non-serviceable
Aebt will be set aside or consolidated separately.    Banks will cease to
accrue interest on this portion of the debt. A further sub-classification is
made for the 22 large loss-makers where, until their financial condition can
be stabilized, all repayments and interest will be guaranteed by the Treasury.
Obviously, any such attempt to separate outstanding enterprise loans into
serviceable or non-serviceable categories is subject to a large margin of
error. The Government's rationale for doing so is to maintain some financial
pressure on the enterprises to encourage the real restructuring, which many of
them need. Final decisions on debt consolidation or other Treasury funds
injection will be taken in the context of the approved restructuring plans for
these enterprises. The specific procedures to be following in this regard are
as follows:
(i)   For the non-autonomous enterprises, whose loans amount to some DA
58 billion or 20X of total bank credit:
-     By end-April, the enterprises and the banks arrived at a
final number for end-1990 credits (overdrafts).



- 31 -
-     The next step will be to determine the amount of serviceable
loana (expected to be between six to nine month's turnover).
The interest rate on these and new loans will be negotiated
between the bank and the enterprise within the prevailing
overall ceiling (currently at 20X).
-     The amount of credit in excess of normal credits will be
frozen for up to a maximum of two years (since the bulk of
the bank portfolio restructuring is targeted to be completed
within two years). The enterprise will be relieved of any
financial charges on these credits. The banks will receive a
management commission on these credits from the
Restructuring Fund. At the end of the freeze period, the
Treasury will buy the non-collectable bank claims on the
enterprises as determined in the context of their
restructuring programs.
-     New bank credits will be strictly limited to indispensable
operating requirements and supported by a Treasury
guarantee. New loans to the 22 enterprises will be subject
to a restrictive ceiling until they are made autonomous.
(ii) The resolution of the problems of loans to non-performing
autonomous PEs will also be worked out over a two-year period.
Their outstanding credits at end-1990 have been provisionally
estimated at DA 34.3 billion or 14X of total bank credit:
-     By end-April, the enterprises and the banks agreed on a
final number of end-1990 credits.
-     Normal operating credits will be determined on the basis of
six to nine months' turnover. The excess credit will be
consolidated by the banks into medium and long-term credits.
The interest rate charged on all credits will be negotiated
between the bank and the enterprise within the prevailing
overall ceiling (currently at 20X).
-     Subsequently, the enterprises are to elaborate restructuring
programs to be reviewed by the banks and the Funds before
adoption.
-     In conjunction with the implementation of the enterprise
restructuring program, the following measures are foreseen:
- A portion of the consolidated credit is to be replaced by
bonds or revenue-sharing instruments issued by the
enterprise.
- A portion of enterprise claims on public agencies and
local governments will be replaced by Treasury bonds.
- Recapitalization will take place through transfers from
the Participation Funds.
3.29        The impact of the portfolio restructuring measures adopted for



- 32 -
1991 on bank liquidity, and their ability to extend credit from own resources,
is hard to gauge in the absence of banks' financial statements beyond end-
1989. The Central Bank has, however, requested that the banks urgently make a
projection of the impact on their 1991 financial results of the full set of
economic reforms and adjustment measures adopted. At this stage, it can be
noted that the bank portfolio restructuring will generally replace notionally
higher-yielding but de facto non-performing assets by actually lower-yielding
but de fgato performing assets (for instance as non-performing loans are
replaced by Treasury bonds). This cannot but improve bank liquidity. In
addition, the targeted recapitalization of banks of DA 8.8 billion, and
Treasury repayment of bank debt of DA 10 billion (of which DA 5.5 billion will
be in maturing Treasury and equipment bonds) will improve bank liquidity
further.
3.30        The proposed EFSAL aims to aid the Algerian authorities with the
design and implementation of this program of financial restructuring and
reform. The Bank has already reviewed the proposed program with the
Government, and will be further assisting with the implementation, through the
initiation of detailed studies of commercial bank portfolios, including their
risk classification and an examination of off-balance sheet items. It must be
recognized that the framework established for bank and enterprise
restructuring in 1991 is the first phase of a longer program. As such, it
constitutes an evolving process, building on the foundation laid by the 1989
Economic Reform Support Loan and the 1990 Technical Assistance Loan. The
program will consequently be refined as further details of the banks'
situation become available, and restructuring progresses. The test of this
framework will be in how strictly these criteria are applied to prevent the
bailout of enterprises for social or political reasons. To measure the
performance of the various actors, a review will be carried out in early 1992
of the decisions made by the Participation Furds which involve the transfer of
additional resources to enterprises in difficulty, either from the Funds' own
capital or in conjunction with disbursements from the Restructuring Fund
itself.
(e)   Reform Implementation
3.31        The implementation of the broad and deep restructuring program
that the Algerian authorities have made their near-term objective is bound to
strain the political, social and economic fabric of society, even under
favorable macroeconomic conditions and with external financial and technical
support. Devising, implementing and co-ordinating the multi-faceted reforms
fol   on will tax the managerial and administrative capabilities of the state
machittery. The implementation of the envisioned enterprise and financial
sector restructuring will have to proceed on parallel tracks, given the strong
interdependencies between the two sectors. Careful co-ordination and
sequencing of the reforms will be needed. To this end, the Government has
established an inter-ministerial working group to co-ordinate, monitor and
evaluate reform implementation in the enterprise and financial sectors. The
National Planning Commission chairs the meetings of the group, which includes
representatives from the Central Bank, the Treasury, and the Ministries of
Industry and Social Affairs. A number of government staff are working full
time for the group, which has created topic-specific subcommittees. Within
the Central Bank, a Strategy Committee, including managers of commercial



- 33 -
banks, is in charge of preparing the financial sector reforms.
3.32        Although the preparation and implementation of reforms have
temporarily added burdens on the state administrative machinery, some reforms
have already removed administrative burdens. The comprehensive price, import
and foreign exchange liberalization has greatly reduced the need for
administrative regulation and oversight, while at the same time opening up new
opportunities for priva:e sector activities. The removal of import monopolies
held by industrial PEs has curtailed their multiplicity of objectives and
offered new business opportunities for private operators.
3,33        To support reform implementation, both the Bank and the Fund are
pursuing ar active program of technical assistance (TA) to Algeria. In
particular, the Bank's US$26 million Technical Assistance Project encompasses
three components: (i) TA to the Ministry of the Economy, covering training,
computerization, and a national cadastre; (ii) TA to financial sector
agencies, covering support to the central bank, banking training, audit
training, and a pilot audit program; and (iii) a number of studies covering,
inter alia, price liberalization and the incentive structure for non-
traditional exports. In addition, Algeria has received extensive TA from the
Fund in the area of tax reform, and many of the Fund's recommendations have
been reflected in the blueprints for a new value added tax and a global
personal income tax that were recently introduced in the 1991 Finance Law.
Currently, the Fund is also pressing ahead with TA in: (i) the development of
monetary policy instruments; (ii) the collection, organization and processing
of monetary, public finance, and balance of payments statistics, and (iii) the
rationalization of consumer subsidies.



- 34 -
PART IV - THE PROPOSED LOAN
A.    Macroeconomic Context and Outlook
4.01        Oyerview.  The medium-term policy framework that provides the
macroeconomic context for the proposed operation has been prepared jointly
with the Algerian authorities and the IMF. For 1991, the monetary, fiscal and
exchange rate policies underpinning the projections, as well as the oil price,
have all been agreed with the Fund and incorporated into the proposed 1991
standby. Mainly because of institutional differences with respect to the
future course of oil prices after 1991, the projections of the Bank and the
Fund are not identical, but agree in most essential aspects.
4.02        The medium-term outlook for Algeria is sensitive to four major
factors: (i) the evolution of world oil prices; (ii) the speed of reform
implementation, in particular, sustained import liberalization, domestic price
decontrol, and enterprise reform; (iii) the degree of macroeconomic
discipline; and (iv) the success of external debt management efforts.
Following the resolution of the Gulf crisis, the average price for Algerian
crude dropped sharply before stabilizing in real terms. Nevertheless,
provided economic reform is pursued vigorously, improving economic efficiency
is expected to spur 3%-4X annual growth over the medium term, despite a tight
balance of payments. Restoring sustained growth will also require continued
macroeconomic discipline to help contain inflationary pressures set off by
reform and maintain external balance as oil prices fall. Moreover, with some
US$6 billion in projected average annual MLT principal repayments over the
next three years, growth canno_ be sustained without continued access to
external capital. Ensuring this will necessitate improved external debt
management, including near-term refinancing of financial credits.
4.03        In the immediate future, a combination of lower world oil prices
and higher debt service payments is expected to exacerbate already tight
external resource constraints, especially in 1991-92. In 1991, the average
price for Algerian crude is projected to fall to US$20 per barrel from over
US$24 in 1990 (see Table 4.1), resulting in a sharp drop in the terms of
trade. Assuming oil prices remain constant in real terms thereafter,W the
terms of trade are expected to stabilize at 1989 levels by 1992, eliminating
the gains realized in 1990. In addition, annual debt service payments are
projected to average US$8 billion over the next two years. While strong
growth in non-hydrocarbon exports and improved debt management are expected to
gradually reduce the debt service ratio, the balance of payments will remain
fragile through 1995.
2/    After 1991, the average Algerian crude price is held constant vis-&-vis
Bank staff projections of the G5 manufacturing unit value (MUV) index.



- 35 -
Table 4.1                 Algeria: External Resource Constraints, 1887-95
1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994  1995
-----actual------- prelim. -------------projected-----------
Algerian Crude Price (US$ bbl)     18.5  16.2  18.5  24.2  20.0  20.2  20.1  20.5  21.2
Terms of Trade (1980-100)           56   46   49   81   54   49   49   49   50
MLT Debt Service (USS billions) _/  5.4  6.3  7.1  7.9  8.3  7.6  7.4  7.2  7.1
MLT Debt Service/XGS                542  71S  68X  58S  642  532  482  432  392
I/ Bank staff figures except for 1991 which is authorities' estimate; includes IDF.      l
Source: Algerian autborities and WB estimates.
4.04          Given the external resource constraints facing Algeria, the
authorities are committed to raising the efficiency of import use, which is
essential to restoring growth. Following a period of accelerated depreciation
of the exchange rate (see Table 4.2) and the elimination of state-sanctioned
trading monopolies, the authorities have recently dismantled the system of
administered foreign exchange allocation and greatly liberalized the import
regime (see paras. 2.11-2.13). The pursuit of an active exchange rate policy
and the liberalization of the exchange and trade regimes, with the aim of
unifying the official and parallel exchange markets and extending dinar
convertibility to cover most current transactions by early 1992, are key
elements of the reform program.
Table 4.2           Algeria: Exchange Rate Adjustment, 1987-91
(in percent)
1987   1988   1989   1990  1991 a/
-----    actual-------------------- prelim.
Nominal Devaluation          3.12  22.02  28.68  51.82  45.72
Real Eff. Devaluation k/    11.82  17.22  14.4X  29.32  27.62
Parallel Rate/Official Rate c/   5.2    5.2    4.6    2.4    n.a.
2/ 1991 through March.
h/ Note that the real effective exchange rate is defined here as foreign currency units
per unit of domestic currency. Thus, assuming no change in domestic or foreign
prices, a 501 real devaluation signifies that a unit of foreign currency buys twice
as much domestic currency as before.
9/ Parallel rates from "Currency Alert"', end-year.
Source: Algerian authorities and "Currency Alert"
4.05          Driven by higher utilization of installed productive capacity as
foreign exchange use improves, GDP is projected to expand at a rate of 3% in
1991, rising to over 3.5% by 1993 (see Table 4.3), despite the unfavorable
outlook for world oil prices and the heavy debt service burden.$2 Over the
medium term, the supply-side effects of on-going domestic price liberalization
and enterprise restructuring--supported by continued macroeconomic adjustment-
IQ/   Note that this growth forecast of official GDP does not take into
account eventual unification of (any) unmeasured parallel market
production with official output.



- 36 -
-are expected to sustain restored growth, with GDP expanding at an annual rate
of some 4.41 by 1995. After a slowdown in 1991, due mainly to a fall in the
value of crude exports from 1990's abnormally high level, total exports are
projected to increase at a robust 5-6X annual pace over the medium term,
spurred by strong growth in natural gas exports and some devaluation-induced
expansion of non-traditional exports. In contrast, as foreigri exchange use
improves, and per capita food imports return to historical levels, imports are
projected to grow more slowly, allowing current account balance to be restored
by 1993. The combination of GDP growth and increasing efficiency is projected
to generate accelerating per capita consumption growth, with per capita
consumption expanding by some 21 annually after 1993, once external balance is
restored.
Table 4.3                     Algeria: Impact of Key Reforme, 1987-95
1987 1988 1989 1990 1991 1992 1993  1994 1995
-----actual------- prelim. ------------projected -----------
GDP Growth Rate               -0.7$ -2.1S 3.41 1.1Z 3.01  3.51  3.62  4.01  4.42
Export (WRPS) Growth Rate     5.42  3.32 6.71 5.61  0.61  6.11  6.31  5.32 5.62
Import (GNFS) Growth Rate 2/  -17.41 -2.02  5.32 -1.82 -0.72  1.52 2.52  4.21 4.81
Current Account Balance/GDP   0.21 -3.81 -2.22 2.51 -0.72 -1.42  0.12  0.92  1.51
Conmanption/Per Cap. Growth Rate  -10.62 -0.61  1.72 -2.9  3.82 0.72  1.72  1.92  2.12
s& Includes imnortationa sasna uaiment
Source: Aherian authorities and RB estimates.
4.06        To help ensure a strong supply response, the key objectives for
macroeconomic policy will be to: (i) contain price pressures generated by
exchange and price liberalization to avoid a subsequent inflationary spiral,
and (ii) rapidly restore external balance in the face of lower oil prices.
Bolstered by devaluation-induced increases in petroleum tax revenues, Treasury
budgetary revenues are projected to exceed 351 of GDP in 1991, and reach
near1! 421 by 1992, compared with about 321 in 1990 (see Table 4.4).
Including payments to the Restructuring Fund, one-time salary increases in
1991, and the establishment of a Social Fund (equal to about 0.51 of GDP in
1991, rising to 31 in 1992 and thereafter), expenditures are also projected to
increase sharply, exceeding 331 of GDP in 1991 and reaching 371 by 1992,
compared with aboit 281 in 1990. Nonetheless, a tight fiscal stance,
including government wage restraint, is expected to generate budget surpluses.
reaching nearly 51 of GDP in 1992, increasing to some 61 by 1993. Provided
real exchange rate adjustment is sustained and expenditure restraint
continues, large budget surpluses on the order of 51-6X of GDP should continue
through 1995.



- 37 -
Table 4.4                    Algeria: Macroeconomic AdJustment, 1987-95
(in shares of GDP)
1987  1986  1989  1990  9lSl  1992  1993  1994  1995
------actual--------- prelim. -------------- projected--------------
Treasury Budget
Revenues W            29.71  29.51  31.1t 31.71  35.6Z  41.7Z  43.52  43.71  44.4Z
o/f Petroleum Tax Revenue  6.51  7.61  12.2Z  15.81  20.8X  26.11  27.8X  27.71  28.22
JIzpenditures         33.21  37.8X  33.31  28.1S  33.21  37.01  37.21  37.86  38.3S
)8udget Deficit (-)   -3.51  -8.3S  -2.21  3.61  2.41  4.71  6.32  5.81  6.11
monetary Survey
Net Foreign Assets    2.91  2.91  1.71  1.31  2.12  4.2S  5.91  7.2X  8.71
Credit to Government    39.41  46.51  47.71  34.71  24.51  14.01  4.61  -2.41  -8.41
Credit to Iconaey    57.81  60.62  51.91  50.92  40.51  54.21  83.91  689.5  74.32
o/w CB advances to Banks  5.81  5.31  8.21  13.71  12.41  16.62  22.21  26.01  28.92
Honey (H2)            82.52  92.51  62.31  72.31  56.21  51.21  50.01  50.OX  50.0O
Net Other Items      17.61  17.51  19.11  14.6S  10.91  21.21  24.32  24.31  24.61
Nominal GDP (DA billions) 312.7  316.8  374.3  481.9  692.1  617.8  938.3 1073.1 1235.8
^/ All GDP ratios are current price ratios.
Source: Algerian authorities and WB estimates.
4.07         Recycling Treasury surpluses through the Central Bank will
provide monetary policymakers with the resources to reduce the level of
liquidity without overly squeezing credit to the economy. Under these
circumstances, broad money is expected to fall rapidly from over 70X of GDP in
1990 to 501 by 1993, thereby greatly easing latent inflationary pressures.
Nonetheless, driven by Central Bank advances to commercial banks, credit to
the economy is projected to rebound strongly, exceeding the level of 1990 by
some 3X of GDP by 1992, thereby avoiding a monetary-induced slowdown in
growth. As the money supply stabilizes in 1993, a pattern of recycling of
Treasury surpluses through the banking system is projected to persist over the
medium term, serving as a crucial source of finance for an expanding private
sector and newly restructured, autonomous PEs.
4.08         Table 4.5 presents the savings-investment balances consistent
with this medium-term outlook. The extent of fiscal adjustment since 1988 is
clear. From a net deficit of over 81 of GDP in 1988, the Treasury ran a net
surplus of almost 41 in 1990. As noted, this adjustment is expected to
continue. Driven by higher revenues and government wage restraint, annual
Treasury savings are projected to rise sharply, exceeding 181 of GDP in 1992
and stabilizing at about that level through 1995. Transfers to the
Restructuring Fund are targeted at some 2.51 of GDP in 1991 and are projected
to continue at this level through 1995 as slower physical restructuring
gradually takes the place of faster financial restructuring. Treasury
investment is projected to stabilize at around 10 of GDP, following a gradual
reduction from over 121 in 1987 and higher levels in earlier years. The end
result is that the net Treasury surplus is projected to reach 4.5X of GDP in
1992, increasing to 61 by 1995.



- 38 -
Table 4.5     Algeria: t4acroeconomic Balances, 1987-95
(in shares of GDP)
1987  1988  1989  1990  1951  1992  1993  1994  1995
------- actual -------- prelim . ------------------projected---------
Gtoss InvestAent       30.2S  30.51  31.01 32.61 32.31  31.51  29.7Z 28.61 27.71
Treasury Savings /      8.8  5.41  9.71  13.6X  10.01 18.21  19,41  18.71  18.71
AUlocation to the
Restructuring Fnd       --   --   --   --  2.4X  2.41  2.4X  2.41  2.41
Treasury Investment    12.21  13.71  11.8X  10.01 11.21  11.11  10.72  10.51  10.21
Won-Goverament Savings /  21.61 21.21  19.1S  21.51  15.71  12.01  10.41  10.71  10.51
Ion-Government Investment a   17.91  16.8X  19.21 22.61 18.71  18.0X  16.61  15.71  15.11
Current Account Deficit  -0.21  3.81  2.21 -2.51  0.71  1.41  -0.11  -0.91  -1.51
^/ Before allocations to the Restructuring Fund.
k Includes P1s.
Source: Algerian authorities and WB estimates.
4.09        Simultaneously, as rationing is eliminated in domestic markets
and firms face higher foreign exchange losses, non-government savings will
fall significantly. Although non-government investment is also expected to
decline steadily as efficiency gains are realized, the non-government sector
is projected to run a deficit of some 3X of GDP in 1991, increasing to 6X by
1992. In the near term, the non-government deficit is expected to more than
offset the Treasury surplus, generating modest current account deficits of
under 1X in 1991 and 1.5X in 1992. However, over time, more efficient import
allocation, real devaluaUion, and fiscal adi.stment together with better
external debt management, will further reditc the demand for foreign savings.
Consequently, the current account is expec - to improve gradually after 1992,
reaching balance in 1993 and a surplus equ z.vlent to 1.51 of GDP by 1995.
4.10        Financing Requirements.  Although current account balance is
expected by 1993, high projected MLT repayments (see Table 4.6) will inflate
Algeria's external financing requirements. In 1991, total external financing
needs are projected at US$6.9 billion. While projected financing requirements
subsequently fall, they remain well over US$4 billion in 1995. Helping to
meet the need for external capital, the opening of the economy is expected to
attract substantially more foreign direct investment than in the past.
Nonetheless, over the medium term, the lion's share of external capital
requirements will have to be borrowed. The authorities realize that managing
this borrowing under current financial market conditions will require a
comprehensi-a strategy, which, together with adjustment efforts aimed at
curbing the demand for foreign savings, will raise creditor confidence by
improving creditworthiness indicators. Inter alia, such a strategy would: (i)
rely more on commercial credits--and in particular export credits--which,
because they are directly linked to imports, are a relatively stable source of
financing; (ii) raise more finance from official sources which in general
offer longer maturities; (iii) work to refinance maturing financial credits on
better terms; and (iv) promote more actie portfolio management to reduce
cross-currency-induced exchange losses.



- 39 -
Algetia: External Financing Plan, 1987-95
Table 4.6                                             (USS millions)
1987    1988     1989    1990    1991 */ 1992    1993    1994    1995
------ actual -        -- prelim. -                -projected------
Exports (GMF)                             9675    8162   10088   13338   12424   12883   13789   14906   16531
o1w Bydrocaxbons                        8531    7352    9096   12372   11313   11585   12289   13137   14339
o/w Non-Hydrocarbons                    1143      810      990      966    1111    1298    1480    1768    2192
Imports (GRP8)                            9225    9810   11092   11563   12126   12888   13333   14190   15591
Resource Balance                           450   -1648   -1006    1775         298       -3      437      716      941
Current Account Deficit 1-)                141   -2040   -1081    1385    -309    -485            30      335      604
MLT Principal Repayments k/              -3840   -4481   -5221   -6152   -6800   -5537   -5189   -4980   -4954
TOTAL FINANCING REQUIREENS               -3699   -6520   -6302   -4787   -8909   -6022   -5159   -4655   -4349
LT Inflows                                3861    5449    5412    4753    7452    6606    5735    5275    5229
MLT Disbursements (DRS)                  4575    5912    5024    4880    7292    6406    5498    4984    4869
1. Official Creditors                   1001    1623    1969    1603    2224    2143    1682    1328    1076
a. Multilateral                      263      478      348      864      924      81S      753      659      502
o/w IBRD                        129      170      204      300      584      665     623      551      484
b. Bilateral                          738    1145    1621       940    1300    1327        929      669      575
2. Private Creditors                    3574    4289    3055    3277    5068    4263    3815    3655    3792
a. Bonds S/                            50     437      296         0    1000        0        0        0        0
b. Financial Credits                  389      514      145     390      786    1318       762      402      200
c. Commercial Credits               3135    3338    2613    2887    3282    2946    3052    3254    3592
ow Export Credits              2386    2648    2098    2134    2482    2130    2261    2489    2910
o/w Suppliers' Credits           749      691      515      753      800      816      792      766     682
Direct Foreign Investment                -109      -48      -25      -20      160      200      239      291      360
Other LT Inflows (net)                   -605    -415       413      -38        0        0        0        0        0
Total Other Items (net)                   -438      335      248    -335       125        0        0        0      -76
olw Net Short-term Capital               315      339      342    -132    -350          0        0        0     -76
Change in Net Reserves  (-   inc) A/    276         736      642      320    -668    -584    -577    -619    -804
o/w Net IMF Credit                         0        0      604        0      323      -61    -325    -279    -197
Gross Reserves (months of imports)          1.9    0.9       0.8      0.6      1.3      1.7      1.8      2.0     2.2
MLT Debt Service (inml. DMF)/XGS            542    712       682      582      642      53S      48X      43S      391
Total ExternaL Debt (US$ milLions)    24748  25075   26063   26123   27796   28664   28088   28064   27783
o/w MLT DOD                             23433  23454   23604   23663   25357   26289   26082   26317   26310
IRRD Exposure/MLT DOD                      3.91   3.8S    4.11    5.12    6.42    8.12    9.82   10.92    11.92
./ 1991 figures are consistent with the proposed IMF program.
h/ DRS pipeline and WB estimates except for 1991 which is the authorities' stimate used in the proposed
program. This estimate is US$792 million higher than the DRS figure.
S/ Includes a US$1.0 billion secured syndicated loan for 1991.
g1 1991 figure is proposed DMF program target.
Source: Algerian authorities and WB estimates.
4.11              The projected external financing plan detailed in Table 4.6
incorporates the elements of a comprehensive debt management strategy. At the
core of the financing plan, commercial credits are expected to finance on



- 40 -
average some 22X of imports (29X in 1991). 1  While somewhat lower than the
percentage for recent years, this figure is higher than historical averages
and represents a continued shift toward trade-linked finance. Reflecting
efforts to lengthen maturities, the financing plan also embodies a greater
reliance on official creditors, both bilateral and multilateral. By 1995,
official creditors are projected to account for some 381 of MLT DOD, compared
with 281 in 1989, with the World Bank increasing its share to 12%. In
addition, the plan envisages a total of some US$3.5 billion in new financial
credits through 1995, complemented by a US$1.0 billion secured, syndicated
financial market operation in 1991. This loan would be used mainly to repay
maturing financial credits. While only one such operation is assumed in the
plan, the large amounts of financial credit coming due in the next several
years implies that additional refinancing operations may in fact be needed.
Finally, the plan also reflects on-going efforts to manage the currency
composition of the debt to better match the composition of export receipts,
largely denominated in US dollars. The US$ share of NLT debt is projected to
grow steadily from under 431 in 1989. Secondary market swaps are expected to
further reduce exchange risk. Under this financing plan, creditworthiness
indicators are projected to improve steadily, with the debt service ratio
dropping to 391 by 1995 vs. 581 in 1990.
4.12        Riska. The medium-term outlook is subject to two important
risks. First, reform implementation could lose momentum. If this were to
happen, not only would growth and per capita consumption suffer, but the
external financing plan might become untenable as official creditors reduced
their support for reform and private creditors lost confidence. A major
slowdown in reform would likely result in e-onomic stagnation and a loss of
voluntary access to international capital markets.
4.13        However, even if reform implementation proceeds as planned,
Algeria could experience balance of payments difficulties in the near term if
oil prices fell substantially below projected levels. Although the baseline
oil price forecast is fairly conservative and non-hydrocarbon export revenues
are projected to double by 1995 (see Table 4.6), lower petroieum prices
probably represent the largest source of downside risk over the medium term.
Table 4.7 demonstrates the effect of lower oil Irices on the prospects for
hydrocarbon export revenues.1W The conclusion of this sensitivity analysis is
that a US$1 price drop in 1991 translates into an estimated export revenue
fall of some US$500 million in 1991, US$600 million in 1993 and nearly US$700
million by 1995. While representing a substantial loss to Algeria, an oil
price fall of this order could largely be covered out of projected reserves.
I/   Reflecting on-going efforts to promote a shift away from suppliers'
credits in favor of bank-financed export credits, export credits are
projected to rise steadily to 411 of MLT DOD by 1995 compared with 35S
in 1990. In contrast, suppliers' credits are projected to fall to about
51 of MLT DOD, compared with 81 in 1990.
21/  The lower price scenario is based on a 1991 price for Algerian crude of
US$19 per barrel as compared to the US$20 baseline forecast. The price
trend after 1991 is assumed to remain the same as in the original
forecast.



- 41 -
Moreover, If oil prices fell somewhat further, newly established indirect
macroeconomic instruments could be used for adjustment while keeping the
reform program on track. While there would still be near-term income losses,
this approach would preserve efficiency gains and would allow current account
targets to be maintained while growth was restored.
Table 4.7             Algeria: Hydrocarbon Exports, 1900-95
(in million dollars)
1990  1991  1992  1993  1994  199S
prelim. ----------------projected-----------
Als. Crude Price (USh/bbl)   24.2  20.0  20.2  20.1  20.5  21.2
Total Hydrocarbons    12372 11313 11585 12269 13137 14339
IAOEU ERICE SCENARIo
A18. Crude Price (USS/bbl)   19.0  19.2  19.1  19.4  20.2
Total Bydrocarbons          10840 11025 11701 12513 13680
Source: Alerian authorities and WB estimates.
4.14        On balance, therefore, Algeria is likely to maintain its stance
of avoiding resch3duling and preserving its access to international capital
markets. This s ance is highly appreciated by Algeria's foreign creditors.
However, a majo- decline in the oil price or unforseen difficulties in
mobilizing ade ate external financing on a voluntary basis could require a
reassessment oi options. Conversely, significantly higher oil prices would
permit a more rapid improvement in creditworthiness indicators and an even
faster pace of reform that together should make Algeria increasingly
attractive to foreign investors.
B.    Country Assistance Strategy
4.15        The principal objective of the Bank's current country assistance
strategy is to facilitate Algeria's transition to a competitive, market based
economy. Technical and financial support for the Government's ambitious
economic reform program is obviously a key element of this strategy. This
support is being provided through a variety of ways. First, through an active
program of economic and sector work focussing on both analytical and practical
support for the design and implementation of reform measures in various areas.
The emphasis in this work is on quick response and informal pieces, which can
provide the Algerian authorities with timely inputs into the design of
specific policies. Up-to-date progress reports on the reform programs in other
formerly centrally planned economies are also a key focus of the Bank's
contribution in this regard. The program of economic and sector work is being
complemented by more intensive technical assistance provided under both a
free-standing loan and components of other investment operations.
4.16        Secondly, the reform process is being supported by the program of
adjustment lending. The US$300 million Economic Reform Support Loan (ERSL),
approved in August 1989, was the first Bank adjustment operation in Algeria.
It covered a broad range of macroeconomic and sectoral reform measures and
responded to the country's pressing need for external financing to facilitate



- 42 -
the implementation of these measures. The second tranche of the ERSL was
released in October 1990, after a satisfactory review of macroeconomic
performance and overall reform implementation, and once the specific legal
conditions for second tranche release had been satisfactorily met.
4.17        The proposed EFSAL is the next key building block in support of
Algeria's reform efforts. The rationale for Bank support for this project
rests on three principal points. First, the program of enterprise and
financial sector reform which the EFSAL would support addresses the core of
the problem that Algeria must now tackle to translate its overall reform
objectives into a visible supply response. Second, precisely because these are
difficult and complex issues, and because they represent a break from the
country's own past, external advice and support is essential to bring about
the conditions for the program's success. The Bank is well placed to provide
such inputs and is perceived by the Algerian authorities as a primary source
for objective and non-partisan advice, and for comparative knowledge about
similar programs in other countries. Third, Bank support for the EFSAL is
justified by the country's overall pressing financing needs and by the
catalytic effect that the Bank's enhanced financial support could have on the
willingness of Algeria's other creditors to maintain their financial exposure
in the country. The loan would thus help Algeria overcome a period of
temporarily tight liquidity in recognition of the country's long-term solvency
and creditworthiness. As regards future adjustment operations, technical work
is now under way on the important issue of tariff and tax system reform, which
is expected to lead to the preparation of an adjustment operation during the
coming year.
4.18        Finally, the Government's reform efforts, as well as the
underlying medium and long-term development issues facing the country, are
being aided through a growing and increasingly diversified portfolio of
investment operations. After a long period of lending for essentially
infrastructure projects, the Bank's investment project portfolio in Algeria
has diversified considerably in recent years. A first industrial restructuring
demonstration project was approved last year to initiate enterprise level
restructuring in four representative firms; the project also includes a
technical assistance component which will finance the diagnostic restructuring
studies of the twenty-two large loss-making PEs in connection with the
proposed EFSAL. A project to support the largely private construction industry
is at an advanced stage of preparation, and a small-scale enterprise
development project will likely follow. In the energy sector, a project to
support operational efficiency improvements in the petroleum sector is under
preparation and another supporting the financial restructuring and system
expansion of the power company is under implementation. In agriculture,
ongoing and proposed operations are designed to support the credit and
technical support needs of the newly privatized farming sector. In addition,
two projects, under advanced preparation, support agricultural development in
the Northern Sahara region, and promote reforestation and watershed
management. Projects under preparation in infrastructure cover the development
of a modern nation-wide cadastral survey, assistance for mass transit
development in key urban centers, a-id support for the restructuring and
expansion of the telecommunications network. Work is also under way to prepare
a project to strengthen the financing and management capacity of local
government agencies. A first environment management project is also under



- 43 -
active preparation, focussing in particular on the management of industrial
pollution and toxic wastes; various other feasibility studies and training
efforts in the environment area are being supported through the METAP.
Finally, in the health and human resource sector, an active program of recent
sector work has resulted in the development of three projects that were
rscently approved by the Board; further projects to support basic education
and vocational training are under preparation. In the aggregate, commitment
levels over FY92-95 are anticipated at about US$500 million per year, which is
elightly above the level of the past three years. On this basis, the Bank's
overall exposure would roughly double between now and end PY95, and the Bank's
share in Algeria's outstanding debt would rise to about 112 by that date.
4.19        These projections assume that early progress will be realized in
resolving some operational and logistic difficulties that have slowed down the
implementation of a number of recent projects. Despite a productive policy
dialogue and the many opportunities for collaborative work in virtually all
key sectors, the process of Bank supported project preparation and
implementation in Algeria remains difficult. In some sectors, where Bank
involvement is relatively new in the country, this is simply the result of a
lack of familiarity with Bank policies and procedures, particularly in the
area of procurement. More generally, however, it also reflects the changing
responsibilities and personnel in counterpart agencies during a period of
administrative and structural reforms. As a result of these problems, there
have been significant delays in the effectiveness and subsequent start-up of a
number of projects, and overall disbursement performance on the Bank's current
portfolio remains unsatisfactory. Senior Algerian policymakers are aware of
these problems and have taken a number of steps recently to improve the
situation. At their request, familiarization seminars on Bank policies and
procurement have been organized in the field, and the Bank has itself stepped
up its supervision activities on these projects. More recently, a detailed
review of compliance with auditing requirements on Bank projects was carried
o;ut with counterpart staff, and an action program agreed to ensure timely
provision of audit reports in the future. In addition, a joint review of the
experience of procurement under the previous adjustment operation has resulted
in various recommended changes, which are reflected in the arrangements
proposed for the EFSAL.
4.20        Collaboration with other agencies is an important dimension of
the Bank's overall country assistance strategy. In the area of macroeconomic
analysis, the collaboration with the Fund remains very close and the medium
term framework described in this report has been developed in coordination
with Fund staff. The proposed EFSAL will also be implemented in parallel with
a second Fund standby arrangement; the same pattern was followed for the first
Fund standby arrangement and the Bank's Economic Reform Support Loan in 1989.
Cofinancing with other multilateral and bilateral donors is also under way in
a number of projects. One project was cofinanced by the European Investment
Bank in 1989 and the EXIMBANK of Japan has cofinanced three operations since
1987.



- 44 -
C.    Loan Coverage and Conditionality
4.21        The proposed policy-based loan would consist of an enterprise
component linked with a financial sector component, within a supportive
macroeconomic, legal and institutional framework.  The macroeconomic framework
is also being supported under the second IMF program. Changes in the legal
gnd institutional framework include import liberalization and the dismantling
of import monopolies, improvements in foreign exchange allocation systems for
domestic operators, the easing of the framework for foreign investment and
joint ventures, the introduction of a new Commercial Code which removes
distinctions between private and public enterprises, and new labor
legislation, which reduces wage rigidities and increases opportunities for
labor mobility.
4.22        Details of the proposed program of support for the enterprise and
financial sector are given in the attached Ptlicy Reform Matrix (Annex IV).
For the enteXgrisg sector, this entails a set of agreed measures in five key
areas. First, the acceleration of trade and price liberalization with the
objective of reaching, by mid-1992, a situation where: (i) the prices of all
products and services, with the exception of a few basic necessities and
energy products and utilities, will be determined by market forces; and (ii)
all products, with the exception of a small negative list, will be freely
importable at the prevailing exchange rate and import duties.  Second, the
removal of remaining regulatory and other obstacles impeding the development
and efficient functioning of the small but growing private sector, (including
the removal of public import monopolies and price controls preventing private
sector entry). Thir , the implementation of the process of tcorporatization"
of public enterprises aimed at a clear separation between the roles of the
State as the shareholder (or owner) of PEs and as regulator of economic
activity; this would also encourage these enterprises to be managed as
commercial entities. Fourth, initiating the process of the financial and
physical restructuring of public enterprises, with a special focus on the
largest loss-making PEs, and fifth, developing a program to mitigate the
social costs of enterprise restructuring and allocating the financing
necessary for its implementation.
4.23        Regarding the restructuring of public enterprises, a dual
approach will be followed, depending on whether or not they are already
autonomous. For the former group, a decentralized approach will be adopted,
with necessary restructuring plans being approved by the shareholding
Participation Funds, which will also monitor and, if necessary, guarantee new
credits to these enterprises. The approach will be centralized for the 22
enterprises that have not yet been declared autonomous, because of the
severity of the structural and financial problems they face. Their losses will
be contained through quick interim actions, while their access to credit (and
indirectly foreign exchange) will be limited through an explicit aggregate
credit ceiling. The increase in their wage bill will be subject to the same
ceiling as that for Government employees. Their restructuring will be
centrally managed, under the auspices of the CNP, through comprehensive
restructuring studies. To finance the costs of restructuring, the Government
has decided to allocate the bulk of the Treasury surpluses accruing in 1991 to
this objective.



- 45 -
4.24        Vor the fi=n cial sector, the reforms envisaged will create a
regulatory and institutional framework conducive to efficient future financial
intermediation in a market economy, in parallel with the process of bank
portfolio cleanup to remove the burden of the past. The Central Bank will be
strengthened to exercise its new functions as an independent monetary
institution, managing the liquidity of the economy mainly through indirect
instruments, including a money market rate increasingly determined according
to supply and demand. Koreover, the Central Bank will be strengthened to
carry out bank supervision in light of new and standardized accounting and
prudential rules. The commercial banks will also be strengthened and their
portfolios restructured to permit future lending to be based on
creditworthiness criteria. Further down the reform path, financial markets,
instruments and institutions will be developed to mobilize new forms of saving
and to provide term financing.
4.25        Specifically, the loan would support the Government's program in
the following four areas: First, help enforce the clear rules that
rationalize the ad hoc and disruptive past relationship between the Treasury
and the financial system. Second, rationalizing interest rate and credit
policies. Thir, establishing a prudential, regulatory and accounting
framework for the banking system and supnorting the Central Bank in
strengthening its capacity to implement and enforce these rules. And fourth,
defining and initiating implementation of a multi-year program to restructure
the portfolio of existing banks and develop them into healthy financial
institutions.
4.26        The proceeds of the loan would be made available in two equal
tranches of $175 million. The first tranche would be released upon
effectiveness, anticipated for the first quarter of FY92. There are no
special conditions of effectiveness as Board presentation itself has been
contingent on the confirmation from the Algerian authorities of the key
actions listed in column IV of the Policy Matrix (Annex IV). Inter alia,
these included, for the enterprise component: (a) the undertaking of large
scale trade and price liberalization; (b) the launching of the diagnostic
studies to be undertaken for the 22 large loss-making public enterprises; (c)
the presentation of the new Commercial Code to the National Assembly; and (d)
specification of the disbursement criteria for the Restructuring Fund.
4.27        For the financial sector, actions taken prior to Board
presentation included: (a) establishment by the Central Bank of the contents
of new bank accounting standards, including instructions for their application
and directives concerning the development of bank auditing; (b) the
elaboration of an action program on bank inspection, including terms of
reference for studies required, training and recruitment needs and
accompanying regulations; (c) the enunciation of prudential ratios for banks,
including the interim capital adequacy norms of 31 for end-1991 and 41 for
end-1992; (d) the submission to the Central Bank by two banks of their
proposals for portfolio assessment and cleanup options as well as a strategy
to develop operations, including portfolio monitoring; and (e) preparation of
a modernization plan for the Central Bank of Algeria and a timetable for its
implementation.
4.28        The release of the second tranche of the loan, anticipated for



- 46 -
March/April 1992, will be preceded by a comprehensive review of progress on
the reform program set out in the Government's policy matrix, as well as a
review, in close cooperation with the IMF, of macro-economic performance in
1991 and the objectives set for 1992. In particular, the macro-economic
review would focus on the pace and extent of exchange, trade, and price
liberalization, as well as the appropriateness of supporting macro-economic
policies. In addition, certain key actions in the enterprise and financial
sector have been included as legal covenants of second trancvhe release; these
are detailed in Annex V.
D.    JQan Implementation
4.29        The Government will act as Borrower and will assume the foreign
exchange risk obligation. The CNP and the Central Bank, through the
interministerial working committee, will be responsible .or all policy-
related aspects of the proposed loan, while the Banque Algd,..ienne de
Developpement (BAD) will be responsible for loan administration, i.e.
procurement, disbursements and the loan account. The BAD will also be
responsible for the management of a special account under the loan in an
amount of $20 million. This amount represents 20X of the first tranche amount,
n"et of retroactive financing up to the agreed amount of $70 million. Agreement
on the establishment of such a special account was reached, on an exceptional
basis, following the Algerian authorities' justification of the need for such
an account. Proceeds of the loan would be used to finance the full foreign
exchange costs (c.i.f) of eligible imports, procured after intentational
competitive bidding (ICB), or other procedures in accordance with Bank
guidelines. Ineligible items would be those financed from other bilateral or
multilateral sources, goods intended for military or paramilitary use, and
luxury items. Procurement of petroleum products and foodstuffs would each be
limited to an aggregate of US$70 million; commodities would be procured under
procedures acceptable to the bank. Both public and private sector imports
would be eligible for financing. Contracts below US$5 million will be awarded
in accordance with procurement procedures acceptable to the Bank. Contracts
for all other goods, public and private, will be procured through ICB in
accordance with Bank guidelines. All contracts awarded according to ICB
procedures would be sent to the Bank for ex-post review. Contracts below US$5
million and above US$2 million, as well as all commodity purchase
applications, would be forwarded to the Bank for ex-post review with the
following supporting documentation: evidence of bid invitation, record of bid
opening, bid evaluation report, and the signed contract/purchase order.
4.30        The BAD will be responsible for the preparation and submission of
all withdrawal requests. Disbursements would be made against fully-documented
withdrawal applications, except for those contracts valued below US$2 million,
which would be made on the basis of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs).
Supporting documentation for the SOEs would be retained by the BAD for at
least one year after receipt by the Bank of the audit report for the year in
which the last disbursement was made. This documentation would be madt
available to the auditors and to Bank staff upon request. Withdrawal
applications would be consolidated and submitted in amounts of not less than
US$1 million. Contracts valued at less than US$60,000 would not be eligible
for financing.



- 47 -
4.31        The BAD would be responsible for the maintenance of all loan
accounts and records of all transactions under the loan in accordance with
sound accounting practices. All accounts would be audited within nine months
after the end of the Borrower's fiscal year by independent auditors acceptable
to the Bank. Certified copies of the audit would be submitted to the Bank and
would include a separate opinion with regard to claims submitted to the Bank
on the basis of SOEs. The closing date of the loan is June 30, 1993.
E.    Riska of the Proposed Operation
4.32        The proposed EFSAL represents a complex adjustment operation in a
country undertaking a far-reaching program of economic restructuring and
political liberalization in the context of a difficult macro-economic
environment. It is thus an operation where at best an attempt can be made to
predict and anticipate the risks.
4.33        Three categories of risks can be distinguished.  First, there is
the risk stemming from impending political change. This is a non-negligible
risk, although most of the parties contesting the proposed election support
the general objectives and direction of economic reform. Moreover, most of
the basic policy changes have now been carried out.
4.34        Second, there is the risk emanating from adverse changes in
exogenous economic variables, principally the price of oil. If the oil price
falls sharply for any sustained period during the next eighteen months,
implementation of the proposed program would become more difficult. If such a
fall were accompanied by unforeseen difficulties in utilizing adequate
external financing on a voluntary basis, Algeria could be forced to review its
policy of avoiding rescheduling of its external debt. However, through its
presence, the Bank would be a positive factor in terms of the decision by
other creditors to keep open their own lines of credit.
4.35        Third, at the project level, the implementation of the envisaged
comprehensive restructuring program, with many interdependent components, will
prove very taxing for an already stretched Algerian administration. Many of
the areas are still relatively unfamiliar territory and mid-course corrections
will inevitably be required. The inter-ministerial working group, responsible
for supervising the program, will help to bring about the necessary
coordination. However, to address this issue the Bank too will need to
provide much the same level of intensive and continuous support during project
implementation that we have allocated to project preparation. Perhaps, more
than for other adjustment operations, presentation to the Board of the
proposed loan is best seen as the mid-way stage of a four-year program of
collaborative work.



- 48 -
PART V: URECOIKEDATIO?
5.01        I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive Directors
approve the proposed loan.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
May 31, 1991
Washington, D.C.



- 49  -                                          ANNEX  1
Mglaf                                               page 1 of 2
Social indicators of Development, 1990
25.30      15*20      r       Sac u Eireg./ ewr-        Nes
Unk of         ye"        ycIm      cohm    MUe Ew,     idde-        mco
nateawe         'a8        fio        (we)   NWIhAftim   .cm.          pop
HUMANRESOURCU
Teal4                                     dwrnand.         1 4        16,018     24.453    51         66438579    42994
Totd                                      %?5       ~~~~~ ~~~~~~47.6  44.0    ~ .       79        3.
154I4                                                      5Q2        482        52.6        57.0       57.6       60.8
bpd uta                     tun 0it                      1.07       0.93       0.73       0.73       0.64
P_ gi   ama b                  %etpa              37.6       40.3       44.3       539         59.2       68.2
per 1 .ma                                                    ..        ..         ..
Rsa f                                                         ..        ..         ..          .           ..
Ma.aa              2.5        3.1        29         2.1         2.1        1.8
lb"V    row* me                                S              6R         3.5        3.9        3.0        3.0        2.9
U    -mAuatowthdiffaa1                    difm               6.2         0.6        1.7        1.5        1.9        3.1
PFMni1lpoo: 200                          tb                    ....    33.359    714.071    831,021    510.348
Swmypopll..l..    78.079                                                                         .          ..
r;i= bil,he.                           ptsbozp              no        462        36.5        31.8       30.0       2S.5
Tolpywpw o 7.44  7.26  5s        4.29       3.87       327
Cam       pe_MV                       *dw          15-49      ..        ..         ..         ..           .         .
Uail 04) /wanw_    (15.49) aidos
UA.                                   per 100 wom            ..         ..         ...
aper A  pop        M182        14,2        7.7      12          8,1        8.
parlbwhzwiv hs       1540       12.0        69.8       63.9       52.7        45.2
83.        63.5       81.5       54.4
apseaacyatnletb:<dl                   yeas            50.2        563        64.8       63.8       65.2       67.4
* 5                                     1.3      S73         65.8       660        67.6       69.9
.moSIb6ofae                             q6  d s             S26        3,5        562    197,229    243,588    159,186
;annie                                                                                         69ia-  3fidl e   a  3 3 g  ..
16.7      24.1
4.7        7.1        93        26.5       302        30.7
PYd  p  loo.u.                                                 ..         ..         ..
Paidpada.uslawovuall                     dIabar*fWs          24.6       21.        22.7       33.8       388        38.7
bma'                                           2.3        3.0        4.3       20.6       22.6        23.5
SPIi yamkau ampbied veflb fc
NATURLRESORES
Ana                                      ds     k am       2.32       2,381       22        14,738     21.088     16.264
S    7         ~~~        ~~10  36    30        265
load                           ffilb& S1                      18.4       16.1       31.5       36.9       31.9
p2n3 7    60        11     6   82
_andnd                   $4.hD                3X~~~~~~~~~~~~~p    41  44    105    6,084   6,4S
D _ "a(tle)                         _     %3.2                     Q.0        OA)        Q2         '407       4.4
A _ X _ lfis,p ago.                                                                75.0         ..       63.3       79.7
Ud>@Sa                                  ..         ..        85n          ..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 77.2  MQ
RA wt         r                                               ..        ..        55S          ..       46.8       632
eary os  srl  70  eeary 6s autwtMt ?OFir                                  wy 0m arlyKk 70s   e
*                                                                                   LU
4 
I                                                                                    a0
o                                          o                                          0
early BOB early 70S   Mr*                  early 60a early 700  mrs                  early 60. early 70.  mr*
UAipko  -   LWO&b



- 50 -
ANNEX I
AJgeda                         ~~~~~~Page 2 of 2
UP*# _21-   MiWsI re                 w. _ow'
INCOMANDOVE
GNPpwe(an - 190                  USS           24D      Y       2=       2S70      1320     ,1
Absdmpwmm=m=_                   USSp     _                  _ 
AQ i SbMf d_pOUty'S*l q Pw*  
F__d  iibof                         _ _3s                  ,       3        3,o      48i      6
=u w S,~~~~~~kotgpih                    22W lLi    4i!    104      1".4        Mia  I.
ma - S' 5 s q,tß
D *_         w               g w p             44                 1
9MM        ONUaNaP . . .
mad_w      -^                       ^      -.                .-"~
_           4 belpwP                               _       2o  .Palm                          I is
bompfDP                             .        .       .b.                .
b                             i au            26       4.0    10.6      14S  
14       j14124                      30 
gEs|.e q_   ~ ~ F*p                   ..B     441      29       13                32 
_lWS                  _          1838    ..  25   g~~~~~~~Ws           1M14 1
^ .. .. 3|0 3%4ld=       :O                   ,.                        A
=i(_ I-                         pf6m             14       17       21A      84        7



U nacUD2CT
Table It.1 (page 1 of 1)
1980   19B1   1982   1o83   1084   1985   1986   1987   1988   189R   1990   1S01   1992   1993   1994   1995
Actua - -  ---- - - - - -- - ----------- P Ö relt . ---------- Project Öon -------
GDP Growth Rate                         0.9S   3.0X   6.4X   5.4X   5.6S   5.42   1.2X  -0.72  -2.12   3.42   1.12   3.01   3.52   3.6X   4.02   4.42
GDY Growth Rate                        15.1S   8.11   0.52   6.02   4.92   6.02 -14.42   2.72  -9.41   3.12   5.8S  -0.22   1.02   2.82   3.92   4.22
GNP/Per Capita Growth Rate             -1.72  -0.12   3.12   2.42   2.42   2.32  -1.72  -3.52  -6.02   0.68  -1.32  -0.82  -0.12   1.02   1.62   2.02
Consumption/Per Cap. Growth Rate        7.02   5.12  -0.52   4.82   2.52   0.52  -2.12 -10.62  -0.62   1.7X  -2.92   3.8X   0.7%   1.72   1.92   2.12
MLT DOD incl. IMF (US$)               17052  16090  14977  14328  14185  16512  19644  23433  23454  24223  24332  26355  27223  26646  26621  26415
Short Term Debt (US$)   1/              806    831    796    790    794    746   1000   1315   1621   1840   1791   1441   1441   1441   1440   1365
Total Debt (incl. ST & IMF)          17858  16921  15773  15118  14979  17259  20644  24748  25075  26063  26123  27796  28664  28087  28061  27780
MLt DOD (incl. IMF)/XGS 2/            111.82  98.82 101.62 101.22 100.9Z 117.12 225.42 234.52 265.82 232.52 177.02 205.02 189.32 173.82 160.92 144.52
Short Term DOD/XGS                      9.02   6.92   7.02   7.12   7.52   7.52  15.52  16.32  21.32  25.82  20.92  17.52  15.72  14.72  13.62  11.92
Total DOD/XGS                         117.12 1O..9% 107.02 106.82 106.68  122.4S 238.92 247.62 284.12 250.22 190.02 216.22 199.32 183.22 169.68  152.02
MLT Debt Service (incl. IMP)           3917   3913   4381   4591   4984   4913   5149   5416   6292   7071   7945   8280   7604   7377   7150   7066
Debt Service (incl. IMF)/XGS          25.72  24.02  29.72  32.42  35.52  34.82  59.12  54.22  71.32  67.92  57.82  64.42  52.92  48.12  43.22  38.72                             I
Gross Investment/GDP                   39.12  37.02  37.32  37.62  35.12  33.22  33.62  30.22  30.52  31.02  32.62  32.32  31.52  29.72  28.62  27.72                           Xn
Gross Domestic Saving/GDP              43.12  40.72  39.22  38.82  36.22  34.52  27.72  30.92  27.72  28.22  35.92  33.02  31.52  31.02  30.52  30.12
National Savings/GDP                   40.82  38.62  36.92  37.62  35.22  34.71  28.42  30.42  27.02  28.02  35.12  31.62  30.22  29.62  29.52  29.22                            I
Marginal Nat. Savings Rate            561.92  60.02 -34.02  50.72  17.02  27.7X-998.42-745.72 186.72  40.52 366.52-199.42 -40.82   4.72  10.62  14.22
Central Gov't Investment/GDP           11.02  11.92  16.22  18.4S  16.92  15.5S  14.02  12.22  13.72  11.8S  10.02  13.62  13.52  13.12  12.92  12.62
Central Gov't Savings/GDP              20.92  25.52  17.62  16.92  17.72  i8.8%   9.7X   8.82   5.42   9.72  13.62  16.02  18.22  19.42  18.72  18.72
son-Gov't Investment/GDP               28.12  25.12  21.02  19.12  18.22  17.72  19.62  17.92  16.82  19.22  22.68  18.72  18.02  16.68  15.72  15.12
Won-Govt Savings/GDP                   18.7Z  11.72  19.32  20.5X  17.62  16.22  20.42  21.62  21.22  19.12  21.52  15.72  12.02  10.42  10.72  10.52
ICCR (5 year average)                     6      7      7       8      8      6      7      10     17     21     49      28     14      9       8      6
Ron-oil IOR (5 year average)              5      5      5       6      7      6       7      9     18     20      46     40     24     11      10      7
Government Revenues/GDP                37.92  42.72  37.42  36.22  37.52  37.22  31.22  29.72  29.52  31.12  31.72  35.62  41.72  43.52  43.72  44.42
Government Expenditures/GDP           28.02  29.02  36.02  37.72  36.82  34.02  35.52  33.22  37.82  33.32  28.12  33.22  37.02  37.22  37.82  38.32
Deficit(-)/GDP (Dinars)                 9.92  13.62   1.42  -1.52   0.82   3.32  -4.32  -3.52  -8.32  -2.22   3.68   2.42   4.72   6.32   5.82   6.12
XGMFS Growth Rate                     -12.92   0.32  10.22   6.22   5.72   3.12   1.02   5.42   3.32   6.72   5.62   0.62   6.12   6.32   5.32   5.62
XGNFS/GDP                              34.32  34.62  30.92  28.02  25.72  23.52  13.12  14.72  15.72  20.32  24.82  29.12  37.01  39.62  40.12  41.42
)tgFS Growth Rate                       3.42  16.32  -1.72   9.92   4.02   3.52 -15.22 -17.42  -2.02   5.32  -1.82  -0.72   1.52   2.52   4.22   4.82
MGNFS/GDP                             30.42  30.92  29.02  26.72  24.52  22.22  19.02  13.92  18.52  23.22  21.52  28.42  37.02  38.42  38.12  39.12
Current Acount (DOP US$)                241    127   -183    -85      74   1015  -2230    141  -2040  -1081   1365   -309   -485       30    325    604
Current Account/GDP                     0.62   0.32  -0.42  -0.22   0.12   1.72  -3.52   0.22  -3.82  -2.22   2.52  -0.72  -1.42   0.12   0.92   1.52
Algerian Crude Price (US$ bbl)        35.1   39.5   35.9   30.5   29.7   29.0   14.8   18.5   16.2   18.5   24.2   20.0   20.2   20.1   20.5   21.2
Terms of Trade (1980=100)               100    122    109    109    104    105      49      56     46     49     61      54     49     49      49     50                  $ 
1/      Algerian authorities  preliminary estimates through 1986.
2/      XGS includes worker's remittances.
Source:  Algerian authorities and World Bank estimates



Table II.2 (page 1 of 2)
1060    1981    1962    1983    1984    1985    1986    1S87    1988    1988    1990    1991    19892    189          1904    1995
Ata-----------                       --Ö ----   Prelim. ------ ProjectAa                ----- -
A.Exports of Goods & UPS                     14257   14673   14145   13510   13447   13656    8897    9675    8162   10086   13338   12424   128M3   13769   14906   16531
I.Nbrcbandise (fob)                        13652   14117   13510   12743   12792   13034    8066    9031    7626    9564   12728   11764   12140   12966   13968   15454
2.Non-Factor services                        606      556      635     767     655      622     631      643     538      522     610      660     743     803      917    1077
B.Imports of Goods & NFS I/                 13061   13593   13278   12988   12811   12710   11380    9225    9810   11092   11563   12126   12886   13333   14190   15591
1.Merchandise (fob)                         9596   10088    9889    9913    9800    9797    8940    7313    7756    9478    9704   10072   10762   11156   11885   13089
2.Non-Factor Services                       3465    3504    3390    3075    3011    2913    2440    1912    2053    1614    1859    2054    2124    2177    2304    2502
C.Resource Balance                            1196    1080      866     522     636      945   -2683      450   -1648   -1006    1775       298      -3     437      716     941
D.Net Factor Income                         -1198   -1253   -1313   -1225   -1337   -1347   -1429   -1534   -2012   -1893   -1940   -2017   -1935   -1882   -1918   -1950
1.Factor Receipts                            372      522     328      186     180      191     171      110      71     111       90      93      108     150      170     197
2. Factor Payments                          1570    1774    1641    1411    1517    1537    1601    1643    2084    2004    2030    2110    2043    2032    2088    2147
(NLT Interest Payments DRS)                  1436    1361    1427    1274    1376    1409    1564    1576    1811    1651    1793    1680    1805    1788    1804    1882
E.Net Current Transfer                        243      300      263     618     775    1416    1882    1225    1621    1818    1530    1410    1453    1475    1527    1614
l.Current Receipts                           440      490     448      789     933    1567    2027    1327    1697    1876    1589    1470    1514    1535    1589    1678
a.Wages & Salaries Credit                   334      424     427      327     291      263     310      434     332     306      319     340    1392    1414    1466    1550
b.Unofficial Transfers                                                440     622    1088    1159       752    1267    1313    1230    1010                                        I
2.Current Payments                           198      191      185     171     158      151     144      102      76      58       59       60      61      60       61      64   tn
F.Current Account Balance                     241      127    -183      -85      74    1015   -2230       141   -2040   -1081    1365    -309    -485        30      325     604
G.Long Term Capital Inflow                     899     -32    -958    -868    -442       -36     384       20     969      191   -1330      852    1069     547      295     275
l.Direct Investment                          280    -171    -307       -12     -14      -87     -64    -109      -48     -25      -20     160      200     239     291      360
2.Official Capital Grants                      0        0        0       0       0        0       0        0       0       0        0        0       0       0        0       0
3.Net MLT Loans                              916      246    -338      206     567      484     960      735    1432    -197   -1272    1484       869     308        4     -85
a.MLT Disbursement (028)                   3398    2798    2617    3523    4175    3988    4545    4575    5912    5024    4880    7292    6406    5496    4984    4869
b.MLT  Amortization (DRS)                  2482    2552    2954    3317    3608    3504    3585    3840    4481    5221    6152    5808    5537    5189    4980    4954
4.0ther LT Inflow (net incl.DRS disc.)    -298    -107    -311   -1062    -995    -433    -532    -605    -415           413      -38    -792        0       0        0       0
H.Total Other Items (net)                     201      113       37     502       1       43     384    -438      335     248    -355       125       0       0        0     -76
l.Net Short Term Capital                   -1127       25     -35       -6       4      -48     254      315     339     342    -132    -350         0       0        0     -76
2.Capital Flow RIB                          1340       97      89      502      -9       96     123    -765      -27    -132    -383      475        0       0        0       0
3.Errors & Omissions (not)                   -12       -9     -17        6       6       -5       7       12      22      38      160       0        0       0        0       0
I.Change in Not Reserves (--loss)            1341      208   -1101    -452    -366    1021   -1483    -276    -736    -642    -320         668      584     577      619     804
VI  Includes ISP
Source: Algerian authorities and World Bank estimates.
10
0o z



Table 11.2 (page 2 of 2)
1880    1981    1612    1613    2864    2865    1988    1687    1988    1Q89    19910   1991   1*92    1693    18S4.   19
Actual -                                       Prelim.             - Pee    -
Foreign Exchange Reservee:
l.Gold fine troy ounces (end period)         5.6     5.6     5.6      5.6     5.6     5.6      5.6     5.6     5.6      5.6     5 6     5.8      5.6     5.6     5.6      5.6
2.Gold price UM/London                       590     398      457     382     308     327      391     484     410      401     385     385      350     350     350      350
3.Int'l Reesrve. Gold                       3289    2218    2550    2129    1720    1825    2181    2701    2289    2238    2156    2156    1960    1960    1960    19S0
4.Total Reservea excl.Gold                  3773    3695    2422    1860    1464    2819    1660    1640       918      860     730    1530    2053    2305    2645    3252
5.Total Reserves incl.Gold                  7062    5913    4972    4009    3184    4644    3841    4341    3207    3098    2886    3686    4013    4265    4605    5212
6.Gross Reserves in Months of Imports        3.1     2.9     2.0      1.6     1.2     2.3      1.5     1.9     0.9      0.8     0.6     1.3      1.7     1.8     2.0     2.2
Exchenge Rates (DA/l)
1.Real Eff. Exch. Rate (base-1980)           100     111    le       125     133     144      133     117      97       83      75
2.Rom. Off. Exch. Rate (IF. AD/$)            3.8     4.3     4.6      4.8     5.0     5.0      4.7     4.8     5.9      7.6     9.0    16.2
Sbares of GDP (current US8)
Resource Balanea                              2.82    2.41    1.92    1.12    1.22    1.6S   -4.32    0.72   -3.12   -2.02    3.31    0.72    0.02    1.31    1.91    2.4U
lotal MLT Interest Paymnts                    3.41    3.1S    3.22    2.61    2.61    2.42    2.51    2.42    3.41    3.82    3.31    3.92    5.22    5.11    4.9S    4.72
Currant Account Balance                       0.62    0.32   -0.42   -0.22    0.1S    1.72   -3.51    0.2S   -3.62   -2.22    2.52   -0.n   -1.42    0.1S    0.92    1.52
Lt Capital Inflow                             2.12   -0.1t   -2.11   -1.81   -0.8s   -0.12    0.62    0.02    1.82    0.42   -2.52    2.02    3.12    1.62    0.8x    0.2 n       '
let Credit Prona WI?                          0.02    0.01    0.01    0.02    0.02    0.01    0.01    0.01    0.0X    1.21    0.01    0.81   -0.21   -0.91   -0.72   -0.52   4
MHro: GDP et Current Us$                    42347   44365   45197   48812   52947   57997   63065   64479   53554   49200   53795   42722   34816   34735   37196   39920
Change in let Reserves (-loss)               1341     208   -1101    -452    -366    1021   -1463    -276    -736    -642    -320        668      584     577     619     604
Valtwtion Changes (-loss)                   -79     118     -63       69      30     167      319     346     330        0       0       0        0       0       0       0
Change in let Forelgn Assets (CD)          1262     326   -1165    -382    -336    1188   -1163        69    -406    -642    -320    6S8        584     577     619     804
Change in Gross Reserves (CB)             1llS     -78   -1273    -542    -416    1355   -1159       -20    -722      -56    -130     B00      523     252     340     607
not Credit fro IMF                           0       0       0        0       0       0        0       0       0     604        0     323     -61    -325    -279    -197
Change In Other Liabilities (CB)          -147    -404'   -108    -160      -80     167        4     -89    -316      -20     190    -191        0       0       0       0
memo:
Total DOD ST (U8$) 1/                        806     831     796      790     794     746    1000    1315    1621    1840    1791    1441    1441    1441    1440    1365
1/      Algerian authoritiea* preliminary estimates through 1986.
SOurce: Algerian authorities and World Dank estimates.
O IF
01



=-  cam fl.UDD
Table II.3 (page 1 of 3)
1980    1981    1982    1883    1884    1085    1886    1987    1988          18      low1890    1991    19t    lw93    1894    1895
Actual                                            Prelia. ---- Frojectin -
DI223USD4EUT
PubLic & Publicly Guar.LT               3398    2798    2617    3523    4175    3988    4545    4575    5912          5024    4880    7292    6406    5496    4984    4869
1. Official Creditors                  5s6       480     549      774     837     599      622    1001    1623       1969    1603    2224    2143    1682    1328    1076
a. Multilateral                       54      e8       35       97     215     184      314     263      478       348      664     924      81S     753     659      502
o/w IBRD                          39      42       29      65       70     148      138     129     170        204     300      584     665      623     551      484
o/I  IDA                           0       0        0       0        0       0        0       0       0          0       0        0       0        0       0        0
b. Bilateral                         512      414     514      677     621      415     308     738    1145       1621      940    1300    1327      929      669     575
2. Private Creditors                   2832    2317    2068    2748    3339    3388    3923    3574    4289          3055    3277    5068    4263    3815    3656    3792
a. Bonds                              30       0        0       0        a     500       93      50      437       296        0    1000       0        0       0        0
b. Financial Credits                 891     258      664     932      609    1023    1920      389      514       145      390     786    1318      762      402     200
c. Commercial Credit                1911    2060    1404    1816    2729    1865    1911    3135    3338          2613    2887    3282    2946    3052    3254    3592
o/v Export Credits               942    1035      722     892    1654    1363    1490    2386    2648         2098    2134    2482    2130    2261    2489    2910
o/w Suppliers  Credits           969    1025      681     924    1076      502     421      749     691        515     753      800     816      792     766      682
Private RonGuarateed LT                    0        0       0        0       0        0       0       0        0         0        0       0        0       0        0       0
Total LT Disbursements                  3398    2798    2617    3523    4175    3988    4545    4575    5912          5024    4880    7292    6406    5496    4984    4869
VW Purchases                               0        0       0        0       0        0       0       0        0       604        0     323      107       0        0       0
Net ShortTerm Capital                  -1127       25     -3S       -6       4      -48     254     315      339       342    -132    -350         0       0        0     -76
Total Disbursements                     2271    2822    2582    3516    4180    3940    4799    4890    6251          5970    4748    7265    6513    5496    4983    4793          n
1980    1981   Is8       1983    184    1985    1986    1987    1988         1989    lw90    1991     1992    1993      1994    1995
- - - - - - ---- - - - -ctual --                                    ------ --WPell. --           ------- Projection-
REPAThIS
Public & Publicly Guar.LT               2482    2552    2954    3317    3608    3504    3585    3840    44el          5221    6152    5808    5537    5189    4980    4954
1. Official Creditors                   244     253      287     427      658     694      782     901      969      1182    1597    1392    1053    1007    1045    1104
a  Multilateral                       42      22       26      26      100     143      104     184     222        218     230      274     233      234     273      332
o/w IERD                          13      20       24      22       40      42      51       79     112        112     130      168     167      178     221     252
o/w IDA                            0       0        0       0        0       0       0        0       0          0       0        0       0        0       0        0
b. Bilateral                         203     231      261     402      558     551      678     717      747       964    1367    1118      819      773     772      773
2. Private Creditors                   2237    2300    2668    2889    2950    2810    2803    2939    3512          4039    4555    4416    4484    4181    3935    3850
a. Bonds                              1S      31       56      33       15      71       27      58       97        62      60       52     130      645     402      244
b. Financial Credits                 918     887      900    1029      950     849      566     431      769       467      815    1060     936      994    1121    1094
c. Conmercial Credits               1305    1382    1712    1828    1985    1890    2209    2450    2645          3509    3680    3304    3418    2543    2412    2512
o/w Export Credits               417     520     759      743      831     833    1197    1396    1803        2632    2978    2461    2559    1651    1438    1498
o/w Suppliers  Credits           888     863     953    1084    1154    1057    1012    1053        843        877     702      842     859      892     974    1015
Private RonGuarateed LT                    0        0       0        0       0       0        0       0        0         0        0       0        0       0        0       0
Total LT Repayments                     2482    2552    2954    3317    3608    3504    3585    3840    4481          5221    6152    5808    5537    5189    4980    4954
IV  Repurchases                            0        0       0        0       0       0        0       0        0         0        0       0      168     325     279      197
Total LT Repay. & IVW Repur.            2482    2552    2954    3317    3608    3504    3585    3840    4481          5221    6152    5808    5705    5514    5259    5151
0Q~
01-



- f ~zin WE Ua
Table 11.3 (page 2 of 3)
-                             soQff'~~~~98  1981    1982    1883    1984    1885    1986   -1W8 ' 188        1889?    1096?   1891-   1^92    1093       1994-'   1995---
-- e~~~~Atual. -------------                                                  frella. - -----  Projectlous 
Public & Pttblicl- ober.LT                918     246    -338       206     567      486     960      735    1U 2      -197   -1272    1484       869     SOS        4     -aS
1. Official Creditors                    322     228      282     347      179      -95    -160      101     654       787       6      u3a    1090      67S      283     -28
a. Nnltilateral                       13       45        9      72      115      41      210       80     256       130     433      650     582      S19      386     170
o/vIRRD                           26       22       5       43      30      106       87      S0       58       92      170     416      498     446      331      233
o/W IDA                            0        0        0       0        0       0        0       0        0        0        0       0        0        0       0        0
b. Bilateral                         309      183      253     275       64    -136    -370        21     398       657    -427      182      508     155    -103    -198
2. Private Creditors                     595      18    -600    -141       389      579    1110      634     778      -984   -1278      652    -221    -367    -279       -57
a. Bonds                              15      -31     -56      -33      -15     429       65      -9      339      234      -60      948    -130    -645    -402    -244
b. Finar-ial Credits                 -27    -629    -236       -97    -341      174    1353       -42    -255      -322    -425    -274      382    -231    -719    -894
c. Coanercial Credits                606      678    -308      -11      744     -25    -298      685      693     -896    -793       -22    -473      510     842    1080
o/v Export Credits               525      515     -36      149     822      530     293      w00      845     -534    -844       21    -430      610    1050    1412
o/w Suppliers' Credits            82      163    -272    -160       -78    -555    -591    -304    -152       -362       51     -43      -43    -100    -208    -332
Private UonGuarateed LT                     0       0        0        0       0        0       0        0       0         0       0        0        0       0        0       0
Total LT Net Flows                        916     246    -338       206     567      484     960      735    1432      -197   -1272    1484       869     308        4     -85
Net DW  Credit                              0        0       0        0       0        0        0       0        a      604        0     323      -61    -325    -279    -197          Ln
Net SbortTerm                           -1127      25      -35       -6       4      -48     254      315     339       342    -132    -350         0       0        0     -76
Total Net Flows                          -211     270    -372       200     572      436    1214    1050    1771        749   -1404    1457       808     -17    -276    -358
1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1988    188l          18       1889    1890    1991    1892    1993        1994    1995
_ _ _-Ö--------Ö----                    tual.--r3
ISTERIST
Public & Publicly Guar.LT                1436    1361    1427    1274    1376    1409    1564    1576    1811          1851    1793    1680    1805    1788    1840    1882
1. Official Creditors                   161      181      *00     224      261     275      318     313      386       392     385      402     468      551     616      681
a. multilateral                       29       27       30      29       46      49       70      88      100       92      106      156     207      249     288      317
oI/ IRM                           25       25      26       24      24       30       46      62       72       70       73     101      132      168     201      227
o/W IDA                            0        0       0        0        0       0        0       0        0        0        0       0        0       0        0        0
b. Bilateral                         132      154      171     196      216     226      248      226     286       300     279      246     261      302     328      364
2. Private Creditors                    1275    1180    1226    1050    1115    1134    1246    1262    1425          1459    1408    1278    1337    1237    1224    1201
a. Bonds                              45       35      29       23       22      42       58      60       74       81      102       98     176      151     102       80
b. Financial Credits                 674      611      621     487      530     445      446      473     517       497     410      362     377      385     367      311
c. Cenercial Credits                 556      534      576     540      564     648      742     729      834      880      896     818      784      701     755      809
o/w Export Credits               211      217     239      233     243      343     449      493      625      717      751     664      635      561     618      689
o/w Suppliers' Credits           345      317     337      306    3U1       305     293      237      209      163      144     154      150      141     136      120
Private NonQuarateed LT                     0       0        0        0       0        0       0        0       0         0       0        0        0       0        0       0
Total L  Intereat                        1436    1361    1427    1274    1376    1409    1564    1576    i811          1851    1793    1680    1805    1788    1840    1882
Il  Service Charges                         0       0        0       0        0       0        0        0       0        39      67       84      94       75       51      33
Interest Paid on ST Debt                  116     404      184     136      140      128      36       66     272       114     170      346     144      144      144     144
Total Interest Paid                      1552    1765    1611    1410    1517    1537    1600    1641    2083          2004    2030    2110    2043    2008    2035    2059
001
Oi-e
0'



table 11.3 (page 3 of 3)
90    13        t86      16        6     1185        8    187      989        16      O               19io     69      1        168
ET2L DE8  (DOD)
Public & Pblicly Gu4r.LT              17052   16090   14977   14328   14186   1651G   19644   23433   23454        23604   23663   25357   82629   26082   26317   26310
1. OfficiaL Creditor                  3513    3S63    3658    3749    3533    3872    4300    5235    5622         6724    7032    7900    9007    9546    9895    9905
a. Ifltl3ateral                     284      327     333     403     445      583     926    1203    1361       1459    2005    2660    3245    3736    4124    4322
o/w IBRD                        253     275      280     323     284      479     693     924      a9S       960    1208    1624    2125    2550    2876    3140
ohW IDA                           0       0        0       0       0        0       0       0        0         0       0        0       0       0        0       0
b. Bilateral                       3229    3236    3324    3347    3087    3289    3374    4032    4261         526S    5027    5240    5762    5812    5772    5583
2. Private Creditors                 13539   12527   11319   10579   10652   12640   15344   18197   17832        16880   16632   17457   17262   1SS34   16422   16404
a. Bonds                            410      365     297     258     232      680     777      823    1142      1342    1332    2288    2160    1480    1098       857
b. PiFf cloal Credits              5534    4771    4457    4328    3941    4273    5891    6414    6083         5467    5201    4974    5387    5006    4368    3496
a. Coafmrcial Credits              7596    7392    6566    5993    6480    7687    8676   10960   10608        10071   10099   10197    9735   10048   10955   12051
a/w Export Credits             3304    3344    2995    2745    3501    4937    6141    8353    8292         8194    8037    81S6    7733    8195    0287   10715
./V Suppliera  Credits         4291    4048    3571    3248    2979    2750    2535    2607    2315         1877    2062    2041    2002    1853    1S68    1336
Private Yot Guarateed LT                  0        0       0        0       0       0        0       0       0         0        0       0       0        0       0       0
Total LT DCO                          17052   16090   14977   14328   14185   16512   19644   23433   23454        23604   23663   25357   26289   26082   26317   26310
Uae of Da Cradlt                           0       0       0                0       0        0       0       0       619      669     998     934      564     304     lOS
ShortTerr Dabt  1/                      806      831     796      790     794     746    1000    1315    1621       1840    1791    1441    1441    1441    1440    1365
TotaL Ezternal Debt                   17858   16921   15773   15118   14979   17259   20644   24748   25075        26063   26123   27796   28664   28087   28061   27780
ol
1/      Algerian sutborities  preL1fiuanry est.iustes tlaroung  1966.
Soizgcet Algerian aaithorities ant WorLd Bank est$*ates.
0 F
I-
0C-



- 57 -
ANNIII
Page 1 of 15
DEMOCRATIC AND POPELM RE LIC OF AGERI
ENTERPRISE MAM FIN IAL SECTOR AWUSM           LOAN
LE=ER OF DEVELOPMET POLICY
(Unofficial Translation of French Version)
Dear Mr. President,
Since 1986, our authorities have been undertaking an increasingly wide
ranging reform program that aims at transforming the centralized management of
the economy into an economy governed by the rules of the market. Initially,
the Government devoted itself to the creation of a legal and regulatory
framework, as well as the institutional framework indispensable for the reform
program. From 1990, the scope of reform widened and its pace accelerated,       -
thereby leading, in 1991, to the adoption of a far-reaching economic program
comprising the re-establishment of macroeconomic equilibria, structural
change, and trade and price liberalization. A flexible exchange rate policy,
and rigorous budgetary and monetary policies are the key elements for the
implementation of our economic program. A revamping of the incentive system is
under way in order to make most prices market determined and decision-making
decentralized. In the same vein, the actions undertaken will be pursued
resolutely in order to enable all economic operators, be they public or
private, to expand their bases of activities and the supply of their products
under identical conditions. All economic operators will carry out their
activities according to the same rules within the framework of market
operations, based on the development of competition and the stimulation of the
market. Within this framework, the Government's intention is to secure
effectively a healthy competition between all enterprises in order to induce,
together with the other measures chosen, a better allocation of resources and
a behavioral adaptation to the new market rules. The Government has also
strengthened its social and employment policies in order to better protect
the most disadvantaged groups from the possible negative effects of the
reform, while at the same time creating conditions permitting an improvement
in the efficiency of employment and a reduction in unemployment.
The supply response based on the rules of the market that is expected
from the reforms require an improvement in the performance of public
enterprises and banks. Since public enterprises account for 80X of industrial
production and 60X of bank loans, the restructuring of banks is closely tied
to the restructuring of public enterprises. It is for this reason that the



- 58 -
ANNE} III
Page 2 of 15
Algerian authorities have elaborated a set of measures aimed at the
simultaneous restructuring and rehabilitation of public enterprises and the
banking sector.
This set of measures to restructure key sectors is an integral part of
our global reform program, which, more broadly, aims at the following
objectives:
a)    Improving internal and external equilibria in order to create the
macroeconomic conditions necessary for a sustained and diversified
growth that will permit lower unemployment and higher living
standards;
b)    In-depth liberalizing of domestic and external trade to improve
the efficiency of imports, diversify exports and develop markets
in a competitive framework;
c)    Developing the conditions for healthy competition between
enterprises, be they public or private, in order to permit them to
contribute effectively to development, through the adoption of the
necessary legal or regulatory measures;
d)    Ensuring that public enterprises are managed according to
commercial rules, in conformity with the principle of separating
the role of the State as a shareholder from the role of the State
as a regulator of the economy, while ensuring that the regulatory
interventions of the State do not establish any discrimination
between economic operators;
e)    Implementing the measures concerning the restructuring of
autonomous and non-autonomous public enterprises;
f)    Improving the efficiency of the social measures to protect
disadvantaged groups, in particular regarding education, training,
health, employment and social transfers;
g)    Reinforcing the arrangements to protect the environment;
h)    Restructuring the portfolio of banks and develop financial markets
to promote the efficient mobilization and allocation of financial
resources;
i)    Reinforcing the capacities of the financial system, especially
those of the Central Bsank, to enable it to function with
efficiency and dynamism in the new environment of a market
economy;
These economic policy objectives, and the instruments necessary for



- 59 -
ANNEX III
Page 3 of 15
their attainment, are described in the attached annex and matrix. The latter
distinguishes between measures already adopted and those envisaged during the
next year.
The Algerian authorities believe that the policies and measures
mentioned above will permit, on the one hand, to re-establish macroeconomic
equilibria, and on the other hand, to rekindle growth. In order to support the
execution of our economic reform program, and in particular the component of
public enterprise and bank restructuring and rehabilitation, the Algerian
Government requests from the World Bank a quick-disbursing loan in an amount
equivalent to US$ 350 million. The Government is determined to pursue
resolutely the implementation of the reforms. In this spirit, it would welcome
the support of the World Bank to ensure the full success of its economic
program.
Respectfully yours,
(Signed June 1, 1991)
Minister of Economy



- 60 -
ANNEX III
Page 4 of 15
ENTERPRISE AND FINAUIA3L SECTOR ADJSTMESNT LOAN
ATTACHMENT TO LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLIGY
The Letter of Development Policy spells out the objectives of the
Government's wide ranging reform program, both in terms of the macroeconomic
framework and the enterprise and financial sectors. This attachment describes
the various economic policy measures necessary for the realization of the
announced objectives. The macroeconomic policies adopted for 1991, and the
medium term, aim at a renewed growth that combines external and internal
equilibria in an economy governed by the rules of the market. The economic
policy Instruments to be used for the implementation of enterprise and
financial sector reform are regrouped in the following broad categories:
a)    Accelerated liberalization of foreign and domestic trade and
prices;
b)    Promotion of domestic competition by ensuring that all economic
operators are subject to the same rules, and that all enterprises,
private or public, are allowed to contribute effectively to the
development of the economy;
c)    Acceleration of the implementation of the rehabilitation of
autonomous public enterprises in order to enable them to operate
fully according to commercial criteria;
d)    Restructuring and rehabilitation of the largest loss-makers among
the non-autonomous public enterprises;
e)    Establishing social safeguards to accompany the reform;
f)    Rationalization of the relations between the Treasury and the rest
of the financial system;
g)    Progress toward market-based interest rates, and credit policies
based on commercial criteria, as well as the development of
financial markets;
h)    Gradual implementation of prudential and accounting regulations in
conformity with international norms;
i)    Restructuring and rehabilitation of the portfolio of existing
commercial banks together with the restructuring and
rehabilitation of public enterprises;
j)    Strengthening of the capacity of the Central Bank to conduct a
rigorous monetary and credit policy and to supervise the banking
system.



- 61 -
ANNEX III
Page 5 of 15
I.    Mac&oecnomc Frameok
A.    Reform towrXd the anqlcation of market rules
In 1991, the authorities are proceeding to accelerate the application of
market rules. In this spirit, foreign trade has recently been significantly
liberalized through the elimination of the system of import licenses and the
system of administrative and quantitative allocation of foreign exchange. From
now on, all Algerian enterprises, whether public or private, can import any
goods, with the exception of those cited below, for their own requirements or
for distribution, in conformity with present regulations. In parallel, price
liberalization has been pursued. At this moment, there remains only about
twenty products with price ceilings and about fifty with margin ceilings. It
is foreseen to continue to transfer the latter to the category of free prices
by early 1992, with the exception of a dozen basic consumer goods. Finally, in
order to promote competition, all forms of associations and participation in
investments are henceforth authorized, including private national or foreign
firms in the framework of subsidiaries, with a few exceptions foreseen by law.
B.    Macroeconomic objectives and oolicies for 1991
The Government's economic program for 1991 aims at an increase in the
rate of growth of the economy from an estimated 1.1 in 1990 to the objective
of 4.5X in 1991. This increase is essentially the result of industrial
recovery, in large measure induced by a better utilization of imported inputs,
and also increased agricultural production. Significant adjustments in the
exchange rate have been realized since December 1989 (30% in real terms in
1990, and an additional 381 in nominal terms during the first two months of
1991). Together with the other economic policy instruments, these adjustments
have permitted the launching of a broad program of trade and price
liberalization and the setting in motion of the process of rendering the Dinar
convertible for commercial transactions. These measures increase the risk of
accelerated inflation, as measured by the consumer price index, which could
reach 351 in 1991, compared with 231 in 1990 (year-end over year-end). The
authorities will continue their rigorous budgetary and monetary policies in
order to contain inflationary pressures. Besides, the increase in the salary
bill of the clvil service for 1991 will be limited to 29X. This ceiling will
serve as a reference point for the salary policy of the non-autonomous public
enterprises.
On the external side, the foreseen decline in hydrocarbon export
recelpts, due to the fall in the oil price (to an average of $20 for Algerian
crude in 1991 against $24.2 in 1990), should lead to a current account deficit
limited to $0.3 billion, compared with a surplus of $1.4 billion in 1990.
Against this background, the authorities have the Intention to reduce the
burden of the external debt service. To do this, they plan to lengthen the
maturity profile of the external debt by seeking medium and long-term loans,
but without recourse to rescheduling. To support the liberalization of foreign
trade, the authorities foresee also an increase in the reserves of the Central



- 62 -
AMNEX III
Page 6 of 15
Bank from $730 million at the end of 1990 to $1.53 billion at the end of 1991.
The authorities are aware that the pursuit of reforms require the re-
establishment of internal and external equilibria. In this spiric, the pursuit
of a rigorous budget policy, supported by an increase in fiscal revenue,
especially revenue from hydrocarbon taxes, should lead to an important surplus
in 1991. A large portion of this surplus will be transferred to the enterprise
Restructuring Fund to finance the restructuring and rehabilitation of banks
and public enterprises. Monetary policy will also remain restrictive,
including the establishment, for each bank, of a credit ceiling for the 22
largest loss-making enterprises, and a rediscount ceiling in order to contain
the inflationary pressures and to reduce the high liquidity of the economy.
To sustain this program, the authorities will pursue a flexible
exchange rate policy together with other policy instruments. By improving the
efficiency of imports and stimulating and diversifying exports, these economic
policies will contribute to a rekindling of growth and the development of
markets under conditions of greater stability in the balance of payments over
the medium term.
II. Enterprise sector reform
A.      StenRed-up liberalization of trade and nrices
The realization of the objective of improving the performance of public
enterprises requires the elimination of existing economic and financial
distortions through a stepped-up liberalization of trade and prices in order
to create the conditions where prices and resource allocation are determined,
in their essential aspects, by the rules of the market. The reforms of the
fiscal system under way will also contribute to the achievement of these
objectives.
From now on and since April 1991, in conformity with the monetary and
credit policy adopted by the Central Bank in the context of the program
objectives, the convertibility of the Dinar is effective for all goods, with
the exception of goods proscribed for moral, socio-cultural, religious or
health reasons, and precious stones and metals. In parallel, the organization
of external trade has been liberalized in the sense that all Algerian
enterprises, public or private, can import all goods, subject to the
exceptions cited above, for their own requirements or for distribution, in
conformity with existing regulations. In the same spirit, the procedure for
certifying wholesalers has become automatic for all operators inscribed in the
Register of Commerce. Finally, the establishmeit of wholesaler concessionaries
will contribute to improve market supply and increase competition in the
economy. Besides, the Central Bank, in the framework of its prerogatives,
coordinates the implementation of external debt policy through, notably, a
flexible exchange rate policy and a prudent monetary and credit policy.
In view of the above, regulations covering domestic trade have been
reformed. Production and trading monopolies have been remeved and the



- 63 -
ANNEX III
Page 7 of 15
treatment of the public and private sectors has been unified in the legal
framework.
The implementation of the price law of 1989 has been accelerated, in
particular through the following means: (i) transfer of eleven product groups
from the category of price ceilings to the category of margin ceilings; (ii)
transfer of twenty-three product groups from this last category to the free
price category; (iii) transfer of special types of bread and non-railroad
transport from the category of margin ceilings to the category of free prices.
Hereafter, only twenty-two product groups remain in the category of price
ceilings (essentially subsidized products and energy products), and about
fifty products in the category of margin ceilings. In addition, for the
products subject to margin ceilings, the minimum delay between two requests
for price adjustments has been reduced from six to three months. Finally,
together with the liberalization of imports, and depending on conditions of
competitiveness, the transfer of products subject to a margin ceilings toward
the category of free prices will be pursued in such as way as to leave only
about a dozen of products subject to a margin ceilings by the beginning of
1992.
The fiscal reform, which has already been started, will be almost
entirely implemented during 1992. In this context, the current system of
multiple indirect taxes will be replaced by a value added tax. A unified tax
on the income of physical persons will replace the present system of multiple
and complex taxes. Similarly, the taxation of corporations will be simplified
through the introduction of a global corporate profits tax. The fijcal reform
will be complemented by an in-depth reform of customs tariffs. The
authorities wish that the implementation of all these fiscal reform iqeasures
be supported by the World Bank in the context of a fiscal and trade reform
loan currently under preparation.
B.    Promotion of domestic cospetition
In order to reach fully the objective of the economic reforms of
improving the efficiency and productivity of enterprises, it will be necessary
to establish an incentive system and an institutional framework conducive to
the development and broadening of competition. It is with this in mind that
the Government has adopted the following measures: (i) abrogation of all
production and distribution monopolies, with the exception of a few very
specific cases spelled out by law; (ii) abolition of all administrative
clearances and all ceilings on private investment; (iii) elimination of
specific restrictions on the private sector, be it in matters relating to
credit, taxation, or allocation of foreign exchange; (iv) authorization of
associations between private or public national firms and private foreign
firms in joint ventures or subsidiaries; (v) adoption of a land law that
eliminates the public monopoly on land reserves and establishes a market in
land; (vi) membership of Algeria in IFC, contributing to the increased access
of the private sector to external financing.



- 64 -
Page 8 of 15
These measures are part of the accelerated pursuit of the transition to
a market economy. At this advanced stage of the implementation of the economic
reforms, it is important to emphasize the results of some of the actions
targeting the development of the private sector:
(i)   its share in credit to the economy has risen from 4.5X in 1986 to
12.8X in 1990;
(ii)  non-discriminatory conditions for access to credit (maturity,
interest rates, eligibility for refinancing) since April 1990;
(iii) non-discriminatory access to external financing in the framework
of import liberalization since April 1991;
(iv)  non-discriminatory eligibility for interest rate rebates;
(v)   abrogation of production and distribution monopolies.
To develop further the private sector, practical measures will continue
to be adopted to promote the productive activities of the private sector to
encourage it to participate more actively in economic and social development.
In parallel, the promotion of domestic competition will be reinforced
and stimulated by the new legislation contained in the Commercial Code
recently submitted to the National Assembly for review. The Code broadens the
range of recognized forms of companies and associations, and increases the
types of financial instruments, which is an indispensable condition for the
development of financial markets and a stock exchange. Moreover, it simplifies
bankruptcy rules and procedures. Finally, it regroups and integrates all legal
rules and regulations concerning commercial activities and transactions
involving financial instruments, while consecrating the elimination of
measures discriminating between public and private enterprises.
C.    Accelerated imUlementation of the rehabilitation of autonomous Rublic
enterprises
Since 1988, the Algerian authorities have proceeded with the separation
between the role of the State as shareholder and the role of the State as a
regulator of the economy (laws 88-01 to 06 of January 12, 1988) by creating
eight asset management firms (Fonds de Participation). Each Fund is a
fiduciary agent of the State in charge of managing and seeking a yield
according to commercial principles on the portfolio of shares held in the
autonomous public euterprises (EPEs). The Funds are not a form of new
administrative organs. Each Fund is an autonomous fiduciary company
controlling at the outset a maximum of 40X of the share capital of an
autonomous public enterprise. They exercise their role of shareholder through
the shareholder assemblies of these enterprises without interference in their
daily management. These EPEs, today numbering 303, are free to determine their
produttion and investment activities, but when these decisions so require,
they can request guarantees from their shareholder assembly.



- 65 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 15
Now that the legal and institutional framework is in place, the
objective is to proceed with the evaluation and rehabilitation of the
patrimony of the EPEs in order to determine the economic value of the
portfolios of the Funds and to improve their performance, on the basis of
which the remuneration of the board members of the Funds, and the board
members and management teams of the EPEs, will be determined. It is in this
framework that a pilot audit program for twenty-five EPEs has been launched by
the new Center for Financial Restructuring and Analysis. For 1991, a total
amount of DA 8.4 billion is foreseen for the Funds: (i) DA 4.4 billion as a
budget appropriation for capital expenditure (risk capital); (ii) DA 4 billion
from the Restructuring Fund to defray the impact of the exchange rate
adjustment on the servicing of EPE debt contracted before end-1989.
In order to achieve their objectives, the Funds will submit to their
shareholder assembly before end-1991 a report on their activities comprising
in particular progress realized in the evaluation of the assets in their
portfolios, as well as set of overall financial objectives for 1992.
D.    Rastructuring and rehabilitation of the largest loss-makers among the
non-autonomous gublic enterprises
In the framework of the restructuring and rehabilitation program for
public enterprises and banks, it is necessary to accord special treatment to
the twenty-two largest loss-makers among the non-autonomous public enterprises
(EPs), which are the cause of the bulk of the non-performing portfolios of
banks and consequently cannot pass directly to autonomy. Their action plans
comprise two phases: (i) during the first phase, these enterprises will be
subject to a diagnostic study with the aim of determining and localizing the
origin of their losses and defining and adopting all urgent short-term
measures necessary to eliminate these deficits and pass to autonomy; (ii)
during the second phase, and for those enterprises that will not by then have
passed to autonomy, detailed restructuring studies will be carried out, based
on the results from the first phase. During these phases, the enterprises will
remain under the control and surveillance of the State until their passage to
autonomy.
The terms of reference for the first phase diagnostic studies have
already been adopted and bid invitations launched. The bids were received and
evaluated by end-May 1991. The authorities expect to sign the necessary
contracts with the chosen international consulting firms before end-June 1991.
The diagnostic studies should last two to three months, at most. For the
enterprises which can pass immediately to autonomy, all the measures
identified through the diagnostic studies will be implemented before 1992. For
those which cannot pass directly to autonomy, the implementation of the action
plans *esulting from the diagnostic studies, including the carrying out of any
detail.l restructuring studies required, will start by early 1992.
The restructuring process foreseen for the second phase will require
more time. It will involve economic and financial restructuring and
rehabilitation measures that could include in particular split-ups, mergers,
partnerships and discontipuation of activities in conformity with the law.



- 66 -
Page 10 of 15
Once an enterprise has been rehabilitated, restructured and passed to
autonomy, it will no longer be eligible for support from the Restructuring
Fund.
During these phases, the enterprises will remain under the surveillance
and financial control of the State, especially by means of: (i) Treasury
guarantees for "healthy" credits granted by banks; (ii) subsidies from the
Restructuring Fund, including a contribution to cover the impact of the
exchange rate adjustment on the servicing of debt contracted before end-1989;
(iii) a ceiling on the increase in the salary bill with reference to the
change in the average salary for the civil service. For 1991, the increase in
healthy credit to these enterprises is limited to DA 6.5 billion, compared
with DA 9.7 billion in 1990. The total amount of subsidies from the
Restructuring Fund to these enterprises is targeted at DA 9 billion. The
reference point for the increase in the salary bill is 29X, as for government
employees. It should be remembered that the initial 1991 budget allocation to
the Restructuring Fund was DA 12 billion, and that the allocation is foreseen
to rise to D& 21.8 billion. For 1992, the same approach will be adopted, by
end-1991, for those among these enterprises which have not yet passed to
autonomy.
E.    Establishing social safeguards to accomRanv the reform
The authorities are fully aware that, if the industrial and financial
restructuring is to be effective, this will require that the social dimensions
of the reform be taken into account, especially with respect to the adaptation
of the qualifications of the labor force, and the flexibility of the labor
market and the salary policy. One of the most pressing problems of the reform
is how to devise a mechanism to support the redeployment of labor as a result
of restructuring, and how to create conditions favorable to a broadening of
the labor market and a reduction of unemployment and underemployment. In order
to cope with the high level of unemployment, the authorities have already put
in place a youth employment program. In addition, they are in the process of
improving the social mechanisms for the protection of disadvantaged groups,
notably in the areas of education, health and social transfers.
The reform of the organization of social relations, especially the labor
market, is an integral part of the reform program. In 1990, several social
laws were adopted in this area, with the objectives of:
i)    Reiastatement of the responsibility of the social partners in the
negotiation of collective wage agreements, with the objective of
mobilizing labor groups and their partners around productivity
imperatives;
ii) Relaxation of the wage determination process by excluding the
autonomous public enterprises from the salary scale applicable to
the civil service. From now on the State will only fix the minimum
salary. An important consequence of these changes is that public
and private enterprises will henceforth have same degree of
freedom in determining salaries;



- 67 -
ANNEX III
Page 11 of 15
iii)  Recognition of the right to strike for all workers following
transparent conditions and procedures;
iv)   Recognition of trade union pluralism and different modes for
establishing worker representation;
v)    Independent organization of labor inspection, which has been given
the responsibility of facilitating consensus-building and settling
of conflicts;
vi)   Clarification and relaxation of the conditions for lay-offs for
economic reasons, following the creation of severance pay benefits
to a maximum of 15 months of salary.
For 1991, a budget appropriation of DA 3.2 billion has been foreseen to
contribute to defray the social costs of reform falling on disadvantaged
groups. The disbursement criteria for this appropriation will be defined
during the course of the year, especially in relation with the results from
the study, presently under way, on how to obtain a better targeting of social
transfers toward particularly vulnerable groups.
III. Financial sector reform
A.    Rationalization of the relations between the Treasury and the rest
of the financial System
Before the reform, the domestic financial resources were centralized in
the Treasury and subsequently allocated for investment by enterprises on the
basis of centralized decision-making. This system was not conducive to
stimulate the mobilization of savings, and ultimately transformed the Treasury
into the principal source of money creation with a cumulative debt toward the
Central Bank of more than DA 110 billion by end-1989. Consequently, the
Central Bank had no active role in the conduct of monetary policy and served
as lender of last resort to the Treasury. On their side, the banks financed
almost without limit the needs of the public enterprises and turned to the
Central Bank for their liquidity requirements.
A key element of the reform program for the financial sectQr has thus
been the withdrawal of the Treasury from the financing of productive
investments in favor of intermediation by the banking system according to
commercial criteria, together with greater responsibility for the Central Bank
in the conduct of monetary and credit policies (an enhanced role confirmed by
the Law on Money and Credit of April 1990). Consequently, since 1990 the
Treasury has ceased to finance new investments of public enterprises, and
since 1991 the banks are no longer obliged to subscribe to Treasury bonds; the
Law limited the stock of Central Bank advances to the Treasury to their level
at the date of promulgation of the Law on Money and Credit and fixed a
deadline of a maximum of 15 years for the repayment of the advances, while
leaving it to the Central Bank and the Treasury to agree on a detailed



- 68 -
ANNE III
Page 12 of 15
timetable. In parallel, new advances from the Central Bank to the Treasury are
limited to a maximum of 240 days and have to be reimbursed by the end of the
year, while their amount is limited to 102 of ordinary budget receipts of the
preceding year. From now on, in case of need, the Treasury will have to turn
to the financial market.
In 1991, the Treasury will devote DA 8 billion to repay maturing
Treasury bonds held by banks and a further DA 7 billion to repay maturing
investment bonds held by insurance companies, banks and the CNEP. Among other
things, the relations between the Treasury and the BAD and the CNEP will be
reformed by the creation of the Caisse Nationale du Logement and the Caisse
Nationale d'Equipement, which will assume the quasi-fiscal functions of CNEP
and BAD respectively. As a result, CHEP and BAD will, respectively, become a
commercial bank and a financial institution.
B.    Evolution toward market-based interest rates. and credLt nolicies
based on commercial criteria. as well as the devel2opent of
financial markets
In order to limit inflationary pressures and to proceed with the in-
depth rehabilitation of public enterprises and the banking system, the
authorities will reinforce their monetary and credit policies in 1991. To this
end, they will develop the instruments indispensable for the conduct of
decentralized macroeconomic management. In this spirit, the main thrust of the
credit policy will be the establishment of strict credit constraints on
enterprises, notably by means of quarterly rediscount ceilings for each bank,
and the reform of the operations of the money market via an increased
competition between the banks, a ceiling on the interventions of the Central
Bank and the development of interbank operations. Theve measures should allow
interest rates to fluctuate in line with supply and demand conditions. They
should also allow the rediscount rate to be revised in relation with other
bank-related conditions in order to arrive at positive real interest rates,
relative to anticipated inflation, for term deposits, by the end of 1991.
With a view to promote competition between banks and to cut sometimes
excessive financial margins, the authorities do henceforth allow the creation
of private banks, the establishment in Algeria of branch offices or
representative offices of foreign banks, and the association between foreign
and Algerian banks in the form of subsidiaries with no limit on the
participation of the foreign partner. Three foreign banks have already opened
representative offices, and a mixed bank between the BADR and a Saudi
financial group was recently created. The foreseen broadening of the money
market to include insurance companies and the Treasury will also contribute to
the development of competition in the financial sector and to improve the
efficiency of financial intermediation.
In order to encourage the development of capital markets and financial
instruments, the authorities are in the process of preparing the issuing of
bonds and other financial instruments at competitive interest rates, as well
as the opening of a stock exchange in early 1992. The Commercial Code which
has been presented to the National Assembly authorizes all enterprises under



- 69 -
ANNEX I I 
Page 13 of 15
Algerian law to issue and trade all types of financial instruments. At the
beginning of 1992, a new legislation will be prepared to abrogate the state
insurance monopoly to broaden and render more dynamic the insurance market.
For 1991, the authorities have set themselves the objective of limiting
the growth in money supply to 12X compared with 13X in 1990. This should help
control inflationary pressures stemming from the liberalization of trade and
prices. In this spirit, the increase in not domestic assets will be limited to
DA 33 billion in 1991 against DA 40 billion in 1990.
C.    Gradual iLnlementation of nrudential and accounting regulationi In
conformity with international norms
The Central Bank is currently elaborating and putting into place a
prudential and accounting regulation that conforms to international norms and
aims at evaluating the risks of bank portfolios, proceeding with the requisite
provisions and supervising regularly the management of banks. The
implementation of this regulation will be gradual to take account of the
financial situation of the banks, the time required to restructure their
portfolios, and the indispensable delay in developing the skills in this area.
The Central Bank has already adopted the international capital adequacy-
norm (own capital/risk assets) of 8X for new commercial banks. For existing
banks, the authorities have set a norm of 31 for 1991 and 41 for 1992, which
these banks are required to respect to receive by end-June 1991 their
temporary certification. An amount of DA 8.8 billion has been allocated from
the Restructuring Fund for the recapitalization of banks in the framework of
their restructuring and with a view to attain the 31 ratio. Another
recapitalization of DA 2 billion is foreseen for 1992 to reach the 41
objective. The authorities' aim is to reach, by the beginning of 1995, the
common norm for all banks, and the interim ratio for 1993 will be adopted with
this objective in mind. Before end-June 1991 the Central Bank will publish the
new prudential regulations, including the transitory capital adequacy ratio
and the minimum capital for 1992.
Subsequently the Central Bank will publish other rules regarding the
certification, entry conditions, bank operating norms and competition, as well
as exit conditions. Before obtaining its final certification, each bank will
have to submit to a verification of its accounts and show that it has begun an
internal reform program approved by the Central Bank. This program will
include a portfolio restructuring plan, linked to the financial and industrial
restructuring foreseen for the public enterprises, as well as a medium term
development strategy. By end-June 1991, two banks will have submitted
detailed proposals for their restructuring and development strategies.
The Central Bank is also preparing, with the help of international
consultants, an action program aimed at the implementation of a new accounting
system for the banks,as well as regulations for external audits. This program
will be ready by the end of September 1991 and will include the
standardization of financial statements of banks for external use, as well as
a table of equivalence for going from these financial statements to the banks'



- 70 -
ANNEX III
Page 14 of 15
internal detailed accounting systems. The implementation of this program will
start at the beginning of 1992. The financial statements of the banks will be
controlled through external audits according to international norms starting
with the 1992 statements. At the beginning of 1992, preliminary audits of the
1991 financial statements will be carried out.
The strengthening of bank inspection will proceed in parallel with the
other modifications in the regulations. The Central Bank will prepare an
action programme for bank inspection by end-June 1991. This program will cover
the rules to apply, the terms of reference for the inspection, as well as
training and recruitment needs.
D.    aest.ucturing and rehabilitation of the portfolio of existing
commercial banks
Given the complexity of bank rehabilitation and its link to the
rehabilitation and restructuring of enterprises, the authorities have decided
to adopt a gradual approach, and have adopted transitional rules governing the
relations between banks and enterprises. First, all new transactions between
the banks and the public enterprises should be on a commercial basis. Second,
the stock of non-performing claims should be identified and treated case by
case, but according to a global and consistent approach that encourages the -
actual restructuring of enterprises. The authorities are particularly
concerned to avoid a situation whereby, if assets and liabilities were
systematically written off, enterprise managers and bank directors may
consider that they are relieved of any further operational or management
actions to improve their performance. The success of this approach requires
that the rehabilitation rules be transparent, applied with rigor, and within a
tight timetable.
There is a need to emphasize that the new credits granted by the banks
are subject to commercial rules and negotiated with their clients in the
framework of the norms established by the Central Bank. The clean-up of old
claims will be organized according to three categories: (i) claims on
dissolved enterprises, but which remain on the balance sheets of the banks;
(ii) claims on autonomous public enterprises; (Lii) claims on the twenty-two
large loss-making non-autonomous en.erprises.
The first category comprises around DA 35 billion of claims on
enterprises dissolved for several years, or 14X of all bank loans. The amount
includes capitalized interest, which naturally has not been received by the
banks, nor provisioned for. These claims will be replaced by zero coupon
Treasury bonds, with an equal nominal value after twenty years when they fall
due. The bonds have an implicit annual yield of 51 before tax (and 7.5X after
tax). Even though this operation improves the value of the assets of the
banks, it has no direct impact on the liquidity of the banks, because the
bonds are non-negotiable.
The second category comprises the end-1990 bank overdrafts of already
autonomous enterprises which exceed a working capital threshold, defined by
the banks, on a case-by-case basis in term of months of turnover. This amount



- 71 -
ANNEX III
Page 15 of 15
of claims, currently estimated at DA 34 billion, is the subject of
negotiations between the banks and the enterprises, and is expected to lead to
the consolidation of a part of the claims in the form of medium-term credit,
at market rates.
The third category comprises a stock of claims estimated at DA 57
billion in end-1990, on the twenty-two large loss-making non-autonomous
enterprises. For these enterprises, the same approach will be followed by
distinguishing between the debts that are to be serviced on time and those
which currently cannot be serviced. The latter will be frozen for a period of
up to a maximum of two years, during which restructuring plans will be
elaborated for these enterprises. The plans will determine the precise
conditions for the servicing and repayment of the frozen debts, of which a
portion will be replaced by Treasury bonds to the advantage of the banks.
In order to measure the progress realized toward the rehabilitation of
banks, the authorities will examine, at the beginning of 1992, the results of
the actions undertaken by the banks, the non-autonomous public enterprises,
the Fonds de Participation and the Restructuring Fund.
E.    Strengthening the capacity of the Central Bank to conduct A
rigorous monetary and credit nolicX and to supervise the banking .
axatem
The reform of the financial sector is carried out under the supervision
and co-ordination of the Central Bank, in conformity with the new role
assigned to it by the Law on Money and Credit of 1990. This role requires the
adoption of a broad and suitably designed training program for the staff of
the Central Bank linked to the envisaged use of new financial instruments.
A global modernization and reorganization program for the Central Bank
will be adopted before end-June 1991, including, in particular, a
computerization component, a related financing plan, as well as a timetable
for its implementation. At the beginning of 1992, the progress realized in the
implementation of the plan will be reviewed with a view to proceed with the
necessary adjustments in light of experience gained.
IV.   Reform imnlementation
The elaboration, execution, and monitoring of the vast program of
restructuring and rehabilitation of public enterprises and banks described
above will require an organization and constant co-ordination of the
activities undertaken by the different institutions involved. To this end, a
program co-ordination and monitoring committee has been created, comprising
representatives from CNP, the Treasury, the Central Bank, and the Ministries
of Industry and Social Affairs, and with topic specific subcommittees. Under
the aegis of the Central Bank, a committee including the directors of
commercial banks has been given the specific responsibility of supervising the
implementation of the reform of the banking system.



S~~ -  S-s xun
Ibed o    &eUw1             Bomie   atActr Mu*sat ibaotes
asaiamxmmm£ea o itawmiimMamra *mheotlf
utfto   ama,and                   1) _e (z aom    to                 5.) iljmiatim in IM of
1 toueamm  eqmSra Au order        fowean ersha    for au             the systo at reIgn                1) lltoIstion of the ejeto       1) Iub of the
to eseatA the mmoeanm             eeo    eaetet. tnolilug           inhome budgets for lpio            of Aswet U0msas uasyiinat.at    of the
e_itim   melsiwo to                nivate.                          otterprisea  its                      cof the                                    In t   de to
sastal.4 aroma md                                                    reglnomut by a  ates of                etio foreign                        the_a hA  u e mkt ot
v. Iin to   11ln                                                       - __          el     l             bo to  riva                     canvextibility of the dar
atAsierd at the papuletiot.                                          at the leoel of- b   li *i    _    eneise  thro    the              Lw moroiiu
itot    negoate the access        Eatml Cer of                      tt_a.tiau.
to foreign oobwaug witk           cromet.
ii) Shace d-*drlp. 180I.
U1) Abrcgaic of resle             the cawatlhllty of the
S me olios in  the         AIl- ha becom effective
getabLis1t  a systen or           fox aL goo"., except tine
cmeegeim holderst-                pr**btod enr moral.
*lSl3. *0o cam  -rca         godial, osLitel. rliu
to imort fro    VW real           aJd bs        s.  _e
e wocas tbey bav                  as precious stowe  ed
ebtelfld the peoscribed           metals.
Ali) flecefori, all.
enterp imesmete Algerias
law,   tbe  plbic or
prvate , am _ozt all
-_. With theb  eaptian at
ths lsted ab_ e. fo .
their a  need, or fo
distlbstmla confomity
With iegulatlew.
lv) The athortsati.m
-         fr_ daoldsa le
hoas become matminti fat all
the Comroial Registr.
ii) Adjustment of the             1) Normial devaluationa of        i) runner --rina                   1) CosatinuatIe of the
exchwae rateto l  tpoezeatiin    5SU betwoem Decaibor 1866          devalaaetlan of 46 perctent        fLatlinl policy cancmozu'v
for the total. ootvertUubiity     and December 1960                 during the fiet. three             the exchange tate together
of the Dtoat fee merobmitee       Coqttivelunt to a reelmonths of 198.                                 with other Instxrmnts of
tranasotiinas.           eff~atective devaluaetion of                                         inreeooctc mowtegenet.
ebotst 301).
iii) 00OXOdIUMtiLo  Of            i) Creation of a consttee,                                           I) signing of medius ot
fOreisn borrnwing to enute        LIM the CentreL Bank to                                              lang-tom IOGIM agrammOtA
ccslt.w with                   coordinate ezteroaml                                                with Intornatiogs) bunks.
amte=      cobjectives and       borzomIng frtm the start af
to vomsit a Lnngthuning of        1960. pursuit of efforts to
the aerego intauity of the        reduce the external ddbt
extezeal, debt,                   service burden.
'i
CL    .~~~~~~~~~~~~~#



IV) RleduStis   in)Paut       ren. period
Bector deficit.                    of mjor balget defcits to           O Tacremse the bU  got             i) Continuatio of a bajpot
a surpls Situatio  in 19.          allocatim  to the                  PoUCY that will. pdUt the
Creatia  of a eieel                              Fu ndtr c fo  Da     sttainet ot the lamp
R_etr- touins V_  I  ct-    _     ,    ilm oh 16.6                     warpum toorst fto 11.
allocated DA12 billion In          bilite.                            lrmfr   of         usforsea
the  81 Flamoe  Li, to                                                   -tform treay
ftame tm recaiLtlratim,                                               opeaia" to the
of banku* as mal a the                                                betractjur    11.
om  and ret.uctolag of
pubic w3terprie.
v) C_taatim of a                   L) D_ecrae in the aUio of           1) Adopima by the Central          1) P_epartim by tdo
ratrietiw aMatry policy            W2 to GDP tle Sal at ond-          Det of a credat pIngrm for          Centrl Smsn of a credit
to Iit in1latieay                  13se to 722 at mmd-1i90. ri         1891 Lv ceafadty with              -ma rm frz I=  mad
preasaUr     iclding the           1S09 and 190 an ma                 aMatory taets spte lln              utilixatim of indirect
_b orpt4etf excess                 ttieal Credit Plm fixed            oat, for each beak, a credit        polcy instaments ach as
liqidity.                          specifi cdlevee for                 coling fO  the 22 larg             the_ a.sim of Trasury
a_ator  ed credit                  1nea-ding enterprise  ed           bauds4ed o   martet
aggreget_  within a                a redieco_ t ceilU .               epaaims.
WOOLV_COno.iI
p.



II. ETRRuU sE:raRt
Cbleftiv"                         Ares of Intervention               wAs..reaks   by and*190            291   ta90n by ond_f___ t_
1. Creatin of a 1g1 md            1) DUisomiUM     of direct          i) Adoptio  of ls 88-01 to       1) Suimiso  of the draft           1) 1zecut.lm of financial
iastit.utiane. tfri k for          stat. cmttaL oe erpebUc            68-O  an the  sas pe to           naew Cmarciel Coda to the          and accouAin  audits
puble aaterpri     hat                      O; o                               f public          I     b t l Asahl1; the draft             fo1lcw'i  the timetable
wee their _onegainat                                                  -terisee;                          code stplatea in                  defined;
according to comercial                                                                                  parcU
suidelines clerly                                                    AL) -g the 470 public             ip) Preparation by eah
separaUng the role of the                                             mterpdia. 303 notif led of           -              o                Feads de Particlpetim. for
State as the regulat.o of                                             the pessaae to autow.                treatat of private  2d    suissio  to its
ecal actAvity fro                                                    stes to deal with rmining             pibLLi cumercial                sharbolder  _sblys, of gm
that of public anterprise                                             1t7 ectiMe   delle t   _                   Is;                       activities repr for I9
habrehobler.                                                         a(aU of aich mre net                  - broedoag Of the legal         (inluding progres vealzd
Candidates foLr anta );              roz  of cinercial               in the evaluatio  of thei4
vsux   "D lSndmn the            portflio of she);
I_) b_prswnt  in t4e               ALL) Creatin Of the Caster               c       betw
ccoistet  plan, the                for Pine.elw fsatvztriz              pbic "a private                 AIi) evaluation, by their
efciONy of stdits aid             e-d Analysis (Cuf) to                 pertoers                        sbarer assely. of the
extersal finciaL report            initiae. durin  a firt               - bromaming of the rag          parfomanc Of the Bfman
requied of the anterpride.         phese, tfinatn l andits;             of tecmiseed fin tal            Participetim  thbough their
isr?".                        activities reports.
IV) Adoption of the  w               - b       pcpoii                          disbursements too
concerning the Fowds                            it                               in difficutes;
PartAcipati*  (fiduciary             i_ _ratation
stem" of the state)                  rwantiams;                      iv) Defnition of a frnal
establishing clear                                                   rinrMstin sYstGM for the
ebJectives for their              AL) &Iqmtss by their               board   I   of the Ponds
_agint of the potfotios                       assebly ox a           de larUticpet     by their
of 64arou in public               reration sys1w for the             sharehWer        ly;
anterprines,                      hoard   I  bd usagonet
tern of outanu publi              v) Adapticn of the n_m
v) Degltin of                     ant4--er      lite  to thei        C ercial Code;
restucturing Zactivitiss by       perf_mce'
the F<aid d Participetion                                            vi) Initial operatios of   *^
for the "*trprOe  in their        Ii) Creatio  of a atock            the stock exchag;           t
portfolio.                        exchage c.Y.
Vii) Launching of a study an
vi) Adoptio of the 1w an          IV) A4prval of 16 joint            the deve"opan t eof s1 and
itsne  and Credit autorling       vantur  with foreign                          . terpris.
foresig  direct investrnt         patoar by the Ccill Ca
(with or witbout perner.)          sley and CrdKt.
With pmblic or private
ALgarian eatetprises in mot       v) Definition by the CiP,
actvities. twinding the           in colanbratia with
financial ead petrolan            iteational auit re
sectos.                           of a tinstabl. to widertake
finani1 ad acoonting
auts of 25 phbic
Onterpriseslted by the
RFds do Participation.
I !
t4



ObjecUmes               ~Areas of intOanwmtAt                 39e55f" tae bi an-lg                       tae by                      _______________
2.pzJi.a or a isge am              i) Adopim  of a qltatory            1)  re lrel1atima   by             1) Imamfr of products m             i3 *tivum of the
}      t t_f            ftu       (low, d                   transferrit  p        o  a   tlw lc                                    prls or poe P f P tD
dte rprises(ver to auOleql treatmmat boe  pnie cilings or inergit                                               list of mites                 ibseaUsatle in lltabt of
yelpis   (Aw"    Pubue             O_1 tratet betw_                    Pri-e edlwa  or  wancdillwp (witb tbe anetU                        elltl Io         a  adY
or p te) to m_m                    public a  prlito        cilto                                           ci s (itet of  ofittht  e   cepu" b t.lL om  mr   of pt s.
presdively twrd a                  and the pzmtim  of market-          products With a_nced                omm  goods and anerw
,ozket econow.              ban"  _aqmUitio.                    prices (free pti, .                pr3d(tet). _  the tzrinfr           I) Srdl transfar of the
FoLtlwit  this trasfer, the        of products fm  th  list of        VINInlag SO product   the
_ILPt of ammauce  ree              mrgin ceiling  to the List          list oR tMkrgn CeilAW to
W-iAn the  cm.ner prile            Of rnmoed (fte) prces              the List at mnced
L rdmosoefm  10 to 43 at      wt the eOeptis. orf abat          pric, hut no leter the  by
end-l1S;                           fifty p  d -cts) FollPwin          1sIY I1. with the
this IecId trsfwe, the             meptim of a doze of
weigt of mnounced pes              boeic cintmr Proucts;
In the can_mr price indr
wll ris  tro  43? to at
lea"t 551;
ii) Meie adjust tea for
electricity i nstal gao,
ad  sub med prodt, to
ord   to redoe tbe total
meant ofiplicit and
elcit sidi   by DA t.6
bilIun in Iona
111) Red_ation ftom as to 
the  moths of the edie sen
dla  betwee price
increase  for goods suJect
to smargi ceJiling.
toe
I,t



Home-tadU  by ou-I=                                                              ooth
Ui.) Gxu ato b_ agelt             1) c,..u.otu met ba  of           1) XUsImm" at oa mit              I) IAt*dA.t b1
oscotiiSi to tm=pwmmt               oetz*mnto                        .ta   o  h                        moa b a fu
ez"t eit izthu.a  .*ttw.          vlt.                              autono ous m    imes-             LiY agenooit eS
maters;                  Om ~~oti aoth the 22
S edzaSthet WIu a" be
I) _atU1    Logo" by             umaei  tomw in 1U,
the CditteL  U   w am            is the MM  of the .D5
qopioattmot f mhe Lv m                 cm totmot mtetpzia
-   m  Credit..=                         s tUSRtUSf   the
0%
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.,
l.



MUM=                              Arm f Os""mom tk&  hr m
S. elsratm of atzs.               1) Aeotim ef a poU)y               1) Vow t1e  mti                   S) CFeas by taw                          the estiniu
esi  psecade0 M.     the          fwinmmo* fzdor the S tstSal        entorprses, S.mbnos of            cam.ezei baWs at a o"mys          esepIs. thet hays ber
zestzetatiamosf Untame        ESTUne     . Ot akl                      OXIMB ativities by          or credt CIO  _atii                                    by tbe
,   mm-estmm PdUc                                                    Wm Vo"de 4. _t z U   Fp_tlelp.    for estinw     estewpri _ ;       bam, t eer         to
emt.q.ises.                       interpSam.s;                                 ficy ogmtA                                                 gdit wit e   ttll e _t
of the state. will cnatd          1i) FVo lass-oe an                by rhta       a vww _tee
the zebilitatim ad                the aat4a    eteprises.           trm the Finds de
ze_twuctur   oi thes              Isambtu  ad  eestim of                 ii          ed to a
mtewls";                          the frt                   tIa pa qq
operations;                       in ai-a by taw bat;
US.) Fbr .a.-3.....  im             ) VoW lass_So
the s        tm-m 4*t 4giv.       estines esteqirsa.
_oin at a z       _ablam          restmturu  plems wil be
esthorisiugdohe Vt de             IqeaI via the banks adi
patoS.pati"m to issme             the Funbde 4.lrIUCLPatiMn;
smarmntems  So .ansmtim
owth the iaplarts*AiaM of         Hi) 1tr the 22 mm-
the anstepiFLa reutatzesmri       alt4MDWMMs
pUn;t                             smteqriae. foll)ai2   a
Joint tWim of the Zama"
IV) Mspta by the                  of the diaacti stmaies,
shzdabliew ansmly of the          laMoiug Of astim jiMa.
ploda de lartieSpetion. of a      think would Incluide:
rm Ivm  1madatig tbeer
Ioards to Sopimunt                a) Imodate las redestA
fizwAmiil restra.ttoiu            meaurseo fo au the
ubesures fo t.rpda;          _      a;It ses
b) to  thosm
v) DefaSt4*m of a finS*           th_t ns" restrutui
U) eoptm of a fr*t                                                  fo the Imr 1in  md                 stndS., duLStiin of tr   4
for the restzucturig of the                                         meltorig of the ds.mtio            ot teeuAe ad a timltable  I
23 mm-est        large                                              studi.. tow the 33 m)- tow sacsdes;
lossuokmer.                                                         autonoousm   dAtio                 c) Low irrooiably lass-
estetpise;                        idkin  actiwities,
defStaU of a11 necessary
VI) MUai  of tarn of              _asure  to elidiate the
breerence ad U eume       of      lastes_,
bide for the, dS  aS.            4) Low tbostenmterprises
stadies of the 22 _-              thet ae Mt goin  to be
vutomcos ptbUi                    passed to autinw So 19,
U*twprse;                         defimitia by bath  of
.atenprse-speoifilc caedt
vii) Creatiim of a                ceillngs; and definition by
_estructuring Fund to             the aultorities of a ceiUin
tuppr the process of             an the increase in the %Wg
re ,litatin and                   bill;
restructuring of miterprises
and bonks.                        iv) Adapio  of a
restructuring flw of tf"
matiz for 1S82, S
confomity with the fomat
lredy Used for 1091, s.ch
takes Into eccoaut the
resilts of the diagnostic
studies.
Pk



~~I II'S   ~iijt 
is  ttisi P             S1t 
Pe wIj  11    II'}4[ ß!
RtiiIiD    af }I j g f 
ZliT- La8                           - gL -                g             i ^



AT   at ofner    is;os takM IN mlAc     tA&M by  ad-1w                                                                      I  t
5.Safasdln  the                    1) Legislatio  ma                  1)  AG of legal te_s               1) Ratab1imt at  at                1) -trmatboua       at t"e
mvizmt.                            Zsglate  to protet the             dofnis einirMmtal                  levels of mit. mpmible                         vspoti   rsibl t
Govirm. pmotecti.. standards for                                      for mwizimtai i_1ect              thm mitorit  m
olisji  (In prUctilar,            eluleatm.                           _at of m              Itzintal.
fi) Cnenti  of insttotia           air md ater).                                                        p1l:;
ftr tYe  m     t of th
mDVLE nt.                          ii) *dcptim of a deor")   p                                                          of edia
ai*eb lake it necesary to         Hi) *1 liuatim of a                em tle mist  a    la
eary out a study of the           traizhiu  Nowas far the             mwSrintai  rtctim.
i.6e  ctm thw e mirmmt            corep of InDeatria                 for arqis baserdoa
fo  certain invastaet             poUnti       Pto.                      t.
ill) Creatim of a corps of
industria polntAci
O <
h
co
ii



n. IniNuL RE
awhictiMs                          APse ot Af int.as, -                "easm" ta4k by el-l90                cr  te by                                           .
1. A ane, atfiit                   1) For depost intest                i) a    tmm lni  rate met
_1iltsat     ad allOatia           rates, lletalsaiaf                  at 20;                             1) Rm155 fag the                    1) Acbiaut at PuAsUv
et financal rIA    s               rates Md ta       feted by                                                 sUt   et a partie               NMe interest rates on tarn
accerdis to fiancial               bea;                                                                   ft            Into Meas-            t%gmits by m-IDOl.
prottbilty ariterli                                                     a) a) RIferace rate               tan credits And for the              e       to tdo lnfla
appled by astrn_ b1k..             1i) For 'mom    vates.              increaed fre  7 to 10  In          graIti   of am credts to             nticpSAtd for 1M;
Ubsraisation of rate s             April 1390;          __ts pcbli
re it_ te_  offered by                                                 mteriaeasreed: for both          1  ) * ) _1rq te
bmda;                              11) b) Iediscrtmt rate              typpe  of Gredit. the               Mobral.izationat ofth
icreased fron 7 to 10.5S In        interet rete wit be              _Ms    at
ii1) _etematim by the              Arl 190;                           neSotited b_tan the b;s             interes rate;
Cautra _ Das   the                                                     an b m In acaoedenc
refermce td redisaiunt             in) Approprieim for                With the rts In f                   it) b) Reformac* rate to be
rats In line with                      r   re  subsidies                                                  oet An Uio with the
ontirli Of the market;             liited to CA 500 mils in            11) a) Te interwrnti et            inte_ban  mom iket rate.
the 1991 boiset md list of         the Cantral 3o  eC the
IV) Reduction In the               eligible actvitis redoced;         Interback msaer mexket Is to
iqiortauce or intoret rae                                             be at a rat b        10 and
su_idie  accerdin  to a            IV) Preferential rediscount         15x;
trsprt Mi ava.mded                 rat elminted In April.
timetal;                            90; b_aceSrth interest            ii) b)               eftdUlmt of
re   sdi4stim  ill imy             qiaatlIy tediscnt
V) _aeal eliminatiao               be thonh the explicit               coiinas for_each b_ck.
selcive Credts.                    Interest r-te subeidisatla
0o
I,
co
40



'4
V4
go
i          1   U
U; £4oseq   eq; 30
tows aq sou  e     eq Jo
aSeg ejso mt.Wpamz ( (ii
SP STOTIntOU 0T353
ans 30 qm.yw        (.3 (Tfl
* >5 w _  a                                            U;
opsm 49soaw    -
up So somapTlqs    Co  (TIT
301W ;i∞  w ssz (q (IV
up GVM"X asomUT II  ONI m   51s38in@
an s IUMTtqn    to ITT      -eadot- enepo *onqul 
I=  an a I qn        P MU  n                     :(lo Dvw&    P(tT
30 VI_MON           q(I
IuWaoa  s ea13o.  eq                                                           30  nsmq (AT
qssa) ogqo=u or OTWuOIMs.
!Vop.Tq.rqi           0033MP eSUT140030 35135                                                          *UUISUTSUUI
xeqs  £ZUpme a pM             533 S0 im"Vandah (0 (IT                                                    To-I  pT1vIo6a
seTsuM e MO "w peins                                                                                    so            o  cm
eq ThUa-- I id  uinuio              -Ivtuwi up wiumorm*emm~.s
qoqs aepm  gsp"TM               Gomm3  anS *T.t.us  ew4u itpm40
ean 30 morsoud.a  (q (VT        Sjua So OOT"Sd.a  (45 (p                                             so  5U01188   MP  gtmbe
-spowo 1U103U                          I-TIeppp                                               30        MP.e.43tTUIST
MU ssm snp,m        UT            PM ~ 4U1    @316tm1e                                                eq   lntowl
pm a.EI  ~vping jo sesdft&M    MP~ eq TW t1           01430                                                                                         s53W
eq 30  ISWVUG (* (ii              33p S0 u35533b  (a (IT                                                                 t*                 p
I                                                                                                     e  05  emmat.iftU3                          10v,3 30 soma
."om Looin " eqs EfheoeMp :aeqa.             WO eq Is bbsae  eq      *    = Auni OM OD in o             Pom pm   82up q SIauruZeqgOP zamq  SsOs4e0  PM
05 inIlmd eqo so MOM  ('g          nascmzd  30 so   lu30xxo     CT  5333163 eAqs £4 einmze-m              £q 5Wx*Momu WqeU                  else..@5W4 " 1333   80*001q
Wawa 000"                                            MY                      eqt lanTm  (I                O PnT    t  _0y Suer-pm  45  3A5  CTT0T31  .S uurzff-
MP opw  _nmmg GWt%t Iwvo  mmISem   i_ uproo                         061P   qNV    Su"                       w"     9    s 



migaLlim                 ~~Aroma .f Inae.tiea                Aeasure  ,kmi by anh-IOlO              "tknb          =0            Artisa  fars     izathe,
3. Establishent of a              1) Adoptia of aocmt.ing            1) prap1ar    of a detaled        A) Eatablhment. by the             1) SIqMlmtAtIan Of a
rega _tory frr       _ that       regulatio cqatible with            report   the objectives to        Central Ba, of a timtable          p      acordin  to
wil an ibl the nancial             "tIaI,:                           be achinred  masre  to            for the syucmml wA                              DWzSs
_etor to Plq buy its                                                 be adopted In ti area in          a          of am bank              ce-idsi:
_InUza.dietia  rle In the         a) Ban accomRtiu  pllan;           19;                               -c-tandars t           ic
foram nnket ecs     _                                                                                    duee:                            a) Appiceutim of agreed
accerding to _l.dge               b) FinaCial etatinta Of         11 ) a) aerastaey _a*                                                  han      -       atadards
no   of d>j.)vity ad               batk and the C.m   Bank;          utirkan bv the Cantral            a) the atandardisatiu of           for 199I  ad acc-ying
trinparancy.                                                         Bank. In part an the bais         ban  fincIAl Statemats            41-tawtians fer tbeir
c) Ran _at reulations.            of the report mtiaued             for exteral ane; and               1Zeptatii;
11) a) eAtim of                                                     b) ftr each bak, a tAble of        bi Utat of _pro-adit' of
proffletial r"elatin              ii b) Definitis of                equvalane lifing thoea             bw*a   the bais of 1991
co crnn  the li ltias             objectives it the Lw an            etatt   with the bh'              flienial *attmua,
an we of t_da of                  ltay  and Crdit adopted in         internl accounting system.        asccrding to tenm of
erciel bs&s;                     A4rl1 18W0.                                                           rofe. ared by thb
i) a) Adapnm of minlxm            Catral Dank;
U) b) An a colatary                                                 capital adequacy ratios of
actionm, eatab1_  t of a                                            31 for esd-198  as 41t ftr         i) a) AlicatiU   ot thfe
bok    e n syste.                                                    and-1892;                         am pmatia rmlatim
_magd by the Cantra Dank,                                                                              an of the b_g'-nin  ot 1ow;
to   -    financial                                                 ii) b) Preparien of the
acplin  of bo k.                                                        pr_dmat regulation.            11) b) }iatio   of a
capital uan acy ratio for
i) ci oinat)o  of an              19 with a vim toad
Sauctie preasm cascerning         attafinin  internucatinI
bat lnspectia.                    no; 
1i) c) Rei  of
regulatiess of bhAr
inupecti  befor and-I91;
114)d)  T!-aIo of the
nam banm npeto
rocdrea IIn the context of
the aplcatien of th bm
accomative plan and the
prdutil  agatisua.
0
pp
_    <      .~~~~
0 
IHa



-83 -ANNEX-IV
,j                  Page 12 of 12
iil                lg  19~ii 21iX
ji lle' I13                           jIv
II ~~~~~~~~~~~ 
3X ;*1 I,$1@X
Ui,!x3}   9i  t3  93
H,IbIr5                       l,}|



- 84 -
ANNE X1
Page 1 of 3
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
JUTKRlPIu  AMD PINfCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT WAN
Supnlenta= y Prxoram Data Sheet
Section I:        Timetable of gey Events
(a)Time taken to prepare the operation        About 21 months
(b)Responsibility for preparatiqn             Government/Bank
(c)Operation first identified 1 7 Bank         September 1989
(d)Bank appraisal mission                     May 1991
(e)Negotiations                               May 1991
(f) Board Presentation                        June 1991
(g)Planned date of Effectiveness               September 1991
Section II:       Snecial Bank Imnelmentation Actions
None
Section III:      Snecial Conditilns:
(a)   Conditigns of Board Presentation: Release of First Tranche: (USS 175m3
The proceeds of the loan would be made available in two equal tranches of $175
million. The first tranche would be released upon effectiveness, targeted for
the first quarter of FY92. There are no special conditions of effectiveness
as Board presentation itself was contingent on the confirmation that the
Algerian authorities had satisfactorily undertaken the measures listed in
column IV of the Policy Matrix (Annex IV).
(b) Conditions of Release of Second Tranche: (USS 175m)
The release of the second tranche of the loan, anticipated for March/April
1992, will be preceded by a comprehensive review of progress on the reform
program set out in the Government's policy matrix, as well as a review, in
close cooperation with the IMF, of macro-economic performance in 1991 and the
objectives for 1992. In particular, the macro-economic review would focus on
the pace and extent of exchange, trade, and price liberalization, as well as
the appropriateness of supporting macro-economic policies. In addition,
release of the second tranche will take place after the following specific
cond,.tions have been met:
A.    For the Entergrise Sector:
1.    All products currently subject to ceilings on margins will be
transferred, by published decree, to the category of products with prices
which are freely determined by the producers, with the exception of a dozen



- 85 -
Page 2 of 3
groups of basic consumer goods, as already specified in agreement with the
Bank.
2.    On the basis of the recommendations of the Diagnostic Studies (to be
carried out by the Borrower under Loan 3213-AL), and for at least 15 of the
non-autonomous public enterprises:
a) All necessary measures will be taken to immediately reduce the
deficits of these enterprises;
b) For all the enterprises among these, for which a decision has not
been made by end-1991 to convert them into public economic entrprises
(EPEs), a ceiling will be fixed for 1992 on the increase in the wage
bill of each enterprise; in addition, a global credit ceiling will be
fixed for all these enterprises by the Central Bank, with the global
ceiling subsequently divided into enterprise-specific ceilings, for each
enterprise, by the co_mercial banks;
c) For all those non-autonomous public enterprises requiring detailed
restructuring studies, Action Plans, satisfactory to the Bank, will be
prepared by the Borrower and submitted to the Bank; these plans will
include, inter alia:
i) terms of reference for the restructuring studies, as well a a
timetable for their execution; and
Li) a program for the implementation of measures for the progressive
elimination of deficits caused by activities judged to be
irremediably loss-making.
3.    The Borrower will take all necessary measures to ensure that the
Shareholder Assembly of the Fonds de Participation will request each of the
Funds to:
a) publish a report of its activities, during 1991, which includes, in
particular, details of the progress made by the Funds in the evaluation
of their portfolios, as well as their financial objectives for 1992;
b) adopt the resolutions necessary to establish the remuneration
criteria for the board members of the Funds, which shall be based on the
financial results of the Funds during the preceding year.
4.    Adoption by the Borrower of all necessary measures for establishing the
legal and regulatory framework, deemed satisfactory to the Bank, for the
establishment and operation of a stock exchange, joint ventures, wholesalers
and concession holders, as well as procedures for bankruptcy, dissolution and
liquidation of enterprises.



- 86 -
Page 3 of 3
B.   Fox tbe Financial Sector:
5.    Promulgation of a decree on the financial reorganization of the BAD and
the CNEP, based on criteria previously indicated to the Bank;
6. a) Issuance of regulations, by the Central Bank, requiring the application,
from 1992, of prudential ratios for all commercial banks, based on banking
norms, and principles and practices considered acceptable by the Bank and the
Borrower; and
6. b) Issuance of regulations, by the Central Bank, fixing the minimum capital
adequacy ratio, applicable to all commercial banks, for 1993;
7.    Preparation of a draft law which removes the Government's monopoly on
operations relating to insurance; presentation of this law to the Council of
Government for examination and adoption;
8.    Allocation to each commercial bank, from the Restructuring Fund, of the
equity capital necessary for each bank to attain, during 1992, a provisional
capital adequacy ratio of 4X.
9.    Review and approval by the Central Bank of Action Plans, based on terms
of reference satisfactory to the Bank and the Borrower, for the restructuring
of the portfolios of all commercial banks and their long-term development;



- 87 -
ANNEX VI
Page 1 of 2
Bank Operations in Algeria
1.          Before the mid-1980s, World Bank involvement in Algeria was
intermittent and circumscribed both by differences in the approach to economic
management and by the country's limited need for official borrowing. After a
nine-year moratorium, Bank lending resumed in 1973, and 23 projects, with
commitments totalling US$1,120 million had been approved by 1980. Another
interruption followed in 1981, but with renewed agreement concerning project
design and implementation, lending resumed in early 1984, and three projects,
totalling US$656 million were approved in 1984 and 1985.
2.          Partly as a response to the oil price shock of 1986 and its impact
on Algeria's external balances, the Algerian Government embarked on a far-
reaching reform program, leading to a turnaround in its dialogue with the
Bank. Algeria's needs for longer-maturity financing from official sources has
become much greater. In parallel, its interest in technical support and
policy advice from the Bank has markedly increased. Supporting these reform
efforts in a variety of ways is the guiding theme of the Bank's current
country assistance strategy for Algeria.
3.          Another 7 loans were made to Algeria in 1987-88, totalling US$694
million. Following the launching of the reforms and the intensification of
country dialogue with the Bank, ten further loans have been made since 1989.
The alteration in the Government's strategy, and the consequent change in the
nature of Bank operations in the country is reflected in the changing
character of the Bank's portfolio. Between 1984 and 1988, Bank loans to
Algeria consisted entirely of infrastructure projects in the transport, water
supply, power and telecommunication sectors. Details of past loans and
disbursements are provided in Annex VI. The projects approved since 1989
include, for the first time, an operation with a financial intermediary in the
form of an agricultural line of credit, a pilot industrial restructuring
demonstration project, and the first adjustment operation, for US$300 million,
in August 1989, to support the economic reform program. Since 1987, three
projects have been co-financed by the Exim Bank of Japan for a total of US$250
million. An additional project was cofinanced by the European Invest=ment
Bank, for US$60 million.
4.          As of May 31, 1991, cumulative commitments to Algeria, net of
cancellations, stood at US$3,085 million. Of this total, US$1,762 has been
disbursed and US$ 664 million repaid. The entire Bank Group portfolio is held
by IBRD. Algeria became a member of IFC in September 1990, but no IFC
financed operations have been completed so far. It is not yet a member of
MIGA, although informal discussions have been held concerning eventual
membership. The Bank's shares of MLT debt (5%) and MLT debt service (3%) at
end-1990 are low compared to other Bank borrowers.



- 88 -
AR VI
Page 2 of 2
The Status of Benk Group Operations In Algeria
Statmeont of Bank. Loans and !DA Credits
(As of Nay 31, 1991)
US$ Hillion Amount
Loan or    Fiscal                                                                (less cancellations)
Credit No. Year              Borrower                    Purpose          Bank      1k   Undisbursed
Twenty siz loans fully disbursed                                          751.06
2370       1984   RepubULc of Algeria            Tele"munications         104.30              13.01
2461       1984   Republie of Algeria           Water Supply It           290.00             24. 03
2591       1985  Republic of Algetia            Nat. water Sup/S          Z62.00             47.51
2808       1987   Republic of Algeria           Highways V                120.00              74.20
2g08       1987  Sepublic of Algeoria           Irrigation Chellf I        94.00             83.77
2821       1987   Republie of Algeria           Nat. Water Supply II      250.00            187.43
2976       1968   SNTF                          Railways U1               143.00             143.00
2977       19S8  Republie of Algetia            Voc. Training              54.00             51.50
2978       1988  Repubice of Algeria             Irrig. Engineer           14.00              10.76
2981       1988   SMTOLGAZ                      Power III                 159.43            141.23
3009       1989  BAD                            Agric. Credit             110.00             67.44
3017       1989  RepubUe of Algeria             Locuat Control             22.00              2.80
3076       1989  RepubUe of Algeria             Kitidja Irrig.            110.00            100. 04
3105       1969   Republic of Algeria           Ports III /a               63.00             63.00
,   3117     1990   RepubUc of Algeria             Economic Reform          300.00              77.60
3176       1990   RepublI' of Algeria           Technical Assistance       26.00             23.80
3310/14    1990  EIIS, DC, PRUAL,                Industrial Restruc/b
hNOiR  & Rep.of Algeria                                  99.50             99.50
3216       1990  Republic of Algeria            Researcb & REtensaon /a   32.00              32.00
3266       1991  Republic of Algeria            Science & Tech. Univ./a   65.00              65.00
3299       1991  Republic of Algeria            Pilot Pub. Health /a       16.00             16.00
TOTL                                                          3085.29           1323.62
Of whicb bh  beet repaid (only uortisation)             663.53
Total beld by Bank                                     2421.76
Amount sold                                     36.37
of which repaid                                35.18
Total undisbursed                                                        1323.62
* SAL, SECAL or Progra Loan
A net yet effective
/b On of these leam (to Dl) Le yet to be declred effective.



