                                     Document of
                               The World Bank



                                                    Report No: ICR00002321



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IDA-38430)


                                       ON A

                                     CREDIT

                   IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 156.7 MILLION
                     (US$ 225.26 MILLION EQUIVALENT)


                                      TO THE

                     SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM


                                      FOR A

                 ROAD NETWORK IMPROVEMENT PROJECT



                               September 27, 2012




Sustainable Development Department
East Asia and Pacific Region
               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

          (Exchange Rate Effective March 31, 2012)

          Currency Unit = Vietnamese Dong (VND)
                 VND 1.00 = US$ 0.000048
                  US$ 1.00 = VND 20,850


                      FISCAL YEAR
                  January 1 – December 31


          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

 AADT        Annual Average Daily Traffic
AGRMM        Advisory Group on Road Maintenance Management
  AWP        annual works plans
  CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
CPGRS        Comprehensive Poverty Reduction and Growth Strategy
  DFID       Department for International Development (United Kingdom)
   DIR       Detailed Implementation Review
  DMS        Detailed Measurement Surveys
 DQEP        Da Nang – Quang Ngai Expressway Development Project
 DRVN        Directorate for Roads of Vietnam
 EMDP        Ethnic Minority Development Plan
  EMP        Environmental Management Plan
  ERR        Economic Rate of Return
  GOV        Government of Vietnam
HDM-4        Highway Development and Management Model (version 4)
   ICB       International Competitive Bidding
  IDA        International Development Association
  IFRs       Interim Financial Reports
  IMC        Independent Monitoring Consultants
    IRI      International Roughness Index
  JBIC       Japan Bank for International Cooperation
  M&E        Monitoring and Evaluation
  MOT        Ministry of Transport
  MTR        Mid-Term Review
   NH        National Highway
   NIP       Network Improvement Program
  NPP        Network Preservation Program
  PBCs       Performance-Based Contracts
 PDOTs       Provincial Departments of Transport
 PHRD        Policy and Human Resources Development
  PMU        Project Management Unit
 PPP      Public Private Partnership
 RAP      Resettlement Action Plan
 RMF      Road Maintenance Fund
RMSIP     Road Sector Management and Institutional Building Program
 RNIP     Road Network Improvement Project
 RPF      Resettlement Policy Framework
RRMUs     Regional Road Management Units
 RTP3     Rural Transport Project
 SCP      Supplementary Compensation Plan
 SOE      State-Owned Enterprise
 TOR      terms of reference
 VRA      Vietnam Road Administration




              Vice President: Pamela Cox
            Country Director: Victoria Kwakwa
             Sector Manager: Jennifer Sara
        Project Team Leader: Phuong Thi Minh Tran
           ICR Team Leader: Christopher De Serio
                               SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
                                Road Network Improvement Project



                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design .............................................. 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 6
  3. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................... 12
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ........................................................ 19
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 20
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 22
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 23
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing ......................................................................... 24
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 25
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................ 28
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 32
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 35
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results .................................................. 36
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 37
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ...................... 49
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 50
  Annex 10. Average Annual Daily Traffic on Project Roads ........................................ 51
  Annex 11. Lessons Learned on Social Safeguards ....................................................... 54
  Annex 12. Lessons Learned and Recommendations on Pilot Program for
              Performance Based Maintenance Contracts ............................................... 58
A. Basic Information
                                                                        Road Network
Country:                Vietnam                 Project Name:
                                                                        Improvement Project
Project ID:             P059663                 L/C/TF Number(s):       IDA-38430
ICR Date:               09/28/2012              ICR Type:               Core ICR
                                                                        SOCIALIST
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:               REPUBLIC OF
                                                                        VIETNAM
Original Total
                        XDR 156.70M             Disbursed Amount:       XDR 139.49M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 139.49M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Project Management Unit No. 2 (PMU2)
 Project Management Unit No. 18
 Road Project Management Unit No. 2
 Project Management Unit 1
 Project Management Unit 6
 Project Management Unit No. 85 (PMU85)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                              Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process             Original Date
                                                                                  Date(s)
Concept Review:       03/20/2002     Effectiveness:            10/25/2004       10/25/2004
Appraisal:            09/29/2003     Restructuring(s):                          08/17/2011
Approval:             12/18/2003     Mid-term Review:          09/30/2006       07/10/2007
                                     Closing:                  12/31/2008       03/31/2012

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Substantial
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Unsatisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                 Ratings                 Borrower       Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:    Moderately Satisfactory
Quality of Supervision: Moderately              Implementing   Moderately



                                                i
                           Unsatisfactory            Agency/Agencies:          Unsatisfactory
Overall Bank               Moderately                Overall Borrower          Moderately
Performance:               Unsatisfactory            Performance:              Unsatisfactory

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                                Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                           Quality at Entry
                           No                                                Moderately Satisfactory
at any time (Yes/No):                                (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                              Quality of
                             Yes                                             None
time (Yes/No):                                       Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before             Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:     Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                    Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                        7                      4
Roads and highways                                                      93                  96


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Administrative and civil service reform                                 33                  2
Infrastructure services for private sector development                  33                  48
Micro, Small and Medium Enterprise support                              17                  48
 Public expenditure, financial management and
                                                                        17                  2
procurement

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                           At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:              Pamela Cox                           Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Director:            Victoria Kwakwa                      Klaus Rohland
Sector Manager:              Jennifer J. Sara                     Jitendra N. Bajpai
Project Team Leader:         Phuong Thi Minh Tran                 Jerry A. Lebo
ICR Team Leader:             Christopher J. De Serio
ICR Primary Author:          Christopher J. De Serio




                                                  ii
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
Improve the national road network through increased preventive maintenance and
selective upgrading, and an increase in the level of resources available for road
maintenance and capacity for planning, budgeting, and monitoring of road assets.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)



(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target      Formally       Actual Value
                                              Values (from        Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value
                                                approval          Target       Completion or
                                              documents)          Values        Target Years
                  Average travel time on improved (NIP) project roads reduced (percentage
Indicator 1 :
                  reduction)
Value
quantitative or   0                           15                               21
Qualitative)
Date achieved     01/01/2004                  12/31/2008                       03/31/2012
Comments
                  Achieved. Travel times have been indirectly measured through informal surveys
(incl. %
                  of beneficiaries along project roads.
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     Passenger and freight tariffs on project roads reduced (percentage reduction)
Value
quantitative or   0                           10                               0
Qualitative)
Date achieved     01/01/2004                  12/31/2008                       03/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %          Tariff data is not available.
achievement)
                  Average roughness on project roads reduced (International Roughness Index,
Indicator 3 :
                  IRI)
Value
quantitative or   5.6                         3.6                              2.37
Qualitative)
Date achieved     01/01/2004                  12/31/2008                       03/31/2012
Comments
                  Achieved based on ex-post IRI data reported for 260 km of recently completed
(incl. %
                  works.
achievement)
Indicator 4 :     Traffic levels on project roads increased (Annual Average Daily Traffic, AADT)
Value
quantitative or   See Annex 10                See Annex 10      See Annex 10 See Annex 10
Qualitative)
Date achieved     01/01/2004                  12/31/2008        03/31/2012     03/31/2012


                                                    iii
Comments          Achieved. Between 2003 and 2011, actual AADT growth rates on (i) NPP-1
(incl. %          project roads is 14% per year, and 17% per year for NPP2&3; and (ii) NIP
achievement)      project roads was 15% per year. AADT data is available in Annex 10.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target                   Actual Value
                                                                Formally
                                              Values (from                      Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value                           Revised
                                                approval                       Completion or
                                                              Target Values
                                               documents)                      Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Percentage of civil works completed under Network Preservation Program
Value
(quantitative     0                          100                 100            100
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     01/01/2004                 12/31/2008          03/31/2012     03/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %          Achieved. Final completion date was revised.
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     Percentage of civil works completed under Performance Based Contracting
Value
(quantitative     0                          100                 89             89
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     01/01/2004                 12/31/2008          03/31/2012     03/31/2012
Comments
                  Achieved (revised target). Indicator revised to reflect value and quantity of works
(incl. %
                  completed.
achievement)
                  Percentage of highways improved/rehabilitated under Network Improvement
Indicator 3 :
                  Program
Value
(quantitative     0                          100                 100            100
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     01/01/2004                 12/31/2008          03/31/2012     03/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %          Achieved. Final completion date was revised.
achievement)
Indicator 4 :     Average Condition of National Road Network (maintained or reduced)
Value
(quantitative     IRI-6                      IRI-6                              Not Available
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     01/01/2004                 12/31/2008                         03/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %          IRI are not available for the entire national road network.
achievement)
Indicator 5 :     Number of annual condition and traffic surveys completed on National Roads
Value
(quantitative     0                          5                                  2
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     01/01/2004                 12/31/2008                         03/31/2012


                                                   iv
Comments          40 percent achieved. Two annual (IRI) condition surveys were conducted (2004
(incl. %          and 2007) for two IDA-financed annual work plans. Traffic surveys are
achievement)      conducted quarterly.
Indicator 6 :     Percentage of person months of completed training
Value
(quantitative     0                         100                                 100
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     01/01/2004                12/31/2008                          03/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %          Achieved. Agreed training programs were completed.
achievement)
Indicator 7 :     Completion of national road database (percentage)
Value
(quantitative     0                         100                                 57
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     01/01/2004                12/31/2006                          12/31/2007
Comments          Not achieved. No consolidated national road database was developed under the
(incl. %          project. Road inventory data and condition were last collected in 2007 for 57% of
achievement)      national network.
Indicator 8 :     Number of annual business plans prepared by DRVN
Value
(quantitative     0                         5                                   5
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     01/01/2004                12/31/2008                          03/31/2012
Comments
                  Achieved. DRVN generates bi-annual reports (in Vietnamese), but these are not
(incl. %
                  publicly available.
achievement)
Indicator 9 :     Safety audits on NIP roads (percentage completion)
Value
(quantitative     0                         100                                 100
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     01/01/2004                12/31/2007                          12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %          Achieved.
achievement)
                  Periodic Maintenance undertaken per project plans with atleast 1100kms of roads
Indicator 10 :
                  receiving periodic maintenance
Value
(quantitative     0                         1100                850             842
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     01/01/2004                12/31/2008          03/31/2012      03/31/2012
Comments
                  Achieved (99 percent of revised target). Target revised to reflect reduced outputs
(incl. %
                  due to cost escalations.
achievement)
Indicator 11 :    At least 600 kms of national roads and required short bridges improved
Value
(quantitative     0                         600                 285             265
or Qualitative)


                                                   v
Date achieved     01/01/2004                12/31/2008           03/31/2012    03/31/2012
Comments
                  Achieved (93 percent of revised target).Target revised to reflect reduced outputs
(incl. %
                  due to cost escalations.
achievement)
Indicator 12 :    Quality of periodic maintenance works consistent with contract specifications
Value
(quantitative     yes                       yes                                yes
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     08/17/2011                03/31/2012                         03/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %          Achieved. Reporting is based on issuance of hand-over certificates.
achievement)
                  Condition of project roads improved to average roughness of IRI 3.5 m/km or
Indicator 13 :
                  lower
Value
(quantitative     0                         100                                100
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     08/17/2011                03/31/2012                         03/31/2012
Comments
                  Achieved based on ex-post IRI data reported for 260 km of recently completed
(incl. %
                  works.
achievement)
Indicator 14 :    Final designs of preservation work prepared
Value
(quantitative     1,230                     1,230                              1,230
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     08/17/2011                03/31/2012                         03/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %          Achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 15 :    Percentage of maintenance contracts delivered by non-state sector increased
Value
(quantitative     No target                                      73            64
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     08/17/2011                                     03/31/2012    03/31/2012
Comments
                  Partially Achieved. 42 of 66 contracts financed by this project were delivered by
(incl. %
                  non-state sector firms.
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                     Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                               DO                           IP               Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                 (USD millions)
  1     02/24/2004            Satisfactory            Satisfactory                          0.00
  2     09/20/2004            Satisfactory            Satisfactory                          0.00
  3     06/17/2005            Satisfactory            Satisfactory                          6.95
  4     06/29/2006        Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                 17.52



                                                  vi
                                                   Moderately
  5    06/25/2007   Moderately Satisfactory                                  27.60
                                                 Unsatisfactory
  6    06/17/2008   Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory        40.08
  7    06/26/2009       Satisfactory              Satisfactory               81.90
  8    06/25/2010   Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory       126.17
  9    06/27/2011   Moderately Satisfactory       Satisfactory              161.20
 10    04/01/2012   Moderately Satisfactory       Satisfactory              191.36


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     Reallocation of Credit proceeds;
                                                     inclusion of new implementing
 08/17/2011       N       MS      S         164.21
                                                     agencies; revision of results
                                                     framework indicators




I. Disbursement Profile




                                          vii
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.     The Road Network Improvement Project (RNIP) was the fourth Bank-financed
investment operation to support Vietnam’s national highway system, and the first to focus on
maintenance management. Rapid growth and changes in the vehicle fleet composition were
driving increased demand for road transport services and infrastructure. The country’s
national road network, which had been expanded to reach an approximate length of 15,300
km, was still considered to be a constraint to development, with approximately 40 percent of
the network considered to be in poor or very poor condition 1 . Despite substantial
improvements to the core network over the preceding five years, significant investment
remained necessary to not only maintain but increase transport efficiency.

2.       At the time of appraisal (2003) six main challenges confronted Vietnam’s road
maintenance management: (i) inadequate budget allocations for clearing significant backlogs
in its maintenance program were curtailing the asset life-cycles of previous investments; (ii)
the lack of a road maintenance financing mechanism meant that the road authority functioned
without a dedicated, predictable and reliable revenue source; (iii) significant further capital
investment requirements in the national network created increasing pressure to redeploy
scarce resources away from maintaining existing assets; (iv) a need for developing greater
institutional capacity to execute a preservation strategy would require equipping the road
authority with appropriate skills and tools for asset and maintenance management; (v)
improving efficiency in the delivery of road maintenance services entailed moving away from
the use of force account and state-owned enterprises; and (vi) increasing private participation
in infrastructure required new approaches for mobilizing financial resources and technical
expertise. RNIP sought to tackle these issues through a combination of investments in
network preservation and improvement2, and targeted institutional strengthening and capacity
building activities.

3.      The project was also aligned with three themes in the World Bank Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS) 2003-2006 and with the principal objectives stated in the country’s
Comprehensive Poverty Reduction and Growth Strategy (CPRGS): (i) high growth through a
transition to a market economy; (ii) an equitable, socially inclusive, and sustainable pattern of
growth; and (iii) adoption of a modern public administration, legal and governance system.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

4.     The project development objective was to improve the national road network through
increased preventive maintenance and selective upgrading, and an increase in the level of
resources available for road maintenance and capacity for planning, budgeting, and
monitoring of road assets. Four, two-part outcome indicators were identified in the Project


1
 Ten Year Strategic Maintenance Plan (2004).
2
 ‘Preservation’ includes routine and periodic road maintenance, while ‘improvements’ include rehabilitation
and capital construction.



                                                      1
Appraisal Document (PAD) to measure achievement of the objective:
   (a) freight and passenger rates on project roads reduced, and traffic levels on project
       roads increased (above regional averages);
   (b) roughness and travel times on upgraded project roads reduced;
   (c) average roughness of national road network maintained or reduced over project
       period3; and
   (d) national road asset database created, updated annually, and used for network
       monitoring; and preparation of annual budgets and business plans on national road
       performance published and disseminated. 4

5.      The PAD results framework also included additional outcome indicators for: (i)
preventive maintenance undertaken on national roads increased; and (ii) average road
roughness on project roads delivered per design specifications, though these are not included
in the results framework in the original Development Credit Agreement (DCA).

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

6.      The PDO was not revised. Key indicators were modified as part of an August 2011
project restructuring5. The indicators on (i) the reduction of average roughness on national
roads; and (ii) average road roughness on project roads delivered per design specifications
were changed from outcome to intermediate indicators to reflect implementation realities.
Increased traffic volumes on project roads relative to regional growth averages was modified
to measure annual average daily traffic (AADT) levels irrespective of regional benchmarks.

7.      Three implementation indicators related to contract completion rates for the
preservation and improvement works, including performance-based contracts, were revised in
line with the credit closing date. Two intermediate indicators were revised to reduce target
outputs - from 1,100 to 850 km of network preservation works and from 600 to 285 km of
network improvement works – taking into account cost increases due to upgrading of
network classification and related specifications on some road segments, implementation
delays, and significant inflation. Four intermediate results indicators were introduced: (i)
quality of periodic maintenance works consistent with contract specifications; (ii) condition
of project roads improved to average roughness (IRI) of 3.5 m/km or lower 6 ; (iii) final
designs of preservations work prepared (km); and (iv) percentage of maintenance contracts
delivered by non-state sector entities increased as additional measures of capacity for
planning, monitoring of technical quality, and institutional transformation.



3
   This indicator is listed as an ‘implementation indicator’ rather than an ‘outcome indicator’ in the results
   framework attached to the original Development Credit Agreement (DCA).
4
    Ibid. 3
5
  The restructuring allowed for a reallocation of credit proceeds, inclusion of new implementing agencies, as
   well as a revision to indicators.
6
   This indicator is listed as an ‘output indicator’ in the PAD results framework but was not included in the
   results framework attached to the original DCA.



                                                        2
1.4 Main Beneficiaries

8.       Three primary beneficiary groups were identified at appraisal:
        Road users benefitted directly from reductions in travel times as well as improved
         mobility and access provided by qualitative improvements to the national road
         network. Geographically, these beneficiaries were dispersed throughout the country.
         Road users were also to have gained from participatory processes that would enhance
         access to information and contact with decision makers, including disclosure of public
         expenditures related to road sector investments. While benefits from the maintenance
         and improvements to the road network materialized, the participatory processes and
         access to information elements did not.
        The Directorate for Roads of Vietnam (DRVN) – formerly known as the Vietnam
         Road Administration (VRA) – is an authorized agency of the Ministry of Transport
         (MOT) with a primary responsibility for managing and maintaining road
         infrastructure. DRVN was to have been strengthened through the deployment of
         modernized systems to monitor national road network performance and
         implementation of new business processes for maintenance planning and budgetary
         prioritization. The project also provided a platform to support a transition away from
         force account in the maintenance sector. Overall, project experience delivered some
         capacity enhancements to both civil servants and road maintenance enterprises; the
         core activities related to road management systems did not materialize.
        Lastly, private sector contractors and eligible state-owned enterprises benefitted from
         opportunities presented through project procurement requirements involving
         international and domestic competitive contracting in the road construction and
         maintenance industry, as well as through delivery of training on technical and
         managerial skills development.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

9.      Component A. Network Preservation Program (NPP) (US$122.6 million). The
component supported: (i) the financing of the periodic repair of about 1,100 km of national
roads under three annual works programs (AWPs) for periodic maintenance; (ii) management
and advisory services, including social and environmental monitoring and technical
assistance, and design and construction supervision for civil works; and (iii) a pilot program
to introduce the use of competitively tendered multiyear, performance-based maintenance
contracts 7 (PBCs). VRA (DRVN) – through Road Project Management Unit 2 and later
Project Management Unit 2 - was the implementing agency responsible for this component.

10.    Component B. Network Improvement Program (NIP) (US$170.2 million). The
component supported: (i) the financing of three AWPs consisting of the rehabilitation and
widening of about 600 km of national roads in the north of Vietnam, including short bridges


7
  PBC pilot was to include (i) a multi-year performance-based contract covering maintenance of 300-400 km of
high-traffic national roads in good condition and requiring mainly medium and light maintenance; and (ii) two
multi-year performance-based contracts covering maintenance of 30-50 km of national road in fair to poor
condition and requiring a combination of heavy, medium, and light maintenance.



                                                      3
(less than 25 m long); and (ii) management and advisory services, including social and
environmental monitoring and design and construction supervision for civil works, and
provision of equipment. Project Management Unit (PMU) No.18, and later PMU2, was the
implementing agencies responsible for this component.

11.     Component C. Road Sector Management and Institutional Building Program
(RSMIBP) (US$11.7 million). The component provided technical assistance, equipment, and
training to the MOT in strengthening institutional capacity for road sector management and
finance through the implementation of three sub-components: (i) improving road
maintenance financing and management by implementing a framework to improve cost
recovery, and encouraging stakeholder awareness and participation in public administration
and policy making; (ii) strengthening of VRA capacity for business planning, budgeting, and
monitoring of road asset management and maintenance delivery through development of a
national road network evaluation and monitoring system, as well as strengthening of road
maintenance contractors and managers; and (iii) a review of the framework for public-private
partnerships in the road sector, independent financial and technical audits of project activities,
and preparation of a proposed follow-on road project. VRA was the implementing agency
responsible for this component.

1.6 Revised Components

12.    The components were not formally revised.

1.7 Other significant changes

13.    Closing Date Extensions. The original credit closing date of December 31, 2008 was
extended three times: (i) 12 months to December 31, 2009; (ii) nine months to September 30,
2010; and (iii) 18 months to March 31, 2012, for a total extension period of three years and
three months. Extensions were approved to facilitate completion of on-going activities.

14.      Project Restructuring. Two project restructurings were approved by Management in
September 2010 and August 2011:
    (i) Due to changes in the Bank’s internal procedures, the final closing date extension of
         18 months was processed as a restructuring. This was done on the basis that it
         provided additional time for the Government to continue to achieve resettlement
         safeguard compliance in line with World Bank policy and to continue the momentum
         towards initiating the pilot PBC program;
    (ii) During the same period, a second restructuring introduced two changes:
             o new project implementing entities and associated credit reallocations for
                preparation of future projects. PMU85 was included as implementing agency
                for preparation of the Da Nang – Quang Ngai Expressway Development
                Project (DQEP) and PMU6 was included as implementing agency for the
                Third Rural Transport Project (RTP3). The restructuring allowed for
                retroactive financing of (a) the DQEP feasibility study, and (b) financial
                management consulting services related to the preparation of RTP3.
             o revision of the results framework to reflect a reduction in physical outputs
                due to inflationary impacts on project costs and changes to the


                                                4
               implementation schedule. Though a project finance gap was initially
               identified around the time of the Mid-Term Review (2007), and a request was
               made by Government to do an Additional Financing, the Bank eventually
               decided that due to the complexities with project design and implementation
               (particularly related to resettlement), rather than doing an AF, physical targets
               would be scaled back and a new, separate follow-on project prepared. It
               should be noted that many projects in the Bank portfolio encountered funding
               shortfalls during this time and a number of AFs were granted.

15.      Amendments to the Development Credit Agreement (DCA). The following
amendments to the DCA were processed:
    (i) In June 2006, the Borrower requested: (a) financing for rehabilitation of bridges
         longer than 25 meters along NIP roads after funding from the Japan Bank for
         International Cooperation (JBIC) did not materialize; however, this change in project
         scope, which was under discussion for inclusion in possible Additional Finance, was
         never formalized; and (b) introduction of PMU1 as implementing agency responsible
         for the preparation of future investments (Mekong Delta Transport Infrastructure
         Development Project).
    (ii) In September 2008, the Credit was amended to recognize PMU2 (under DRVN) as
         the lead implementing agency, after a merger of PMU18 (under MOT) with RPMU2
         (under VRA) as part of MOT’s reorganization.

16.     Changes to technical assistance for institutional strengthening. The ‘Road Sector
Management and Institutional Building Program’ was temporarily suspended from 2005-06
pending a MOT reappraisal of all donor-financed technical assistance activities. Considerable
delays in all stages of procurement for design and implementation of consolidated national
road database and monitoring and evaluation systems for the network, as well as related
consultancy services for annual business planning frameworks, procedures, and
organizational reviews, were encountered in 2006-2007. After a lengthy procurement process
in 2008-2009, mutual agreement was reached to cancel the road management system (though
this decision was never formalized). Responsibilities for monitoring and evaluation of the
results framework were supported by the technical auditing services.

17.     Changes in the scope, scale and timing of PBC pilot program. The level of
financing for PBCs was increased from an appraised value of US$7.0 million to contract
commitments worth approximately US$29.2 million. This was done to accommodate
significantly more heavy maintenance and rehabilitation works on the proposed PBC sections
than was originally envisaged due to the significant deterioration that occurred during a three
year delay from identification to contract tendering of the pilot road segments. Although the
program encountered delays related to the need to put in place a special payment mechanism
that allowed payment of invoices without certified bill of quantities and unit costs, the pilot
PBC contracts were signed in June 2010. They are scheduled for completion in June 30, 2013.
Government funds will be used to continue financing contractual obligations that extend
beyond the credit closing date.

18.    Donor Partner Support. Technical assistance for ‘Road Maintenance Finance’ was
financed by a Bank-executed grant (TF91126) from the United Kingdom’s Department for

                                               5
International Development (DFID) rather than the use of funds allocated under the project.
The project activity was carried out by an individual consultant who developed a draft decree
for the establishment of the road maintenance fund.

19.    Credit Cancellation. Just prior to closing, the Borrower requested a partial
cancellation in the amount of US$25.9 million 8 equivalent after the implementing agency
confirmed the value of all contract commitments.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

20.    Background Analysis.        Initial country and sector analysis informing project
preparation and design was robust. The Borrower was in the process of completing a Ten
Year Strategic Plan for Road Maintenance. Grant resources provided by Japan Policy and
Human Resources Development (PHRD TF026348) contributed to project preparation
through strategic analysis on appropriate institutional, legal, procedural and financial
frameworks necessary to establish a sustainable road maintenance management system. The
Bank previously completed a review of state-owned enterprises in Vietnam's road sector9, in
addition to providing financing through previous transport operations10 for preparation of this
investment.

21.      Assessment of Project Design. Considered ambitious, the project design was
appropriate and timely given its focus on the six major sector challenges identified at
appraisal. Project component structure acknowledged a need for balancing investments, with
equal emphasis on strengthening the sustainability of outcomes through appropriate fiscal and
institutional policies (road maintenance funding, and PBCs) and technical capabilities (road
management systems, network monitoring and performance). On the other hand, lessons
learned from earlier projects recommended simplified procurement packaging, while the
project pushed for more complex arrangements (including pre-qualification requirements,
slice-and-package for civil works tenders), and also introduce innovation by piloting a new
approach through PBCs.

22.     Assessment of Government Commitment. A key project principle - systematic
increases to annual budgetary allocations for routine and periodic maintenance of national
roads – was central to MOT’s policy and was being rationalized through the 10 year strategic
maintenance plan. As there was some reluctance on the part of the Ministry of Finance to
borrow for recurrent expenditures, commitments to this objective were reinforced through an
associated legal covenant. There were also some concerns within MOT as to the practicality
of introducing data intensive collection requirements and more transparent planning and
public financial management in the road sector, as well as using competitive bidding for


8
  Exchange rate gains accounted for approximately US$11.4 million of the cancelled proceeds.
9
  “Accelerating Equitization and Commercialization in SOEs in the Transport Sector.? 2001. (ASEM TF)
10
   Mekong Transport and Flood Protection (Cr. 3448-VN)



                                                    6
maintenance works that were previously executed through force account, and whether
sufficient sector capacity to undertake these works existed outside of the government
agencies.

23.   Assessment of Risks. The following risk dimensions and proposed mitigation
measures were highlighted at appraisal:
The fiduciary environment was rightly identified as          Completion of an agreed action plan11 for Financial
high risk. Limited capacity, inadequate experience           Management (FM) was a condition of effectiveness.
and weak internal controls, coupled with the                 Procurement training on Bank bidding documents
government’s move towards decentralization,                  and procedures were conducted to mitigate risks
increased procurement and financial management               related to implementing agency capabilities.
risks in a sector with a history of governance
challenges.
The overall technical quality of construction was            Independent technical auditors were to be engaged
considered a substantial risk, with concerns over            in order to help to mitigate potential deficiencies in
inadequate financial and physical turnover capacity          the preservation and improvement works.
of the private contracting sector or newly equitized
SoEs to execute the anticipated maintenance
programs.
The risk that the expected maintenance planning              The risk assessment was based on the assumption
and performance monitoring processes would not be            that the development of the road data collection
put in place or that the VRA would not be able to            system, which was on-going at the time of appraisal
apply the new management tools effectively was               through other donor funding, would be completed
considered negligible as it was a core activity in the       and the system commissioned.
project design.
Previous road sector investments encountered                 Lessons learned regarding safeguard challenges
implementation challenges with land acquisition              were to be mitigated through the retention of
and resettlement compensation (e.g. full and timely          independent monitoring entities.
allocation of counterpart funds and timely handover
of worksites), which was considered to be a
moderate risk.

During implementation the basis of the assessment            This risk could not have been foreseen at
of this risk changed with the decentralization of            preparation.
resettlement responsibilities from project
management units to district resettlement
committees. The lack of capacity at the provincial
and district levels proved to be a major issue and
significantly affected safeguard performance.

24.    Quality at Entry. Quality Assurance Group (QAG) rated quality at entry as
moderately satisfactory. Appropriate environmental and social safeguard instruments were
prepared and disclosed in accordance with World Bank policies. Though preliminary
engineering designs for the first year works program were available, delays in the finalization


11
   Preparation activities that were anticipated to strengthen FM performance included appointment of financial
personnel, establishment of computerized accounting software, adoption of a financial management manual
acceptable to IDA, appointment of an external auditor, and financial management and disbursement training to
both PMU18 and RPMU2 staff.



                                                         7
of detailed designs and bidding documents impeded early progress. Institutional
arrangements optimistically anticipated that planning systems could be in place quickly for
identification of the second and third year civil works programs and remain in place for
effective monitoring and evaluation, which was not the case. Furthermore, discrepancies
between the results frameworks outlined at appraisal and those included as part of the legal
agreement confused expectations on perceived outcomes during monitoring and evaluation.

2.2 Implementation

25.      Two main issues emerged that resulted in setbacks to project execution:
     Governance Constraints. Project activities encountered delays during a high-profile
      incident related to media reports of alleged corruption of several individuals from
      PMU18 that were brought to light in December 2005. The World Bank conducted a
      Detailed Implementation Review (DIR) and concluded in May 2007 that IDA funds were
      not misappropriated. The incident interrupted all ODA project activities implemented by
      MOT for more than two years, the implications of which led to MOT’s reorganizing
      project management units, including the consolidation of PMU18 with RPMU2, and
      PMU2’s placement within DRVN.
     Land acquisition and resettlement. Beginning in April 2009, the Bank received numerous
      written complaints from more than 500 project affected households in Bac Giang
      province related to grievances in both the administrative process and level of
      compensation for right-of-way acquisition along National Highway 37 (NH37). Civil
      works activities were halted. The Government and Bank promptly responded by
      launching a series of resettlement audits, the findings of which indicated that there had
      been systemic non-compliance with the Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) and
      Resettlement Action Plan on several aspects and entitlements. The Government (through
      PMU2) prepared a Supplementary Compensation Plan (SCP) to retrofit identified gaps
      with the RPF in an effort to meet full compliance. A series of communication campaigns
      to clearly explain project policies and the scope of impacts ultimately helped to address
      many grievances. Approximately 3.4 km of NH37 in Hiep Hoa and Viet Yen districts
      (Bac Giang Province) were not able to be widened as resettlement issues could not be
      resolved. Government funds were used to repave the original carriageway without any
      widening of this section. The Bank’s agreement for a third and final Credit extension was
      provided as a means to allow sufficient time to resolve the pending resettlement issues.

26.    Inflationary pressures. Steep, volatile price increases—particularly on fuel and
bitumen—had a significant impact on appraised cost estimates. Inflation averaged more than
11 percent between 2003 and 2011, peaking at 23.1 percent in 2008 and reaching nearly 20
percent again in 2011. Discussions were held prior to and during the Mid-Term Review on
the possible use of additional financing to meet the original output targets; however, the Bank
and Borrower later agreed that resources were better directed toward a newly proposed Road
Asset Management Project, and that output targets for both the preservation and improvement
components would be reduced to reflect the increased costs.

27.   Delay in mobilization of independent technical auditor. A legal covenant on the
engagement of independent technical auditors to conduct bi-annual audits was expected to be


                                                8
fulfilled by December 31, 2004, in coordination with the delivery of the first annual work
plan. Significant delays were encountered in developing and finalizing TOR satisfactory to
both the Borrower and Bank. Technical auditors were eventually mobilized in late 2009
during implementation of the second and third civil works programs.

28.     The project was rated “at risk? from June 2007 to June 2008 on the basis of slow
implementation progress and a significant disbursement lag. Improvement to the ‘at risk’
status was considered achieved after the mobilization of civil works contractors for the
second and third year maintenance programs. The Borrower submitted its Mid-Term Review
(MTR) report, and the MTR mission was conducted in July 2007. The MTR mission initiated
discussions on potential Additional Finance. While the findings of the MTR were discussed
and agreed with Government, a final Aide Memoire was never issued by the Bank. Though
the need for project restructuring was recognized at this time, its formalization required
additional time to complete, due to complex Government requirements and a desire to
process all items requiring a restructuring as one package. During the final stages of project
execution, the Bank’s implementation status reports (ISRs) were rated as ‘moderately
satisfactory’ (MS) or ‘satisfactory’ (S) to reflect improvement in implementation
performance with the expectation that the anticipated revision of results indicators were
achievable. It was also important to maintain a positive engagement with the client during the
final 18 month extension so that all resettlement issues could be settled by project closing.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

29.      Design. VRA (DRVN) and PMU2, supported by advisory services, were responsible
for monitoring and evaluation of the results framework. The original choice of indicators,
which aimed to evaluate project outcomes on transport efficiency (travel times, transport
tariffs, and traffic volumes), maintenance performance (project road and network condition,
delivery quality), and administrative modernization (systems development and access to
information) are considered mostly appropriate, though no indicators were included to reflect
increased resources. Furthermore, how these indicators were to be benchmarked and
measured lacked clarity in several instances. Attribution of tariff rates were considered as
proxies for determining anticipated outcomes. Requisite annual data collection regimens for
both traffic volumes and road roughness conditions were cornerstones of the envisaged road
management system and were to be collected as part of the related technical assistance. A
centralized management information system was also expected to support M&E by capturing
relevant fiduciary and maintenance performance data. Independent technical auditors were to
evaluate the technical quality of the preservation and improvement works, as well as analyze
procurement handling to assess both compliance and performance. A set of intermediate
implementation indicators were developed to evaluate project timing and to quantify final
outputs.

30.    Implementation. After the decision not to proceed with technical assistance for road
asset monitoring and evaluation, the independent technical auditors supported the collection
and reporting on indicators for the results framework. Travel time reductions were calculated
through indirect measurement based on informal surveys of beneficiaries along project roads.
Passenger and freight tariff rates along project corridors were not collected. With the
response type road-roughness meters that were acquired as a project activity, including an


                                              9
associated data collection manual and training on use and calibration of equipment,
roughness surveys were conducted in 2004 and 2007 for the entire national road network, but
were not collected in 2010. The IRI measurements reported at project completion (2012) are
based on measurements for 260km of project roads. Traffic volumes were collected on a
quarterly basis.

31.    Utilization. The sustainability of the project’s M&E framework was not fully realized,
as specific elements (such as travel speeds, tariffs, and IRI measurements) are not currently
being collected. The use of traffic count data, along with visual inspection of road conditions,
will remain the principal factor in allocating resources to maintenance until a road asset
management system is commissioned.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

32.      Social Safeguards. The Project presented significant challenges to meeting the
requirements of the RPF due in large part to local-level implementation capacity and
inadequate guidance from the implementing agency and the Bank. In 2006, resettlement
responsibilities were decentralized from project management units to District Resettlement
Committees in accordance with national legislation. This had adverse impacts on Borrower
performance. In response to grievances from project affected persons, resettlement audits
conducted during implementation revealed systemic compliance gaps, including: (i) limited
public consultation and dissemination of resettlement information; (ii) poor data management
and record retention; (iii) lack of proper evaluation of replacement cost of the affected assets,
especially land; and (iv) partial payment of compensation of illegal affected structures,
subsistence allowances, and business rehabilitation allowances. Provincial authorities, in
collaboration with PMU2, developed and implemented SCPs that defined specific measures
to fill identified gaps with the RPF. Impacts due to land acquisition were duly addressed as
per the RPF.

33.     After the Bank received numerous complaints and restorative measures were taken,
Independent Monitoring Consultants (IMC) conducted an ex-post evaluation of safeguard
compliance and found that the livelihood of affected households was generally restored, and
that most grievances from affected households were addressed.              Some procedural
requirements such as the development of a complete dataset of grievances and proper
evaluation of replacement costs, especially for affected land, could not be achieved for lack
of data. The IMC also found no ethnic minority communities in the project affected areas
with the exception of NH48-3, for which an Ethnic Minority Development Plan (EMDP) was
developed during preparation. The ex-post evaluation of EMDP implementation indicated
that affected ethnic minorities were fully aware of and supported the project, and that no
negative impacts other than land acquisition occurred.

34.     Land acquisition and resettlement cost estimates at appraisal amounted to VND889.48
billion, while actual costs totaled VND1,426.67 billion. Overall, about 120 ha of private land
were acquired and about 25,500 households were affected, including 560 relocated
households. Once resettlement issues came to light, PMU2 and the Bank worked diligently
to resolve all compliance issues. At the time of the ICR compensation for 108 households is
still pending due to a variety of reasons, including the unsatisfactory resolution of 53


                                               10
grievances and an inability to contact affected households resulting from labor migration to
distant provinces. Unpaid compensation was deposited in the Treasury Accounts of relevant
district authorities, which are payable to entitled project affected people. PMU2 will
continue to be functional for the next year or two to clear up the project accounts, and
continue to encourage relevant local authorities to resolve outstanding grievances and
outreach to affected people so they can receive their entitlements.

35.     Environmental Safeguards. The Project was correctly classified as Environmental
category B at appraisal as the impacts and risks identified were mostly known and
manageable. An Environmental Management Plan (EMP) was prepared to address the
identified impacts and risks. Sound institutional arrangements were in place and operated
effectively during the first sets of annual work programs. However, several instances of non-
compliance were identified under the NIP works activities. Stakeholders responsible for the
NIP activities (e.g. PMU2, independent monitoring, technical assistance services and
construction supervisor engineers) demonstrated limited capacity with regard to
environmental monitoring and reporting. Lapses in oversight and marginal performance in
ensuring EMP compliance were most notable from 2007-2010. Inadequate PMU staffing and
resource allocation challenged the implementing agency during implementation, while
independent environmental monitoring focused too heavily on environmental quality
sampling to meet Vietnamese environmental monitoring requirements rather than supporting
PMU2 with identifying and implementing corrective measures. Furthermore, Government
regulations introducted in 2007 (Decree 99/2007) led to the exclusion of separate cost items
for environmental management in bidding/contracts documents under AWP2, thereby
removing the ability to penalize contractors for not meeting environmental specifications. In
several cases, the Bank’s supervision team and implementing agency worked effectively to
help PMU to identify adjustments to detailed designs or construction methods in order to
address site-specific environmental issues, such as avoidance of structures with spiritual
value (places of worship) or to ensure compensation of damages to existing facilities caused
by construction activities.

36.     Procurement. While procurement implementation plans were behind schedule for the
second and third annual work plans, no substantive compliance issues were identified. The
bidder prequalification process for International Competitive Bidding (ICB) works contracts
valued over US$10 million used in the first annual work plan was not evenly applied in
subsequent work plans, including under the PBC pilot, as the PMU requested the use of post-
qualification procedures for several contract packages after unsuccessful outcomes of initial
prequalification in some instances. The decision was based on factors related to: (i)
insufficient experience of local contractors in ICB pre-qualification procedures, (ii) a lack of
interest from international contractors for specific packages, and (iii) efforts to minimize the
potential for additional delays in execution of works. Furthermore, complexities in
determining the eligibility of SoEs added additional delays to procurement processing. It
should also be noted that the aforementioned 2006 DIR identified irregularities in contract
procurement, including indicators of (i) possible collusive practices, (ii) improper bid
securities, (iii) lack of competition, and (iv) possible improper disclosure of cost estimates.

37.     Financial Management. Weaknesses in financial management were evident in the first
part of the project; however performance improvements were most noticeable in 2008 after

                                              11
the merger of PMU18 with PMU2 and with more consistent guidance from the Bank’s FM
team. Various issues – from planning and budgeting, disbursement and fund flow, accounting
and reporting, internal controls and auditing –continued to emerge throughout the early stages
of the project. The DIR (2006) highlighted poor practices related to financial management
transactions. In particular, the use of disparate accounting software across related agencies
created difficulties in reconciling accounts. Overdue audit reports, submission of Interim
Financial Reports (IFRs) of an unacceptable quality, and noncompliance with the financial
management manual were persistent until the later stages of the project. Beginning in 2009
(Quarter 2), IFRs were submitted to the Bank on time and with acceptable quality and met
internal control procedures as set out in financial management manual. Most of the issues
raised by the auditor in previous year audits have been resolved. Updated accounting
software was re-installed in early 2011 and functioned properly for the remainder of the
project.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

38.      DRVN’s planning and programming of national road works is being carried out in a
decentralized manner, coordinated through four Regional Road Management Units (RRMUs)
and relevant Provincial Departments of Transport (PDOTs) that are responsible for collecting
traffic counts for national roads on a quarterly basis, road condition data by visual inspection,
and evaluation of the network under their respective management to propose a manually
prepared maintenance plan for a given yearly budget cycle. Completed improvement works
were handed over to respective RRMUs and PDOTs for managing routine maintenance
activities.

39.     With the establishment of the Road Maintenance Fund, the Government is expected to
allocate 65 percent of its revenues to the central funds (national road investments) and 35
percent to local funds (provincial and local road maintenance). The AGRMM, which was
instrumental in the dialogues surrounding development of new road finance policy, was
demobilized upon project completion.

40.     IDA remains engaged in financing maintenance programs, advancing the policy
dialogue on sustainable finance, and supporting capacity development through a proposed
Vietnam Road Asset Management Project, including further refinement and expansion of the
PBC maintenance program. DRVN is exploring a simplified approach to develop a
comprehensive bridge database and maintenance prioritization system under a Japan
International Cooperation Agency (JICA) project, which is likely to be piloted in one of the
four regional jurisdictions. DRVN is also interested in exploring how the Vietnam Provincial
Road Maintenance Management System (VPRoMMS) being piloted under RTP3 can be
adapted nationally.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

41.   The project objective remained relevant to Vietnam’s development priorities, with
outcomes that focus on key elements of the Bank’s Infrastructure Strategy for Vietnam


                                               12
(2006), including: (i) proposed introduction of appropriate cost-recovery mechanisms in the
roads sector; (ii) adapting planning processes to better integrate budgeting decisions with
investment priorities based on economic criteria; and (iii) improving efficiency through
greater competition, increased private participation, a strengthened regulatory environment,
and reduced corruption. The project also remained relevant to two pillars of the current
Country Partnership Strategy (2007-2011), with emphasis on supporting implementation of
the policy reform agenda and on more efficient and reliable provision of infrastructure
services, as well as improving governance elements related to public financial management,
access to information and transparency in decision-making.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

42.     Increased preventative maintenance and selective upgrading (moderately satisfactory).
The project financed about 841.5 km of maintenance under the NPP through three annual
work plans, including 302 km of on-going maintenance through a pilot program for
performance-based contracting (PBC)12. The physical outputs amount to 76 percent of the
original target (1100 km), or 99 percent of the revised target (850 km). Selective upgrading of
265 km was completed under the NIP through two annual work plans, or roughly 44 percent
of the original target (600 km), or 93 percent of the revised target (285 km). The reduction in
these targets was necessary due to cost increases caused by exceptionally high inflation
during implementation. The reduced physical outputs were eventually attained after a 65
percent delay (39 months) in implementation.

43.    All four outcome indicators relate to the preservation and improvement programs, and
measure either user benefits (travel times and freight/passenger tariffs) or road conditions
(roughness and traffic volumes):

    Reported travel time reductions of 21 percent met the target of 15 percent.
    Outcomes on passenger and freight tariff rates are not known, as data has not been
     properly collected.
    The estimated average roughness of the project roads is likely reduced to an average IRI
     of 2.37 m/km, better than the target of 3.6 m/km, though inconsistent with the type and
     quality of maintenance and improvement interventions that were executed.
    Average Annual Daily Traffic (AADT) was measured yearly from 2003 to 2011 with
     traffic rates on NPP and NIP road segments growing annually by 14-17 percent and 15
     percent, respectively, which is likely consistent with regional traffic growth.

44.     Other related intermediate indicators on technical quality that were fully or largely
achieved include: (i) safety audits were conducted for all designs of the NIP project roads;
and (ii) the quality of periodic maintenance works were consistent with contract
specifications (based on construction supervision acceptance reports, completion and hand-
over acceptance certificates, and certification at the end of the liability period). Data


12
  PBC contracts were on-going at Credit closing, with 14 of 36 months of duration remaining, and will be
completed and financed by Government funds.



                                                     13
provided on road conditions for 260km of recently completed works indicates that project
roads have likely been improved to an average roughness of IRI 3.5 m/km or lower.
Additionally, private enterprises delivered 42 of 66 network preservation contracts financed
by the project, with the remaining packages implemented by either an eligible SoE or by joint
ventures between SoEs and private enterprise.

45.    Increased level of resources for road maintenance (moderately satisfactory). The
assessment factors the timing of the road finance mechanism, progress on boosting budgetary
resources, and the degree of balance between preservation and capital investment.
   The Government has moved forward with legislation for establishing a road usage fee
    paid prior to vehicle registration as a means for increasing fiscal resources. The AGRMM,
    together with consultant support from the Bank, was able to enhance inter-ministerial
    dialogue during development of the legal framework for the Road Maintenance Fund
    (RMF). A revised Road Code was approved by National Assembly in November 2008
    (effective on 1 July 2009); and in March 2012 the National Assembly approved the
    establishment, management and use of a Road Maintenance Fund (Decree
    No.18/2012/N?-CP). This represents an opportunity for collection of future revenues in
    the road sector, with the mechanism expected to begin contributing to increased
    maintenance resources towards the end of 2012.
   The project provided a platform for engaging central government decision makers on
    setting and meeting resource targets. Annual budgetary allocations and expenditures for
    routine and periodic maintenance of national roads were nominally increased in each
    fiscal year except 2010 and 2011 (see Table 1). With an informal target of 10 – 15 percent
    per year, nominal increases within and above this target were allocated for four years
    (2006-2009), with two substantial allocations over a seven year period that outpaced
    inflation. However, as inflation averaged approximately 11.7 percent per year during the
    project period (2004-2012), the inflation adjusted average growth rate in maintenance
    budgets amounted to 2.9 percent per year during the project period, falling short of real
    rates of growth attained over the same period.
                     Table 1: Annual Maintenance Budget (2004-2012)
        Year            Total         Inflation        Percent budget      Percent budget
                     Maintenance         (%)         increase (nominal   increase (inflation
                    Budget (VND b)                         terms)         adjusted-terms)
      2004                946.533         7.9
      2005                987.840         8.4                  4.4             -3.7
      2006              1,371.460         7.5                38.8              29.1
      2007              1,537.224         8.3                12.1               3.5
      2008              1,903.520        23.1                23.8               0.6
      2009              2,558.000         6.7                34.4              25.9
      2010              2,541.170         9.2                 -0.7             -9.0
      2011              2,481.689        18.7                 -2.3            -17.7
      2012              2,671.339        12.6*                 7.6             -0.6
      Annual Average Increase over      11.7                 12.8               2.9
      Project Period**
            Sources: DRVN budget data; IMF inflation rates
            * Estimate; ** Compound Annual Growth Rate (CAGR)



                                                  14
             Better discipline in balancing budget commitments to network preservation and
              improvements was attained, as investments exceeded the benchmarks set out in the Ten
              Year Strategic Plan for Road Maintenance. Over the project period, cumulative
              expenditures of US$943 million on preservation and US$2,320 million on improvements
              surpassed the ‘constant roughness scenario’ targets of US$563 million and US$89 million,
              respectively. Furthermore, an emphasis on funding of preservation over network
              development is most notable in the change in the ratio of average annual allocations to
              capital improvements over maintenance funding, which improved from a ratio of 4:1
              (2006) to 2:1 (2011) (see Table 2).

                    Table 2: Comparison of 10Year Plan Investments vs. Actual Expenditure
                           2004       2005        2006          2007         2008        2009        2010        2011        2012
                                                  10 Year Strategic Maintenance Plan
Repair (USD m)             56.572      55.259      56.546        71.905      73.821       62.671      61.217      62.752      62.865
Improvement (USD m)        14.917      13.460      13.460         1.189        1.189      11.313      11.313      11.313      11.313
                                                         Actual GOV Expenditure
Network Repair Fund        60.134      62.301      85.743        95.332     114.577      143.926     133.185     120.559     127.785
(USD m)
Network Improvement                   223.913     376.180       295.453     334.589      273.730     268.029     256.497     292.418
Fund (USD m)
VND exchange rate         15,740.5      15,856      15,995        16,125     16,613.5      17,773      19,080      20,585      20,905
(June 30)
Network Repair Fund       946,533     987,840    1,371,460    1,537,224    1,903,520    2,558,000   2,541,170   2,481,698   2,671,339
(VND m)
Network Improvement                  3,550,358   6,017,000    4,764,179    5,558,700    4,865,000   5,114,000   5,280,000   6,113,000
Fund (VND m)
        Source: PMU2.

        46.     Capacity for planning, budgeting and monitoring of road assets (unsatisfactory). A
        new road management system and associated processes for annual business planning and
        disclosure were not established. The consolidated national road database, which was an
        original outcome indicator, was not completed. DRVN does collect traffic volume data (on a
        quarterly basis) and RRMUs and PDOTs carry out an annual condition survey based mostly
        on visual inspection only; however, the data cannot be correlated for prioritization of
        maintenance interventions. Budget allocations are decided on the basis of regional and
        provincial priority, rather than optimizing the national network’s preservation strategies
        based on economic efficiency. The project did not undertake an institutional review of
        DRVN’s business processes. Related activities on publication of annual business plans were
        also not undertaken. DRVN produces annual reports in Vietnamese, though they are not
        publicly disseminated.

        47.         Activities that supported DRVN that were largely successful include the following:
              (i) Six training activities were conducted from 2004-2009, with focuses on project
                    management (including fiduciary and safeguard aspects). Additionally, eighty MOT




                                                                15
           staff participated in training on domestic procurement, and six MOT staff participated
           in internationally accredited procurement training in Manila.
     (ii) Specialized training for small and medium enterprises was conducted with more than
           500 managers and technical staff from 38 firms receiving training in 201113.
     (iii) International study tours focusing on PBCs and PPPs on transport infrastructure were
           undertaken in 2011 and 2012, respectively.
     (iv) A review of Vietnam’s legal and institutional framework for public-private
           partnerships was completed to help define the role of the private sector in the road
           sector.
     (v) Six bi-annual technical audits were conducted for the second and third preservation
           program and first and second improvement programs.
     (vi) Other project preparation activities associated with future World Bank lending
           operations were also undertaken (or initiated).

48.     Core Sector Indicator. Achievement of the overarching sector goal to improve the
national road network is considered moderately successful. In 2003, 60 percent of the total
classified national road network was considered in good and fair condition, which has
improved to 70 percent of the 17,200 km network in 2011. The project financed maintenance
preservation and capital improvement works on about 4.9 percent and 1.5 percent of
Vietnam’s national network, respectively; project expenditures amounted to approximately
12.1 percent and 6.3 percent of Vietnam’s total maintenance preservation and capital
improvement expenditures (over the project period), respectively.

3.3 Efficiency

49.      The project ex-post economic evaluation used the Highway Development and
Management model (HDM-4) to reevaluate the first phase of periodic maintenance
investments and the three year program of improvement works. The ex-post economic
evolution considered (i) actual costs per km for the NIP and NPP-AWP1; (ii) revised annual
traffic growth rate from 2003 to 2011; and (iii) a revised roughness after road works (IRI of
3.2 m/km for NIP and IRI of 2.6 m/km for NPP-AWP1). All other assumptions remained the
same.

50.     The ex-post ERR of the NIP is 16 percent, which is lower than the appraisal estimate
(20 percent) due to the increase in costs and the decrease in the roughness reduction with the
road works, despite the increase in traffic growth rate. The ex-post ERR of the NPP-AWP1 is
59 percent, which is higher than the appraisal estimate (50 percent) due to the decrease in
costs and increase in traffic growth rate, despite the decrease in the roughness reduction with
the road works. The ex-post economic justification of the project is satisfactory considering
that the ERR remain above 12 percent for both programs (See Annex 3 for additional details).




13
  Courses focused on goods procurement, project and contract management, road maintenance enterprise
business and financial management, new road repair and preservation techniques, road maintenance equipment
operation and management, road preservation management and PBC maintenance approaches



                                                    16
3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

51.    Project relevance is considered satisfactory, as addressing the key sector challenges
remained pertinent throughout the implementation period.

52.     Achievement of development objectives is considered moderately unsatisfactory.
While the preventive maintenance and selective upgrading targets were largely met, the
adjustment to the original targets represents a reduction in investment scope. However, the
underlying cause of this reduction, high inflation, was outside of the control of the project.
There was some progress with regard to government commitment for mobilization of
financial resources (with incremental increases to maintenance budgeting and the eventual
approval of a road maintenance fund in 2012). The project also contributed to the
introduction of competitive sourcing of service delivery (including use of competitive
bidding for maintenance works and the commencement of new performance-based
approaches). However, the institutional objective was not fully realized due to an inability to
implement the envisaged planning tools and monitoring processes to better integrate
budgeting decisions with preservation and improvement investment priorities. Despite this,
DRVN gained experience throughout the implementation process, particularly in their efforts
to resolve various shortcomings in their fiduciary and safeguard responsibilities. The
limitations in data management highlight that DRVN continues to confront funding and
technical constraints to empirical monitoring of asset condition and evaluation of network
performance. DRVN recognizes this constraint and is engaged in identifying, and
commissioning, an appropriate system.

53.     For evaluation purposes, a project’s development objectives encompass both those
stated in project documents together with the key associated outcome targets. In the case of
restructured projects in which key associated outcome targets are formally revised, the
evaluation is based on the average grade (and associated numeric scale) of separate outcomes
before and after restructuring, weighted by the level of disbursements at the time of the
restructuring. In this case, at the time of restructuring approximately 77 percent of the Credit
had been disbursed (see Table 3).
                                  Table 3: Outcome Rating Assessment
                                                    (A)                    (B)                    (A) + (B)
                                                   Before          After restructuring
                         PDO                                                                       Final
                                            restructuring (77%)          (23%)
              Increase in maintenance and   MU                    S
 NPP/NPP      selective upgrading            (3 x 77%) = 2.31     (5 x 23%) = 1.15       3.46 MS
              Increase in resources for     MS                    MS
 RSMIBP       maintenance                    (4 x 77%) = 3.08     ( 4 x 23%) = 0.92      4.0 MS
              Capacity of planning,         U                     MU
 RSMIBP       budgeting and monitoring       (2 x 77%) = 1.54     ( 3 x 23%) = 0.69      2.23 U
 Overall                                                                                9.69 /3 = 3.23 (MU)
Scale: Highly Satisfactory (HS=6); Satisfactory (S=5); Moderately Satisfactory (MS=4); Moderately
Unsatisfactory (MU=3); Unsatisfactory (U=2); Highly Unsatisfactory (HU=1)




                                                    17
54.    Overall efficiency is considered moderately satisfactory. The investments remained
economically justified, but this was compromised by substantial delays in planning and
executing annual work plans (including the on-going PBC pilot), and the slow delivery of
outputs.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

55.     Poverty alleviation and gender issues were not specifically addressed in the project.
Improving the national road network was considered an integral part of the country’s
economic development agenda. Its social development impacts are best demonstrated by the
significant growth in vehicle traffic in project areas, as maintained and improved transport
infrastructure aided in increasing mobility and access to services.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

56.     The project was able to facilitate a fundamental rethinking of MOT’s approach to
road asset preservation, which has fostered a stronger orientation towards a maintenance
culture. This emerged after a reorganization of VRA during project implementation that
elevated DRVN’s key mandates for managing maintenance of the network, as evidenced by
the appointment of a Vice Minister directly responsible for DRVN’s performance. This
coincided with a transition away from strictly performing maintenance activities on
completed road sections to a much broader role of managing the planning process and a more
holistic view of the national road network as a core infrastructure asset.

57.     The use of World Bank procurement guidelines provided an enabling environment for
introducing competitive procurement in the public sector delivery of road maintenance
services. This represents a major departure from the previous use of force account, whereby
DRVN’s regional road management units had previously executed works. Furthermore, the
pilot set of performance-based contracts, with associated budgetary and payment modalities
now in place, has potentially set in motion development and implementation of new medium-
term financing paradigms for maintenance services.

58.      A deepening of the policy dialogue and wider acceptance of public-private
partnership (PPP) arrangements in the delivery and/or operation of road infrastructure were
facilitated by technical assistance. MOT established a PPP cell to lead the identification and
design of potential concessions for future transport infrastructure projects, including a pilot
PPP transaction (Dau Giay – Phan Thiet) as part of Vietnam’s expressway development
agenda with the World Bank. The legal, regulatory and institutional framework for private
participation in infrastructure continues to be refined.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

59.   In an effort to strengthen internal controls and improve accountability after the
PMU18 allegations, the Bank and Borrower agreed to develop Governance and
Transparency Action Plans, which were designed to address the key recommendations of the


                                              18
DIR. These have since been incorporated into several Bank-financed investment operations in
Vietnam, and have demonstrated various measures for enhancing internal controls and access
to information.

60.     The introduction of ‘slice and package’ procurement arrangements provided an
opportunity to adopt new approaches to bid planning and packaging in an effort to foster
greater market competition. However, this presented challenges to domestic firms grappling
with procurement prequalification requirements and application of both national and
international bidding procedures. The approach also created challenges to PMU2 in preparing
bidding documents and properly evaluating bids, which resulted in additional procurement
processing delays for a number of international and domestic works packages.

61.     The decentralization of implementation responsibilities to district-level authorities for
resettlement and land acquisition in 2006 created huge implementation problems, and
eventually led to a breach in compliance with World Bank safeguard policy requirements.
The complicated and resource intensive process of resolving these issues have led to a much
better understanding of how grievance redress mechanisms are operationalized, and will be
used by Bank and Government to improve the design of future operations, and ensuring that
they are properly instituted across the Vietnam portfolio.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

62.    A Stakeholder Workshop was conducted on September 26, 2012 to discuss lessons
learned that will inform the design of the follow-on operation, the Vietnam Road Asset
Management Project.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Significant

63.     While maintenance budgets have increased in nominal terms, there is a risk that the
level of increases is insufficient to outpace inflation while attempting to address the
significant maintenance backlog. Furthermore, government commitment to the new Road
Maintenance Fund may be compromised if stakeholder push-back to the planned fee
structures limits its effectiveness and efficiency. Additionally, the method of collection – a
road maintenance fee collected as part of an annual or semi-annual registration fee – may not
be the most optimal mechanism.

64.     The pilot program on performance-based contracting, supported by international study
tours, successfully demonstrated alternative maintenance delivery approaches to relevant
government decision makers. Though the program is only in the early stages of
implementation, wider adoption will require continued stakeholder commitment to
competitive contracting for maintenance management. Additionally, the scale and scope of
maintenance activities will need to be refined, and the capacity to enforce performance-based
specifications will need strengthening if future programs are to be effective.

65.   The network data collection techniques and data management tools that are used by
the RRMUs and PDOTs are not sufficient to effectively monitor the network condition and


                                               19
traffic volumes together in a manner that optimizes road expenditures within a constrained
budget environment. Additional effort is needed to define a proper level of network data
collection that supports programmatic maintenance planning and management for national
roads.

66.     The overall technical quality of works is considered moderately satisfactory by the
independent technical auditor. Data from the Weigh-in-Motion equipment installed as part of
the PBC pilot reveals the severity of vehicle overloading, with factors frequently exceeding
more than twice the allowed gross vehicle weight. In this context, physical sustainability of
the network is threatened by the unavoidable advancement of pavement fatigue and reduction
in design life.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

67.     Quality Assurance Group (QAG) rated quality at entry as moderately satisfactory; the
ICR rates quality at entry as moderately satisfactory. The project’s objectives and overall
design were appropriately aligned with road sector development priorities. Technical
assistance was largely scoped and available prior to project launch. However, management
pressure to meet lending delivery milestones in the face of high preparation costs likely
compromised implementation readiness, while effectiveness delays associated with
completion of legal obligations related to the strategic plan and financial management
systems suggest that preparation may have been hurried.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

68.     Considerable effort was made to support the client with the technical planning for
identifying and executing the second and third year work programs, though early years of
project supervision paid inadequate attention to institutional strengthening (the road
management system, business plans, and technical audits). This had significant repercussions
in meeting the intended capacity development outcomes. In addition, despite conducting the
Mid-Term review mission over June-July 2007, the task team did not provide the Borrower
with a management-endorsed Aide Memoire at a time when a core activity – development of
the road management system and related business processes – was being confirmed, and
Additional Financing to meet original targets was under consideration. Implementation status
reporting often did not identify major challenges and was inconsistent on measuring results.
Bank supervision performance significantly improved during the final two years of the
project to finalize restructuring, meet technical and fiduciary requirements, and provided
enhanced support to the Client in resolving resettlement issues.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory


                                             20
69.      The Bank’s supervision effort was not adequate to effectively guide and support the
transformation of maintenance management paradigms and building institutional capacity in
DRVN. The monitoring and evaluation framework relied heavily on the development of road
management and business information systems that were not in place at project launch and
not completed during implementation. Evaluations on progress towards meeting the
development objective and implementation performance were optimistic and focused largely
on physical progress of outputs, and did not take sufficient account of progress on
institutional outcomes.

70.     In response to the PMU18 incident, the Bank moved swiftly to put in place greater
due diligence to address alleged corrupt or collusive practices. The Bank also responded
quickly upon direct grievances received from project affected households. Resettlement
audits and intensive supervision missions were rapidly mobilized in 2009-10 to oversee the
implementation of retrofitting compensation activities, where required. However, safeguard
compliance issues were underreported prior to receiving complaints, while relevant
specialists with operational experience were not always integrated with regular supervision
missions. The Bank did agree to a project extension to allow more time for safeguard issues
to be resolved.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

71.     The central government was largely committed to increasing budgetary resources for
network preservation, though inflationary pressures have diminished the fiscal impact and
slowed its realization. Further, MOT has made a concerted effort to strengthen its financial
sustainability through the introduction of a road maintenance fund as part of the Road Code.
The decision to decentralize land acquisition and resettlement responsibilities to district-level
committees without strong central oversight to support the implementing agency was
detrimental to the effectiveness of the compensation and livelihood restoration process. The
adoption of an appropriate payment mechanism for performance based contracts was crucial
to enabling the initiation of the on-going pilot program activities.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

72.     The PMU18 incident exacerbated concerns over internal control weaknesses in
procurement and financial management ultimately impacted implementation performance and
proved to be a catalyst for organizational changes within MOT’s implementation structure.
PMU2 management of social and environmental safeguards was most problematic during
2007-2009, with chronic understaffing and an overdependence on independent monitoring
services. Furthermore, the handling of safeguard aspects suffered from insufficient capacity
at the local level and inadequate central oversight. DRVN and PMU2 did not collect basic
data required to measure the project indicators.



                                               21
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

73.     Challenges in inter-ministerial coordination with policy reforms over a lengthy
project-cycle delayed key project achievements, though mechanisms are now in place to
further increase financial resources dedicated to network preservation. After the
decentralization of land acquisition and resettlement responsibilities, neither MOT nor PMU2
provided managerial oversight to communicate safeguards requirements to district level
authorities or to ensure the timely implementation of project specific measures stipulated in
the RPF. Efforts were made in the later stages of the project to ensure compliance with
compensation processes were performed, though inadequate attention was given to
supervising and assisting local authorities from the outset. Overall fiduciary performance was
problematic at various stages of implementation. The mobilization of technical auditors,
which was more than four years behind schedule, was not in compliance with the related
legal covenant. DRVN was unable to modernize its road management system as originally
envisaged.

6. Lessons Learned

74.    Expectations of project outcomes need to be tempered with realistic assessments of
what can be achieved within a single intervention. Introducing new systems, such as a road
asset management system, requires a major program of change within a road agency. Where
these changes span new technical systems, functional roles and responsibilities, and multiple
stakeholder agencies there is a need to ensure that such reforms are introduced at a pace that
they can be absorbed and accepted. Where changes are both complex and extensive the
achievement of outcomes may require a program of interventions rather than a single
intervention. Given this, project designs should either reduce both the level of complexity and
the number of sector challenges it attempts to address or allow for more realistic
implementation horizons that recognize the broader context of a given operation.

75.     A fundamental aspect of a functioning road management system is having both the
technical capacity and financial resources to ensure regular and reliable data collection for
monitoring and evaluating performance. In the near term, there remains the challenge of
establishing a functioning road management system to consolidate appropriate parameters
that will ensure the prioritization of annual investment programs is determined on economic
principles. If the Ministry of Transport and the Bank intend to utilize new results-based
lending instruments for future programmatic approaches to maintenance financing, continued
emphasis on the development of robust data management systems will be critical.

76.      Long-term strategic planning provides an important platform for communicating a
sectoral vision to stakeholders. Going forward, the Ministry of Transport can build on this
approach by updating the ten year strategy for road maintenance to address future
institutional and policy goals, defining the role of small and medium enterprises in the
maintenance sector, and setting and measuring network performance targets and fiscal
projections, all of which can contribute to better sector governance and facilitate donor
engagement.



                                              22
77.     Capacity development for land acquisition and resettlement remain paramount for
improving implementation performance. Both Vietnam and the Bank must intensify their
efforts to refining country systems for land acquisition and resettlement. The Bank task team
should also be proactive in advising relevant government officials on appropriate solutions to
meeting Bank safeguard requirements, particularly where complex local conditions make
policy compliance difficult to achieve. Further analysis and recommendations on
management of safeguards are elaborated in Annex 11.

78.    Fine tuning of the specifications for Performance-Based Contracting is necessary.
The PBC pilot experience has provided valuable lessons for future program development.
Further analysis and recommendations from the PBC pilot are elaborated in Annex 12.

79.     The existing project management unit structure misses opportunities to mainstream
roles and responsibilities into relevant Ministerial departments. Various governance
challenges exist within this organizational structure and may actually present an obstacle to
improving public sector performance in infrastructure service delivery. Without strong
central oversight, fragmentation of responsibilities in the handling of a range of
implementation matters - whether technical, fiduciary or safeguards – diffuses
accountabilities and possibly exposes the Ministry to reputational or integrity risks. Lengthy
internal review and approval processes for technical designs and procurement handling have
become a systemic source of delay. They also appear to obscure the accountability of
respective departments while diminishing the potential to leverage appropriate PMU staffing
and skills mix. Independent monitoring services engaged to support the PMUs have been
relatively superficial in their depth of analysis, deficient in enforcement capabilities, and have
had little bearing on outcomes related to technical quality, fiduciary controls and safeguard
performance.


7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

80.    The Borrower provided an ICR Executive Summary, which is included in Annex 7.

(b) Cofinanciers

(c) Other partners and stakeholders




                                               23
                              Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing
(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                             Appraisal               Actual/Latest
                                                                                     Percentage of
               Components                    Estimate                  Estimate
                                                                                      Appraisal
                                          (USD millions)            (USD millions)
A. Network Preservation Program
A1 – Periodic Maintenance of National Roads                97.20            90.48        93.1
A2 – Project Management & Advisory Services                 3.66             2.76        75.4
A3 – Pilot Program of Long-Term Performance-
                                                            7.00            23.55       336.4
     Based Contracts

B. Network Improvement Program
B1 – Improvement of National Roads                        144.93           212.74       146.8
B2 – Project Management & Advisory Services                 2.36             2.18        92.4

C. Road Sector Management and Institution
    Building Program
C1 – Strengthen Road Maintenance and Finance                0.70             0.00         0.0
C2 – VRA (DRVN) Institutional Strengthening                 5.79             1.24        21.4
C3 – Technical Assistance, Studies and Audits               5.40             4.36        80.7

                            Total Baseline Cost           267.04


Physical Contingencies
                                                           18.98
Price Contingencies
                                                           18.97
                            Total Project Costs           304.99           337.30        110.6

                      Total Financing Required            225.26           210.23        93.3



(b) Financing
                                                             Appraisal   Actual/Latest
                                             Type of         Estimate      Estimate Percentage of
            Source of Funds
                                           Cofinancing        (USD          (USD       Appraisal
                                                             millions)     millions)
 Borrower                                   counterpart         79.73        127.07      159.4
 International Development Association
                                                               225.26       210.23         93.3
(IDA)
TOTAL                                                          304.99       337.30        110.6




                                                   24
                               Annex 2. Outputs by Component

         Component                     Planned At Appraisal                     Achieved at Closing
Network Preservation                     US$ 122.64 million                      US$ 116.79 million
Program
A1. Periodic Maintenance on      Carry out three annual periodic         Nearly 842 km of maintenance under
National Roads                   maintenance works programs to           was undertaken through three annual
                                 cover about 1,100 kilometers (km) of    work plans
                                 selected sections of national roads
                                 Consulting services for Detailed        Detailed engineering designs for
                                 Engineering and Construction            periodic maintenance of 661.8 km;
                                 Supervision                             monthly and quarterly construction
                                                                         progress reports produced
                                 Land Acquisition and Resettlement       NPP did not require land acquisition
                                                                         or resettlement
A2. Project Management and       Management and advisory services,          Advisory services to support
Advisory Services                including social and environmental          capacity building and training for
                                 monitoring and technical assistance,        PMU2, DRVN and local
                                 and design and construction                 construction industry on
                                 supervision for civil works, and            procurement
                                 equipment.                                 Separate consultancies engaged to
                                                                             conduct independent monitoring
                                                                             of social and environmental
                                                                             safeguard compliance, including
                                                                             technical assistance
A3. Pilot Program of Long-       Two types of PBC were to be piloted:    Two types of PBC were to be piloted:
Term Performance-Based           one covering a 300-400 km section of    one covering a 142 km section of
Contracts (PBC)                  high-traffic national road in good      high-traffic national road in good
                                 condition, requiring mainly medium      condition, requiring mainly medium
                                 and light maintenance (routine          and light maintenance; and two
                                 maintenance and some typical            covering 65-95 km sections in fair to
                                 periodic works); and two covering       poor condition requiring a
                                 30-50 km sections in fair to poor       combination of heavy, medium, and
                                 condition requiring a combination of    light maintenance. Three contracts
                                 heavy, medium, and light                were signed in June 2010, all with a
                                 maintenance (routine and full           three year duration that continues
                                 periodic works).                        through June 2013.
Network Improvement                       US$ 170.20 million                       US$ 214.92 million
Program
B1. Improvements on National     Three annual works programs for         Two annual work programs for
Roads                            rehabilitation and widening of about    rehabilitation and widening of about
                                 600 km of national roads in the north   250 km of national roads and bridges
                                 of Vietnam, including short bridges     were completed.
                                 (less than 25 m long).
                                 Consulting services for construction    Construction supervision of two
                                 supervision                             annual work plans; monthly and
                                                                         quarterly construction progress
                                                                         reports prepared.
                                 Land Acquisition and Resettlement,      A total of 25,544 project affected
                                 and Ethic Minority Development          households were compensated, of
                                 Plan                                    which 560 households were resettled.
                                                                         Acquisition of 120.75 ha. of land for



                                                 25
         Component                 Planned At Appraisal                    Achieved at Closing
                                                                   right-of-way was required.
B2. Project Management and   Management and advisory services,     Project Advisory Services;
Advisory Services            including social and environmental    independent monitoring of social and
                             monitoring and design and             environmental safeguard compliance,
                             construction supervision for civil    including technical assistance;
                             works, and equipment.                 Safeguard training for 290 staff of
                                                                   various PDOT, District and
                                                                   Commune level Resettlement
                                                                   Committees; Equipment (Office,
                                                                   Motorbikes, Vehicles, Management
                                                                   software and website design, IT
                                                                   Maintenance)
Road Sector Management                US$ 12.15 million                      US$ 4.35 million
and Institutional Building
Program
C1. Strengthening Road        Study of Road Finance and                No study was conducted;
Maintenance and Finance        Management Strengthening;                 however an individual
                                                                         consultant (funded by DFID
                                                                         grant) was engaged to provide
                                                                         an initial legislative framework
                                                                         for establishing the road
                                                                         maintenance fund
                               Support to Advisory Group on         Funds were used to support one
                                Road Management and Finance              domestic expert to advise the
                                (AGRMM)                                  AGRMM.
C2. VRA Institutional        Road Network Evaluation and           A national road network evaluation
Strengthening                Monitoring Consulting Services        and monitoring system was not
                                                                   developed. Two short-term individual
                                                                   consultants were mobilized in 2005 to
                                                                   assist the VRA with collecting road
                                                                   network data and HDM4 analysis for
                                                                   AWP2 and AWP3, as well as
                                                                   developing guidelines on collection
                                                                   of road data, and related equipment
                                                                   training.
                             Road Network Evaluation and           Five bump integrators were
                             Monitoring – Goods                    purchased; four were delivered to
                                                                   each of the four Regional Road
                                                                   Management Units (RRMUs) and
                                                                   one to the Road Institute Center.
                             Asset Management and VRA              Technical assistance on strengthening
                             Business Plan – Consulting Services   of management and business
                                                                   planning procedures was not
                                                                   implemented.
                             Asset Management and VRA              No goods were acquired.
                             Business Plan – Goods
                             Strengthening Capacity of             Training on procurement processes,
                             Maintenance Contractors               project and contract management,
                                                                   financial management, accounting,
                                                                   management in road maintenance
                                                                   enterprises, road and road
                                                                   maintenance, road maintenance under


                                            26
         Component                 Planned At Appraisal                    Achieved at Closing
                                                                  PBCs for 507 contractors was
                                                                  completed.
                            Training of MOT staff                   80 MOT staff participated in
                                                                        training on Domestic
                                                                        Procurement Rules
                                                                    Six MOT staff participated in
                                                                        the Philippines Procurement
                                                                        Training provided by AIM in
                                                                        September 2005 and September
                                                                        2009
                                                                    18 staff members from the
                                                                        RPMUs and DRVN technical
                                                                        center underwent training on use
                                                                        of bump integrators for IRI
                                                                        measurement
                                                                    Study tours and workshops for
                                                                        high-level government officials
                                                                        were conducted on PPP
                                                                        investment models in road
                                                                        infrastructure and the
                                                                        application of PBC contracts
                                                                        (Five participants visited Brazil
                                                                        in October 2011; and 13
                                                                        participants visited Finland and
                                                                        Estonia in January 2012).
C3. Technical Assistance,   A review of the framework for         A final technical assistance report on
Studies, and Audits         public-private partnerships in the    Public-Private Partnership (PPP) was
                            road sector                           completed; three workshop
                                                                  presentations were conducted after
                                                                  each stage
                            Preparation of a proposed follow-on   Feasibility Studies for Mekong Delta
                            road project                          Transport Infrastructure
                                                                  Development Project; provision of
                                                                  financial management software for
                                                                  Third Rural Transport Project;
                                                                  updating the Feasibility Study and
                                                                  initiation of Detailed Engineering
                                                                  Designs for Danang-Quang Ngai
                                                                  Expressway Development Project.
                            Independent financial and technical   Annual independent financial audits
                            audits                                were completed.
                                                                  Six bi-annual technical audits were
                                                                  conducted between 2009 and 2011.




                                            27
                           Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

The project improved national roads through the execution of periodic maintenance works under the
Network Preservation Program (NPP) and improvement works under the Network Improvement
Program (NIP). The investments reduced road user transport costs and improved the ride comfort of
road users. The economic evaluation done at appraisal was done with the Highway Development and
Management Model (HDM-4), which compares life-cycle costs and vehicle operating costs. The
appraisal evaluation was based on the key assumptions: (i) an opportunity cost of capital of 12
percent; (ii) an analysis period of 20 years; and (iii) exchange rate value of 15,300 VND to one US$.
At appraisal, the first phase of periodic maintenance investments of the (NPP-AWP1) yielded an
Economic Rate of Return (ERR) of 50 percent and the three year program of improvement works
(NIP) yielded an ERR of 21 percent.

The ex-post economic evaluation of the project was done also with the HDM-4 model reevaluating
the first phase of periodic maintenance investments and the three year program of improvement
works. The ex-post evaluation considered actual construction costs, traffic growth rates, and
reduction in roughness with the road works. Construction costs, traffic and roughness data was
collected for all 74 projects executed under the project. The following table presents the start year of
the RNIP projects, which shows that NPP projects represent 84 percent of the total RNIP projects
and a high percentage of the NPP projects (62 percent) started on or after 2009.

                                 Table 1 Start Year of NIP an NPP Projects
                               Start   Number of       Number of      Total
                               Year NIP Projects NPP Projects Projects
                               2005                         6           6
                               2006         3               8          11
                               2007         2               1           3
                               2008         3               5           8
                               2009         2              33          35
                               2010         1               3           4
                               2011         1               6           7
                               Total       12              62          74

The expected duration of the NPP contracts was nine months and the actual duration was on average
11 months, representing a 30% increase on the duration of the contracts. The expected duration of
the NIP contracts was 22 months and the actual duration was on average 35 months, representing a
60% increase on the duration of the contracts. The following chart presents a histogram of the actual
per expected contract duration ratio. While for the majority of the contracts (54 percent), the ratio
was 1.0, a number of contracts (18 percent) had a ratio greater than 2.0.




                                                   28
                              Figure 1 Histogram of Actual per Contract Duration Ratio
                                                 Histogram - Actual per Expected Contract Duration Ratio
                                            45


                                            40


                                            35


                                            30




                                Frequency
                                            25


                                            20


                                            15


                                            10


                                            5


                                            0




The actual costs are not much different than the contract costs on average for the NPP and NIP. The
following chart presents a histogram of the actual per contract cost ratio. The average ratio is 1.0
with a minimum ratio of 0.4 and a maximum ratio of 1.3.
                                Figure 2 Histogram of Actual per Contract Cost Ratio
                                                       Histogram - Actual per Contract Cost Ratio
                                            20

                                            18

                                            16

                                            14

                                            12
                                Frequency




                                            10

                                            8

                                            6

                                            4

                                            2

                                            0




The comparison of actual costs per km with the estimated costs at appraisal shows that for the NIP
the actual costs were on average 60 percent higher than the estimated costs, while for the NPP-
AWP1 the actual costs were 20 percent lower. However, the actual costs per km of the NPP AWP2
and AWP3 were 60 percent higher than for AWP1. The following table presents the average actual
and the estimated at appraisal costs per km, expressed in 2003 US$.

                          Table 2 Average Actual and Estimated Costs (2003 US$)
                                               Estimated     Actual     Actual/
                                                  Costs       Costs    Estimated
                         Program               (US$/km) (US$/km)         Ratio
                         NIP                    159,372     255,871       1.6
                         NPP-AWP1                79,111      65,281       0.8
                         NPP-AWP2-AWP3                      105,383
                         NPP Overall                         88,644

The following charts present the actual per estimated cost per km ratio for the NIP and NPP-AWP1
contracts.




                                                                         29
      Figure 3 NIP Actual per Estimated Cost per km Ratio                                     Figure 4 NPP- AWP1 Actual per Estimated Cost per km Ratio
                NIP Contracts - Actual per Estimated Cost per km Ratio                                          NPP AW1 Contracts - Actual per Estimated Cost per km Ratio
     3.00                                                                                        1.80

                                                                                                 1.60
     2.50
                                                                                                 1.40

     2.00                                                                                        1.20

                                                                                                 1.00
     1.50
                                                                                                 0.80

     1.00                                                                                        0.60

                                                                                                 0.40
     0.50
                                                                                                 0.20

     0.00                                                                                        0.00
            1      2            3             4              5      6            7   8                  1   2       3    4      5      6      7      8       9   10       11     12   13   14   15
                                                  Contract                                                                                        Contract

                       Actual per Estimated Cost per km Ratio    Average (1.6)                                          Actual per Estimated Cost per km Ratio        Average (0.8)




The following table presents the average unit costs per km for the entire NPP and NIP by road work
type, expressed in 2011 US$. The NIP comprised rehabilitation works to Class IV standard (28
percent of NIP costs) or Class III standard (46 percent of NIP costs) and upgrading works to Class
III standard (26 percent of NIP costs). The roads to be rehabilitated or upgrade to Class III standard
were build typically with a surface layer of 120 mm, a base layer between 150-200 mm and a sub-
base layer between 250-300 mm. The roads to be rehabilitated to Class IV standard were build
typically with a surface layer of 70 mm, a base layer between 150-180 mm and a sub-base layer
between 200-300 mm. The NPP comprised periodic maintenance work applying a 50+70 mm
asphalt concrete overlay.

                                        Table 3 Average Actual Road Works Unit Costs (2011 US$)
                                                                                               Unit Cost
                                 Program  Road   Work Type                                     (US$/km)
                                 NIP      Rehabilitation and widening to Class IV, AC surface   371,856
                                          Rehabilitation and widening to Class III, AC surface  504,200
                                          Upgrade to Class III, AC surface                      938,540
                                 NPP      Periodic maintenance, AC overlay 70+50 mm             197,798

Traffic data was obtained for 31 NIP and NPP projects presenting the total Average Annual Daily
Traffic (AADT) measured yearly from 2003 to 2011. The actual average annual traffic growth rate
between 2003 and 2011 for NIP projects is 8.6 percent and for NPP projects is 10.8 percent. At
appraisal, the estimated traffic annual growth rate from 2003 to 2012 for both NIP and NPP projects
was 8 percent for cars and motorcycles, 6 percent for trucks and 5 percent for buses. Thus, the
average actual average traffic growth rate is higher than the ones estimated at appraisal. However,
there is a big variation on the observed annual traffic growth rates, as shown on the chart below that
presents a histogram of the annual traffic growth from 2003 to 2011 for NIP and NPP projects.




                                                                                         30
                                      Figure 5 Histogram of Annual Traffic Growth Rate 2003-2011 (%)
                                            Histogram - Annual Traffic Growth Rate 2003-2011 (%)
                                  4




                                  3

                      Frequency



                                  2




                                  1




                                  0




Roughness was measured on about 15 NIP and NPP projects before and after road works. For NIP,
the average roughness before road works was 5.4 IRI, m/km, and after road works roughness
decreased to 3.2 IRI, m/km. For NPP, the average roughness before road works was 3.4 IRI, m/km,
and after road works roughness decreased to 2.6 IRI, m/km. At appraisal, the roughness after works
was estimated with the HDM-4 model, corresponding to 2.0, IRI, m/km. Thus, the actual roughness
after road works is higher than the one estimated at appraisal.

The ex-post economic evolution considered (i) actual costs per km for the NIP and NPP-AWP1
given on Table 2; (ii) revised annual traffic growth rate from 2003 to 2011 that is 8.6 percent for NIP
and 10.8 percent for NP-AWP1; and (iv) a revised roughness after the road works (3.2 IRI, m/km for
NIP and 2.6 IRI, m/km for NPP-AWP1). All other assumptions remained the same. The ex-post
ERR of the NIP is 16 percent, which is lower than the appraisal estimate (20 percent) due to the
increase in costs and the decrease in the roughness reduction with the road works, despite the
increase in traffic growth rate. The ex-post ERR of the NPP-AWP1 is 59 percent, which is higher
than the appraisal estimate (50 percent) due to the decrease in costs and increase in traffic growth
rate, despite the decrease in the roughness reduction with the road works. The ex-post economic
justification of the project is satisfactory considering that the ERR remain above 12 percent for both
programs. The following table presents the ex-post economic evaluation results.

                                   Table 4 Ex-Post Economic Evaluation Summary
                                           Appraisal Evaluation     Ex-Post Evaluation
                                               NPV          ERR        NPV          ERR
                           Program         (US$ Million)    (%)    (US$ Million)    (%)
                           NIP                  52.0        21%         30.9        16%
                           NPP-AWP1            132.2        50%        194.4        59%




                                                                   31
          Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
(b)
                                                                                Responsibility/
                Names                             Title              Unit
                                                                                  Specialty

Lending
                                                                            Road Maintenance
Rodrigo Archando-Callao       Technical Specialist
                                                                            Management
Stephen Brushett              Sr. Transport Specialist              AFTTR   Peer Reviewer
Cuong Duc Dang                Operations Officer                    EACVF   Economics
Nga Quyen Dang                Program Assistant                     EACVF   Project Administration
Christopher De Serio          Program Assistant                     EASIN   Project Administration
Vinh Quoc Duong               Operations Officer                    EACVF   Environment
Simon David Ellis             Transport Specialist                          Economics
Hung Viet Le                  Financial Management Specialist       EACVF   Financial Management
Jerry A. Lebo                 Sr Transport Specialist               EASIN   Task Team Leader
Irina Luca                    Senior Procurement Specialist         EAPCO   Procurement
Aurelio Mendendez             Sr. Transport Specialist              LCFST   Peer Reviewer
Behdad Nowroozi               Sr. Financial Management Specialist   EAPCO   Financial Management
Maria Margarita Nunez         Sr. Highway Engineer                  EASIN   Pavement Specialist
Hoa Thi Mong Pham             Operations Officer                    EACVF   Social
Anil Somani                   Sr. Environmental Specialist                  Environment
Kien Trung Tran               Procurement Specialist                EACVF   Procurement
Phuong Thi Minh Tran          Operations Officer                    EACVF   Project Management
Mei Wang                      Counsel                                       Legal
Chaohua Zhang                 Senior Social Specialist                      Social

Supervision/ICR
 Pramod Agrawal               Consultant                            SASDA   Social Safeguards
                                                                            Road Maintenance
Rodrigo Archando-Callao       Technical Specialist
                                                                            Management
Andre A. Bald                 Sr. Infrastructure Specialist         EASVS   Technical Quality
Christopher J. Banes          Consultant                            EASIN   Implementation Support
Christopher R. Bennett        Sr. Highway Engineer                  EASIN   Engineering
John R. Cooney                Consultant                            EASIN   Implementation Support
Christopher De Serio          Operations Analyst                    EASIN   Implementation Support
Thao Thi Do                   Finance Analyst                       CTRLN   Loan Accounting
Sameena Dost                  Sr. Counsel                           LEGES   Legal
Quyen Do Duong                Finance Analyst                       CTRDM   Financial Management
Vinh Quoc Duong               Consultant                            EASVS   Environment
Simon David Ellis             Sr. Transport Economist               SASDT   Implementation Support



                                                   32
Dung Anh Hoang           Sr. Transport Specialist              EASVS   Implementation Support
Satoshi Ishihara         Sr. Social Specialist                         Social Safeguards
Hisham A. Abdo Kahin     Sr. Counsel                           LEGES   Legal
Lan Mai Thi Lam          Consultant                            EASVS   Social Safeguards
Hung Viet Le             Sr. Financial Management Specialist   EAPCO   Financial Management
Jerry A. Lebo            Sr. Transport Economist               EASIN   TTL (1)
Lars C. Lund             Consultant                            EASVS   Social Safeguards
James Orehmie Monday     Senior Environmental Engineer         EASTS   Environment
Quynh Thuy Ngo           Consultant                            EASVS
Hien Thi Nguyen          Consultant                            EASVS
Thanh Quy Nguyen         Consultant                            EASVS
Hoang Xuan Nguyen        Procurement Specialist                EAPPR   Procurement
Thuy Bich Nguyen         Program Assistant                     EASVS   Administrative Support
Lan Thi Thu Nguyen       Natural Resources Economist           EASVS   Environment
William D. O. Paterson   Sr. Highway Engineer                  EASNS   TTL (2)
Hoa Thi Mong Pham        Sr. Social Development Specialist     EASVS   Social Safeguards
Cung Van Pham            Sr. Financial Management Specialist   EAPFM   Financial Management
Nguyen Chien Thang       Sr. Procurement Specialist            EAPPR   Procurement
Phuong Thi Minh Tran     Sr Transport Specialist               EASVS   TTL (4)
Ha Thuy Tran             Financial Management Specialist       EAPFM   Financial Management
Paul Vallely             Transport Sector Coordinator          EASVS   TTL (3)
Ly Thi Dieu Vu           Consultant                            EASVS   Environment




                                             33
(b) Staff Time and Cost

                                       Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                       USD Thousands (including
                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                             travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY00                                                                   0.64
  FY01                                  11                              39.88
  FY02                                  52                             143.60
  FY03                                  72                             306.42
  FY04                                  35                             126.35
                          Total:       170                             616.89

Supervision/ICR
  FY04                                  15.7                            41.8
  FY05                                  27.1                            50.1
  FY06                                  32.0                            63.6
  FY07                                  39.5                            93.8
  FY08                                  31.9                            72.4
  FY09                                  25.9                            83.4
  FY10                                  25.1                            85.5
  FY11                                  30.6                           149.4
  FY12                                  36.4                           106.1
                          Total:       254.3                           746.2




                                       34
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results




                35
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results




                      36
            Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and Comments on Draft ICR

                               Executive Summary of Borrower ICR

Project implementation agencies: Ministry of Transport (MOT), Directorate for road in Vietnam
(DRVN), and the Project implementation Department 1 (PID1), Project implementation Department
7 (PID7) under PMU2.

                                    Part I. Project objectives:

As described in the PAD and in DCA, the project objectives can be briefed as follow:

   (i)     Road network improvement in Việt Nam through enhancement of selected maintenance
           and improvement;
   (ii)    Increasing the available resources for road maintenance;
   (iii)   Capacity strengthening in planning and budgeting and supervising the road network .

These objectives can be achieved through the implementation of the following components:

   1. Component A: Network Preservation Program: Periodic maintenance for around 1.100km of
      selected road sections in the national road network in the Borrower’s 10 year Strategic
      maintenance Plan for road network, including PBC contracts.
   2. Component B: Network Improvement Program: Rehabilitation and widening for around
      600km of selected road sections in the North of Vietnam and bridges shorter than 25m.
   3. Component C: Reforms for road management agencies and institutional strengthening:

                              Part II. Level of objective achievement

1. Objective 1 - Network improvement through improvement for selected roads

As project original design, 16 national highways with 600km and 84 bridges shorter than 25m will
be improved. However, during project implementation, due to lack of fund, there was only 9 roads
and 84 bridges that have been improved with total length of 265km.

Most of road sections after construction are in satisfactory quality and have been inspected following
Technical specification which has been shown in the Minutes of acceptance of the Supervising
consultant including the Quality acceptance, Completion confirmation, Work handing over, report of
quality Inspectors and Independent Auditor.

2. Objective 2 – Viet Nam Road Network Improvement through selected road maintenance
and preventive methods to avoid the deterioration of road network in Vietnam.

    Maintenance Road sections have been completed and handed over to the RRMUs for use in
compliance with the approved technical design. However, there’s only 841 Km have been preserved
(including 302 Km under PBC maintenance) comparing to the original project target 1,100 Km




                                                 37
(archieved 76 % of original target). The reason come from a considerable increase in material cost at
the time of construction which is much differ from the time of project design.
    - Mitigation methods to Socio-environment impacts were complied with the WB policy: the
reports from independent consultant: is responsive
    - The quality of road sections under the project have been completed and handed over to the
RRMUs for use, in compliance with the approved technical design: following the Acceptance reports
of Supervising consultant, completion and hand-over acceptance notes, and document certifying the
End of Liability Period for the work.
    - Average roughness (IRI) on the project road sections have been maintained and reduced during
project implementation
    - Reduction of wood and passenger fares on Project roads: not entirely responsive due to price
escalation (basic salary and fuel cost have been adjusted many time lead to the increase of passenger
and the wood tone/1km fare). The access on Project roads increased comparing to the average of the
region
    - Exclusively, the 3 PBC contracts, total length of 302 Km, expected implementation period was
36 months, starting 1/June/2010 and completion in 31/May/2013. Until the Project Closing date
(31/March/2012), only 22/36 months have been implemented (61 %), there are 14 months remaining
to complete the signed contract. As the very limited domestic fund source, DRVN have considered
and proposed to continue the works (after 31/march/2012) by method: continuing the maintenance
work for roads under PBC contracts by traditional method with the existing contractors by annual
fund of DRVN. In the mean time negotiate with the contractors for continuing the implementation of
the existing terms and condition of PBC contracts.

3. Objective 3 – Increase the availability of resources for road maintenance:

        The Government of Vietnam has prioritized the counterpart fund for the project, counterpart
fund is usually ready for covering the annual work quantity.
        - The Road repair fund for the entire road network has been increasing annually as Table
below:
        - The Road fund was regulated in the Road Traffic law code dated 13/Nov./2008, and
recently, GoV issued the Decree Ref.18/2012/ND-CP dated 13/Mar./2012 on the establishment and
management of the Road maintenance Fund which will be validated on 1/Jun/2012.

4. Objective 4 – Capacity strengthening for planning, budgeting and monitoring road assets:

        Actual implementation: The project has implemented the 2 short-term Individual consulting
services (in 3 months) in 2005 to assist the VRA in collecting road network data and HDM4 analysis,
then modified the Consulting service for DD and supervising NPP Works to review the HDM4, for
the selection of roads for AWP2 and 3 maintenance.

        Two main TA consulting services of (i) “Monitoring and Assessment of Road network ?,
cost value 2.1 million USD and (ii) “Business Plan Development & road asset management? cost
value 1.1 million USD, together with a package for equipment purchase values 1.0 million USD, and
an amount of 0,6 million USD has not been implemented due to the Restructuring of VRA to DRVN
so that the TOR needed to revise, it took much time for approval and not enough time for the above
two consulting services.



                                                 38
                                 Part III. Output by Component

1. Network Preservation Program:

       Original civil work value:
              - Periodic maintenance: 103,1 million USD
              - PBC contracts:         7,0 million USD
       Actual civil work value:
              - Periodic maintenance: approx. 84 million USD
              - PBC contracts:      approx. 21,885 million USD.

        The Network preservation Program have maintained for 841 Km (of which, 302 Km under
PBC model) comparing with the original target of 1.100 Km (the work done equivalent to 76 % of
original target). The reason of not achieving the originally expected length for maintenance roads is
because of the price of materials increase considerably at the time of construction.
        The quality of construction and maintenance roads work after inspections were all complying
with the technical standard of the contract. Those have been reflected in the Inspection Reports of
the Supervising consultant such as the inspection for quantity, quality, completion work and other
report of the Inspection Authorities and Auditor.

       Network preservation program comprises of 66 civil work contract packages, of which, 13
packages have been implemented by an SoE or by a Joinventure of SoE with Private Enterprise, the
remaining 53 packages have been implemented by Private Enterprises.

    Exclusively the 3 PBC contracts with total length of 302 Km, the scheduled implementation
period of 36 months, starting 1/June/2010 and completing on 31/May/2013. However, until project
Closing date (31/Mar./2012) only 22/36 months have been executed (equivalent to 61 % time), and it
remains 14 months for completion of the signed contract.

      DRVN is trying to keep the PBC maintenance work continuing through the traditional
maintenance methods with the current engaging contractors, using the Annual road fund of DRVN.
In the meantime negotiate with these contractors to continue complying with the terms and condition
of previous PBC contract.

b. Social and Environment management:

       Project social environment safeguard policy: the project complied with all social
environment safeguard requirements set forth by SR of Vietnam as well as the social environment
safeguard policy of the WB for the project under Group B. The activities have been carried out in the
NPP including:

       - Prepare the social environment documents as required by GoV and WB: an EIA for AWP1
under NPP have been prepared together with AWP1 under NIP those have been approved by the




                                                 39
MONRE. After that, an EMP for AWP2 and AWP3 (AWP2&AWP3.1 and AWP3.2) as requested by
WB with a Commitement (ECP) of the project as requested by GoV have also been prepared.

        - Managing the environment protection of contractors during construction process:
        + The contractors have to prepare the relating document and submit to the Consultant for
approval and inspection and monitoring the implementation in the environment protection of the
contractors.
        + Supervising consultant mobilized 01 environment specialist and 01 social specialist to
instruct and supervise the social environment protection activities of the contractor during the whole
process of AWP1, AWP2 and AWP3 works.
        + PMU2 have signed a contract with a specializing firm who has experience in monitoring
the social environment protection in the infrastructure projects for the Independent Socio-
environmental consultant .
        - Assessment on the social environment protection activities of the contractor:
        + The submission of document in some AWP1 packages were delayed because the
contractors were not fully aware of the responsibilities in executing these requirements in the
construction process. However, this condition have been improved and solved in the AWP2 and 3 .
        + Most of the contractors have complied with the requirements. However some of the
requirements such like stockpiling gasoline, bitum and emulsion recommended to be put on concrete
surface with roofing and surrounding drainages and the collecting of wastes on site in the working
day, were not fully obeyed .
        + Most of the people interviewed by Independent consultant said that the construction
progress were fast with good traffic control and provision of sign post all day and night, no traffic
jam nor obstacle to the access to schools or medicine centers and offices.
        + There was not any conflict between the workers and local people as they judged good
relation of the workers.
        + Regarding the contamination during construction process, the interviewed people said that
dust and noises were there but not much influented their living. Some of the people said that as they
were living along the roads, they got familiar with the noise of the heavy trucks and those dust and
noise did not disturb their lives .

        - The compliance and implementation of the RAP: as NPP works only repair and overlay the
existing pavement, no widening work, therefore it causes no impact to the land acquisition and
properties of local people and no need to prepare RAP. The NPP works did not cause any impact to
the historical relics nor any National preserving Work.

        Generally the social environment safeguard policy have been complied with the
requirement of WB and GoV in implementation of NPP component under RNIP project.

2. Component 2 – Network Improvement Project

       Civil works

Original estimated costs for civil works: USD 118 million

Actual costs for civil works: USD 122,2 million



                                                  40
The original objective of the Network Improvement Program (NIP) includes the rehabilitation and
strategic upgrading of approximately 600km and short bridges of national roads 3-6 m width in low
quality surface with only some limited sections in towns are in fair or good condition over the five
year period of the project to the grade III or IV. The civil works are classified in to 3 Annual Work
Plan (AWP). Due to the shortage of fund caused by sharply increasing price in late 2007 and 2008,
265 km under AWP1 and AWP2 out of 600 km has been upgraded.

NIP applied design standard TCVN 4054-98. 12 packages for improvement of 9 roads have been
upgraded and improved. Eight (8) packages (NH47, NH48-1, NH48-2, NH38B, NH39, NH18,
NH21-1) are upgraded to Class III with the pavement width is 11m and shoulder is 1m. The 5 other
packages (NH48-3, NH37, NH21-2) are upgraded to Class IV, 7m pavement width and 8m
embankment.

Regarding the quality of the road upgraded, the qualities of all roads are moderately satisfactory to
the project objective and efficiency. This was assessed by the Technical Audit and SMEC
Consultant.

Detail of each contract package on contract price, signing date, completion date, etc… is provided in
Annex 5 of the ICR.

   2.2 Environment Management

The requirements for project environmental management are specifically specified in the
Environment Management Plan for each project roads. Preparation of the project general
environment management is assessed as in compliance with the requirements, sufficient staff is
arranged and the progress is on time. Information publication on project environment documents was
sufficiently conducted at the World Bank and localities where the project traverses.

The core obstacle issues is delay land acquisition and to interrupted site handover to the contractor
for construction, leading to the situation that the contractor faced difficulties in construction method
and environmental mitigation.

The bottle neck section which has not been handed over in NH37 also caused traffic danger and
pending complaints/grievances. DRVN and PMU2 has been actively in coordinating with Bac Giang
PDOT to conduct information publication, provide detail and further information on complaint
people until they agreed with the continued construction. At present, the bottle neck section in NH37
was provided the maintenance to ensure traffic safety by Bac Giang PDOT in 2011.

2.3 Compliance with the Resettlement Action Plan

Post evaluation on all project roads conducted by the IMC showed that AHs livelihood at post
project has been restored and/or better than the prior project with some criteria were used to evaluate
in the post evaluation reports.




                                                  41
Three training were carried out by PMU2 for 290 officers at commune, district and provincial levels
during the project implementation for project provinces on safeguards policies. PMU2 also
conducted one more consultation round for publication of the RFP for Thai Binh and Quang Ninh
provinces.

NIP road construction affected to 121 communes, 33 districts in 9 provinces (Nghe An, Thanh Hoa,
Thai Nguyen, Bac Giang, Hai Duong, Hung Yen, Nam Dinh, Thai Binh, Quang Ninh) provinces.
Total AHs were 25,544. Total acquired land by the project was 120.75 ha.

Regarding the project grievances/complaints settlement process: The localities followed up with
resettlement policies as per RAPs. Steps and mechanism for complaint settlements has been
conducted by the project as per RAPs. However, the dissemination on project complaint settlement
mechanism has not been done well, leading to poor management of complaints letters and answers to
the complaint/grievances.

3. Component 3 – Road Sector Management and Institutional Building Program

       The result from the this component is the establishment of the Road Maintenance Fund have
been included in the Transportation law, which have been issued on 13/Nov/2008, and on
13/Mar/2012 the GoV issued the Decree No.18/2012/N?-CP on the establishment, management and
use of the Road Maintenance Fund. Of which, the Government will collect tax revenues on the
annual registration and allocate 65% of the revenues to the Centre Fund and 35% to local Fund.
Tentative schedule for tax collection start from 1/Jun/2012.

        The project have implemented 02 short-term individual consulting services in 2005 to
support DRVN in road network data collection and HDM4 analysis, for the maintenance road list
selection for AWP 2 and 3.

       02 consulting services for TA are (i) “Monitoring and Assessment of Road network ?,
approx. value 2.1 million USD and (ii) “Business Plan Development & Road Asset management?
approx. value 1.1 million USD, with 02 packages for equipment (1.0 million USD and 0.6 million
USD) would not implemented because VRA have changes in it’s organization: as VRA was
reorganized to become DRVN, therefore the TOR needed to be revised and took much time for
approval process that also means no time left for implementation of the above 2 consulting services
and 2 packages for equipment.

        Several training were provided to MOT, DRVN and PMU2’s staffs on all aspects for project
issues. Other TA consulting services of technical audit, public private partnership in the road sector,
and financial auditing were conducted under the project.

                       Part IV. Assessment on the Borrower’s Performance

1. Assessment on the Government Performance

The commitment from the Government towards achieving project objectives is satisfied during the
project implementation, the Government is the highest agency who creates macro assistance polices,



                                                  42
specifically Laws, Decrees, Decision issued by the Prime Minister in order to achieve the highest
results as committed at the initial project stage.

RNIP took a long implementation duration, the actual implemented time was approximately 8 years
since the date of the DCA signing, with the participation of ministries, state and local agencies, law
and decrees should have been applied in a timely and excise manner. To implement the project
objectives, a continuous macro policies need to be applied. However, a continuous and flexible in
the application of macro policy for the project sometimes has not been caught up with the objective
changing.

RNIP relevant works have been implemented in some provinces in the north and center middle,
which caused impacts on a large number of people in localities, for that sufficient consultation to
affected people and beneficiary people is very important. The consultation is assessed as met
requirement of the project. Some provinces faced difficulties in the consultation to the project
beneficiaries. In fact, there was two types of beneficiaries who totally benefited from the project and
the other side benefit both and impacted by the project

In terms of the humanity from the Government agencies, similar to many ODA financed projects,
RNIP is under the coordination from many agencies under the Government, which sometimes take
complicated paper procedures and long duration to meet regulated documents. At the initial project
stage, the project implementing agency (PMU2) was under direct coordination from the MOT, after
2007 PMU2 had been move to be under the Directorate for Roads of Vietnam (DRVN), which
resulted in the changing of project structure. PMU2 at the same time under the management of both
MOT and DRVN, for which all procedure in the implementation of the project have been doubled,
resulted in the extension of the project closing date. As such, implementation capacity, personnel
arrangement and implemented structures has not been fully satisfied.

In terms of relationships and coordination with donors and stakeholders related to RNIP. The project
has to follow up with regulation from both the Bank and the Government with many activities had to
require the coordination, approval, no-objection from the Bank and the Government, and sometimes
the progress has caused the delay in the project implementation due to the late review or approval
from relevant agencies.

The Borrower has an adequacy of transition arrangements for regular operation of supported
activities after tha credit closing date which has been evaluated as satisfied with the requirements.

2. Assessment on the Implementing Agency Performance

The MOT, as the position of the Employer, assigned PMU2 as the implementing agency at the
project initial implementation period for two PMUs for each specific project components. Two
PMUs then was merged in to one entity as PMU2 and in charge of the total RNIP implementation. In
general, the commitment of the implementing agency to achieving development objective is
moderately satisfactory (Danh gia qua ve viec du an thuc hien bi cham, phai gia han thoi gian thuc
hien du an, vuong mac ve giai phong mat bang).




                                                  43
In fact, the assessment on PMU implementing agency should be assessed by an independent unit for
an exercise and objective assessment, but within context of this report, we tries to give a ………
PMU2 is an important part in the project implementation, who is the clue for a project circle, from
project preparation, budgeting, preliminary and detail design, working drawings, procurement,
project management, as built and final payment, project completion etc… RNIP is a network project
improving some important national highways and establish a mechanism for road maintenance
effectively.

The PMU needs to be flexible, has a good arrangement, for that it has overcome initial difficulties
and show a good role to achieve the project objective.

The PMU has to carried out several specific tasks, it faced many difficulties in the project
implementation such as uneven capability of staffs, the project has connection with many relevant
government and local agencies, and project affected people. The project has released good
consultation to beneficiaries and relevant agencies to seek the support and concurrence.

V. Lessons Learnt and Recommendation

1. Project preparation, Technical design, Preparation of bidding document and cost estimates

        NPP Component: In AWP2 and 3, the process of Designing and approval took a lot of time
because of different ideas between agencies to the design. Year of survey (2006) and construction
(2009) was quite long that caused some differences between the Design and actual condition on the
sites and caused increasing the Change orders and time for processing.

       Currently, there has not been any specific guidance on maintenance design method, therefore
some discrepancies appeared on design of vertical and horizontal slope and additional leveling on
the existing road. Road should be classified in to 2 types: Road section with rather good smooth
pavement only need the surface layer for the required thickness; for deteriorated road surface section,
the road embankment should be rehabilitated with design for both vertical and horizontal geometry.

       The delay in control of overload vehicle has affected to the longevity of the road. As per the
vehicle weighting conducted by Egis Bceom Consultant in 2006, about 50% of running vehicle are
over load against the regulation. It is recommended that a suitable method should be applied to
control vehicle weight, especially to high traffic road as NH5 and NH1

        Assessment and control on crushed stone and asphalt material during the project implantation
should be improved and adjusted suitably. E.g. When test is conducted to find the reason causing
damage in some road section, it was recognized by the consultant that test T182 could not assess the
adhesion between Base – Bitumen under the road flooding condition. Another test should be
finalized and applied, such as ASTM D4867 to meet different requirements when Marshal Test is
done.

       For Central section and other areas that have only granite quarries to be the material for
asphalt concrete, research on how to use appropriate material to increase the adhesion between base
and bitumen should be proceeded.



                                                 44
       Periodic maintenance. In fact at present, national highways in Vietnam was and are bearing
the overload vehicle higher than its design load capacity (due to the vehicle increasing of heavy load
trucks), causing deterioration on the road surface and vertical and horizontal inclination are not
ensured as the original status. These roads should be widen and rehabilitated to meet the increasing
traffic load and vehicle fleet, but due to the lack of fund, they have been investing under the periodic
maintenance.

     If the design is made as per the actual vehicle load and traffic flow, the AC thickness would be
huge (higher than 20cm, even more than 40cm) thus will overcome the maintenance characteristic.
On the other hand, due to the road surface quality is not even (good and bad sections are alternated
which will need the surface thickness are different and the horizontal section will be cut in to pieces.

2. Procurement

    Firstly, delay in the approval process on bidding documents, shortlist, bidding results, etc of the
bidding process is an factor contribute to delay of the project. Time from the cost estimate approved
until the deadline for submission is long, which was resulted in the bidder quoted the price higher
than the cost estimate is another factor caused delay in bidding process. It is recommended that the
approval process should be accelerated in the future.

3. Contract management

Contract supervision should be paid much attention to, in case the contract could not be completed
on time, the extension of time and procedures should be processed before the completion date at
least 2 weeks for all types of contract, and the extension of time should be proceeded before or on
the expired date. Together with the extension of completion time on the contract, other procedures
related to the contract extension such as extension of performance guarantee, advance payment
guarantee, etc… should be done accordingly.

        - For civil works contract: The adjustment formula, sources index of material should be
clearly stated in the bidding document, especially the adjustment shall include price escalation or not.
Any changes on this matter should be clearly identified, negotiated and agreed in the signed contract.

    It is recommended that the Performance Indicator of the project should be included in the TOR
of the design and supervision consultant right from the beginning of the project.

4. Construction

  - The contractor should strictly follow up with contract conditions, especially the specification.
  - It is suggested that the Contractor need to be provided in-house training regularly, especially on
PBC contracts.

5. Disbursement Management




                                                  45
- Payment procedures should be trained for the contractor right from the beginning of the project or
at the start of the contract.

At each ending period of fiscal year, the conciliation of credit and liabilities between the PMU and
the contractor.

- During the implementation of the contract, the contract monitoring should be regularly updated and
paid much attention to have action on advance payment proceeds that have not been recovered. The
delay recovery of the advance payment may cause by delay in construction or payment application.
The PMU should have specific remedies on each case of delayed recovery of advance payment.

- The disbursement plan should be prepared and updated regularly upon the actual condition to
ensure the counterpart fund arrangement on time and continuous.

6. Financial management

- The Financial Management Manual (FMM) of the project was prepared during the project
preparation period followed-up with the Bank’s regulation. It is noted that changes in policy both
from the Government and the Bank, or changes in project management, should be updated on time.

- Recommendation: The Government should have specific regulation on the final payment of land
acquisition cost of sub-projects since the localities don’t liquidate payment for each year (though
fund for land acquisition is taken from the counterpart fund), but this matter affect the progress of
financial statement audit.

7. Resettlement and Compensation Implementation

   Increasing frequency of training on the project RPF to RCs should be because the staff at RCs
usually is changed; additional training should be provided to new staffs at RCs.

    A harmonized template for DMS and summary of DMS should be used for all project roads. If
there are discrepancies between the actual and the template, PMU should update the template and
agreed with the RCs.

   Disclose documents summarized the project RPF and other applicable regulation before having
meeting with AHs. List of document receipt should also be prepared.

    Minutes of meeting with AHs should be recoded all questions from AHs and explanation from
the localities to the APs, which should be kept record at the RCs. PMU should also send
representative to attend these meeting.

    The DMS should be thoroughly screened on AHs’ entitlement as per the project RFP to avoid
shortcomings, which should also be added if necessary to avoid misunderstanding on the
transparency in the resettlement process. The AHs are encouraged to keep their own DMS for
monitoring during the project implementation.




                                                 46
   After the compensation plan is completed, it should be publically disclosed at commune office.
The AHs are encouraged to keep their own compensation plans.

   The PMU should inform and disclose leaflets that clearly stated complaint mechanism and
complaint settlement system at different level to the AHs and encourage AHs to send
complaints/grievances in written to established settlement organs. The project shall only resolve
complaints that are sent to the regulated organs as specified in the complaint settlement mechanism.
Complaints that are sent to other organs shall not be considered.

   All complaints from AHs sent to any specified level shall be copied and recorded at DRCs.
Answer letter should be sent to RC for recording. The RCs should send summary of complaints
annually to the PMU2 for recording.

    The RCs should send data file on compensation plan and summarized DMS results right after the
plans are approved by the PPCs.

    The PMU should establish a safeguard team for the project with sufficient provided for the total
project life.

     The IMC contract should be have terms on remuneration adjustment.

8.       Environmental Management:

        Under the project preparation phase, the Employer should estimate sufficient budget under
         the type of management cost so the PMU can have enough fund for the project
         environmental activities.
        The Employer should include compulsory condition and guidance on environmental impact
         mitigations bidding document and also penalties in the contract form for the purpose that the
         contractor can aware of the environment importance. Penalties should be clearly indicated if
         the contractor doesn’t follow up with the regulation.
        The Contractor is requested to clearly quote the price for environmental management, where
         separate price in to two parts, one part for personnel and the other part for mitigation impacts,
         which can be used as basic for penalties if the contractor violate the contract conditions.
        Land acquisition should be decisively carried out and handed the whole cleared site to the
         contractor, avoiding the interrupted handover which caused difficulties to the contractor in a
         timely and quality construction.
        The Engineer should consider environmental mitigation impacts proposed by the contractor
         which is included in the construction method statement before approval and apply strict
         monitoring their environmental proposal.
        Expertise personnel should be provided by the Employer, supervision consultant, and the
         contractor during the project life. Co-job staff is not allowed. If the project is on many areas,
         staffs should be provided for each area.
        The cooperation between relevant project stakeholders on safeguards should be done better
         during the project implementation.
        The Employer should coordinate with relevant consultants (supervision and the IMC),
         training should be regularly provided to the contractor and sub-contractor for the entire



                                                    47
       construction period. Internal training within the Contractor’s staffs should be conducted to
       each construction team leader and worker on site.
      Qualified IMC should be selected and mobilized in time before the construction
       commencement. The IMC is requested to send report after each monitoring phase to the
       PMU2 so that remedy action can be taken on time.
      The offer for environmental management and traffic control items as lump-sump amount
       should be change because application of separate item for sewage water treatment, water
       spraying, etc... will facilitate the contractor’s responsibilities and payment.
      Monthly payment to the contractor should be accompanied with the condition that safeguard
       issues are bound to be completed for that month which will force the contractor to complete
       environmental issues if they want their payment is accepted by the Employer.


9. PBC model in road maintenance:

   -   It is necessary for the authorised government to study and issue the legal corridor for
       application of PBC in Vietnam to faciliate the implementation
   -   Firstly, MOF, MPI and WB should support and propose to the Prime Minister for approval of
       the specified mechanism for some proposed PBCs funded in VRAMP. It is neccessary to
       consider including the payment of PBC in the Credit Agreement as a basis for the request of
       mechanism application in the future.
   -   Training in PBC is very necessary for the parties relating to PBC implementation,
       particularly for the contractors who bear the most risks. Training/workshop for the
       contractors about PBC should be executed before participation for bid and after bid winning;
       the training programe should be given in more details.
   -   Presently, Vietnam has been studying and carrying out the pilot PBC, WB is recommended
       to consider and prioritize funding for the transport projects that have a separate component of
       PBC application for roads.
   -   For the sections selected in PBC, it is necessary to survey carefully to prevent the risks for
       the contractors during the contract implementation. The initial budget proposed for PBC shall
       be suitable for the quality criteria as required in PBC contracts

10. Public – Private Partnership in the Road Sector

Public – Private Partnership in the Road Sector was the very first time consultant contract which
studied the investment in the road sector under public-private relation in and for Vietnam.

PPP need to be paid more support and commitment from the Government in order to apply PPP
openly and effectively for the road sector. Legal procedures need to be soon established for PPP
application.

11. Technical Audit

      - It is recommended that for the other technical audit, the selection method, some aspects in
the TOR and budget for this services should be revised in appropriate to the specific project. The
commencement of the service should be in parallel to the civil works contract.



                                                 48
                       Borrower Comments on World Bank Draft ICR

The Ministry of Transport provided brief comments on the Bank’s draft ICR, which have been duly
incorporated into the final version.




                                               49
          Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders


Not Applicable.




                                         50
                         Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents


Road Network Improvement Project. Project Appraisal Document. Report No. 27368-VN.
November 24, 2003
Ten Year Strategic Plan for Road Maintenance. Ministry of Transport. 2004
Project Status Reports/Implementation Status Reports (2002-2012)
Aide Memoires (2002-2012)
Independent Monitoring Reports (Social and Environmental).
Technical Audit Reports (2009-2012).
Pilot PBC Program - Supervision Consultant Reports
Borrower Implementation Completion Report. July 2012




                                            51
                                                 Annex 10. Average Annual Daily Traffic on Project Roads
 Attainment of         Monitoring indicators                    FY      FY       FY         FY     FY       FY       FY       FY       FY       FY      FY
    Project                                                    2003    2004     2005       2006   2007     2008     2009     2010     2011     2012*   2013*
  Objectives                                                                              (mid-
                                                                                          term)
Indicator 4: Traffic levels increased (Annual Average Daily Traffic)

      NPP          NH1      (Km286-Km295)            DCA
   (first year                                                19,400                     24,500            28,600
    sections)
                                                     Actu
                                                     al       14,236   17,877   17,880   16,955   19,734   22,391   26,330   29,570   37,948
                   NH26 (Km2-Km122)                  DCA
                   Station Km 16                              7,000                       8,800            10,200
                   Station Km 62.9
                   Station Km 122
                                                     Actual
                                                                       2,821    3,127     5,005   5,108    4,629    5,138    4,722    4,832

                                                              1,806    1,777    1,631     2,189   2,012    2,082    2,147    2,009    2,182

                                                              4,486    4,099    3,947     5,166   4,736    5,113    5,489    5,331    5,787
                   NH1 (Km1785-Km1834)               DCA
                   Station Km 1816                            22,700                     28,600            33,400
                   Station Km 1817
                   Station Km 1832.2
                                                     Actu
                                                     al       13,944   14,837   15,814   13,376   13,247   30,678   25,267   29,569   34,301

                                                              13,999   14,944   14,975   13,587   14,072   35,243   28,138   30,234   34,321

                                                                                         24,580   26,179   35,047   26,855   32,219   34,782
                   NH1      (Km383-Km460)            DCA
                                                              4,300                       5,400            6,300
                                                     Actu
                                                     al       3,459    4,007    4,954     5,765   6,895    7,378    16,188   16,962   17,074
                   NH1      (Km269-Km286)            DCA
                                                              19,400                     24,500            28,600
                                                     Actu
                                                     al       14,236   17,877   17,880   16,955   19,734   22,391   26,330   29,570   37,948
                   NH183 (Km0-Km22)                  DCA
                                                              6,800                       8,600            10,100
                                                     Actu
                                                     al       7,808    10,227   10,805   12,349   14,882   15,626   17,564   19,343   25,017
                   NH1 (Km1525-Km1541)               DCA
                   Station Km 1517                            11,000                     13,800            16,100
                   Station Km 1551.3
                                                     Actual
                                                                       8,471    8,592     9,752   10,913   7,489    13,972   9,220    9,544


                                                                                         52
                                                                 8,612      8,554       10,999      11,186      14,645    13,099      15,037      18,546     19,368
Comments (incl.    Data based on the traffic count surveys at stations show significant increase in traffic volume on NPP project road sections between 2003 and 2011. Actual AADT
% achievement)     growth rate is 14% per year. By end of the project, actual AADT of all NPP project roads except NH26 is higher than the forecast AADT of FY2008. Target
                   achieved.

 NIP (first year   NH47                              DCA
   program)                                                    2,400                             3,000                  3,500
                                                     Actu
                                                     al        2,410      2,472      2,597       2,679      2,738       3,191      6,429       4,890      8,216
                   NH48-1                            DCA
                                                               2,300                             2,900                  3,400
                                                     Actual
                                                                                                                                   4,784       4,738
                   NH48-2                            DCA
                                                               2,800                             3,600                  4,200
                                                     Actu
                                                     al        2,812      2,978      3,010       3,209      3,511       4,038      4,784       4,738      4,622
                   NH48-3                            DCA
                                                               1,500                             2,000                  2,300
                                                     Actu
                                                     al        1,678      1,812      2,145       2,389      2,618       2,894      5,234       4,531      4,775
                   NH37-1                            DCA
                                                               1,300                             1,700                  2,000
                                                     Actu
                                                     al        4,900      5,571      5,458       5,891      6,184       6,058      7,015      12,658      13,680
                   NH37-2                            DCA
                                                                 4,900                               6,200                  7,200
                                                       Actu
                                                       al        4,900      5,571        5,458       5,891       6,184      6,058       7,015      12,658     13,680
Comments (incl.    Data based on the traffic count surveys at stations show significant increase in traffic volume on NIP project road sections between 2003 and 2011. Actual AADT
% achievement)     growth rate is 15% per year. By end of the project, actual AADT of all NIP project roads in the first year program is higher than the forecast AADT of FY2008.
                   Target achieved.
NPP (indicative    NH18C                             DCA
future program)                                                 600                               700                    800
                                                     Actu         not funded
                                                     al
                   NH18                              DCA          -                                 -                     -
                                                     Actu
                                                     al       11,260     14,167      16,114     18,098      19,351     20,934     14,903      14,562      14,653
                   NH21-1                            DCA
                                                               3,000                             3,800                  4,400
                                                     Actu
                                                     al        4,430                                        5,840       6,549     26,329      14,654      16,389
                   NH279-2                           DCA
                                                                800                              1,100                  1,300
                                                     Actu         not funded
                                                     al
                   NH279-3                           DCA
                                                                800                              1,100                  1,300


                                                                                               53
                                                   Actu          not funded
                                                   al
                  NH38B-1                          DCA
                                                             10,400                           13,100                 15,300
                                                   Actu
                                                   al        3,331      4,262      4,021       3,465      3,861      3,565       4,956      5,237      10,639
                  NH38B-2                          DCA
                                                             3,700                             4,700                 5,500
                                                   Actu
                                                   al        3,331      4,262      4,021       3,465      3,861      3,565       4,956      5,237      10,639
                                                   DCA
                  NH39-1                                     2,800                             3,500                 4,100

                                                   Actu          not funded
                                                   al
                  NH39-2                           DCA
                                                             5,200                             6,500                 7,600
                                                    Actu
                                                     al      3,681      2,731      2,939       3,148      3,677      3,499       3,115      2,742

                                                             3,382      2,659      2,291       1,922      1,292      1,376       1,763      1,732
                  NH10                             DCA
                                                             1,400                             1,800                 2,100
                                                   Actu         not funded
                                                   al
                  NH12A-1                          DCA
                                                             1,200                             1,500                 1,800
                                                   Actu         not funded
                                                   al
                  NH12A-2                          DCA
                                                             1,100                             1,400                 1,600
                                                   Actu         not funded
                                                   al
                  NH6                              DCA
                                                             2,000                             2,500                 3,000
                                                   Actu         not funded
                                                   al
                  NH8B                             DCA
                                                              900                              1,200                 1,400
                                                   Actu         not funded
                                                   al
                  NH3                              DCA
                                                                7,600                             9,600                  11,200
                                                     Actu           not funded
                                                     al
Comments (incl.   Traffic data was not systematically collected for NH21-1. Available traffic data of the roads maintained under NPP program show significant increase in traffic
% achievement)    volume between 2003 and 2011. Actual AADT growth rate is 17% per year. By end of the project, actual AADT of all NPP project roads is higher than the forecast
                  AADT of FY2008. Target achieved.




                                                                                             54
                                            Annex 11
                               Lessons learned on social safeguards


Implementation of OP 4.12 (Involuntary Resettlement)

Bank funded projects in Vietnam often encounter challenges in the timely completion and effective
implementation of land acquisition and resettlement compensation processes. This is due in part to
differences between domestic regulations and OP 4.12 (Involuntary Resettlement). Government
officials in charge of resettlement are generally not familiar with World Bank safeguard policies and
will tend to revert to national requirements. Inattention to these differences was further exacerbated
when the responsibility for resettlement implementation devolved from Ministry of Transport’s
central-level project management unit to provincial and district level authorities during project
implementation.

Despite the efforts of PMU2 (formerly PMU18) to arrange some training and to provide guidance to
local authorities on the provisions of the project’s Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF), local
authorities (e.g. District Resettlement Committees) were inadequately prepared to fulfill critical
activities, including information dissemination to and consultation with displaced persons (DPs) on
project impacts and compensation policies; completion of Detailed Measurement Surveys (DMS) of
land to be acquired and impacts on property; preparation of proper compensation plans;
compensation for loss of business income; and entitlements to quasi-legal displaced people, among
other aspects.

An independent monitoring consultant (IMC) was expected to support PMU2 to monitor RPF and
Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) implementation to ensure compliance. Two sets of IMCs were
engaged, one during the early stages of implementation, and a second IMC engaged in the latter part
of implementation. The second IMC was also tasked with assessing policy compliance of first
Annual Work Plan (AWP1) road preservation and improvement activities and to monitor safeguard
implementation and confirm policy compliance under AWP2 roads. However, without Bank’s
effective supervision and support, the IMC had almost no influence on the PMU2 until the Bank was
actively involved in remedying identified shortcomings. Moreover, the IMCs had little experience
in working with Bank-funded projects and required assistance from Bank social specialists in “on-
the-job training?, as is often the case in Vietnam.

Proper supervision of the land acquisition, resettlement and compensation processes, the
responsibility for which rests with both PMU2 and the task team, was not sufficient to ensure
safeguard policy compliance. When it was apparent that PMU2 was unable to furnish quarterly
progress reports, as required by the RPF, the task team did not actively support the implementing
agency and local government officials with close monitoring these activities. Aide Memoires during
2004 through 2009 made only cursory remarks about implementation delays caused by land
acquisition, along with requests that PMU2 justify compensation rates and resolution to determining
legal status of land within the right-of-way of project roads.

In April 2009, the Bank directly received several complaints from affected people in Bac Giang
province after numerous complaint letters to the Provincial Peoples Committee went unanswered.



                                                 55
According to the complaints: (i) impacts were not accurately categorized and measured: (ii) land in
the ROW was not compensated; (iii) some DPs received less compensation compared with their
neighbors even though their legal statuses and impacts were identical.

Bank missions in late 2009 looked specifically at resettlement issues and identified systematic non-
compliance, leading the Bank to launch a safeguard audit in the first half of 2010. The safeguard
audit found that many provisions required under the RPF that were not required under national
legislation were not wholly implemented, namely: (i) DPs with less than full legal ownership
received only 80% of the replacement value of lost structures, as per national regulations; (ii)
subsistence allowances were not provided to re-organized (in situ re-built house) DPs or farmers
losing more than 20% agricultural land; and (iii) unregistered businesses did not receive
compensation for income loss. Data management and monitoring protocols were also found to be
weak at all levels (e.g. district, provincial and PMU departments). Grievance redress mechanisms
did not function properly to promptly and effectively address concerns of affected people.

Based on the findings of the safeguard audit and several missions conducted in early 2010, the
government agreed to retrofit all missed entitlements to bring the project back into compliance. All
provinces expressed in writing their commitments to comply with the RPF and prepared a
Supplementary Compensation Plan to retrofit all gaps, which was fully implemented14, albeit over an
extended period of time.

Lessons learned from this experience that can be applied to on-going and future projects, both in the
road and other sectors, include the following:
   1. More hands-on and frequent implementation support is critical to the successful completion
       of resettlement and compensation activities. This is true particularly when, like under the
       Project, resettlement implementation arrangements changed during project implementation,
       and when resettlement implementation is decentralized to local governments. It is by no
       means surprising that many government officials, especially local level officials who are
       newly assigned as responsible for resettlement during implementation, were not fully aware
       of project resettlement plans. IMC reports that the level of understanding of project policies
       differ even between officials of neighboring provinces, which resulted in contrasting
       resettlement performances.
   2. Active implementation support can facilitate creative solutions to compensating affected
       persons. As the Bank started to engage directly with those in charge of resettlement
       implementation, various innovative measures were developed to meet the overarching
       objective of ensuring restoration of livelihoods. Examples include: (i) tax breaks (ranging
       from three to six months) to compensate for income loss during construction; (ii) use of


14
   As of the ICR, 108 affected households have not received compensation fully, including 93 who are entitled for
supplementary compensation, for various reasons including unsatisfactory resolution of grievances (53 cases) and an
inability to contact affected households resulting from migration to distant provinces. PMU2 is expected to be functional
for about two years following the project completion to clear up project accounts, continue to encourage and support
provincial and district authorities to resolve pending issues, and ensure all receive full entitlements. In the mean time,
financial resources for compensation have been deposited at the district Treasury and specifically earmarked for people
affected by the project.




                                                           56
     reporting by neighbors as a means to verify eligibility; and (iii) active communication
     campaigns to clearly and visually illustrate the borderline of the public Right of Way and the
     categories of affected land. The Bank did not dictate such measures but an active
     engagement by the task team to advise policy implications of various conceivable remedies
     helped relevant government officials meet its obligations in a manner consistent with both
     national laws and Bank safeguard policies.
3.   A resettlement focal point should be appointed at the central project management unit.
     Although resettlement implementation is decentralized, especially in the context of weak
     implementation capacity and a considerable degree of discretion that provinces have in
     determining exactly how to meet safeguard policies, strong central oversight and guidance is
     essential. Such a central level focal point should have a basic understanding of and
     experience in resettlement issues, and actively engage with local authorities in charge of
     resettlement implementation. S/he should coordinate provinces to share resettlement
     experiences; in particular, any identified good practices or innovative approaches.
     Coordinating the management and compilation of resettlement data is a fundamental role of
     the focal point. Indeed, resettlement performance under the project improved significantly
     once PMU2 appointed a lead person to actively and consistently engaged with provincial and
     district authorities on resettlement issues.
4.   The DMS process should be harmonized across provinces and standard formats, procedures
     and reporting protocols should be institutionalized with the Ministry of Transport, or more
     ideally country-wide. Simple and common operational procedures with regards to DMS
     implementation, including requirements for the participation of affected husbands and wives,
     will be particularly helpful in the context of weak implementation capacity as the case in
     many parts of Vietnam where resettlement implementation is decentralized and staff turnover
     is frequent.
5.   Applicable laws and policies, DMS results, compensation rates, etc should be clearly
     disclosed to affected people with a full consideration of the recent and frequent changes to
     Vietnam’s legal framework that made the legal status of land ownership fluid and complex.
     The experience in Bac Giang and Thai Binh provinces in communication campaign should
     be illuminating.
6.   Effective and transparent grievance and feedback mechanisms should be established. IMC
     found that only a minority of affected people were aware of project grievance redress
     mechanisms. Absence of functioning grievance and feedback mechanisms led many affected
     people to go directly to Provincial Peoples Committee to complain, which added to
     resettlement implementation challenges this project faced. A simple and more independent
     grievance and feedback mechanism should be established at the beginning of the project and
     the local population, including but not limited to project affected people, should be aware of
     these procedures and informed on how best to access them. Protocols must include keeping
     records of grievances and feedbacks received, as well as responses to issues raised.
     Responses should be done promptly and without delay. This is also critical to nurturing trust
     among local populations that the grievance and feedback mechanisms are effective.
7.   Systematic data management is of paramount importance. All relevant data on impacts and
     compensation amounts should be systematically filed. Poor data management and filing
     added to the inefficient resettlement performance under the project. Data should be filed
     both at the central project management level and local offices. While only summary data may




                                              57
          be filed at the central level, record retention at the local offices must be full and complete.
          Any correspondence with local and affected population should also be filed.
       8. Replacement cost survey should always be conducted, and price contingency clause may be
          introduced to address price increase. With a considerable level of inflation in Vietnam, it is
          difficult to assess the replacement value of affected assets retroactively. Many verbal
          complaints concern the unit rates applied to determine compensation, but the perception of
          affected people over the fairness in compensation is also shadowed by price increases from
          the time when land was originally acquired. Because land acquisition often lasts for a long
          time for a subproject, it may be prudent to introduce price contingencies to account for the
          increase in value of land that are likely to occur between the time of the RAP preparation and
          its implementation.

Implementation of OP 4.10 (Indigenous Peoples)15

Prior to appraisal, a social assessment was carried out including an ethnic screening to assess
whether project affected areas were inhabited by ethnic minorities, the findings of which
recommended that an Ethnic Minority Policy Framework be developed during project preparation.

The ethnic screening conducted during project preparation identified only in one stretch (NH 48-3)
in Nghe An province where ethnic minority communities of Thai and Muong people found to be
present. An Ethnic Minority Development Plan (EMDP) was prepared which found that project
impacts are generally positive but also set out actions to be implemented to mitigate potential
negative impacts 16 . The IMC found that these actions were duly implemented during
implementation. The IMC also found as part of the ex post evaluation that: (i) local ethnic minority
communities were well aware of and supported the project; (ii)confirmed that consultation meetings
had been conducted; and (iii) local people benefitted from the improved road conditions.

Poor documentation and record retention of AWP2 screening resulted in a need to revisit the process
during its implementation. The IMC conducted an ex post ethnic screening of AWP2 roads during
implementation to reconfirm the result of the ethnic screening conducted during preparation, and
indicated that no ethnic minority communities were found in the project affected areas.




15
     For this project, OD 4.20, Indigenous Peoples, which precedes the current OP 4.10, Indigenous Peoples were applied.
16
   The original draft EMDP that was disclosed during preparation included additional measures including HIV/ AIDS
awareness training but they were dropped in the revised final EMDP, which were finalized and re-disclosed in Infoshop
in 2004.



                                                            58
                        Annex 12: RNIP Lessons Learned and Recommendations from Pilot Program for
                                        Performance-Based Maintenance Contracts

1.      A key project activity was the introduction on a pilot basis of the use of competitively tendered, multiyear, performance-based
maintenance contracts. As with most pilot studies, there are many challenges and obstacles. It is through these issues that the greatest
amount of benefit can often times be gained if the lessons learned are strategically and systematically outlined, dissected, and then
adapted to better fit their context. The purpose of this Annex is to discuss these challenges and obstacles as well as develop a series of
prescriptions to reduce risks and aid in the long-term implementation of PBCs for road maintenance in Vietnam.


      ISSUE              PILOT EXPERIENCE                       CHALLENGE                              RECOMMENDATION
Data Collection for   Although an objective of the    The Ministry of Transport (MoT)           Baseline measurements are of paramount
Performance           pilot was to investigate        through the Directorate for Roads          importance to the overall success of
Measurement           different performance           of Vietnam (DRVN) does not                 monitoring PBCs, therefore initial and
                      indicators that could be        traditionally allocate enough              periodic measurements of key data is
                      applied in the future, the      financing or place adequate                necessary and must be fully funded.
                      number of indicators used was   emphasis on the need to collect           DRVN should re-evaluate the performance
                      much greater compared to        road data, which adversely                 indicators that are most pertinent to roads
                      typical PBC contracts.          influences the establishment and           in general or establish a methodology for
                                                      monitoring of performance                  determining section specific indicators: (i)
                                                      indicators.                                The number of performance indicators
                                                                                                 could be reduced and refined to identify
                                                                                                 broader general specifications; and (ii)
                                                                                                 Conversely, they may also be applied more
                                                                                                 rigorously to specific road sections and
                                                                                                 conditions.
                                                                                                Penalties must be aggregated to deter non-
                                                                                                 compliance and contract enforcement
                                                                                                 capacity and willingness to levy financial
                                                                                                 penalties for non-compliance needs
                                                                                                 strengthening.
                                                                                                Contractors should be encouraged to
                                                                                                 innovate and exceed project requirements
                                                                                                 through bonus payments.




                                                                   59
Overemphasis on   Inclusion of periodic overlays    The success of routine maintenance         Combining periodic and routine activities
Major Repairs     seems to have lessened the        is largely connected to the existing        was challenging during the RNIP study;
                  impact of improved routine        conditions of the road, thus the            however, this is an effective method for
                  works using PBCs due to an        benefits, limitations, and                  packaging maintenance works as long as
                  imbalance of financing being      appropriate design of contract              contracts are designed properly with
                  allocated to the periodic work;   packaging (combing routine and              adequate benefits and penalties included.
                  quality of original pavement      periodic activities) should be             In the near term, it may be prudent that
                  construction and rehabilitation   thoroughly evaluated. Further,              future PBC programs focus strictly on
                  works were poor, thus             contracted consortiums must be              amenity maintenance, pavement and
                  adversely impacting any           formulated to take advantage of a           drainage structure cleanliness, and
                  potential benefits from PBCs      wide range of skill sets if combined        vegetation control on road segments that
                  from the onset.                   routine and periodic works are to           have already been rehabilitated to
                                                    be pursued through one contract.            appropriate design standards.
Heavy Vehicle     Vehicle weight monitoring         A major obstacle to maintaining            GoV needs to strengthen enforcement of
Controls          was pursued as part of a          road assets is ensuring that vehicles       vehicle weights and work to establish a
                  Weigh In Motion (WIM)             do not exceed design loads; In the          systematic approach to regulate loads.
                  analysis as part of the pilot.    near future, design standards may          Vehicle loading must be monitored and the
                  Results show that a significant   need to be updated to take into             impact of overloaded vehicles must be
                  portion of heavy vehicles are     account vehicle payloads and                considered when measuring the success of
                  overloaded. These overloaded      regulation of vehicle weights will          maintenance activities.
                  vehicles cause an adverse         need to be improved; Regardless of
                  impact to the success of all      the quality of initial pavement
                  roads and make the                conditions, vehicle overloading is a
                  monitoring of the                 major problem in Vietnam, which
                  effectiveness of PBC roads        negates any benefits of
                  more difficult.                   maintenance works.
Private Sector    Vietnamese contractors did        To take advantage of the benefits          DRVN should establish guidelines for the
Capacity          not take the international        of a partnering approach, MoT will          formation of joint venture partnerships,
                  approach to joint ventures for    need to clearly outline the terms           ensure the capacity of the partners through
                  maintenance works where           and conditions of joint ventures to         a rigorous qualification process, and ensure
                  specialty contractors and         optimize the benefits of partnering         that partners are performing their assigned
                  service providers are led by a    for different aspects of                    tasks.
                  road management firm.             maintenance works.                         Development of a quality assurance plan,
                                                                                                its usage, as well as public and private
                                                                                                sector training for continued enhancement
                                                                                                is needed.


                                                                  60
FUTURE CONSIDERATIONS:

2.     There are a number of key decisions that the Government of Vietnam (GoV) must make to facilitate the recommendations. To
advance the use of PBCs and begin to realize the benefits of this road maintenance approach, the GoV will need to have a series of
discussions to facilitate enhancement and ensure adequate emphasis is placed on achieving a positive outcome. Such key discussion
points may include:
      How can payment mechanisms be adopted into Vietnamese law that will ensure long-term guaranteed financing, which will
         make PBCs more attractive to reputable contractors and elevate the level of performance?
      Institutionally and legally is Vietnam prepared and able to extend contract durations to up to three or seven years? What
         lessons learned from countries with similar socio-political systems such as Estonia and Serbia, where contract durations have
         been extended from one year up to eight years over the course of 15 years, can be leveraged?
      Does the GoV want to eliminate the usage of combined CREMA style contract methods or continue with the approach used
         in RNIP? If the GoV chooses to continue with a combined maintenance approach, what legal, bid documentation and
         evaluation methods, and monitoring approaches will be enhanced through the VRAMP?
      Will a limited amount of global performance indicators be selected or will sections of road be subjected to differing
         performance indicators? How can the GoV ensure a commitment to fulfilling bonus payments and collecting non-compliance
         penalties?
      What legal and regulatory improvements can be made in the short-, medium-, and long-term to reduce the impact of vehicle
         overloading?
      How will DRVN ensure a rigorous pre-qualification and bid evaluation?
      How will training on contractor capacity to manage multiple specialty sub-contractors, quality assurance, monitoring of
         performance indicators, and risk allocation be fulfilled?




                                                                 61
