Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No. 10385
Report No. 10385-RW Type: (PCR)
WISE, G.  / X31679 / T9 003/ OEDD2
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
RWANDA
FIRST TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(STUDY FUND I)
(CREDIT 1217-RW)
FEBRUARY 28, 1992
Country Operations Division
South Central and Indian Ocean Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(period average)
Currency Unit - Rwanda Franc (RwF.
1989: US$1.00 - RwF 79.98
1990: US$1.00 - RwF 82.60
ACRONYMS
BUNEP      -  Bureau National d'Etudes de Projets
(National Bureau for the Study of Projects)
ISAR       -  Institut des Sciences Agronomiques du Rwanda
(Agriculture Research Institute of Rwanda)
MINIPLAN  - Ministare du Pl&i (Ministry of Planning)
MINITRAPE - Minist6re des Travaux Publiques et de l'Equipement
(Ministry of Public Works and Equipment)
OED        -  Operations Evaluation Department
PCR        -  Project Completion Report
OPROVIA   -  Office National pour le D6veloppement et la Commercialisation
des Produits Vivriers et de la Production Animale
(National Agency for the Development and Marketing of
Foodcrops and Animal Products)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
Metric                                  British Equivalent
1 meter (m)                      -          3.3 feet
1 hectare (ha)                   .          2.47 acres
I are (100 m2)                   -          0.02 acres
1 kilometer (km)                 -          0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (ki2)         -          0.39 square mile (sq. mi.)
1 kilogram (kg)                             2.2 pounds (lb)
1 liter (1)                      -          0.26 US gallon (gal)
-         0.22 British gallon (imp gal)
1 metric ton (m. ton)            -          2,204 pounds (lb)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
THE WOQ2LD BANK
Washington, D.C 20433
U.S.A.
Offce ccf Directo.Ceneral
Op.wations EtlMutiofn
February 28, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Rwanda - Fir_t Technical
Assistance Proiect (Study Fund 1) (Credit 1217-RW)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Rwanda - First Technical Assistance Project (Study Fund I)
(Credit 1217-RW)" prepared by the Africa Regional Office.  No audit of this
project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official ditties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROIECT COMPLETION REPORT
MbM&
FIRST TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Study Fund I)
(CREDrr 1217-RW)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Pre-
PREFACE   ........................................................                                                                          i
EVALUATION  SUMMARY   .............................................                                                                       iii
PART I - PRCJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE  ...................                                                                    I
I.  INTRODUCTON    .............................................                                                                    1
11.  THE  SETllNG   ...............................................                                                                  I
il.  THE  PROJECTE  ...............................................                                                                  2
Objectives   .................................................                                                              2
Compositioi ................................   2
Concept and Design   ...........................................                                                             3
Benefits and Risks   ............................................                                                            4
IV.   IMPLEMENTATOfN   ...........................................                                                                    4
Overall Performance   ...........................................                                                           4
Disbursements  ...............................................                                                               5
Creation of a Study Fund and Portfolio of Projects   ........................                                               6
Improving Coordination  .........................................                                                            7
Training ...................................................    7
Improving Local Capabilities to Prepare Project  ..........................                                                  8
Establishment of a Documentation Center  ..............................                                                      8
Government Performance   ..                 .      .       .     .....................................                       8
Bank Management and Supervision .                                                                                            8
Bank and UNDP Cooperation   .......................................                                                            9
V. IMPACT .
Extemally-Financed Projects  ......................................                                                        to
Institution.                                                                  ................... 10
VI.  CONCLUSIONS AND  LESSONS LEARNED   ............................                                                                 11
PART 11- PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ..................    14
Comments on Part I  ............................................                                                             14
Bank Performance ..............................................                                                               14
Borrower's Performance ..........................................                                                            1S
Lessons Learned ..... .........................................   15
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
o of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World  Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTE>IT (cont'd.)
PART  111 - STATISTICAL  INFORMATION   ...................................                                                                   17
1. Related Bank Credits ..................    17
2.   Project Timetable  ..............................................                                                                17
3.   Loan Disbursements   ............................................                                                                18
4.   Project Implementation  ...........................................                                                              19
5.  Project Costs and Financing ........................................                                                              19
6. Project Results .               ................................................  20
7.  Status of Covenants .............................................                                                                22
8.  Use of Bank Resources   ..........................................                                                               23



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
RWANDA
FIRST TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Study Fund I)
(CREDIT 1217-RW)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the First Technical
Assistance Project (Fonds d'Etudes I) to Rwanda, for which Credit 1217-RW in
the amount of SDR 4.3 million was approved on March 16, 1982.   The credit
became effective in April 1982 and was closed on June 30, 1989, two and a half
year behind schedule. It was fully disbursed and the last disbursement was on
May 17, 1991.
The PCR was prepared by the Country Operations Division of the South-
Central and Indian Ocean Department (AF3CO). There was no completion mission.
The Bank sent the Borrower Parts I and III with the request to prepare Part II
which was received on June 25, 1991.
The PCR is based on the Appraisal Report, the Credit Agreement,
reports by and correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower, internal Bank
memoranda and an OED report, Free-Standing Technical Assistance for Institu-
tional Development in Sub-Saharan Africa, Report No. 8573, dated April 1990.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
RWANDA
FIRST TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Study Fund I)
(CREDIT 1217-RW)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Obiectives
1.       The main objectives of the project were to develop Rwanda's absorptive
capacity by increasing the number and improving the quality of projects to be
submitted for external financing, strengthening the local project preparation
capabilities and improving the coordination between technical ministries and
the Ministry of Planning and thus the linkages between investment planning,
programming and budgeting (para. 10).
implementation Experience
2.       Although the project enjoyed Government commitment at the highest
level and successfully introduced a mechanism for making pre-investment studies
and improving interministerial coordination, it fell short of expectation in
terms of expanding Rwandese capacity to prepare projects.  This was due to
fundamental institutional weaknesses, especially the availability of qualified
personnel.  Implementation was late, because of difficulties encountered in
hiring consultants. Some difficulties were also encountered with respect to
procurement procedures. They were resolved to the satisfaction of the Bank
(paras. 24-32).
Results
3.       The main objective has been reached; a decision-making system for
investment  is in place and working.   A portfolio of projects has been
constituted. Forty-two studies were completed auid half of them are expected
to lead to actual projects. Of these, about ten are likely to be financed by
IDA.  However, tangible results in the form of an increase in the level of
investment has yet to materialize, due to the long lag between studies and
realization (paras. 35-43).
Sustainabilitv
4.       Sustainability of the results depends on the awareness of the Borrower
as well as the donors of the nature of institution building, in contrast to
institution support (paras. 66-74).
Findings and Lessons Learned
5.       The project implementation shows that availability of counterpart
funds plays an important role in the successful implementation of suc-.



- iv -
projects.    The establishment  of a coordinating  commission staffed with
rzpresent,',  Es of technical ministries was an effective way to improve
coordinat    .etween technical ministries and the Ministry of Planning.  Civil
servants re. ining in the same position of responsibility is also an important
factor for -he success of such proj'icts.   The project became a model for
similar projects in Africa and laid the ground work for other IDA-supported
technical assistance to the Covernment for economic management.  A follow-up
IDA credit (1796-RW) of SDR 5.9 million (US$7.4 million) was extended in 1987
for sectoral and pre-investment studies and a Technical Assistance credit for
improvement of public finance management (1565-RW) for SDR 4.9 million was
extended in March 1985.   The project proved also a success in terms of
cooperation with UNDP, in spite of the differences in management and procure-
ment procedures and evaluation criteria (paras. 75-89).



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
RWANDA
FIRST TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Study Fund I)
(CREDIT 1217-RW)
PART I - PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
I. INTRODUCTION
1.       This project, for which an IDA credit of SDR 4.3 million was approved
on March 16, 1982, was the first technizal assistance operation supported by
the Bank in Rwarda.
II. THE SETTING
2.       Rwanda achieved its independence from Belgium in 1962. Only 26,300 km2
in size, its rapidly-growing population (at 3.7% yearly, one of the fastest in
Africa), has created a population density (in terms of arable land) of 500
per kM2 in some regions -- among the world's highest. With an estimated per
capita income of TJS$300 and limited natural resources, Rwanda is one of the
world's poorest countries.
3.       Rwanda's development has been thwarted by a shortage of qualifZed
administrative,  technical and managerial talent.   This shortage adversely
affects the government's ability to prepare and carry out projects in all
sectors.
4.       In an attempt to counter this, in September 1973, the government set
up the National Bureau for the Study of Projects (BUNEP) with the UNDP's
assistance.    Starting in  1978,  the UNDP financed  advisers  to help  the
Directorate of Studies (UNDP Project RWA/78/007; Technical Assistance to
Planning, executed by the UN Department of Technical Cooperation for Develop-
ment).   This assistance contributed to improved macro-economic and sector
planning for the Second Five-year Plan (1977-81) as well as the Ministry of
Plan's internal functioning. However, the Directorate of Programs, which had
received no direct assistance, remained a weak link in the process of project
preparation.
5.       In consequence, many donors by-passed the government machinery and
prepared their own projects thus further undermining the development of a
Rwandese capacity to prepare projects -- and of the government's authority to
make its own decisions.
6.       BUNEP, an administratively and financially autonomous state enterprise
(but under the Ministry of Planning's control and supervision), was made
responsible for preparing documentation and tenders for projects proposed for
external  financing.   It also was expected to train Rwandese  in project



preparacion and carry out ad hoc assignments, such as studies, monitoring
projects, etc., on the government's behalf.
7.       Despite these efforts, Rwanda's development institutions generally
remained weak. Deficiencies in planning and coordination of the development
program have made it difficult to translate overall macro-economic and sectoral
plans into specific projects.
8.       In September 1980, the President of the Rwandese Republic asked the
Bank President  for help  in project preparation and  implementation.   He
specifically requested the Bank to station four or five "experts" in Rwanda to
help prepare and implement projects.
9.       Given the UNDP's on-going involvement in assisting the Ministry of
Planning and BUNEP, an arrangement was worked out whereby IDA would finance a
Study Fund for project studies, training seminars, the construction of and
equipment for a Documentation Center and three vehicles.   The UNDP would
finance key personnel: a project economist for the Planning Ministry, a
financial analyst for BUNEP and a documentalist for the Documentation Center.
The Bank would be the executing agency for the UNDP project.
III. THE PROJECT
Obiectives
10.      The President's Report set out three project objectives: (i) increase
the number and improve the quality of projects submitted for external
financing; (ii) strengthen local project preparation capabilities; and
(iii) improve coordination between technical ministries and the Ministry of
Planning, and, thereby, the linkages between investment planning, programming
and budgeting.
Composition
11.      The project compriced the following seven elements;
(i)  creation of a Study Fund, managed by the Ministry of Planning's
Directorate of Programs, to tinance prefeasibility, feasibility and
detailed engineering studies (expected to consume 545 person-months
of consultant services of which 70% in the form of expatriate
services);
(ii)  training seminars in Rwanda on project preparation and implementation
(eight person-months for instructors);
(iii)  a UNDP-financed project economist to help the Ministry of Planning
manage the Study Fund (initially for two years, renewable for another
two);
(iv)  a UNDP-financed financial analyst to work with BUNEP (for two years
initially, renewable for another two);



- 3 -
(v)  construction of and provision of equipment for a Documentation Center,
under the Ministry of Planning, to collect and maintain documents and
information needed for the davelopment program;
(vi)  a UNDP-financed documentalist assigned to the Document Center;
(vii; two vehicles for the Planning ministry and one for BUNEP.
Concept and Design
12.      The project was straightforward it   icept and design.  In order to
produce projects for foreign financing, the Study Fund would finance the
necessary studies. In the process, the Directorate of Programs (principally
the Rwandese counterpart) would, with the help of the project economist
(adviser), become better able to manage such studies.
13.      BUNEP, for its part, would enhance its ability to prepare projects by
conducting some of these studies--the President's Report estimated it would
carry out about 302 of them. The UNDP-financed financial analyst would
facilitate BUNEP's work through a Rwandese counterpart.
14.      At the same time, expatriate instructors would organize and hold
training seminars on project identification, preparation and monitoring for
officials in the Ministry of Planning and the technical ministries. Through
these seminars, responsible officials would acquire the basic skills needed for
their project work, and contribute to better inter-ministerial coordination by
applying uniform criteria.
15.      This approach (Directorate of Programs managing the Study Fund, BUNEP
carrying out some of the studies, and the training of Rwandese officials in a
series of seminars) would strengthen the Rwandese capacity for project
preparation.
16.      The Study Fund, as a focal point for project preparation government-
wide, would enable the various agencies involved to better coordinate their
activities. Each ministry would submit its proposed studies to the Ministry
of Planning twice a year.  After review by the Directorate of Programs (in
collaboration with the Directorate of Studies), the proposals would go to an
advisory couv' 3sion, chaired by the Minister of Planning.
17.      The Minister of Planning would decide on an annual study program and
the Directorate of Programs would be responsible for their execution, including
preparing terms of reference, approving the selection of and contracts with
agencies carrying out the studies. The directorate would report periodically
to the advisory commission on the studies.
18.      A special role would be reserved for BUNEP in carrying out studies
financed by the Study Fund (e.g., BUNEP would choose those studies from the
program that it deemed it could perform satisfactorily). For these, it would
submit proposals to the Ministry of Planning and the technic-.l ministry
concerned. If accepted by the advisory commission, BUNEP would be awarded a
contract for the study. Otherwise, consultants would be selected in conformity



with Bank guidelines.   IDA's approval would be required for all activities
financed by the Study Fund, including those assigned to BUNEP.
19.      Increasing the Ministry of Planning's effectiveness -- and having
officials from the various ministries involved together in the same IDA Project
-- should make for greater cooperation and coordination among the different
parties concerned with Rwanda's development program.
20.      To replace inadequate existing units in the Finance and Planning
Ministries, the Project would construct and equip a Documentation Center. The
center would maintain a collection of social and economic documents, a file of
feasibility and sector studies, and other information important for planning
and project preparation.
21.      The three long-term advisers would draw up work plans that the
Minister of Planning and the Director of Programs and BUNEP would review every
six-months, during IDA supervision missions.
Benefits and Risks
22.      According to the President's Report, the Project would benefit Rwanda
by:  (i) producing "a portfolio of well prepared projects ready for submission
to financing sources"; (ii) improving "local capabilities for the preparation
of investment projects"; (iii) helping "strengthen the institutions involved"
and better equipping the Planning Ministry "to perform its coordinating
functions"; and (iv) giving "Rwanda the capacity and technical competence
necessary to translate its planned priorities into coherent investment
programs."
23.      The Report minimized the risks stemming from the inability of the
Minister of Planning to coordinate the overall activities or of the Director
General of Planning to integrate macro-economic and sector planning with
project  preparation.    The Report  did  acknowledge,  however,  that  "close
supervision by the Association would be necessary to set up the requisite
procedures" and that the timing of expected benefits was "uncertain and could
extend beyond the project period."
IV. IMPLEMENTATION
Overall Performance
24.      Performance on the Project overall was satisfactory.   Clearly, it
achieved its primary objectives of generating projects for external financing
and improving inter-ministerial coordination. The Project also increased the
government's capacity to prepare and program pre-investment studies, but the
degree of improvement and the longer-term sustainability have yet to be
confirmed.   The rapid rotation of persons among posts of responsibility
seriously reduced the Project's impact.
25.      The Project established a Study Fund that financed forty-two pre-
investment studies -- a substantial number of which are expected to lead to



externally-financed projects -- and put in place the machinery for preparing
such projects.
26.      Although behind schedule,  a documentation center to collect and
maintaiu information for planning and project preparation was constructed and
partially-equipped.   The documentalist was recruited and assigned to the
center. More than 550 Rwandese participated in 12 project-organized training
seminars.
27.      An  inter-ministerial  advisory  committee  for  coordination  was
established, procedurcs for the Study Fund set out, and the initial six-month
program of studies approved by IDA by the time of the first Bank supervision
mission in February 1983.
28.      The implementation schedule called for the first list of studies to
be financed by the Fund to be ready in January 1983. Although only a little
over 1% of the credit had been disbursed a year after effectiveness, implemen-
tation gathered momentum in 1983. By the end of 1983, eight studies, financed
from the Study Fund, were underway. Construction of the Documentation Center,
however, fell more than two years behind schedule, and the closing date of the
credit was extended to June 30, 1989.
29.      By the original closing date (end-1986), 70% of the credit had been
disbursed.   It was fully disbursed by May 1991 in the same proportions as
specified in the credit agreement. The government made timely contributions
of counterpart funde, totalin.g RwF 96 million (which far exceeded the amount
set out in the project financing plan).
30.      From the limited information available in the files, it appears that
none of the Bank's supervision missions reported major problems with the
project, except perhaps the delays in constructing the Documentation Center.
According to the initial mission in February 1983, the only problem at that
time was recruiting the financial analyst (adviser) for BUNEP. The mission in
October 1984 repeated the need to get the BUNEP adviser in place and to liaise
better with the UNDP.
31.      A mission in January-February 1986 etiphasized the need to improve
BUNEP's management, appoint a Rwandese official to run the Study Fund, and make
more systematic use of the fund as a link with the preparation and implemen-
tation of the public investment program. Although it rated project management
and dsvelopment impact both "3" (major problems), the overal'l project rating
was "2" (moderate problems).
32.      Most of the UNDP-financed advisers  apparently carried out their
responsibiliti.- to the satisfaction of all parties. An aide m6moire (July 17,
1986) noted that the government was satisfied with the performance of the
experts and their collaboration with local officials.
Disbursements
33.      Because of the delays in recruiting key personnel, the credit became
effective in April 1982 and disbursements got off to a slow start. By the end
of FY1983, only US$60,000 equivalent had been disbursed, i.e., 10% of the



- 6 -
amount the President's Report anticipated to have been spent by July of that
year. At the end of 1985, cumulative disbursements still reached only a little
over one-half of the July 1985 projected level, reflecting the problems in
building the Documentation Center. Even though disbursements picked up sharply
in 1985 and 1986, 30Z of the credit still had not been disbursed by the
end-1986 planned closing date.  The credit was to all intents and purposes
fully disbursed by June 1989 (although the final transaction was not completed
until May 1991). The credit was disbursed in accordance with Schedule I of the
Development Credit Agreement.
34.      According to the President's Report, the government was expected to
supply Rwanda Francs in the equivalent of US$380,000 (Rwanda Francs 35.3
million at the 1982 exchange rate of RwF 92.84 - 1 US$) to cover part of the
local costs. The actual amount provided to the Project was Rwanda Francs 96
million (the equivalent of US$1.36 million). More than one-third of the total
was made available in 1983. The ready availability of these local funds was
a key factor in the Project's successful implementation.
Creation of a Study Fund and Portfolio of Proiects
35.      As pointed out above, the Project successfully established the Study
Fund, an inter-ministerial advisory committee to coordinate project preparati.)n
among the various government agencies and the procedures for this coordination
-- as stipulated in the President's Report. The Planning Ministry's coordina-
tion of the process improved significantly.  With financing from the Study
Fund, 42 studies were undertaken (see Part III, Table 6-B).
36.      A Tripartite Evaluation in August 1985, by the government, UNDP and
Bank, concluded that the Project had helped the Ministry of Planning introduce
an improved system of project selection and preparation in close coordination
with the technical ministries.
37.      Further, according to an Operations Evaluation Department study (Free-
Standing Technical Assistance for Institutional Development in Sub-Saharan
Africa, Report No. 8573) completed in April 1990, the pre-investment studies
financed by the Project's Study Fund had substantially expanded Rwanda's
capacity to absorb external assistance. Foreign financing was either confirmed
or highly probable to fund 23 of the 27 projects for which studies had been
completed at that time (including IDA financing for 10).
38.      Four of the studies had demonstrated that the proposed investments
were not economically feasible. In 1989 19 studies were listed as completed,
10 still in progress, 9 in the promotional stage and 4 stopped, abandoned.
39.      While it had been envisaged that the studies undertaken would be based
principally on the Planning Directorate's priorities and sector studies, a
number were sector studies, strategies and master plans. The OED study judged
that only about one-quarter could be considered pre-investment studies in the
sense of the original project concept.   The quality of nineteen studies
completed overall was quite acceptable -- ten were judged excellent, two very
good and the remaining seven average or acceptable.



- 7 -
40.      The credit agreement anticipated that the studies would pretty much
follow the Rwandese 1982-86 Third Five-Year Plan's sectoral priorities. About
35Z of the funds would be spent on agriculture and rural development, 25% on
industry and 15% each on transport and communications (together) and on human
resources.   The breakdown of actual outlays was quite different: industry
received one-third of the total amount, transport and communications one-quar-
ter, human resource 27% and agriculture and rural development only 15%.
41.      In the course of implementing the project, the different procedures
that the government and the Bank followed for employing consultants, namely the
letter of invitation to potential suppliers and the use of two envelopes in the
submission of proposals, proved to be a continuing source of difficulty. The
problem, however, was resolved.
42.      Some Bank staff also viewed the Study Fund largely as a facility for
preparing possible IDA projects. In their attempts to speed up the process,
they dealt directly with line ministries, thus by-passing the Ministry of
Planning and, in effect, subverting the Fund's basic purpose. A joint February
1986 memo from the two Bank division chiefs responsible ended the matter.
43.      Another basic objective of the project,  noted earlier, was  the
development of local capacity to prepare and monitor projects by employing
local consultants, mainly the state-owned BUNEP. In fact, a special role was
reserved for BUNEP in carrying out Project financed studies. The President's
Report estimated that BUNEP would handle about one-third of all studies.
Unfortunately, neither BUNEP (nor any other local consultants) possessed
sufficient expertise or experience to satisfactorily fulfill this expectation
and benefit materially from the Project. In the end BUNEP carried out only 4
studies.
Improving Coordination
44.      Under the Project's aegis, the Inter-ministerial Advisory Committee
for Planning was created.   The committee, staffed essentially by Rwandese,
proved to be a highly effective tool for coordination at both policy-making and
working levels. As a result, the government established another six similar
committees, each with representatives from the concerned government agencies
and chaired by an appropriate ministry, to foster coordination.
45.      The six new committees covered (i) rural development and health, (ii)
economic policy (chaired by the Ministry of Finance and Economy); (iii)
industrial policy; (iv) housing, urban and regional development; (v) political
and security matters; and (vi) training, employment and youth promotion.
Training
46.      The Project trained 550 Rwandese officials in the twelve seminars held
during 1983-88 (see Part III, Table 6-C).  The seminars ranged from one on
project identification and preparation, lasting 15 days with 33 participants,
to a three-day round table on projects with 50 participants.
47.      Roughly half of the seminars focused on sector strategies -- industry,
urban, environment and health.   There were no seminars on the agricultural



- 8 -
sector as such, however, despite the fact that this was the most important in
the Rwandese economy and first priority in the development program.
48.      Unfortunately, few of these participants remained in each of their
positions for very long. (According to the OED study, at least forty of the
civil servants who had participated in the seminars changed their responsibili-
ties during the course of the Project). In consequence, they were able to
acquire only limited experience in any specific area and not profit signifi-
cantly from their training.
Improving Local Capabilities to Prepare Proiects
49.      As a means of enhancing local ability to prepare projects, BUNEP,
assisted by a UNDP-financed financial analyst, was to do some of the Project
studies.  It carried out four of the studies.  According to the 1987 Presi-
dent's Report of the follow-up project (Pre-investment Studies Project),
however, BUNEP's performance was not wholly satisfactory due to poor management
and staffing weaknesses, particularly the lack of financial expertise.
50.      IDA recommended that the Ministry of Planning perform a financial and
management audit of BUNEP (which at the beginning of the follow-up project
still had not been done). The Ministry also was advised to restructure BUNEP's
management, introduce cost accounting, draw up a staff training program,
prepare work programs and introduce improved techniques to manage studies.
Establishment of a Documentation Center
51.      Cot.struction of the Center fell behind schedule, due to modifications
in the original plans, slow work and disputes with the contractor, and was only
completed eighteen months after the target date. Appropriate staff were not
assigned to the center, government support generally was weak, and the
documentalist was unable to carry out his assignment satisfactorily.
52.      The failure was due mainly to institutional factors that the project
had failed to consider adequately (e.g., the center, which was assigned a
government-wide service function, did not command a very high priority in the
Directorate General of Statistics and was not appropriately staffed, etc.).
Government Performance
53.      Overall, the government supported the project to a marked degree. One
measure of the government's commitment was its ample counterpart funding.
Another indicator was its adoption of the coordinating machinery introduced by
the project and internalizing and widening its use. The interest in continuing
follow-up technical assistance, notably the Sectoral and Pre-investment Studies
Project, which is a continuation of the project discussed here, further attests
to this support.
54.      As  far  as  the  credit's  formal  conditions were  concerned,  the
government satisfied most of them (Part III, Table 7). The government fully
complied with the accounting and auditing requirements, the procedures for
hiring consultants and their rules of employment, the requirement for yearly



- 9 -
submission of programs of studies and the maintenance of records and provision
of information.
Bank Management and Supervision
55.      Bank performance on the project generally was good.  The response to
Rwanda's request for help in developing a portfolio of projects was prompt.
The project it helped design added a longer-term institution-building dimension
-- although, as already noted, it underestimated the weaknesses in the
institutional environment and the measures needed to make lasting improvements.
Overall, the project was well prepared and implemented.
56.      Relations with  the borrower  and  the UNDP  generally were  quite
satisfactory.   Problems created by different Rwandese and Bank procurement
procedures and the UNDP's and Bank's unilateral decision not to renew the
contract of the project economist were not of major nor lasting dimensions.
In a similar vein, disagreements between the UNDP and Bank arising from
differing documentation and administrative procedures were not serious obsta-
cles.
57.      The Bank's management of the Project apparently was, on the whole,
low-key, bordering at times on benign neglect.   The OED study concluded,
nevertheless, that the method of Bank management was a good type of collabora-
tion, useful for the three parties involved.
58.      The Bank's supervision was irregular, in spite of the stipulation in
the President's Report that, "close supervision by the Association would be
necessary to help set up the requisite procedures" and minimize the "risks
related to integration and coordination." It was proposed that supervision
missions go every six months to Rwanda.   Supervision missions visited the
country in February 1983, with subsequent missions in September 1983, October
1984, September 1985 and January and September 1986.
59.      In any case, the Bank's and the UNDP's resident representatives played
key roles in managing arnd supervising the Project. It was doubtless their close
day to day collaboration with the government that was most important to the
Project's successful implementation. Frequent supervision from Washington was
not essential, since timely decisions could be obtained when needed.
Bank and UNDP Coop.ration
60.      The project was, in effect, an amalgam of two different projects --
a UNDP iechnical Assistance project financing the four long-term advisers and
part of the Study Fund and the IDA project financing the bulk of the Study
Fund, training seminars, the documentation center and vehicles. As such, the
two projects involved different kinds of documentation, administrative
procedures, expected results, reporting and evaluation criteria.
61.      While these differences, according to the OED study, created tensions
from time to time, they did not seriously affect the project's execution. That
study concludes that the type of collaboration in the project was very useful
for the three parties involved.



- 10 -
62.      That the UNDP and Bank continued this cooperative endeavor in the 1987
successor project attests further to the mutually satisfactory working
relationship that prevailed. Doubtless, much of the credit for this relation-
ship can be attributed to the two institutions' resident missions in Rwanda.
V. IMPACT
Externally-Financed Proiects
63.      The US$6.38 million cost of the project represents a substantial
investment for a country of Rwanda's size and economic wealth. The fact that,
after eight years, the project has yet to produce any tangible results in the
form of investments generating employment and financial resources is a cause
for concern.
64.      It is still early to evaluate the economic impact of the project in
terms of level and quality of investment projects, since none have as yet been
completed.  About one-half of the studies, though, are expected to lead to
externally-financed projects, of which a few are being considered for IDA
financing.
65.      The project became a model for similar study funds established in
other countries and a blueprint for Bank-UNDP cooperation.   A successor
project, Second Study Fund, financed by an IDA credit (1796-RW) of US$7.4
million was approved in May 1987. The initial project laid the groundwork for
this second project and was instrumental in generating interest among several
bilateral donors in participating in the second fund.
Institutional Impact
66.      The project has made a positive impact in improving coordination in
the government's planning and project preparation process. As a consequence
of the Project, and the establishment of coordinating machinery and procedures,
the Ministry of Planning enjoys greater prestige and is better able to direct
and manage the planning and project preparation process.   The government
internalized the process well.   It also appointed a Director of Project
Evaluation to manage the pre-investment mechanism and ensure its administrative
sustainability.
67.      Moreover,  extending the inter-ministerial coordinating committees
government-wide hoidc out the promise of improving development policy
formuilation and management. This was an unanticipated benefit of the project.
The government decided to use the coordinating mechanism developed under the
project for all pre-investment studies, regardless of source of financing, and
all activities related to planning process itself.
68.      On the other hand, however, the project made only minimal impact on
longer-term institution-building. It did not -- and, given its design, could
not have been expected to -- succeed in creating adequate local capacity to
prepare and implement projects. As the OED report repeatedly points out, the
design of the project did not take account sufficiently of the institutional
weaknesses.



- 11 -
69.      Most of UNDP-financed advisers apparently were effective in their
specific assignments. As mentioned earlier, the government, the UNDP and the
Bank all expressed their satisfaction with their performance, However, their
ability  to  contribute  significantly  to  long-term  institution-building
understandably was limited. Investment programming only started recently.
70.      The project-provided training no doubt was useful in upgrading staff
capabilities. But in the absence of a comprehensive, systematic program, the
training did not -- nor could be expected to -- produce the needed number of
trained Rwandese cadre.
71.      The  training  seminars  contributed  importantly  to  breaking  down
inter-ministerial barriers and improving coordination, since each included
participants from the various government agencies concerned.   The seminars
could not in themselves, however, be expected to substantially improve the
capability of government ministries, nor to fully equip individual Rwandese
officials to handle project identification and preparation.
72.      This was especially true in the face of the quick turnover and
frequent rotation of Rwandese government officials in responsible posts. This
weakness was only a reflection of a government-wide management problem.
73.      The failure of the project to satisfactorily develop the Documentation
Center and BUNEP's capacity to prepare and monitor projects was described
briefly in preceding sections (and is detailed in the OED study).
74.      On balance, the project's major impaut was in introducing the Study
Fund and the system for coordinating the preparation of projects in terms of
improving local capacity for preparing projects and providing needed documents
and other development information, however,  its impact was limited.   Any
longer-term impact was to a large extent muted by the weakness of the
institutions.
VI. CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED
75.      This initial IDA-financed technical assistance project in Rwanda was
successful overall. It improved inter-ministerial coordination, bolstered the
Ministry of Planning and established a study fund from which forty-two studies
were financed. Roughly half of the studies are expected to lead to projects,
including several that are being considered for IDA financing.
76.      It also laid the fotndation for subsequent technical assistance, most
notably a 1987 follow-up project (Sectoral and Pre-investment Studies Project,
financed by a US$7.4 million IDA credit (1796-RW), and an IDA-financed Project
for the Improvement of Public Finance Management.  In addition, the project
became a model for similar study funds established in other countries and a
blueprint for Bank-UNDP cooperation.
77.      Nevertheless, it is still early to evaluate the economic impact of the
project in terms of level and quality of investment projects, since none have
as yet actually been carried out. Moreover, the project probably has made only



- 12 -
minimal impact on longer-term institution-building.   It did not succeed in
creating adequate local capacity to prepare and implement projects.
78.      This concluding section briefly highlights some of the lessons learned
in the course of implementing the project in terms of its design and the Bank's
management and supervision of them.
Concept and Design
79.      The project's concept was a good one, appropriate for dealing with
Rwanda's problems of an inadequate portfolio of projects for external financing
and the absence of a system for coordinating the preparation of such projects.
80.      The  government's  decision  to  extend  the  coordination mechanism
developed in the project to cover all aspects of development policy, planning
and financing bears witness to its utility.   However, the project's design
clearly failed to adequately assess the institutional milieu prevailing in
Rwanda -- the weaknesses in terms of personnel, organizational structures,
policies and procedures -- in its quest for introducing major and sustainable
institutional improvement.
81.      The institutional climate eroded the benefits  of the on-the-job
training provided by the project's long-term advisers to their Rwandese
counterparts. It also reduced whatever effectiveness the project's training
seminars had. Given the shortage of qualified Rwandese, the training supplied
no doubt was useful. However, in the absence of a comprehensive, systematic
program, the training did not, nor could it be expected to, produce the needed
number of trained Rwandese cadre.
82.      The impediments inherent in the Ministry of Planning's organization
and the difficulties in establishing an effective Documentation Center and in
enhancing BUNEP's ability to prepare and monitor projects were greatly
underestimated as well. Thus, it is not surprising that the successor project
provides for helping the government re-design the Ministry's organizational
structure and functions.
83.      Most of the lessons appear to have been at least recognized and steps
taken to deal more realistically with institutional weaknesses in subsequent
projects.
84.      The project also led to exaggerated expectations on the part of the
Rwandese in terms of the time it would take to prepare projects, obtain
external financing for them and see them actually being implemented. As noted
earlier, after eight years no project has as yet been actually carried out.
85.      Thus, both reports, even though five years apart, foresee that the
mechanisms set up by their respective credits "would give Rwanda the capacity
and technical competence necessary to translate its planned priorities into
coherent investment programs."
86.      It ii quite likely that subsequent projects -- whether domestic or
externally supported -- will be needed before this goal is achieved.



- 13 -
Bank Management and Supervision
87.      It is difficult to draw many lessons of great significance regarding
the Bank's management and supervision of the project.  Obviously, in retro-
spect, more time and attention should have been given to the Rwanda's
institutional environment and the implications it had for the design of the
project.
88.      It also could be argued that the Bank's supervision was inadequate.
However, there is not necessarily any direct relation between the intensity of
the supervision -- and management from headquarters -- of a project and its
successful implementation.  Obviously, closer follow-up of the project from
headquarters probably could have proved beneficial in some instances.
89.      However, especially in a project of this nature, and one involving
UNDP as a partne;, the key to good implementation lies in the field -- in the
Bank's resident mission. In the case of this project, the mission apparently
played a highly constructive role.  Assigning the resident mission primary
responsibility for overseeing the project early in the process should be
standard procedure.   Equally important, the resident representative should
ensure that there are periodic project reviews at the working level (not
waiting for formal tripartite reviews), followed by timely reporting back to
headquarters on problems as they emerge.



- 14 -
PART II - PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Comments on Part I of the PCR
1.       The Borrower confirms the accuracy of the information contained in
Part III of the PCR.
2.       In general, the Government confirms its satisfaction with the results
of the Study Fund I, Credit 1217-RW, which met its primary objective:
- create new projects to be financed with external financing;
- improve inter-ministerial coordination;
- increase administration's capacity to prepare and program studies of
pre-investments; on this last item, the degree of improvement and the
long-term durability need to be confirmed.
3.       The analysis in Part I concerning the following points:  creation of
a project portfolio, improvement of coordination, training, improvement of
local capacity to improve project preparation; establishment of a Documentation
Center is very objective and this meets our full approval.
4.       As a whole the project has been well prepared and executed despite the
fact that the institutional environment of the Borrower was underestimated and
the necessary measures were not taken for a long-term improvement at the
initial stage.
Bank Performance ir. the execution of the Proiect
5.       The Bank's performance as managing and executing agency of this
project has been good in general
-  quick and positive response to the Government's request for assistance
in eatablishing a portfolio of projects;
- provision of good high caliber experts with technical as well as human
relations skills;
- independent management of the project, as a sign of gooc. communication
necessary to the 3 parties involved (Borrower, UNDP and the Bank);
but irregular supervision missions delayed the implementation of the required
procedures and lessened the risks linked to integration and coordination.
Performance of the Borrower in the execution of the proiect
6.       Thanks to this Project,  the Borrower was able to accomplish the
following:
- Improving coordination for the planning and preparation of projects
in the Rwandese administration;



- is -
- greater prestige in the administration and management of the planning
and preparation process of the project;
- extension of the coordination process developed in this project to the
planning and preparation of all projects no matter what the financing
source may be;
- extension of the inter-ministerial coordination committee to the
active Rwandese administration;
- establishment of a portfolio of 42 studies of which about half have
the potential to become viable projects;
- training of 550 Rwandese through 12 seminars organized in the cadre
oi the project;
- implementation of a good administration and secretarial team.
7.       On the other hand, the project did not succeed in creating adequate
local capacity for the preparation and execution of projects in the services
in charge of planning and analysis of projects. The training component of the
project has been hindered by the absence of a systematic and steady training
program, by the mobility of the civil servants, by the lack of good personnel
management in the public administration, by poor administrative management
which does not always allow full and rational use of training methods available
to the Government through the project; by the loss of competent staff due to
the fact that individuals trained by the project did not return to their
previous functions. In its initial stage the project did not take into account
the institutional climate of the administration - its lack of qualified
personnel, organizational structures and procedures.
Lessons Learned from the Proiect
8.       The Rwandese administration gave full support to the project by
respecting the spirit of the credit agreement, by providing the counterpart to
the project, and by internationalizing and extending the use of the coordina-
tion mechanisms.
9.       During the execution of the project, the cooperation between the
Government and the Bank was very good; this was manifested in the Bank's quick
responses to the requests for assistance from the Government, in its discretion
in the management and supervision by allowing a certain leeway when applying
Bank's procedures for the selection and preparation of project studies in the
context of the credit agreement and in providing a team of competent experts.
10.      However, it appears that most of the measures described above have
been identified and that actions have been taken so that future projects take
into account the realities of institutional weaknesses:
-  that  the formulation and the conception of the future project
adequately consider the institutional environment of the country by
insisting on the updating of a systematic complete and continuous
training, based on the introduction of methodological management tools



- 16 -
of the projects cycle, on the possibility to finance the identifica-
tion missions and the elaboration of terms of references for pre-
identification and feasibility studies.
that the supervision of the project become the responsibility of the
resident mission of the Bank in the form of periodic tripartite
reviews (Government, UNDP, Resident mission of the Bank) of the
project at the operational level, at the end of which reports will be
sent to Washington as needed or when problems occur.
that the objective of the Study Fund project be respected and
considered as a fund for the preparation of projects eligible for
financing from other external sources, including IDA.
that the Bank's identification/preparation missions of the sectorial
strategies will, during their visit of the different technical
departments, benefit from the Study Funds, managed by the MINIPLAN to
submit project ideas or terms of reference of the pre-investment
studies to the financing of this Fund.
that the Rwandese administration in the context of rational utiliza-
tion of technical cooperation projects follows the preparation and
implementation of immediate measures in order to remedy the weaknesses
in personnel matters, organizational, political and procedural
structures.



- 17 -
PART III - STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Related Bank Credits
Loan/Credit                                Year of
Title              Purpose            Approval            Status                       Comments
1565-RW              To assist the    March 1985            Effectiveness:       This credit in the amount
Public Sector        Goverrnment in                        1/10/86               of USS4.8 million experienced
Management           improving the                          Closing Date:        slow disbursement rates.
economic pol icy                      6/20/92              Effective since January 1986,
making and strengthening                                    only 63X is disbursed as of
of the Finance Ministry                                   March 31, 1991 (5 year later).
1796-RW              To give Rwanda       May 1987          Effectiveness:       This credit in the amount
Second Study         the capacity and                     8/18/88               US$7.4 million picked up where
Fund                 technical compe-                       Closing Date:        the Study Fund I Left.  Slow
tence necessary to                    6/30/93              start.  As of March 31, 1991,
translate its plan-                                         the disbursement was only
ned priorities into                                         USS.63 million against the
coherent investment                                         plamed USS2.37 million.
programs.
2. Proiect rimetable
Date              Date              Date
Item                              Planned           Revised           Actual
-  Identification                               ---               ---            01/13/81
(Executive Project Summary)
-  Preparation                                  ---              --.- .            -
-  Appraisal Mission                         04/24/81             ---             4/24/81
-  Loan/Credit                               12/07/81             ---            01/15/82
Negotiations
-  Board Approval                            01/26/82             -.-            03/16/82
-  Loan/Credit                                 ---                ---            04/05/82
Signature
-  Loan/Credit                               07/06/82             ---            11/22/82
Effectiveness
-  Loan/Credit Closing                       12/31/86             ---            06/30/89
-  Loan/Credit Completion                    06/30/86             ---            06/30/88
-  Last Disbursement                            ---               ---            05/17/91



- 18 -
3. Loan Dtbursements
Disbursements (in S Million)
Loan 1217-RWA
Bank Fiscal Year                                     Estimated          ActuaL         Actual X of
And Quarter                                        Cumutative       Cumulative        Estimated
1981/82     1
2
3                                         .05             -                  0
4                                         .10                                0
1982/83     1                                         .30             -                  0
2                                         .40             -                  0
3                                         .'0              .03               6.0
4                                         .0               .03               5.0
1983/84     1                                        1.00              .03               3.0
2                                        1.40              .03               2.1
3                                        1.80              .05               2.8
4                                        2.10              .05               2.4
1984/85     1                                        2.50              .16               6.4
2                                        3.00              .43               1.4
3                                        3.40              .63              18.5
4                                        3.80              .74              19.5
1985/86     1                                        4.10              .96              23.4
2                                        4.40             1.17              26.6
3                                        4.70             1.46              31.1
4                                        5.00 "           1.88              37.6
1986/87    1                                         5.00             2.28              45.6
2                                        5.00             2.60              52.0
3                                        5.00             2.97              59.4
4                                        5.00             3.17              63.4
1987/88     1                                        5.00             3.64              72.8
2                                        5.00             3.92              78.4
3                                        5.00             4.17              83.4
4                                        5.00             4.32              86.4
1988/89     1                                        5.00             4.42              88.4
2                                        5.00             4.46              89.2
3                                        5.00             4.51              90.2
4                                        5.00             4.65              93.0
1989/90     1                                        5.00             4.89              97.8
2                                        5.00             5.03             100.6
3                                        5.00             5.10 a           102.0
1/  The credit 1217-RWA was in the amount of SDR 4.3 million which is equivalent to USS 5,094,083.  The
amount of USS 5 million shown here (and in the President Report) is due to the conversion rate
US#/SDR at different dates. Its disbursement is scheduLed to be completed in 4 years, by end FY86.
However, actual disbursement were almost nil during the first two years of the project.
2L  The last disbursement was made on May 17, 1991.



- 19 -
4. Proiect Imalementation
President Report          Actual /or
Indicators                                   Estimates               PCR estimates
1.    Recruitment  process   for   long-term  advisors                                        April 1983
financed by UNDP began in                                   Fall 1981                  Delayed "
2.    First list of studies to be financed by the Fund
would be ready in                                           January 1983               June 1983
3.    Facilities for the Documentation Center would be
completed by                                                Septenber 1983             December 1985
4.    Documentalist would arrive in                                October 1983               June 1985
5.    Training  Seminars  on  project  preparation  and
monitoring would start in                                   January 1983               September 1983
6.    Project is expected to be completed by                       June 30, 1986              June 1988
IL    There were difficulties in recruiting qualified consultants for the jobs.  The project analyst was hired only
in July 1984, the financial analyst was hired in January 1985, and the documentalist was hired in June 1985.
As a result, the date of effectiveness of the project was postponed to 11/22/82.
S. frlect Cods nd Fd
A. Project Costs
Foreign Exchange
Local       Foreign        Total              Comoonents
(USS thousands equivalent)               (percent)
Long-term advisors                140            550          690                80
Study Funds                     1,000          3,250        4,250                76
Training Seminars                  80             80          160                50
Documentation Center               70            180          250                72
Vehicles                           20             60           80                75
Contingencies                     230            720          950                76
Total   1                 1,540         4,840        6,380                 76
I/ Taxes included in project costs are negligible as all items would be exempt from
import duties and local taxes.



- 20 -
B.  Project Financing
IDA
UNDP           Planned    Actuals      Government        Total
Long-term advisors              690                         --             .              690
Study Funds                     200            3,800       3,990            250         4,250
Training Seminars               ---              160         194           ---            160
Documentation Center            ---              180         230             70           250
Vehicles                        ---               65          96             15            80
Contingencies                   110              795         430             45           950
......          .......  . . -------         .....   .  ... .....------..... ..... ...
Total                  1,000            5,000                        380         6,380
in X                  (16%)            (78%)                       (6X)        (100%)
Actuals                 n/a                         5,094          1,360  1/
j/ The Government was expected to suptly RWF 35.3 million at the 1982 exchange rate of RUF 92.84
per USS to cover part of the local costs.   The actual amount provided was RWF 96 million (the
equivalent of USS 1.36 million).   This availability of the Government funds was a key factor
in the project's successful implementation.
i. Proj Results
A. Direct Benefits
Indicators                   Appraisal                 Closins Date              At Full Develooment
1.    Creation of Study        Number of studies to be         42    studies    were          n/a
fund and Portfolio       undertaken by the Study        undertaken.         Actual
of Projects              was not specified, but         distribution of proceeds
the  indicative sectoral       was: 15% for agriculture
distribution of the Study      and  rural  development,
Fund proceeds would be:        33%  for  inrdustry  and
35% for agriculture and        crafts,  27%  for  human
rural  development,  25%       resources,    25%    for
for industry and crafts,       t r a n s p o r t    a n d
15% for human resources,       communication.
15% for transport and
communications, and  10%
for other sectors.
2.    Training Seminars        Two  cycles  during  the        12 seminars were held for      n/a
project  period.    Each       a   total   of  90  days
cycle  cover  a  twelve-       altogether.   The  total
month   period.      Each      number of participants is
seminar conprises of 20        551.
participants.
3.    Documentation            Facilities    would    be       Facilities  completed  in      Documentation Center
center                   compieted  by  September       December 1985.
1983.
4.    Vehicles                 Purchase of 2 vehicles.         3    vehicles    were          3
purchased.



- 21 -
B.   Studies
LIST OF STUDIES FINANCED BY THE STUDY FUNDS
Financing           Results/
Studies                               Tbpe             y Proiect           External financing
(cost in USS)
Transports
1.  Route Kigali-Nyameta-Neflba      Feasibility       211,142              VIth Road Project
2.  Route Bugarama-Mashyuza          FeasibiLity       146,197              To be found
3.  Rdseau ddcoles d'automobiles   Feasibility          36,285              Private sector
4.  Centre d'inspection automobiles Feasibility         86,052              Private sector
5.  Fonds routier                    Operational       115,618              IDA  Road IV
6.  Station routiere Nyabugogo       Feasibility        41,498              To be found
7.  Transports urbains               Master Plan          ---               In progress
8.  Maintenance routes comnunaut.   Consultation          ---               Pilote project
Industries
9.  Zores indistrielles Kigali Nord Preliminary        222,830              To be found
10.  Fabrique dalumettes Butare       Technical          29,288              Basis for negotiation
11.  D6veloppement industrie Konfigi Market study        25,745              To be found
12.  Panneaux en bois                Pre-feasibility    10,500               Private financing to be found
13.  Rdhabilitation usine a papier   FeasibiLity           ---               In progress
14.  Tourbe                          Master Plan            N-                o agreement
Agriculture
15.  Vallde d'Akagera                 Preliminary       222,830              CompLementary studies
16.  Nyabarongo                      Master Plan         41,498              IDA Gitarama
17.  Marais de Mwogo                  Feasibility       338,491              Complementary studies
18.  Developpement pecheries         Prelim. & Implem. 211,198              UNFE and banks.
19.  Agro-industries                  Sectoral study       ---               Complementary studies
20.  Caf6                             Sectoral study       ---               In progress
21.  Elevage                          Sectoral study       ---               IDA agricultural services
Urbanism and Water
22.  Secteur urbain                   Sectoral strategy 171,700              Financial round table
23. Construction jeunesse             Evaluation         47,190              Dropped
24.  Habitat social Kigali            Feasibility       208,092              Complementary studies
25.  R6habilitation taudis            Feasibility       207,717              UNFE and banks
26.  Services assainissement          Norms and tariffs 108,686              IDA Water Supply 11
27.  R6hab. adduction eau rurale      Inventory         350,000              IDA Water Supply 11
28.  Adduction d'eau sanitaire        Conplementary      57,895              Complements to AID Family Health
29.  Adduction d'eau Kigali           Master Plan          ---               In progress
30.  Kigali eaux usdes                Master Plan           ---              In progress
Ene
31.  Gaz m6thane lac Kivu             Technical         131,343              Conplementary studies
32.  Mini-centrales Rukarara-Mukungara  Feasibility    608,392               Complementary studies
33.  Plan 6lectrification Rwanda      Sectoral study    230,000              In progress
34.  Hydro lac Bulera                 Feasibility       120,000              Not feasible
35.  Energie solaire                  Market study          ---              In progress
36.  Travaux hydro-Etectriques        Feasibility          ---               In progress
Telecommunication
37.  Preparation projet Telecom It  Feasibility          88,389              IDA Telecom 11
38.  Developpement Institut TEltcom  Preparation        250,000              IDA Telecom 11
39.  Centre national tri postal       Preparation           ---              In progress
40.  Infrastructure postale rurale   Implementation         ---              In progress
Others
41.  Centre national formation        Implementation        ---              IDA Education III
42.  StratEgie environnement naturel Plan Directeur         ...              In progress



- 22 -
C.  Seminars
ON PREPARATION AND IMPLEMENTATION OF PROJECTS
Number of      NuTber of
Seminars                                 Date          days       narticinants
1.  Identification & Preparation of projects        Sept. 1983    15              33
2.  Planification & Evaluation of plans             Oct.  1984    10              33
3.  Sectorial strategy                              March 1985    11              48
4.  Industrial strategy                             Jan.  1986     6              46
5.  Urban strategy                                  Feb.  1986     6              51
6.  Economies & Project medeling                    March 1986    14              55
7.  Restructuring projects                          May   1986     5              59
8.  Environment strategy                            May   1987     6              39
9.  Programmation of Investment                     June  1987     6              56
10.  Cattle breeding                                 July  1987     5              59
11.  Health planning                                 Nov.  1988     3              22
12.  Round table of projects                         May   1988     3              50
Total                                          90             551
7. Status of Covenants
Credit Agreement               Subject                      Deadline         Status
Section 3.01        Operating Rules                                          Satisfied
Counterpart Funds                                       Timely provided
Section 3.02        a. CTA                                  3/31/82          Slow in identification
BUNEP Financial Analyst             5/31/82          and hiring of CTA;
Documentalist                       9/30/83          delayed effectiveness
b. Consultants hiring procedures                        Satisfied
c. Assigrvnent of counterparts                          Delinquent
Section 3.03        a. Cooperation with project consultants                  Satisfactory
b. Rules of emptoyment of project consultants           Respected
Section 3.04        Si-annual submission of programs of studies              Satisfactory
Section 3.05        Documentation Center
a. Construction                       9/30/83           Late by 2 years and 4 months
b. Staffing                                             Inadequate
c. Accessibility                                        Satisfactory
Section 3.06        Use of credit financed goods and services                Satisfactory
Section 3.07        Provision of information                                 Satisfactory
Maintenance of records
Publicity
Completion report                    12/31/88           Not completed
Section 4.01        Accounts and audits                   Annually           Satisfied



- 23 -
8. Use of Bank Resources
A.   Staff Inputs
(in Staff week from MIS)
Stage of Prolect Cycle                Planned     Revised      Final 1/       Comments
Through Appraisal                                               n/a
Appraisal through Board Approval         -           --         3.5
Board Approval through Effectiveness   --            --         n/a
Supervision                                          --        43.9
Project completion report                --          --         7.1
Total                                                 n/a
B.   Missions
Month/   N. of      Days      Specialization   Performance
Stage of Project Cycle                    Year   Persons   in Field  Represented a/   Rating Status 4/
Through Appraisal                     April 1981    3       14         1 pLanning expert
I loan officer
1 training specialist
Appraisal through Board Approval                    none
Board Approval through Effectiveness               none
Supervisions I/                                                                         OS  PDO CLC PNP AOF
#1  /                           February  1983   n/a      4
# 2  ?I                         September 1983   n/a    10
# 3  V                          October   1984   n/a    18
# 4  2/                         October   1985    2       14
#5                               February  1986    1       6                            2   3   -   3   2
#6                              Septemlber 1987    2       5                           2   2   2   2   1
#7                              August    1988    1    n/a                             2   2   -   3   2
#8                               February  1989    1    n/a                            2   2   -   3   2
#9                              March      1989    1    n/a                             2   2   2   3   2
# 10 3/                         September 1990    2    Aborted
a/ Key to specialization
I/ Records of some missions may be missing.
2/ Large parts of records for supervsion #1 to #4 are missing, specifi-ally the Inplementation
summaries.
_/ Supervision #10 was aborted due to the fighting in Kigali while some members of the team were aLready
in the field.
i/ 05    OveralL Status
PDO = Project Development Objectives
CLC a Compliance with Legal Covenants
PMP = Project Management Performance
AOF = Availability of Funds



