Document of
The World Bank                  FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3209-RW
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
RWANDESE REPUBLIC
FOR A
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
February 18, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00     =      Rwandese Franc (RF) 91.91
RF 100      =      US$1.09
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BUNEP       -  Bureau National d'Etudes de Projets
(National Bureau for the Study of Projects)
ISAR        -  Institut des Sciences Agronomiques du Rwanda
(Agricultural Research Institute of Rwanda)
MINIPLAN    -  Ministere du Plan (Ministry of Planning)
MINITRAPE   -  Ministere des Travaux Publics et de l'Equipement
(Ministry of Public Works and Equipment)
OPROVIA     -  Office National pour le Developpement et la Commercialisa-
tion des Produits Vivriers et de la Production Animale
(National Agency for the Development and Marketing of
Foodcrops and Animal Products)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
Metric                                              British/US Equivalents
1  meter (m)                                             3.3 feet
1  hectare (h)                                           2.47 acre
1  are (100 m )                                          0.02 acres
1  kilometer (km )      2                                 0.62 miles
1  square kilometer (km )                                0.39 square mile (sq. mi.)
1  kilogram (kg)                                         2.2 pounds (lb)
1  liter (1)                                             0.26 US gallon (gal)
0.22 British gallon (imp gal)
1 metric ton (m ton)                                     2,204 pounds (lb)
)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
(i)
RWANDA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:          Rwandese Republic
Amount:            SDRs 4.3 million (US$5.0 million equivalent)
Terms:             Standard
Project            (i)  Objectives:  To increase Rwanda's absorptive capacity,
Description:           improve interministerial coordination in project pre-
paration and monitoring, and strengthen the Ministry of
Planning (MINIPLAN).
(ii)   Components:  The project would provide:
(a) a Study Fund to finance prefeasibility, feasi-
bility, and detailed engineering studies (for
a total of about 545 staff-months, of which about
70 percent are expatriate);
(b) training Seminars in Rwanda on project preparation
and implementation (about 8 staff-months of
instructors);
(c) a project economist, in MINIPLAN, to provide
technical assistance in managing the Study Fund
(4 years);
(d) a financial analyst to strengthen the National
Bureau for the Study of Projects (4 years);
(e) building and equipping of a Documentation Center,
attached to MINIPLAN;
(f) a documentalist to organize and start up the
Documentation Center; and
(g) vehicles.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



(ii)
(iii)   Benefits:  The project would increase the number and
improve the quality of projects submitted for outside
financing; it would strengthen local project prepa-
ration capabilities; and it would improve coordina-
tion between technical ministries and MINIPLAN, thus
strengthening the links between investment planning,
programming and budgeting.
(iv)   Risks:  The major risks are linked to the quality of
MINIPLAN's performance in administering the Study
Fund and to the amount of cooperation it would receive
from technical ministries. Delays might also occur in
the recruitment of suitably qualified experts. Close
supervision by the Association should help alleviate
these risks.
Estimated costs:
Foreign Exchange
Local      Foreign        Total          Component
(US$ thousands equivalent)             (percent)
Long-term Advisers           140           550           690             80
Study fund                 1,000         3,250         4,250             76
Training Seminars             80            80           160             50
Documentation Center          70           180           250             72
Vehicles                      20            60            80             75
Contingencies                230           720           950             76
Total 1/              1,540         4,840         6,380             76
Financing Plan
Local      Foreign      Total      Percent
(US$ thousands equivalent)
IDA                            1,000        4,000       5,000          78
UNDP                              160         840       1,000          16
Government                        380         -           380           6
TOTAL                          1,540        4,840       6,380         100
1/   Taxes included in project costs are negligible as all items would be
exempt from import duties and local taxes.



(iii)
Estimated disbursements:
IDA Fiscal Year
(US$ thousands equivalent)
1982   1983   1984    1985    1986
Annual:                 100    500  1,500   1,700   1,200
Cumulative:             100    600  2,100   3,800   5,000
Appraisal Report:  There is no appraisal report on this project.
Rate of Return:    N.A,
Map:                IBRD 14634



I
0



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE RWANDESE REPUBLIC
FOR A
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the Rwandese Republic for the equivalent of SDRs 4,300,000
(US$5.0 million) on standard IDA terms, to finance a Technical Assistance
Project. The project would be cofinanced with UNDP (about US$1.0 million) on
a parallel basis. The Bank would serve as executing agency for the UNDP-
financed components of the project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report, "Memorandum on the Economy of Rwanda" (No. 1108-RW), was
distributed to the Executive Directors on July 27, 1976. Rwanda was visited
by an economic mission in February 1979 and again in November/December
1981. The major findings of this recent mission are reflected below. Country
data are provided in Annex I.
3.        Rwanda became independent in 1962.  Since the present Government
came to power in 1973, the country has anioyed considerable political stabil-
ity. This has been partly facilitated Dy the unity and relative homogeneity
of the population and the absence of serious inequalities in the distribution
of income and wealth. With an estimated per capita income of US$220 in 1980,
Rwanda is among the poorest countries in the world. Its population density of
around 210 persons per square kilometer is about ten times the average
density for all of sub-Saharan Africa. The population remains predominantly
rural, with only 4 percent estimated to be in urban areas in 1980. Although
agriculture provides more than half of Rwanda's export receipts, predominantly
from coffee, the expansion of export crops is constrained by the need to
expand, at the same time, the production of foodcrops for domestic consumption
and by the limited availability of arable land. Rwanda's manufacturing base
is narrow, and its growth is hampered by the limited size of the market and
the lack of raw materials, marketing facilities, entrepreneurial skills and
skilled manpower. In addition, Rwanda's landlocked situation hampers merchan-
dise trade because of high transportation costs and dependence on neighboring
countries.
4.        Deficiencies in the statistical data base make it exceedingly
difficult to assess the macroeconomic performance of Rwanda. The national



accounts data available are neither comprehensive nor reliable, at current
or constant market prices. Available estimates of the national accounts
indicate that during the period 1977-79 the rate of growth of GDP averaged
5 percent, but declined to 4 percent in 1980. The recent performance of
the agricultural sector (which represented some 46 percent of GDP in 1980)
has been disappointing. While agricultural output has sometimes been
adversely affected by unfavorable weather conditions, there also appears to be
a more fundamental problem -- an underlying trend of declining yields related
to the rapid deterioration of soil fertility. Among the most important
foodcrops, only the production of sweet potatoes and cassava has increased,
while the production of other foodcrops has been stagnant. The overall
decline in per capita agricultural production constitutes a major weakness in
this predominantly agrarian economy with its rapidly expanding population.
The other sectors of the economy, particularly manufacturing and transport,
have exhibited some significant real growth over recent years. The importance
of these sectors, however, remains quite limited in terms of their contribution
to GDP (15 and 2 percent, respectively, in 1980).
5.        The Government has traditionally followed prudent fiscal policies.
In the period 1977-1979, current budgetary surpluses averaged 3 percent of
GDP and overall Treasury surpluses averaged 1 percent of GDP. Fiscal policies
have generally been conditioned by international developments with regard to
Rwanda's main export product, coffee, which is its most important source of
budget revenue. Rwanda-s vulnerability to external events is illustrated by
developments in 1979-80: as the Uganda border was closed in early 1979,
revenue from coffee exports declined, thus also the budgetary surplus, and
supply disruptions fueled inflation. In order to face this situation, the
Government adopted a stabilization program, beginning on July 1, 1979,
supported by a one-year stand-by arrangement with the IMF. Although the
performance criteria set by the IMF were met, purchases were never made
under this arrangement: the route through Uganda was reopened and coffee
prices rose. The Government has endeavored to reduce its dependence on
revenue from coffee: efforts have been made to improve the collection of
taxes on income and profits, and tax rates on real estate and vehicles have
been increased. In 1980, increases in revenue from these sources and from
taxes on beverages, plus transfers of profits from public enterprises, mainly
the National Bank of Rwanda, helped stem what otherwise would have been the
Government's first deficit in years, as the coffee market plummeted (there
were significant declines in both volume exported and prices).
6.        Monetary and credit developments over the past few years reflect
the prudent and conservative policy of the Central Bank and the effects
of generally favorable conditions for coffee exports. As a result of Central
Government surpluses but also because of increased nonbank borrowing, the
Treasury has steadily improved its net creditor position with the banking
system. In 1980, this limited the expansion of domestic credit to 12 percent,
in spite of a rapid expansion in credit to the private sector mainly due to
the need to finance coffee stocks. As net foreign assets rose moderately, the
increase in the money supply was only 8 percent. In addition to these develop-
ments, improvements in supply conditions also contributed to bringing the
inflation rate down from 16 percent in 1979 to about 7 percent in 1980.



- 3 -
7.        Rwanda's balance of payments performance in 1980 weakened con-
siderably relative to 1979. This was due to a decline in the terms of trade
and to a marked deterioration of the trade balance from a surplus of US$43.4
million equivalent in 1979, when coffee receipts had trebled, to a deficit of
US$70.8 million equivalent in 1980, as both the volume and the price of coffee
declined significantly. Imports, mainly of petroleum products and foodstuffs,
increased markedly.  The deficit in the current account, at US$54.3 million
equivalent, was only slightly smaller than the trade balance, as reduced net
service payments were offset by a decline in net transfers. However, net
official long-term capital increased from US$17.6 million equivalent in 1979
to US$33.2 million equivalent in 1980. Moreover, there was a significant
inflow of short-term capital, largely attributable to the liquidation of
outstanding coffee credits. These developments compensated for the deteriora-
tion in the current account so that the overall balance of payments registered
a surplus of US$13.3 million equivalent in 1980, whereas the surplus in 1979
was US$69.7 million equivalent. Rwanda's gross official foreign reserves, at
the end of 1980, still stood at the fairly comfortable level of about US$204
million, equivalent to seven months of estimated 1981 imports of goods and
nonfactor services.
8.        The outlook for the near future is of a continued deterioration
in Rwanda's external position. Coffee prices are expected to remain depressed
through 1984-1985 while the volume exported is not likely to exceed the
average of the last three years. In addition, Rwanda does not have a viable
alternative to coffee, as the volume of its other major exports (tea, cas-
siterite and wolfram) cannot be increased significantly in the short term and
their prices are also forecast to fall. Export receipts in 1981 are estimated
to have declined for the second consecutive year, to US$125 million equivalent.
As import payments declined (in view of the accumulated stocks of imported
goods at end-1980), the trade deficit is estimated to have been slightly
smaller than in 1980, at US$68.7 million equivalent. Net service payments
increased to US$121.7 million equivalent and net transfers recovered from
their decline in 1980; thus, the current account deficit is estimated at
US$62.6 million equivalent. Although the net inflow of capital continued at
a high level, this was not sufficient to prevent Rwanda from suffering its
first reserve loss - US$11.6 million equivalent - in many years.
9.        Rwanda's need for external assistance will thus increase.  The
country's external debt is low. At end 1980, the public and publicly
guaranteed external debt amounted to US$170 million, or 14 percent of GDP,
which suggests ample scope for further borrowing, although the poverty of the
country and the instability of its export earnings require highly concessional
terms.  So far, virtually all funds have been received in the form of grants
and loans at concessionary terms. Consequently, the estimated debt service
ratio in 1980 was equivalent to only 3.2 percent of exports of goods and
non-factor services.
10.       Under the present Government there has been a marked reorientation
in the focus of development towards agriculture and rural development.



- 4 -
Increased food production is recognized as the cardinal priority, and major
emphasis is also placed on human resources development and on improving
infrastructure in transport and communications. The Five-Year Plan 1977-81
identified four broad priority objectives: (i) satisfying the population's
food needs; (ii) increasing employment and improving utilization of the
country's human resources; (iii) increasing living standards by more widespread
access to improved health care and basic social services; and (iv) improving
Rwanda's external position through a better trade balance, improved transport
links, and more effective and increased use of external financial and technical
assistance. The Plan also made the first official acknowlegement of the need
for effective population planning as an indispensable complement to the other
priority objectives.
11.       With regard to the first objective of satisfying food needs, overall
growth in agriculture has barely reached 3 percent yearly, as compared to the
Plan's target of 3.8 percent. While some improved cultivation practices are
reported, the overall picture in a situation of rapidly growing population is
one of stagnating or declining yields. The coordinated approach to foodcrop,
export crop and livestock production envisioned by the Plan has not yet
materialized.
12.       Progress towards the second objective, increasing employment and
improving utilization of human resources, has also been limited. The 5.8
percent per annum increase in wage employment projected by the Plan has not
been realized, and the only significant increases have occurred in the public
administration and construction sectors.
13.       Regarding the third objective, improving living standards, overall
progress has been slow. The food supply remains inadequate, population is
increasing rapidly, and educational efforts to reduce illiteracy (77 percent)
will take time to produce results. While there has been a gradual increase in
the number of health/nutrition centers and hospital beds, health services in
rural areas are still sparse, and rural water supply has tended even to
deteriorate in some regions. Recent Government actions addressed to population
planning will take time to produce tangible results, not only because the
organization and implementation of family planning services require time and
financial and human resources, but also because of religious (50 percent of
the Rwandese is Roman Catholic) and sociological considerations.
14.       Considering the fourth objective of the Plan, improving the country's
external position, the Government's efforts to limit Rwanda's vulnerability to
external factors have, thus far, been addressed mainly to (i) development of
appropriate infrastructure and, in particular, transportation (to stimulate
agricultural specialization and diversification by eliminating bottlenecks
affecting distribution and to support programs aimed at improving Rwanda's
external position by making commodities exported more cost competitive
internationally and imports more affordable through lower transport cost)
and (ii) improving coffee production and exports. A policy of diversifying
agricultural exports has also been pursued. This, however, can only be done
in a very limited way, given Rwanda's shortage of arable land and the country's
urgent need to increase food production. Furthermore, as the scope for



- 5 -
diversification is limited to only a few primary commodities (tea, pyrethrum
and quinine bark), Rwanda will remain vulnerable to the international price
fluctuations of these commodities.
15.       For the longer term, other options for diversification need to be
identified and pursued. The mining sector appears to hold some promise for
future investment in the light of the Government's plans to increase the
domestic processing capacity for mineral raw materials. Potential for IDA or
IFC investment in this sector deserves further investigation.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN RWANDA 1/
16.       Bank Group assistance started in 1970 and initially focused on the
improvement of the road network and the strengthening of agricultural produc-
tion. Rwanda has received fourteen IDA credits totalling US$130.5 million, of
which four (totalling US$43.1 million) were for roads, six (US$64.3 million)
for agriculture, two (US$9.2 million) for DFC projects, one (US$6.4 million)
for education and one (US$7.5 million) for telecommunications. There have
been no Bank loans. An IFC loan of US$535,000 for a tea factory was signed in
1976; a second IFC loan of US$226,000 and contingent equity commitment of up
to US$60,000 to expand the tea factory were signed in September 1980. Annex
II contains a summary statement of IDA credits, IFC investments and notes on
the execution of ongoing projects.
17.       The first three highway projects are completed and totally disbursed.
A fourth credit for a hi'.'-Jy maintenance project (Credit 769-RW), which
became effective in August 1978, is three-quarters completed and is pro-
gressing satisfactorily.
18.       The first agricultural development (Mutara) project was completed
in July 1979 and funds have now been completely disbursed. 2/ A second credit
of US$8.8 million, which supports the second phase of a long-term development
for the Mutara region, was declared effective on May 30, 1980, but has experi-
enced start-up problems due to difficulties in recruiting technical assistance.
1/   Part II of this report is substantially the same as that in Report
No. P-2987-RW on the Lake Kivu Coffee Improvement and Foodcrop Project,
considered by the Executive Directors on March 31, 1981.
2!   A Project Completion Report (August 1980) concluded that even though the
increases in agricultural production were less than originally expected,
substantial achievements had been realized under the project in the
areas of infrastructure development and in experience acquired by
Rwandese staff in project management. In addition, the project had
served as a positive instrument for IDA and the Government in developing
a sectoral dialogue for the Mutara area.



- 6 -
The credit agreement for a cinchona project (US$1.8 million) and the credit
agreement for the Bugesera/Gisaka/Migongo (BGM) mixed farming and rural
development project (US$14.0 million) were signed in August 1976 and in March
1977, respectively. Construction, procurement and budgeting are proceeding
satisfactorily under the BGM project, though the results of foodcrop and plant
improvement components are below appraisal estimates due to a failure to
come up with appropriate technical packages for the relatively dry project
area. The Cinchona project is progressing satisfactorily. A project to
support reforestation programs in Kigali, Butare and Gisenyi Prefectures (IDA
Credit 1039-RW for US$21.0 million) was signed July 2, 1980; the project also
includes a study of renewable energy sources for Rwanda.  A US$15.0 million
credit for a coffee improvement/foodcrops project in the Lake Kivu region was
signed April 29, 1981. A credit for an education project (US$7.9 million)
became effective in 1975; physical implementation has been slow and com-
plicated by procurement problems. The first credit of US$4.0 million to the
Development Finance Company (BRD) has now been fully committed. BRD's
performance under the credit has been highly satisfactory. A second credit
of US$5.2 million to BRD was signed on July 13, 1979, and became effective on
January 4, 1980. A credit for a telecommunications project (US$7.5 million)
which aims at reducing Rwanda's geographic isolation from other countries and
at improving internal telecommunications facilities, was signed on August 13,
1980.
19.       One of the major constraints on Rwanda's development is the shortage
of technical/managerial capacity. This affects all sectors and inhibits proj-
ect preparation and implementation. Intensive technical assistance is there-
fore justified as a salient feature of the Bank Group's program for Rwanda and
would be provided under the proposed project (para. 34).
20.       For the future, the primary emphasis of Bank operations will remain
on rural development, the main objective being to increase food production as
well as export crops, while maintaining soil fertility. A major emphasis will
also be placed on the development of human resources, focusing on population
control and support to basic education and skills training to improve agricul-
tural productivity, provide skilled manpower, and influence attitudes on the
population issue. Further investment is also justified for infrastructure
and, in particular, transportation to reduce the country's isolation and pro-
vide incentives to more intensive agricultural activity and diversification
through better marketing. Another area requiring our special attention
includes renewable sources of energy to lessen the demand for fuel imports and
mitigate their impact on the balance of payments. A study of renewable energy
sources is being financed under IDA credit 1039-RW (para. 18). Preparation of
a second Bugesera rural development project is underway and will include a
population/nutrition component, the Association's first operational effort in
the critical area of population education and control. In highways, the
Government has asked the Bank Group to participate in the financing of the
Butare-Ntendezi road. This project, expected to be presented to the Board in
June, 1982, would open up the southern region of Rwanda towards Zaire and
Burundi and support both the forestry (FY80) and the coffee improvement/
foodcrops (FY81) projects. A second education project, appraised during



- 7 -
June/July 1981, would address clearcut manpower needs and support the training
of middle level technicians and managers; the project will also include
selective support for basic education through pre-service and inservice
training of teachers. It is expected that the Bank Group will continue to
support industrial development through the Rwandese Development Bank (BRD).
PART III - SECTOR BACKGROUND: THE NEED FOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
The Planning Function
21.       The main responsibility for designing and coordinating Rwanda-s
development strategy rests with the Ministry of Planning (MINIPLAN). With
a total staff of about 120, MINIPLAN is subdivided into three Directorates
General: planning; statistics; and inspection and control. Briefly summar-
ized, their respective functions are as follows:
(i) the Directorate General for Planning is responsible for pre-
paring the Development Plan and for translating it into
investment programs. It comprises two directorates: the
Directorate of Studies, which conducts the macroeconomic and
sector work necessary to elaborate the Plan, and the Programs
Directorate, which is responsible for identifying specific
projects fitting within planned priorities, for programming
their implementation over time, and for preparing the invest-
ment budget. The Director General is responsible for integrat-
ing the contributions of the two directorates, but, so far,
only macroeconomic and sector work has been strengthened,
with UNDP assistance (paras. 22-23). The Programs Directorate s
work is too weak to contribute to the necessary iterations
between macroeconomic and project work and to be meaningfully
integrated into the planning process. Consequently, investment
lags behind targeted goals, and planning, programming and
budgeting activities are poorly coordinated;
(ii) the Directorate General for Statistics is responsible for
collection and analysis of data and for documentation
services. Statistical work, however, is scattered among
various governmental agencies (ministries of Economy and
Trade, Finance, customs agency, National Bank). This leads
to waste of scarce talent and reduces the reliability of
available data. Documentation is not collected systematically
and existing information is hard to retrieve. The lack of
reliable statistics and of documentation leads to duplication
in project preparation work, as basic economic and social facts
must be reestablished for most new projects; and



- 8 -
(iii)  the Directorate General for Inspection and Control of the
Plan is in charge of monitoring project implementation against
the Plan's objectives and the execution of the investment
budget. To date, this Directorate has not, however, estab-
lished a central monitoring system and lacks a comprehen-
sive view of development efforts in the country.
22.       Many of MINIPLAN's weaknesses result from a lack of skilled manpower
and from the high turnover rate of competent personnel at higher levels.
Aware of the situation, Government has taken steps to strengthen the planning
function with UNDP's assistance.  At present, UNDP finances five advisers
assigned to MINIPLANMs Directorate of Studies (UNDP Project RWA/78/007:
"Technical Assistance to Planning" executed by the UN Department of Technical
Cooperation for Development). They are mainly responsible for macroeconomic
work, for sector planning (agriculture, human resources, infrastructure,
industry), and for maintaining contact with the study units of the Ministries
of Economy, Agriculture, and Public Works. A sixth expert, financed by French
technical cooperation, works on macroeconomic planning and provides statistical
assistance. He collaborates closely with the UNDP advisers, but is not
formally integrated into the team.
23.       The UNDP team has contributed to a better identification of prior-
ities in the Second Five-Year Plan (1977-1981) and to an improvement of
MINIPLANs internal workings. The presence of these advisers, however, has
also led to demands for them to provide assistance in project preparation
work, for which they do not always have the appropriate skills or the necessary
time. Such demands conflict with the main functions of the Directorate of
Studies and detract the experts from assisting the Directorate in exercising
proper quality control over sector work submitted by line ministries.
24.       The centralization of new project ideas, the coordination of pre-
investment studies, and the preparation of the investment budget fall under
the responsibility of the Programs Directorate. This weak unit has received
no assistance to date and Government now wishes to strengthen it. This would
require technical and financial assistance to help develop capabilities for
preinvestment studies and coordination of the preparation of coherent programs
of new projects. Strengthening the Programs Directorate would contribute to
establish a balance within the Directorate General of Planning, which would be
in a better position to integrate the various components of its work.
The Project Preparation Function
25.       The lack of well prepared projects impedes the country's absorptive
capacity and explains partly why investment goals targeted in the Second Five-
Year Plan have been only partially met (paras. 11-14). The current situation is
reflected in the preparatory work done for the UNCTAD conference on the least
developed countries which produced a list of 118 projects to be financed at an
estimated total cost of US$2.5 billion over the next ten years. For 31
percent of these projects (representing 12.2 percent of the total estimated
cost) no study had been done; 41 percent of the projects (60 percent of total
estimated cost) had been identified through studies of varying depth; only 28



- 9 -
percent were backed by feasibility studies, technical notes, marketing studies,
etc. All necessary studies had been completed for only one project (estimated
cost: US$21.8 million).
26.       As a result of Rwanda's difficulties in submitting well structured
projects, many donors and suppliers prepare their own projects, reducing fur-
ther local capabilities and the Government's decisional autonomy. Removing
this source of dependency is one of the Second Plan's priorities and Govern-
ment has taken a series of steps to strengthen local project preparation capa-
bilities by creating the National Bureau for the Study of Projects (BUNEP).
27.       Created by Presidential decree on September 5, 1978, BUNEP is a
state enterprise, with administrative and financial autonomy, placed under the
control and supervision of MINIPLAN. BUNEP is responsible for:
(i) preparing the documentation (technical, economic, financial)
necessary for submitting projects for outside financing;
(ii) preparing tender documents;
(iii) training national experts in the field of project
preparation; and
(iv) carrying out ad hoc tasks (study of social and economic
reforms, monitoring of projects) at Government's
request.
28.       In Ncvember 198;, B!TNWF enplbyed a total of 40 people:  L! were
conducting studies, and 26 were performing support functions. The staff is
distributed into four sections with different responsibilities (agriculture;
economic studies; infrastructure; social studies). BUNEP has completed
studies which include a prefeasibility study for an industrial brick making
factory, a small springs survey, an identification study for an oil factory,
an economic analysis of the Bugeresa/Gisaka/Migongo II project which has been
proposed for Bank financing, an economic study of warehouses in Mombasa, a
market survey for an office building in Kigali, and a preliminary study for
the Kigali hospital. Available studies show the efforts made to design and
implement a uniform evaluation methodology, but BUNEP's work suffers from the
absence of any reliable statistics and from the relative lack of professional
experience among its national staff. Moreover, the studies cover a wide range
of topics, and BUNEP runs the risk of spreading its resources too thinly. It
would seem advisable for BUNEP to concentrate on the development of a narrower
field of expertise in areas identified as national priorities in the Plan.
29.       Government attaches great importance to strengthening BUNEP and to
complementing the assistance already provided by UNDP to the Bureau. UNDP
currently provides three advisers (the team leader, an infrastructure expert,
and an agricultural development expert) under its Project RWA/77/009: "Assis-
tance to BUNEP," executed by the UN Department of Technical Cooperation for



- 10 -
Development. UNDP's assistance will be extended to 1986, but it will remain
concentrated on technical aspects of project preparation work. It would have
to be complemented by assistance covering the financial and economic aspects
of project preparation.
30.       Outside of BUNEP, local project preparation work is conducted by
study units attached to three ministries (Agriculture, Economy, and Public
Works). These study units receive technical assistance, but they remain
understaffed and weak. In November 1981, the following technical assistance
was available:
(i) Ministry of Agriculture: two Belgian and one French
agricultural economists in the study unit: one Belgian
animal husbandry specialist in the Agricultural Research
Institute of Rwanda (ISAR); one Belgian Rural Engineer and one
Belgian adviser for the National Agency for the Development
and Marketing of Foodcrop and Animal Products (OPROVIA);
and one Swiss forester in ISAR;
(ii) Industry Directorate of the Ministry of Economy: two
UNIDO experts;
(iii) Economic Policy Directorate of the Ministry of Economy:
two German economists in charge of industrial policy
and defining procedures for project preparation;
(iv) Ministry of Public Works: five German civil engineers
responsible for studies; twelve road maintenance technicians,
including three training instructors financed by IDA;
IDA's next highway project is likely to include financing
of a transportation planner and a civil engineer.
The Need for Further Assistance
31.       Though current technical assistance addresses some of Rwanda's
major weaknesses in planning and project preparation, MINIPLAN-s coordinating
and programming functions still need strengthening. UNDP's assistance covers
macroeconomic and sector planning at one end of the project cycle (MINIPLAN's
Directorate of Studies), and individual project preparation at the other
(BUNEP). The intermediate phase of translating inter- and intra-sectoral
priorities into well-studied projects (Programs Directorate) currently receives
no assistance. The proposed project is designed to strengthen this inter-
mediate phase and to complement the assistance already provided by UNDP.
Besides project preparation, Rwanda's absorptive capacity could also be
increased by improving the performance of public enterprises in the imple-
mentation of projects for which financing has been secured. A review of the
parastatal sector is included under the proposed Study Fund.



- 11 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
32.       During his visit to the Bank on September 25, 1980, the President
of the Rwandese Republic, Major-General Habyarimana, expressed the concern
of his Government about the scarcity of project preparation and implementation
resources in his country. He requested Bank Group support to help improve
t        project preparation and implementation.  Following his visit, the Bank con-
tacted bilateral and multilateral sources and obtained UNDP's agreement to
contribute US$1.0 million towards the financing of the proposed project, which
is in response to the President's request. The project was identified and
prepared in February 1981 and appraised in May 1981. Negotiations were held
in Washington from January 11 to 15, 1982. The Rwandese Delegation was led by
H.E. Ambroise Mulindangabo, Minister of Planning. A Credit and Project
Summary is provided at the beginning of this report. Supplementary data on
the project are contained in Annex III.
Project Objectives
33.       The project would increase the number and improve the quality of
projects submitted for outside financing; it would strengthen local project
preparation capabilities; and it would establish better coordination between
technical ministries and MINIPLAN, thus improving linkages between invest-
ment planning, programming and budgeting.
Project Description
34.       The proposed project would include the following major elements:
(i) a Study Fund managed by MINIPLAN, which would finance
prefeasibility, feasibility, and detailed engineering
studies (about 545 staff-months, of which about 70 percent
for expatriate services);
(ii) training seminars in Rwanda on project preparation and
implementation (8 staff-months for instructors);
(iii) a project economist assigned to MINIPLAN, financed by UNDP,
with the Bank serving as executing agency; the contract with
this adviser would be for an initial period of two years,
renewable for another two on the basis of the adviser's
performance;
(iv) a financial analyst assigned to BUNEP, financed by UNDP,
with the Bank serving as executing agency; the contract with
this adviser would be for an initial period of two years,
renewable for another two on the basis of the adviser's
performance;



- 12 -
(v)  construction and equipment of a Documentation Center, placed
under the authority of MINIPLAN;
(vi)  a documentalist assigned to the Documentation Center for two
years, financed by UNDP, with the Bank serving as executing
agency; and
(vi)  two vehicles for MINIPLAN and one vehicle for BUNEP.
Detailed Features
35.       Study Fund.  The Study Fund would finance prefeasibility, feasibility,
and detailed engineering studies. The sectoral composition and distribution
of these studies would reflect the priorities of the Five-Year Plan. Special
emphasis would be put on productive sectors, especially agriculture. An
indicative sectoral distribution of the Study Fund proceeds would be as follows:
35 percent for agriculture and rural development, 25 percent for industry and
crafts, 15 percent for human resources development, 15 percent for transport
and communications, and 10 percent for other sectors. The Fund would encourage
preparation of small and medium-size projects. Specifically, unless the
Association otherwise agrees, a ceiling of about US$250,000 (1981 prices) would
serve as a guideline for approving the cost of individual studies. (Schedule
4, para. (f) of the Development Credit Agreement.) This would encourage
coverage of as broad a range of projects as possible within each sector. In
addition, because of Government-s concern with improving the performance of
public sector enterprises, the Fund would finance a review and analysis of the
parastatal sector, with a view to designing a program of technical assistance
to this sector.
36.       The Study Fund would be a focal point for coordinating the prepara-
tion of new projects and would be used to finance local and foreign consultants.
The Fund would be administered by the Programs Directorate, with the assistance
of the project economist. Procedures for administering the Study Fund (see
Schedule 4 of the Development Credit Agreement) would be as follows:
(i) twice yearly, at MINIPLAN's request, all ministries would
submit study proposals;
(ii) the Programs Directorate would review these proposals, in
consultation with the Directorate of Studies, and submit
them to an advisory commission, chaired by the Minister of
Planning and composed of MINIPLAN's correspondents in each
ministry; these correspondents would be designated by the
Minister of Planning in agreement with each concerned depart-
ment;
(iii) the advisory commission would be convened as often as necessary,
but at least twice a year, to consider the proposals submitted
by the Programs Directorate; BUNEP would attend the meetings;



- 13 -
(iv)  after receiving the commission's advice, the Minister
of Planning would select the proposals to be included in a
yearly program of studies; selection would be in accordance
with criteria in para. 35;
(v)  the Programs Directorate would be responsible for implement-
ing the agreed program of studies and would, inter alia,
prepare terms of reference for the studies, approve the
agencies selected to carry out the studies, approve the
contracts with such agencies for signature by the concerned
ministry, and, finally, report to the advisory commission
on the implementation of the agreed studies;
(vi)  necessary services (preparation of detailed terms of reference;
and conduct of studies) would be provided by BUNEP (para. 37),
study units of technical ministries, and foreign consultants; and
(vii)  in all activities related to the administration of the Study
Fund, the Programs Directorate would act as technical secretariat
to the advisory commission; all activities financed by the Fund
would require the Association's prior approval (para. 41).
37.       Role of BUNEP.  In order to strengthen local capabilities to prepare
and monitor projects, a special role would be reserved for BUNEP in carrying
out studies financed by the Study Fund. Guidelines to be issued by MINIPLAN
for BUNEP's participation would stipulate (see Schedule 6, Development Credit
Agreement) that:
(i)  BUNEP would conduct studies financed by the Study Fund
without, however, having the exclusive right to conduct
such studies; 1/
(ii)  after elaboration of the program of studies as described
in para. 36, BUNEP would communicate to the advisory
commission a list of studies that BUNEP deems to be within
its capabilities, given its technical competence and work
load;
(iii)  for such studies BUNEP would submit technical and financial
proposals to MINIPLAN and the technical ministry concerned;
(iv)  if BUNEP's proposal is accepted by the advisory commission
and approved by the Association, BUNEP would be given
responsibility to conduct the study; and
(v)  if not, the choice of consultants would follow the same
procedures as for all other studies (para 36-v).
1/   BUNEP, it has been estimated, would carry out about 30 percent of all
studies.



- 14 -
38.       Training Seminars in Rwanda.  The seminars would be addressed to
officials responsible for project work in MINIPLAN and in technical minis-
tries. Currently, these officials lack the necessary background for project
identification, preparation, and monitoring. Designed to remedy this situa-
tion, the seminars would provide basic skills for project work. They would
facilitate the application of uniform criteria for project preparation and
implementation, thus contributing to better interministerial coordination.
Sequentially organized over a twelve-month period, each seminar cycle would
cover: (a) sector planning and project identification; (b) project outline
and preparation of specific items; (c) costing and evaluation of projects; and
(d) project implementation. Each topic would be covered in two-week sessions.
The cycle would be given twice during the Project period. The seminars would
be given by two instructors to about 20 participants. To improve attendance,
efforts would be made to organize the seminars outside Kigali, thus relieving
officials of their daily work load. Travel and subsistence costs of the
participants would be financed by the proposed project, up to US$80,000
equivalent.
39.       Documentation Center.  The project would also finance the construc-
tion 2nd equipping of a Documentation Center with a usable area of about
360 m . Small documentation units exist in the Industrial Directorate of the
Ministry of Economy and also in MINIPLAN. Neither unit is well organized,
however, and available documents are hard to retrieve. No cataloging systems
exist, which hinders the Government's capability to build on previous experience,
and thus leads to duplication in the work of national staff and outside
consultants. The need for a Documentation Center is felt particularly in the
Ministries of Economy and Planning. Construction and equipping of new
facilities would strengthen the documentation unit in MINIPLAN and enable it
to fulfill its intended role at the national level.
40.       The Documentation Center would serve the needs of all government
agencies and would collect, on an on-going basis, relevant social and economic
documentation on Rwanda's development. In addition to such standard documen-
tation, the center would maintain a complete file of feasibility and sector
studies. The project would provide for the services of a documentalist to
help organize and put into operation the Documentation Center, after completion
of the new facilities.
Project Implementation
41.       The Programs Directorate of MINIPLAN would be responsible for
administering the Study Fund. Assurances were received during negotiations
that procedures for administering the Fund (para. 36) would be communicated to
all ministries. The Development Credit Agreement specifies MINIPLAN's role
(Schedule 4). Once ratified, it would provide the Minister of Planning with
the legal authority to organize the advisory commission. The project economist
financed by UNDP would provide technical assistance for all activities related
to the Study Fund (paras. 35-36) and would work in close collaboration with
the Programs Director and the Director General of Planning. A national counter-
part would be assigned to the financial analyst. Terms of reference for the
studies and experts to be financed by the Study Fund would be established in



- 15 -
consultation with IDA and subject to the Association's prior approval (Sections
3.02, 3.03 and 3.04 of the Development Credit Agreement). Because information
on qualified consultant firms or experts is not readily available in Rwanda,
the Association would consider assisting the Government, at its request, in
identifying suitable experts and firms. Final selection would be made by the
Government.
42.       The Documentation Center would be under the responsibility of
MINIPLAN-s Directorate General for Statistics. A national counterpart would
be assigned to the UNDP-financed documentalist (para. 34-vi), and appropriate
staff would be appointed to operate the center (Section 3.05 of the Development
Credit Agreement). The construction of the Documentation Center would be
carried out under the supervision of the Directorate of Public Buildings
(Direction des Batiments Civils) of the Ministry of Public Works (MINITRAPE).
Architectural drawings have been prepared by MINITRAPE.
43.       The project would finance two cars and a four-wheel drive vehicle.
The cars would be assigned to MINIPLAN's Programs Directorate and BUNEP.
The four-wheel drive vehicle would be assigned to the Programs Directorate of
MINIPLAN and be available to facilitate the conduct of studies financed by the
Study Fund (such as site visits).
Project Cost
44.       Total cost of the project has been estimated at US$6.38 million, of
which about US$4.8 million or 76 percent is foreign exchange. The costs are
summarized in the cost table provided in the Credit and Project Summary.
45.       The Study Fund would finance expatriate and local experts and
firms. Costs have been estimated as follows:
(i) Base costs for expatriate experts have been estimated
at US$10,000 per staff-month (including compensation, inter-
national travel, and subsistence). The Study Fund would
finance about 395 expatriate staff-months. An indicative
distribution would be as follows: 65 staff-months the first
year, 100 the second, 110 the third, and 120 the fourth.
Price contingencies have been added (8.5 percent for 1982
and 7.5 percent for 1983-5).
(ii) Base costs for local experts have been estimated at
US$2,000 per staff-month. The Study Fund would finance
about 150 local staff-months. An indicative distribution
would be as follows: 20 staff-months the first year, 30 the
second, 40 the third, and 60 the fourth. Price contingencies
of 15 percent have been added.
46.       Detailed costs of the Documentation Center have been estimated by
MINITRAPE. Price contingences of 8.5 percent and physical contingencies of
15 percent have been added.



- 16 -
Financing Plan
47.       The financing plan proposed for the project is summarized in the
Credit and Project Summary. IDA would finance about US$4.0 million equivalent
of foreign costs and, given the poor, medium-term balance-of-payments prospects
(para. 8), US$1.0 million equivalent of local costs for a total of US$5.0
million equivalent; UNDP would finance about US$800,000 equivalent of foreign
costs and about US$200,000 equivalent of local costs for a total of $1.0
million equivalent. The Government would provide the remaining US$380,000
equivalent in local currency.  A detailed financing plan, by component, is
provided below:
UNDP          IDA        Government        Total
(US$ thousands equivalent)
Long-term Advisers            690             -             -            690
Study fund                    200         3,800           250          4,250
Training Seminars               -           160             -            160
Documentation Center            -           180            70            250
Vehicles                        -            65            15             80
Contingencies                 110           795            45            950
Total                 1,000         5,000           380          6,380
(16x)         (78%)          (6%)        (100%)
Procurement
48.       The employment of consultants would be in accordance with the
Association's Guidelines (August 1981) on the use of consultants (Section
3.02 (c) of the Development Credit Agreement). Vehicles and equipment would
be purchased after quotations had been obtained from at least two suppliers
represented in Rwanda who offer adequate guarantees of service and spare
parts. Contracts for civil works for the Documentation Center would be
awarded in accordance with local competitive bidding procedures, which are
satisfactory. These procedures allow participation of foreign firms, though
only locally established firms are expected to compete.
Disbursements
49.       Funds from the IDA credit would be disbursed over four years, as
follows:
(i)  100 percent of foreign and 75 percent of local expenditures
for the Study Fund (IDA funds would be disbursed before UNDP's);
(ii) 100 percent of expenditures for seminars;
(iii)  (a)  100 percent of foreign and 70 percent of local
expenditures for construction of the Documentation Center;
(b) 100 percent of foreign and 80 percent of local
expenditures for equipment of the Documentation Center;
and



- 17 -
(iv) 100 percent of foreign and 80 percent of local expenditures
for vehicles.
Work Plans and Project Reviews
50.       The UNDP-financed long-term advisers would prepare work plans every
six months, to be reviewed with the Minister of Planning, the Programs
Director (MINIPLAN) and the Director of BUNEP during IDA supervision missions.
Project Implementation Schedule
51.       The recruitment process for the long-term advisers financed by UNDP
began in the Fall of 1981 under the UNDP preparatory assistance procedure.
The first list of studies to be financed by the Fund would be ready in January
1983. Facilities for the Documentation Center would be completed by September
1983. The documentalist would arrive in October 1983. Training seminars on
project preparation and monitoring (para. 38) would start in January 1983.
The project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1986.
Benefits and Risks
52.       Benefits would include a portfolio of well prepared projects ready
for submission to financing sources. The project would improve local capa-
bilities for the preparation of investment projects. Specifically, on-the-job
training of counterparts and seminars (para. 38) would provide Rwandese
officials with appropriate skills in project preparation and monitoring. In
the long-run, the mechanisms set up to prepare new projects would help
strengthen the institutions involved, and MINIPLAN would be better equipped to
perform its coordinating functions. In particular, mechanisms set up to
manage the Study Fund could provide the outline for overall capital investment
programming. This would give Rwanda the capacity and technical competence
necessary to translate its planned priorities into coherent investment programs.
53.       The procedures set up for the use of the Study Fund should result
in substantially improved coordination between MINIPLAN and the technical
ministries and integration of macroeconomic planning and investment program-
ming within MINIPLAN. Some risk exists that benefits will not materialize if
the Minister of Planning is unable, or not permitted, to carry out his
coordinating function or if the Director General of Planning experiences
difficulties in integrating the work of the two Directorates reporting to him.
The first of these risks, however, remains small, given the President-s inter-
est in the project (para. 32). With respect to the second, assistance to the
Programs Directorate should help improve its specific contribution to the
planning and programming process, and the procedures designed to administer
the Study Fund should provide a reasonable framework for integration of the
work of the two Directorates; in addition, technical assistance arrangements
are sufficiently flexible to make it possible to provide assistance to the
Director General of Planning, should this prove desirable in the course of the
implementation of the project. Moreover, risks related to integration and
coordination are expected to diminish over the life of the project as
procedures are tested and accepted. Close supervision by the Association



- 18 -
would be necessary to help set up the requisite procedures. Nevertheless,
given the present lack of coordination within the Government and the poor
integration of the planning process, the time frame within which substantial
results can be expected remains uncertain and could extend beyond the project
period. Finally, some delays are possible in the recruitment of suitably
qualified experts and the assignment of counterparts.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
54.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Rwanda and the Association, and the Recommendations of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Asso-
ciation are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
55.       Special Conditions of the Project are listed in Section III of
Annex III of this report.
56.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART V - RECOMMENDATIONS
57.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
February 18, 1982



- 19 -                                                                 ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
RWANDrA-SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
RWANDA                            REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEWES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.-)                                                            - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE
TOTAL              26.3                                     MOST RECENT             LOW INCOME              HIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL       14.6                  1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                       70.0       100.0      200.0                 238.3                   794.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)             ..        15.8       29.5                  70.5                   707.5
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)      2916.0       3847.0    4947.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)       2.4         3.2        4.2                  17.5                    27.7
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                             9.5
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                              29.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                      2110
POPULATION DENS ITY
PER SQ. KM.                          110.9        146.3     188.1                   27.7                    55.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND        193.1        253.1     328.8                   73.7                   130.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                             44.3         45.7       46.6                  44.8                    46.0
15-64 YRS.                             53.0         51.6      50.7                   52.4                    51.2
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                       2.7          2.7        2.7                   2.9                     2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                  2.8          2.8        2.8/d                 2.6                     2.8
URBAN                                  5.6          5.6        5.8                   6.5                     5. 1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)         51.1         49.8       49.6                  46.9                    46.9
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)         26.9         22.1       18.7                  19.3                    15.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                  3.4/c        3.4        3.4                   3.1                     3.2
PAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)        ..           ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71.100)              81.0        102.0     107.0                  89.5                    89.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                       80.0         96.0      98.0                  90.2                    92.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)              49.0         61.0      51.3                  52.7                    52.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE           25.0         34.0         ..                 17.8                    16.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE         41.0         32.2       25.4                  27.3                    20.2
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)        37.2         42.4      46.7                   45.8                   50.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                                  ..       127.0
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                   ..           ..      35.0                   23.9                    27.4
URBAN                                   ..           ..      41.0                   55.0                    74.3
RURAL                                   ..           ..      35.0                  18.5                 -  12.6
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                   ..         53.0      57.0                  26.2
URBAN                                   ..         83.0      87.0                  63.5
RURAL                                    ..        52.0      56.0                  20.3
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            138095.0/c   62048.4   38916.7                31911.8                 13844.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        11197.O7T    9181.4   10494.4                 3674.9                  2898.6
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                    ..       822.9     652.1                1238.8                  1028.4
URBAN                                   ..         47.8      45.4                 272.8                   423.0
RURAL                                    ..      3224.4    1604.8                 1745.2                 3543.2
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED                ..        21.2      21.3
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                   ..           ..
URBAN                                   ..           ..
RURAL                                   ..           ..       4.5
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                   ..           ..
URBAN                                   ..           ..
RURAL                                   ..           ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                   ..           ..
URBAN
RURAL



20                                                     ANEX I
Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
RWANDA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
RWANDA                        REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERGES
- HOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT            LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 49.0         73.0      64.0                  56.4                     73.7
MALE                  68.0        83.0       68.0                  70.7                    96.8
FEMALE                30.0        64.0       59.0                  50.1                    79.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  2.0          2.0       2.0                  10.0                     16.2
MALE                   2.0         3.0        3.0                  13.6                    25.3
FEMALE                 1.0         1.0        1.0                   6.6                    14.8
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY)  40.0          12.0      17.0                    8.0                     5.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            39.0         60.0      53.0                  46.5                    36.2
SECONDARY                          14.0         13.0      15.0                  25.5                     23.6
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        16.4/c       23.0/e       .-                 25.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          0.4          0.9       1.6                   2.9                    32.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..          7.8      17.1                  32.8                    69.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..           ..        ..                   1.9                     8.0
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    ..           ..       0.04                  2.8                    20.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..            ..      14.6                   1.2                     0.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      1650.6       2089.7    2582.3
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   49.1         48.6      48.1                  34.1                    36.7
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              95.4         93.2      91.2                  80.0                    56.6
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  1.1          1.6       2.0                   8.6                    17.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                56.6         54.3      52.2                  41.7                    37.2
MALE                                 58.9         56.9      55.0                  54.3                    47.1
FEMALE                               s4.4         51.9      49.5                  29.2                    27.5
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               0.8          0.9       0.9                   1.2                      1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..            ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..           ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..           ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTLMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     148.0                 136.0                   381.2
RURAL                                ..           ..      85.0                  84.5                   156.2
ESTLIATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..                  99.1                   334.3
RURAL                                ..           ..      43.0                  61.2                   137.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..      30.0                  39.7
RURAL                                ..           ..      90.0                  68.8
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
Ia   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
lb   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   1962;  /d Recent estimated growth rate is 3.2%;  /e 1973.
May, 1981



- 21-                                                                                ANNE I
Page 3 of 5
DfFINtITION OP SOCIAL. INDICATORS
Nones:  Although the dat  are druon I'ol  oca  genra:ly judged the meet cthoetatle ted reliable, it should also be notd that they nay sot be intr-
eautena.l cIY nparable becus  ot the Oat ef aean darded dcftitiiooa and cancepes aaed by diftf-nee  cetos   ncleteIh   aa   The date tee  ese
uhols, use ..ful to describo urdeec tf nanitude. tttdtu-ste,ds, sod oh--eoetie  ceso   ajr datffetesoet  Ieoa Co11ntrie.9h   aa
The  'eeec   rup   c   I   he a~cm  o-ctr  group at the subject o..uatry and (2) A  -tutny geu  with  -ese-o  high- averge it-   haaes  the cuasney getup
ef thesubjec  oouuty Concpt o  'aital tuoPlca IOi  Eapcreter" greup ehere "teoddla Lscees  Noth Attics cod Middle tEst  is ..-st  oe            f steangor
-otu-tutuarl  tiois) intha ntttceato AutP datast  oeae  acepoylsttee weighted aithnanl   tnttntthih-tt   t  chasonl  bh
sae Ifyu  ebh te, ist   gouup hsdta for that  sicc.Oeatecveaeo   eure   se  tbs ldicatu-ra. dapdst  the anabisitey ot dat
and Ic eon  aoltors, onuoton oust he oetni-d to  _slatiog avege  tf c.. tedioaton  to anueha.  These eorse  ae  ny usatf.Ic_santog  the  -a1ae cf
ose isditcaeeataItino  swog th,cactrya-d retref ce.. r. up....
_,AA EAlb(hosdsnc.                                                                            PPupu.lato en    Oatu  la O-tota, achar, and rura -I uuato   ttl
Tsl-Total I    surtae.  tate  conpriuiug luod area ou.d inland  -aen..uht  and raldivIdedrby -hepotine ehtof h.sia  beds
Aetoitra-Inhate uoaof atrlonsue at            osyon...ily on yenosty                    a-llabIe it public aed prrtat  _eacal end setlised hospita   n   t
tot crops, p-aoren, ,kathe  acd ki-ohEtgrap  or to lie file; 19  adan.                        hahtlittionee           H-. ,eitol.eoe  stIisneo   prfetl   nCe
by at issu  ... physucian.  Vstahlis.uacte  =rvdiog princotel,   use
iGNP PER  WIPTA (lol$  - by peeot  eaenise   note.  ahtpio. epidal  or  ar  ct itlded.   aa   optl,hsrr  include health
c,Ia,ed by1-. eas .coveoo  nethod as world Inch1 Atlas (1907-09tbasis); 1910.                   ad aedina1 tente.rs no   eattl   tte   ya yhye.ioi   (bus by
i97l, aod 199 dta.                                                                              nia   site    aorts, sidnifo, rtc.) (hich  ftto  tn-pat itt  scea.          -
dani_e and preidea  limited r-_e  fameicar         ccits   ycrent-
EiNERG  GONICOPTION PER CAPaTA - A-ua  r-ouption of -ocsoial ...eegy (cal.                       tical ParP uses  rbue hospitals include WttO. peinoipal/geteta-1 boepinsis,
and lignite   enoen,   atuos  Eass and hydu-., nuclta  cod gacihttsa          t-no--tl, huspitals, loca   e men  hosptal  andndiani  .an  m-aitar y
-toicty) in hilograu  c ool- equivalet pen ocpite; 190, 1970, sod 190                           cenra.  Ipecialeed hosPitals are ioluded only code  total.
data.                                                                                        Adnis:,aiccanr HtusPita1 Sri - Tonal eunhet of adaissIen  to or disohargee
irebsttols dividad by tht tubabt  of beds.
POPUL,ATION AiD VITAL STATISTICS
Tota PoEclation, foid-Yloon~ ( ...uoads( - As cf July 1; tI6l, 1970, ocd 19(9             IHOUTING
deta.                                                                                      AneragO Sine of fcsH.,       ftrce  vthnunod      oa.ubu   c   us
To1bs-PpIto  (rreo f -tota) - catic of urbto to tonal yoyulcticn;                               A heusahod   ..atn  of a  ncpcfIn.divda a hshre lio   quasrs
difese  dftitlan"  ofaharan"yafctcmaaihy tdt                                                n    b icatt  mauls.  A hcarde  or lodger eay necy  -c  be iscindsd it
oong cutOs  1960, 1970, and 1979 data,                                                        the hausahold totrtctia    -par-s..
Peoulacice Proitteicte                                               ~~~~~~~~Arerag...unbr of per..anca. p errroot  ocal urban, so_ url-Avrgetm
Punoltion  s yea  2101 - Vrea  pplto  yrojennin   ate hated  c 1910                   heb   tpronpr                                    -1st   l   chn   n   ua  occupied ta.teii...ui
itotl yopy-Lato  by uge and tee atd their unrciyae  fnniyrta.dyllte.  respectcvely.neiin  e-tcda  e-eratt  enu                                                      asad
Prjcionparts-tra for nocoic .tne  copeise of th-e lees1s-                -               cocpe  pos
nglit 5 p tope ..cy athot  irestwith cou..ney 'a -c  cc pita i..m.Ates ec Elcnl's                             Ceceto  deitoo      oelara,aeEca 
_eal,anod  talt Iftcnvt lnt  nn t-ttn  c- 00.5 yasro. Theava                              tuoonCtl  wlintthheecrcty tol.ivtn  _utirs as
o:tters  'fat fetilIY roteals  lava t..  hreelvesaaso  decline in                          of tonal, urbat, and nnci desliiegs reapeniveiy.
feolc    oodita to (noose levl and peat family plaicig parfovene
Ouch  .oasary is thocasige  ce   f thes            ... cabitetict  of  _areity         LO_IVCATION
adfeotility t_nefor pr.ojetion Parpoe.                                                 Ajse  VtlnutOec
ittciontrv reocla-io - lnea e r.it..ary pplaiothere is no crotch aie                        iPriye erh-I - total. mlal sodtes-rsa oal   aendfa
tbahioth rt   seua  ecodeath rae,en  also theag  aeuote. en-                                 _orolmee  of allte  at'sh  priasylvla  preegeofrsenv
tactseao  hisIs achtie      oly after fertility  rate  ZAni..to  nprimary school-age populationa; ocrlcly inro1udee children eged h-li
the  sploevuc m1 o  no t oe rproaccit roeaheneac  aeeonrec             ast  bat adjusted ton differect ieths at peaa-y adacation; for
ofsunreplactitul "..     ttfo.Theaaierypylturst   a                                      co.ote i etth  -oi-e-a  edacatice enola yon   eacend 110 Pencei
.arinatod noh. basin of the pr-jeoned    aateisis  fthe pep~alat.ac                           etoe eve  pupils ere bel1-o athbve ehe  ffitis1 -h-I age.
is,he yea  01,anIhnateo   elo ffrilityrte  orPlc-eodrrehl-tta.se  an female   -eatda  abort; seudary
Tereaicr~r tocelt   in te-ctd -The year eden  taclo...ry pouaioProvidesgncl vosie                                          r;esachee trainin  intrucion   o  ppt
sian ho  hoetahtd                                                                              usually of-10 c-10 yer     Efa g;creapoeceoure   r  gsrally
Ptn so.Au- Mid-year population pee squee hilu..sntr (100bteeaof                               Vocationa en11llts (rer-ent of secodaty) - Vo-tineaI institutina..
ictolaesa;1960,1901  od 091 das.                                                    ineluds technical, ta      sial, on ather pengrses chith ap aa        d i.d.ped-
Pee.r  hor   arclurliod-lt pcd aa shav  foergooueaslbd                                          sopteF asda,,,  dapeussis  f eedcany tsin-tine..
only;1910  197  sod11978 dana.                                                        Papil-t-aeh- ratio - nitl-rv. ad emcnndsnv - Tetal  tcde...o. erailed to
PPoylatnoAt  teusts Ipeec..t _ -hildee   (0-14 years), nrlgge(10-                                 pti.aTy asd se...odary levels dlvidtd by tashee  of t-tbens is tha
64 yanrel  sad recited l6IT. yers sodcs)a  percentags.  of oid-yeaa  P.Po-                     orepdI-g,lvel.
incot   19 '1 1900, td 1909 dana.                                                             Adlt liteecy rats fPrcrnetl - li_sosoedu1t  (shie to read asd tirit)
Pouace   roach tat(ece)-toa- Atunas  go..h rates oft enos aid-                               sa per-noage of total  dadlt populatics aged 15 yese  sad ove r.
yer  oltion" for 1911-hI 1 910-70,ao  19 1-79.
Populatin  IrahOt  oret      nac-analgot   s                        f anb.a popa-          CfONSUMTION
luti... for 1950-6O, 190-701, and 1970-091.                                                Pess..s.er Vats (oar thousand pcl c)-P.......ee trsr canpeles -tain
Crude Birth Rtac  fPre  ob_csd) - AtaatlIlire btrtha per thoanend of mid-yea                    car  saso   lineschat  iEhlb per..at; eacludes cehulsscse, h-aee  end
pouato;191, 191, aOd 17da,milltarp vehinlee
(radalesothate  ten tausad) - Aaaal  eahspe  Rhnad   fmdys                             adion                  h..sver.tre   n HaIc trltl,nl - All types1 of . rcivers I freadio
population; 1911, 1900, and 1909 dana.                                                        bract   toatrlpba   e  huad of pplto;acae   t
Crne  tReodactie  Mtace-A-esge camber of daughtense mam  will ber                               icensed rce,ivr  in cunt . rie  sod to years char rg eninof radio
herat sa  rpdutvpridif ohm euprimnces Prea  age-spe.cifcfat-                                  sts tmi   fface  dat  for rson  peso  na..y not he coparable siee
"ilit, rae;    IsIyfiv-eraeee   o iogi  1960, 09701, sod 1979.                                aettatee    ablished litnsa.
of hirth-c.otr   devices coder auspices.f naional family plsoto  7mr5.                        gnea  public pee thousasd populaice  "IldealcesdT   eevr
Vanily  luonicsOers  raec.cc of tarried cont  -yroentage of tattld                       Io _uontries aed It yese  that registration uf IIen    a  is effmt.
tomerofihil-h erig ag   1-44 yeats.) nbcom hirah-ct-r-1 de-iceeto                        Itess   icltn   orthousan rI              aIio)-o           sh.etoeeegeir-
elI urold woe   nsv   gegop                                                                        ia  f'al   eeal it teneet naW-pepr"  defined               'epeicll
puhlioutiio  devoted pira,tily to os....dingE . garaLtes   It istL.     dne
POll.fO   NVOIRITION                                                                              no he "ail"O   inaper         -t es  fcunnitu.eatt...
loden o  yoed yoducnuo  cer Caita (199-71-il) -IdAn  of par cpt  sonuo          Ci-meAna An            c net   pit. totY.. Teat-named on thn  -ub- of
Productiot of all fond  -nsdcies..  Produccien n.Uoldee seed nod fsad aed                     sicktint  sOld daring chin y-o, iucndina admiasino  no deiva-in nico_
isc  oloaryt  heels b           u,cd iecti   . cove  pimay  nds     . sug.r.e.s              and  abile units..
cn- one otladf.d    Aaegats- producnioc of each cootey Las base.d onI.AnR POlCE
tatloa   vegeproduce.r price ao1hot; 19h1-hl, 19', sod 1979 data.                          loc  alubor Pocce lth-o...a.) - Iconoic-lly sci-c persons, iacladieg
Per cpita  arnrof clrieV (eoceoa f reoirtet)- Conptedfotad f                                   feneean  at.p.y..hu...luit   h.a.nva, etadecta, etc.,
enrY oqiZLtal     fcat fod  uyle   araiobi  -unory pen cayi-snvra  pnlti    f al  age.   loinitin   in. va ri...a countries are
per day. Available sapplie   topiedngic podactuo, imprt  Iss                               sot cop.ablah; 1960. 190V andl909de.
ecynocs, cod chats..t.o. ot   letsppliesetldeculfeed, etds.Psle (paro...t(- PFse-                                       hrfeo   sprenaeo   oallhrfre
qu...tist  used in food proce sing,, tadlnsct  diacrihation. Reqine-_                    Ae-out-r (nec-e) -Labnr farce is  acg  foety  beigad.
uncteneceeeritiaoed hy PAP basd at. yiLogcl-d  for  _ne-  cI-                              fishing .Pas      . pecesge of total labor force  19, 1900 atd 190  data
vity end henlth cc-ildoring  ev    -tcau   ep-r-ar, body eelghga, a0e                    todastr (prcent) - Labor force to niocog, coeeout,stfactnieg
t-d  -o  dietrihutlon of popl.tei-o, and a11niog 10 peoce-o for eante at                   aoeeciiy    se   ndgsspneeg   ftoa   ao   ae   91
houtohold hod; 1911-hO, 1971,acd 1977 data.                                        1971 ned 1979 data.
Par ovit surIc o  croetn  acut ret dor)    Pococnttofpr capita                     PsMcvaot.t (preecet)-ttl ml. ed tcs,-Prtoiainn  or
ccc -uyply of food p.0 dp.y  Non ...pyly of fond is defnda   uv-P-tovn efine  rebopted a  t talomi, sod fnl  ao                                                 os
qatreanocs foral co riaetablishe   by lil1 prvde foendtus                                  peret"iagego  loctal.     l o  femal  p.oplatio  ofalagrrepofa;
all cannot. of hI Voass of tota 1ppr ie per day and 2f gram  of atinl cd1960, 1970. and 1909 dn.-  Tbhme cr0 ae b                          oIls        ricipasine rsoee
Pcla1 yct1  o  of ehch II0taca- -bld bm uoiual pronmie.  These tac.od-                     rotltiog age-sen. srter-       o  the yuLstc adln t           ine tresd.  A
mrdaucs_nI tethath..ef5 rasa tatapc-eLtoedol23nm-nf                                        foet.atatfr                        ...iun   moa-
cisal  rnia      to  avecag  Cc nIt acrid,  _proposd hpPA   n  h  TIr                    oonic  spedeco Antic - Ratio of populetice aoder 10 acl 6t ned  -vr
World Food luove; 1961-65, 1970 oud 1900 dccc.                                              to  the total1 labor forrc.
rived dror anirala  ad pu,ls.. it tract Fr day; tIll-hI, 1901 sud 1970dsa.,            INCItE vIOTRIOUTIOI
Child (ara 1-4  Oortnltc tat    rer th ... and) - A-onal deaths yen thooendto,       Percetage o,f,PIvc  Otcuc (hoh in   -ht acd Aid)t  - fece.ived by riches
.te geo,yiI  sr,  toP.-    bildre  iv this tan gr.,p; tomato  dttloptgoc                     5prcent, rIches  00 p-nceoc, pru   9pecet., cod puoeeso 40poca
loIns d-  derived fro  life tahlr-; 1960. 1970 rad 1909 data.                                of housholds.h
HEALTH                                                                                        POVERTY TARGVT GROUPS
lift toEpr.cyto  on Birth ymc)- Averugo ouohsr of ycacr  of lifn retisiag                     The feltgctitaore er   pyrco-i   te asurse of povertylre,
Toao 1teeity Oat f,retchu--cd) - Annal..  Ancha of iWfaotsueden 005 yOt                 seas Abeolone Povrty boo-s Level i(UI  per carica) - orba  anod tuarl 
of eg   opduedlv    its                                                                       bslt   oev   etel-ii   ho  noeVvlblwwthnnttue
Atoseetotafe anr leoc o   ouat f-ttal, urhb.. and total - Nou-                                  nnrItctoAlpcdeoY.'      dint pla  -s-oall.  oct-food reqaite      t  is cot
her of pn       totl, -ebac, ud ourc1)eb                        ..tcheacest   ue               fcdb
entr aupply ((iolude- treatsd turfa ccc canah ..... acteenTht unonatratd                   caiadleaiePvnyoosen1VIce   at)-urnaorrl-
P      fthetcr-speta- ropulatiou...L uauravureanpsblir                                 prnciotnnotnmt              try cYrb-c lintel It derived foo  the rural
fountain or  Iatadpos  I.c..ed oct m'ar than 00  ntre trota hous  ma ho-eve  itih adjostoet for-biarr  -ne  of liolcg in arb-saes
eaca-eable ac..sa nould I-ply that the honuewite on ceeher  of the houshol                 feiacdPouaco ael _tof   boao oeo toos  Lovl(eont     r
do  _      _ hc  cc yc dLadipoccrti-v-r peet of ote day to fm-hio1 the                        poor".i                                  -ba-   ttl  ~.-"..I
faridy'a utte  teede...  .
tatanc   peple(toal,anbn,  nd carol) setoedhysorta dsnla.
peonne   f chaIr respectIve poplati-c.  Sacrete dieposal sup inolude
the coltlo    n  dIsposal, oilh or clh-tbo        :,uc   trate, of                                                                E-atoces  conic ted Social Pat  livisian,
sod n.tta-atoor by inter-boneaet  or teteo   l  orivies  nd  ini-                                                                0cAayt   o  frjeccn   Deprt_nt
Inn iE-aluttio                                                                                                                                  nay~i    19d11r
fooclatint re  Physiata  -Ppauto  dIvided by onubec of  rticn  phpti-                                                                                  18
rosu.thuc ren Nuc-in Pen--   .Puculec  diridad by umban of practiciet
mleaod fen1leg-d-ttsnurtns, pr-tnic1 nre,ndms-ietntoaoe....



-22-                              Annex I
Page 4 of 5
COUNTRY DATA - RWANDA
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1979-80       1979                      1980k'
US$ Mln.         Z      -US$ Mln.
GNP at Market Prices            1035.0        100,0    1172,5           100.0
Gross Domestic Investment        194,9         18,8      187.7           16.0 n
Gross National Saving            113,Q         1Q,9a       21,8           1.9
Current Account Balance           46,8          4,5        54.3           4.6
Export of Goods, NFS             226.6         21.9      165.6           14.1
Import  of Goods, NFS            3C8,6         29,8      331.5           28,3
G0VERNMEN'r FINANCE
Central Government
(RF Mln)                           % of GDP
1980=                      1980          1972
Current Receipts             13,259                       12.0           8.3
Current Expenditure          10,468                        9.5          10.7
Current Surplus               2,791                        2.5          -2.4
Capital Expenditures          2,113                        1.9           1.2
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES           1976      1977        1978        1979        1980
(RF Million outstanding, end period)
Money Supply 2/                   8,047     10,173      11,224     14,113      15,209
Bank Credit to Public
Organisations                     480.       221         225         233         219
Bank Credit to Private Sector   2,392.       4,169       4,908      4,330       6,296
(Percentage of Index Numrbers)
Money and Quasi Money as %
of GDP                             13.0       14.2        13.9       14.5        14,0
Consumer Price Index (Jan-Mar
1976 = 100)                       101.9      116.7       131.3      152..       163.0
Annual Percentage Changes in:
Consumer Price Index                  6.9-       14.5       12.5        15.8         7.2
Bank Credit to Public
Organisations                       5.1      -54.0         1.8        3.6        -6.0
Bank Credit to Private Sector        40.1        74.3       17.7      -11.8        45,4
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate
prevailing during the period covered.
1/ Provisional
2/ Includes Money and Quasi Money.



- 23 -
ANNEX I
COUNTRY DATA  -  RWANDA                     Page 5 of 5
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS         1977        1978        1979       1980  MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE
-            -           -         -            1977-80)
Exports of goods, f.o.b.   125.2        110.4       202.9      133.6               US$ Mln %
Imports of goods, f.o.b.  -102.3       -144.9      -159.5    -204.4 Coffee          80.3     55.9
Trade balance                22.9       -34.5        43.4      -70.8 Tea            10.5       7.3
Cassiterite     7.7      5.3
Services (net)              -72.4      -106.3      -127.4     -90.0 iJallfrar.       6.4      4,5
Net transfers                66.9        94.1       130.8      106.5 Pyrethrum       1.8       1.2
Cinchona        2.1      1.5
Balance 6n currenit account  17.4       -46.7        46.8     -54.3 Other           34.9    14.3
Total        143.7    100.0
Direct Investment             5.9         4.7        12.5       17.0       EXTERNL DEBT,
Net MLT Borrowing            23.3        20.1        17.6       33.2      DECEBER 31, 1980
US$ Kln
Other Capital (net)
and capital n.e.i.        -24.1        26.1        -7.2      17.4 Public Debt, incl.
Increase in reserves (-)   -22.5         -4.2       -69.7     -13.3 guaranteed             170.0
Non-Guaranteed
Private Debt
Gross Reserves                                                       Total Outscarding
(end year)               96.8        99.7      177.3      204.5 and Disbursed           --
Petroleum Imports            12.3        11.8        14.5      22.8 E XTERAL DEBT, Di T iERVICE
Petroleum Exports             -           -                      -    RATIO FOR 1980
Public Debt incl.
guaranteed             3.2
Non-guaranteed Private
Debt _ _
Total outstanding and
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                      disbursed
Annual Averages      End Period
1974-80           December 1981        I3RD/IDA LENDING (Dec. 31.1980)
US$ 1.00 = RF                 92.84                92.84                        (USS Mm)
RF  1.00 = US$                 0.011                0.011            OutstandiIg and
Disbursed          58.12
Undisbursed         S7.48
1/ Provisional  .*                Outstanding incl.
1/ Provisional                                                        Und'sbursed       115.60
2/ Debt Service as a percentage of Exports of Goods and Nonfactor Services.
-- - Not available.



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 5
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN RWANDA
A. Statement of IDA Credits
(As of October 31, 1981)
Amount US$ million
(Less cancellations)
Credit No.   Fiscal Year   Borrower   Purpose                      IDA   Undisbursed
(Four credits have been fully disbursed)                          31.90
567-RW          1975       Rwanda       Education                 6.38        3.68
655-RW          1977                    DFC I                     4.00         .22
656-RW          1977                    Agriculture Cinchona    1.80           .54
668-RW          1978                    Bugesera
Gisaka-Migongo
Mixed Farming and
Rural Development       14.00        1.68
769-RW          1978                    Road Maintenance         15.00        5.30
896-RW          1979                    DFC II                    5.20        4.73
937-RW          1979                    Mutara Agricultural
and Livestock
Development              8.75        6.32
1039-RW          1980 1/                 Integrated Forestry and
Livestock Development  21.00        21.00
1057-RW          1981                    Telecommunications        7.50        7.44
1126-RW 3/       1981 2/                 Coffee/Foodcrops         15.00       15.00
Total                                            130.53       65.91
Repaid                     .28
Total Held             130.25
B. Statement of IFC Investments
(As of October 31, 1981)
In 1976, IFC made a loan of US$535,000 for a tea factory. A second
IFC long-term loan of US$226,000 and contingent equity commitments of up to
US$60,000 for an expansion of the tea factory were signed in September 1980.
Note: Rwanda has received no Bank loan.
1/   Effective November 11, 1981.
2/   Effective January 18, 1982.
3/   Equivalent to SDR 11.8 million.



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5
C. PROJECTS IN RWANDA 1/
(As of September 30, 1981)
Credit No. 567-RW      Education Project; US$8.0 Milion Credit of June 30, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: December 1, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
As now constituted, the project includes construction, equipping and
furnishing of 250 primary-school workshops, a school-textbook printshop, and
an office building for the School Financing and Construction Services (SFCS)
as well as furnishing and equipping of the Rural Agricultural Training Center
of Gitarama. The project also provides technical assistance, vehicles and
operating expenses for the SFCS. The project has been hampered by implementa-
tion difficulties centering on two misprocurements (an amount of US$130,000
was cancelled because of misprocurement of certain construction materials; a
second amount of US$1,491,000 was cancelled due to misprocurement of paper)
which served to complicate our relations with the Ministry of Education. Since
the nomination (March 1981) of a new Minister of Primary and Secondary Educa-
tion, together with the assignment of the former Secretary General to the
Ministry of Higher Education, however, considerably better relations have
developed between us. The new leadership shares our concern for projected
costs which the 1979 education reforms would entail. The Government has
recently announced the future creation of a permanent commission to evaluate
the reforms with a view to modifying them to accord with limited budgetary
resources. Most of the 250 workshops are nearly completed. The lack of
acceptable record keeping, however, has impeded the processing of disburse-
ment requests. Therefore, a final inspection and evaluation mission for the
workshops, organized by the Government (with IDA approval) was undertaken
successfully in November 1981 with UNESCO assistance. Disbursement should
therefore resume shortly. The printshop is now operational and construction
of the office building for the SFCS completed.
Credit No. 655-RW      Rwandese Development Bank Project; US$4.0 Million
Credit of August 20, 1976;
Date of Effectiveness: March 2, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The credit is now fully committed. The Closing Date was extended to
complete disbursements for on-going subprojects financed under the project.
No further extension will be necessary.
Credit No. 656-RW      Cinchona Project; US$1.8 million Credit of August 20, 1976
Date of Effectiveness: March 2, 1977
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any problems
which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy them.
They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding they do not
purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weakness in
project execution.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 5
The project provides over a five year period inputs and extension
services to grow cinchona for export. Progress is satisfactory and there is
a strong demand from farmers for planting material. World market prices for
cinchona derivates, however, remained low during 1979 and 1980, and OCIR (the
implementing agency) had to reduce the farm gate price for cinchona bark and
abolish the export tax and the OCIR levy. In September 1980 it was decided
to establish a cinchona bark processing plant in the Cyangugu area.  This
should give Rwanda a stronger position in the future to compete with cinchona
derivates on the world market.
Credit 668-RW          Bugesera/Gisaka/Migongo Mixed Farming and Rural
Development Project; US$14.0 Million Credit of
March 31, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: November 23, 1977;
Closing Date: September 30, 1982
The project consists of the promotion of mixed farming and rural
development in two regions and the strengthening of the central services
responsible for rural development. The project includes tse tse control,
field extension and infrastructure, credit, improvement of feeder roads and
water supply, a limited number of schools and health centers and establishment
of two cattle ranches. The project is cofinanced with BADEA (US$5.0 million
equivalent for livestock development and water facilities) and France (US$2.6
million for six technical assistants). Satisfactory progress has been made
with programming of work, budgeting and construction. The results of the
livestock, foodcrop and plant improvement components however are well below
appraisal estimates. A follow-up project which will build on infrastructure
put in place under the first project and focus primarily on applied research,
training and extension has recently been appraised.
Credit 769-RW          Fourth Highway Project; US$15.0 Million Credit
of April 1978;
Date of Effectiveness: August 4, 1978;
Closing Date: July 1, 1982
Implementation of the Fourth Highway Project (a US$15.0 million
Credit for road maintenance) started in January 1978. Specialists financed
under the technical assistance program are performing satisfactorily. Procure-
ment of equipment is completed. On the suggestion of the Association, an
expert on labor intensive methods visited Rwanda for three weeks in June 1978
and recommended that one mechanized unit be replaced by one unit utilizing
labor intensive methods. Following the consultant-s recommendation, the
Government has introduced labor-intensive methods for road maintenance.
Although the project is about one year behind schedule, implementation is now
at its anticipated progress rate and the project is proceeding satisfactorily.
Project completion is expected for end-1982.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 5
Credit 896-RW          Second Rwandese Development Bank Project; US$5.2 Million;
Credit of July 13, 1979;
Date of Effectiveness: January 4, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The Project aims at providing further assistance to the industrial
sector by supporting the activities of the Rwandese Development Bank. It
includes two components: (a) a second line of credit of US$5.0 million to
finance BRD's foreign exchange requirements and (b) a feasibility study
for the establishment of an auditing firm in Rwanda (US$0.2 million). Imple-
mentation is proceeding satisfactorily in all respects.
Credit 937-RW          Mutara Agricultural and Livestock Development Project;
US$8.75 Million Credit of July 13, 1979;
Date of Effectiveness: May 30, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The project, which is proceeding satisfactorily is the second phase
of a long-term development program for the Mutara region. It aims at develop-
ing techniques, procedures, and an institutional environment which will make
it possible to preserve the production potential of the area, make a rational
and more intensive use of available resources, improve farming and ranching
techniques, and integrate the project into the local administration.
Credit 1039-RW         Integrated Forestry and Livestock Development Project;
US$21.0 Million Credit of July 7, 1980;
Date of Effectiveness: November 11, 1981;
Closing Date: September 30, 1986
The project is the first phase of a long-term program to develop the
forestry resources of Rwanda and to strengthen the livestock industry. Tech-
nical assistance personnel has been recruited.
Credit 1057-RW         Telecommunications Project; US$7.5 Million;
Credit of August 13, 1980;
Date of Effectiveness: July 7, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project aims at improving the quality of existing telecommuni-
cations services, while extending the coverage to geographical areas and
segments of the population which at present do not benefit from such
services. In addition to improving international and domestic telecommuni-
cations (telephone and telex) the project provides technical assistance and
training to the Ministry of Post and Telecommunications. The project is
cofinanced with FAC and CCCE (US$3.9 million equivalent) and CIDA (Can$4.95
million) and is proceeding satisfactorily.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 5
Credit 1126-RW         Lake Kivu Coffee Improvement and Foodcrops Project;
US$15.0 Million Credit of April 29, 1981;
Date of Effectiveness: January 18, 1982;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1986
The project aims at building up an effective extension service
which would assist farmers in increasing foodcrop and coffee production using
field-tested techniques and also helping OCIR-Cafe (the implementing agency)
improve its financial management. The terminal date for effectiveness has
been postponed from November 3, 1981 to January 18, 1982 pending provision of
the legal opinion.



- 29 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
RWANDA
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Technical Assistance Project
I.   Timetable of Key Events
(a) Origin of Project: Request by H.E. the President of the Republic
of Rwanda at the time of his visit to Bank
Headquarters, September 25, 1980
(b) Identification Mission: January/February 1981
(c) Appraisal Mission: April/May 1981
(d) Negotiations: January 11-15, 1982
(e) Planned Date of Effectiveness: July 1982
II. Special Implementation Action
Recruitment of long-term exp;rts financed by UNDP started In 'e
Fall of 1981 under the UNDP preparatoL. dssistance procedure, sigul1  ~iy uNIJP
on July 15, 1981.
III. Special Conditions
Government to ensure that qualified Rwandese personnel will be
assigned to advisers and consultants hired under the project (para. 41) and
to the Documentation Center (para. 42).



I
I



7   -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~:
-!            -    ' ''*d      -  ,                                        0  >@
::- Z                     11                                            0      
i-d              -0,i: X2:-..,B a



