CREDIT NUMBER 1217 RW
DOCUMaTS
Development Credit Agrement
(Technical Assistance Project)
between
RWANDESE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPHENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                                , 1982


﻿C1EDIT NUMBER 1217 RW
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                              , 1982, between
RWANDESE REPUBLIC (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNA-
TIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Associa-
tion).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association
to assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
and
(B) by agreement signed by the-Government of Rwanda on
December 4, 1981, by the World Bank as executing agency on Jan-
uary 8, 1982 and by UNDP on March 19, 1982 (hejeinafter called the
UNDP Agreement), the United Nations Developm\ nt Programme has
agreed to assist the Borrower in financing Pait5 A and Part D of
the Project on the terms and conditons therein set forth;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the b4sis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter saet forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following terms
have the following meaning:
(a) "BUNEP" means the National Bureau for the Study of
Projects, a state enterprise under the supervision of the Bor-
rower's Ministry of Planning, created by Presidential Decree of
September 5, 1978;


﻿-2-
(b) "Documentation Center" means the documentation center,
to be strengthened by the Borrower under the Project for the
benefit of all Government agencies, which would collect relevant
social and economic documentation on Rwanda's deve1opment and
would maintain a complete file of feasibility and sector studies;
(c) "Programs Directorate" means the Department of the
Borrower's Ministry of Planning responsible for investment
programming; and
(d)  "Consultants" means both consulting firms and private
consultatts.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to four million three hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 4,300,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, civil works and services require"d
for the Project shall be governed by the provisions of Schedules 3
and 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1986
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent


﻿-3-
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each April 1.
and October 1 commencing April 1, 1992, and ending October 1,
2031, each installment to and including the installment payable
on October 1, 2001, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01.' The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through its Ministi!y of Planning and through BUNEP with due
diligence and efficiency, in conformity with appropriate planning,
administrative and financial practices, and in accordance with
guidelines described in Schedule 6, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out Parts A and D of the Project, the Borrower shall cause to be
employed, within the framework of the UNDP Agreement, a project
economist in the Ministry of Planning by March 31, 1982, a finan-
cial analyst in BUNEP, by May 31, 1982, and a documentalist
in the Documentation Center by September 30, 1983. Except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Project economist will be
assigned to the Programs Directorate and assist in carrying out
the activities described in Schedule 4 of this Agreement. The
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
of these advisers shall be satisfactory to the Association.
(b) In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Part A
of the project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Association.


﻿-4-
(c) The employment of experts and consultants as specified
in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section shall be made in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency," published by the World Bank in August, 1981 and
Schedules 5 and 6 hereto.
(d) The Borrower shall employ counterpart personnel to the
specialists to be employed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this
Section as soon as such specialists shall have commenced their
work.
Section 3.03 (a). The Borrower shall take all measures
necessary to facilitate the work of the consultants to be employed
pursuant to Section 3.02 hereof, cooperate fully with them in the
performance of their services, and make available to them all such
information 'as shall be necessary or useful to the successful
execution of the Project.
(b) With regard to the consultants to be employed pursuant
to Section 3.02 hereof the Borrower shall not, without prior
consultation with the Association: (i) amend or waive any of their
terms and conditions of employment (including the terms of refer-
ence); (ii) consent to a material extension of the time specified
for the performance of their tasks or modification the:ceof, or
substitution of their personnel; or (iii) suspend payments under,
or terminate any contract with such consultants.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall furnish to the Association
for its review, updating and approval, twice yearly, not later
than January 31 and June 30, detailed proposals for annual
programs of studies, prepared in accordance with the procedure
described in Schedule 4 hereof. The proposals shall include the
terms of reference for each study.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall:' (a) supervise construction
of the new building for the Documentation Center which will be
completed no later than September 30, 1983; (b) place the Documen-
tation Center under the management of the Ministry of Planning's
Directorate General for Statistics; (c) cause suitable staff in
adequate numbers to be appointed to operate the Center; and (d)
make the Center accessible to all Ministries and Government
agencies.


﻿-5-
Section 3.06. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the
Project.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be
furnished to the Association, promptly upon their preparation, an
agreed upon number of copies of the studies prepared with the
assistance of the consultants to be employed pursuant to Section
3.02 of this Agreement, including reports and drafts thereof, as
well as contracts, construction and procurement documents for the
Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such number and detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to
time exchange views with respect to the evaluation and implemen-
tation of the recommendations and other con4lusions contained in
the dotuments referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(c) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (in-
cliding its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Association's accredited representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
any relevant records and documents, including the records and
documents which the consultants, employed by the Borrower for
purposes of the Project, shall be required to keep; and (iii)
shall furnish to the Association at regular intervals all such
information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning
the Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be
derived from it, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Cre4it and
the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(d) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, civil works or services to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof,
the name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was
awarded and the contract price.
(e) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such


﻿-6-
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish and
cause BUNEP to prepare and furnish to the Association a report, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request, on the execution and initial operation of the Project,
its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from it,
the performance by the Borrower and the Association of their
respective obligations under the Development Credit Agreement and
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the
operations, reso,urces and expenditures, in respect of the
Project, of the Ministries and agencies of the Borrower respons-
ible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. (a) For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that subject to para-
graph (b) of this Section, the right of the Borrower to withdraw
the funds made available to it under the UNDP Agreement for the
employment of experts and consultants shall have been suspended,
cancelled or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms
of the UNDP Agreement.
(b) Paragraph (a) of this Section shall not apply if: (i)
such suspension, cancellation or termination is not caused by the
failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
that UNDP Agreement; and (ii) adequate funds for the Project are
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and condi-
tions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this
Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The date  W7 tiA S*is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12. 4 of the General Conditions.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Planning of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of Che General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere du Plan
Botte Postale 46
Kigali
Rwanda
Telex:
MINIPLAN
Kigali
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                             40098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District


﻿of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
RWANDESE REPUBLIC
By (s         043o,to e« ~  re    U   > 'CDra
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By          A.'t    .   1
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Ambunt of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                   SDR Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Study fund                   3,270,000        100% of foreign
for Part A                                   expenditures
of the Project                               and 75% of
local expendi-
tures
(2) Seminars                       140,000        100%
(3) Documentation
Center
(a) Construction              130,000        100% of foreign
expenditures
and 70% of
local expendi-
tures
(b) Equipment                  30,000        100% of foreign
expenditures
and 80% of
local expendi-
tures
(4) Vehicles                        60,000        100% of foreign
expenditures
and 80% of
local expendi-
tures
(5) Unallocated                    670,000
TOTAL        4,300,000


﻿- 10 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borwer and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
.the Borrower; and
(b) the term  "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to March 16, 1982.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in
paragraph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category
will be insufficient to finance the agrded percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower reallocate to such Category, to the extent required
to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are
then allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to


﻿- 11 -                                    -
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Asso-
ciation's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿-12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project has as its objective to improve the Borrower's
interministerial coordination and thereby its capacity to program
investments and implement projects.
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:
The selection, preparation and execution of prefeasibility,
feasibility and detailed engineering studies for projects and the
organization of seminars on project preparation.
Part B:
The improvement of the Documentation Center in Kigali by
construction of new facilities and by provision of equipment.
Part C:
The provision of two vehicles for the Min.istry of Planning
and one for BUNEP.
Part D:
Strengthening of the Borrower's investment programming
capacity by the employment of a project economist within the
Ministry of Planning and a financial analyst in BUNEP, each for
four years and a documentalist at the Documentation Center for two
years.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1986.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   Goods and Civil Works
1.   Contracts for the purchase of vehicles and equipment may be
procured on the basis of solicitation of price quotations from at
least two suppliers who are represented in Rwanda and offer
adequate guarantees to provide service and spare parts.
2.   Contracts for civil works for the Documentation Center may
be procured on the basis of competitive bidding in accordance with
local procedures which permit participating of national as well as
foreign firms and which are acceptable to the Association.
3.   The design and supervision of the construction of the Docu-
mentation Center may be carried out by force account by the
Borrower's'Ministry of Public Works.
B.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a) Before bids for civil works on the Documentation Center
are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association for
its comments the text of the invitations to bid and the speci-
fications and other bidding documents, together with a description
of the advertising procedures to be followed for the bidding, and
shall make such modifications in the said documents or procedures
as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further modifi-
cation to the bidding documents shall require the Association's
concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Association of the name of the bidder to which it
intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the
evaluation and comparison of the bids received, and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would


﻿-14 -
be inconsistent with the Guidelines* and with this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for its determination.
*    The latest edition of the Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits.


﻿-15-
SCHEDULE 4
Preparation of Programs of Studies
The Ministry of Planning coordinates the preparation of
yearly programs of studies and monitors the carrying out of
prefeasibility, feasibility and 'detailed engineering studies,
included in such programs, as follows:
(a) Twice a year, at the request of the Minister of Plan-
ning, all Ministries and government agencies shall submit study
proposals.
(b) The Ministry of Planning submits the study proposals
to an Advisory Commission, composed of the correspondents of the
Plan in each Ministry; such correspondents shall be designated by
the Minister of Planning in agreement with each department con-
cerned.
(c) This Commission, convened and chaired by the Minister
of Planning or his representative, shall meet as often as neces-
sary but at least twice a year. BUNEP shall attend these meetings.
(d) After receiving the Commission's advice, the Minister of
Planning shall select the proposals which will be included in the
yearly program of studies, to be submitted to the Asso,iation in
accordance with Section 3.04 of this Agreement.
(e) The composition of the proposed programs of studies
shall generally reflect the priorities of the Borrower's Five-Year
Plan so that funds for Part A of the Project may be disbursed
in the following indicative proportions: 35% for agriculture
and rural development, 25% for industry and crafts, 15% for human
resources development, 15% for transport and communication and 10%
for projects in other sectors. These indicative percentages can be
changed, in agreement with the Association, in the light of
financing available from other lenders.
(f) Unless the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, the cost for each individual study as financed under
Category (1) of Schedule 1 hereto shall not exceed the equivalent
of $250,000.
(?) The work necessary to prepare the meetings of the
Advisory Commission and to cause the implementation of the agreed


﻿- 16 -
upon program of studies shall be the responsibility of the
Minister of Planning; contracts shall be signed by the technical
Ministry concerned after approval by the Ministry of Planning. The
technical side of contract implement atIfon shall be supervised by
the Ministry concerned. Disbursement, requests shall be prepared by
the technical Ministries and transmitted to the Association by the
Ministry of Planning.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 5
Consulting Services
1.   Experts and consultants shall be employed in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines on
the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and the World Bank
as Executing Agency," published by the Bank in August, 1981 (here-
inafter called the Guidelines). In particular, the following
arrangements will apply to the selection process.
2.   Before proposals are invited from experts or consultants, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association for its approval:
(i) the text of the assignment terms of reference;
(ii) the proposed assignment budget;
(iii) the name(s) of the firm, or of firms on a short list, to
be invited to submit proposals, together with any
additional information as the Association may reasonably
request.
3. The short list of firms shall have a lower limit .of three and
an upper limit of six firms.
4.   Before proposals are invited from experts or consultants, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association for its comments:
(i) details of the proposed selection procedures to be
adopted, including the criteria to be used in evaluating
the experts' or consultants' proposals; and
(ii) the draft text of the letter of invitation to the
experts or consultants together with all attachments.
5.   The firm  ranked highest in the evaluation of proposals shall
be invited to negotiate a contract.
6.   After the Borrower has completed the evaluation of proposals,
but before negotiations with the highest-ranking consultant,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association for its comments a
copy of the proposal of the firm to be invited to negotiate a
contract.


﻿- 18 -
7.   The choice of the consulting firm or consultant shall be
based on criteria of technical competence, financial standing and
proposed price. The selection of bids shall clearly state a
comparative analysis of these three criteria, based on the nature
of the studies to be carried out.
8.   After a contract has been negotiated with the expert or
consultant, but before signature, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association for its review and approval a copy of the proposed
contract.
9.   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to
the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such con-
tract.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 6
Role of BUNEP
To achieve the Borrower's objective of strength ening BUNEP,
the Minister of Planning shall communicate to BUNEP's Director the
following guidelines concerning the role of BUNEP in the execution
of studies:
(a) BUNEP may conduct studies financed by the Study Fund,
without, however, having the exclusive right to conduct
such studies;
(b) after elaboration of the program of studies as (escribed
in Schedule 4, BUNEP shall communicate to the Advisory
Commission a list of studies that BUNEP deems to be
within its capabilities, given its technical competence
and work load;
(c) for such studies BUNEP shall submit technical and
financial proposals to the relevant authorities;
(d) if BUNEP's proposal is accepted by the Advisory
Commission and approved by the Association, BUNEP shall
be given responsibility to conduct the study; and
(e) if not, the choice of consultants shall follow proce-
dures specified in Section 3.02 (c) of this Agreement.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the           day of
198
FOR SECRETARY


