Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4259-EC
Loan Agreement
(
El Niño Emergency Recovery Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated December 19, 1997
LOAN NUMBER 4259-EC
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 19, 1997, between REPUBLIC OF 
ECUADOR (the Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the 
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing 
of the Project;
(B)
the Borrower has declared a national emergency to 
handle the impact of the El Niño Phenomenon (as hereinafter 
defined) through its decree number 425 of July 2, 1997 and is 
implementing a program of actions and policies designed to prevent 
or mitigate damage, and to rehabilitate as needed social and 
economic infrastructure, that could be or is damaged as a result of 
floods or heavy rains caused by the El Niño Phenomenon as described 
in the contingency emergency plan approved by the President of the 
Borrower on July 11, 1997 (the Program);
(C)
the Borrower intends to contract from the 
Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) a loan (the IDB Loan) in an 
aggregate principal amount of $71,000,000 to assist in financing 
Page  2
part of the Program on the terms and conditions set forth in an 
agreement (the IDB Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the 
Borrower and IDB;
(D)
the Borrower intends to contract from the Corporación 
Andina de Fomento (CAF) a loan (the CAF Loan) in an aggregate 
principal amount equivalent to $25,000,000 to assist in financing 
part of the Program on the terms and conditions set forth in an 
agreement (the CAF Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the 
Borrower and CAF; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of 
the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms 
and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and 
Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated 
May 30, 1995, with the modifications set forth below (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
“Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Bank.  If (a) the 
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account shall have been suspended with respect 
to any amount of the Loan for a continuous period of 
thirty days, or (b) at any time, the Bank determines, 
after consultation with the Borrower, that an amount 
of the Loan will not be required to finance the 
Project’s costs to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan, or (c) at any time, the Bank determines, 
with respect to any contract to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan, that corrupt or fraudulent 
practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the 
procurement or the execution of such contract, 
without the Borrower having taken timely and 
appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to remedy 
the situation, and establishes the amount of 
expenditures in respect of such contract which would 
otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, or (d) at any time, the Bank 
determines that the procurement of any contract to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan is 
inconsistent with the procedures set forth or 
referred to in the Loan Agreement and establishes the 
amount of expenditures in respect of such contract 
which would otherwise have been eligible for 
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (e) 
after the Closing Date, an amount of the Loan shall 
remain unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, or (f) the 
Bank shall have received notice from the Guarantor 
pursuant to Section 6.07 with respect to an amount of 
the Loan, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, 
terminate the right of the Borrower to make 
withdrawals with respect to such amount.  Upon the 
giving of such notice, such amount of the Loan shall 
Page  3
be canceled.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the 
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble 
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth 
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Decree 425” means the Borrower’s decree number 425 
published in the Registro Oficial (as defined below) on July 2, 
1997 establishing a national emergency and setting the framework 
for implementation of measures to minimize or repair damage;
(b)
“Decree 740” means the Borrower’s decree number 740 
published in the Registro Oficial on October 22, 1997;
(c)
“Eligible Areas” means the provinces of Esmeraldas, 
Manabi, Guayas, Los Ríos, El Oro and Galápagos and the lowland 
areas of the provinces of Pichincha, Cotopaxi, Bolívar, Chimborazo, 
Cañar and Azuay and any other area as the Bank may agree;
(d)
“El Niño Emergency Coordination Unit” means the 
coordination unit established within the Borrower’s Presidency 
pursuant to Decree 740 to coordinate and supervise the 
implementation of the Program, including the Project;
(e)
“El Niño Phenomenon” means the appearance, from time 
to time, of anomalously warm sea surface temperature in the Central 
and Eastern Pacific ocean near to the Equator which gives rise to 
unusual changes in normal climate patterns around the globe 
including the Western coastal region of South America;
(f)
“Executing Agency” means an agency or public 
enterprise of the Borrower which has been selected for 
implementation of Subprojects from the list included in Annex III 
to the Implementation Letter or any other agency or public 
enterprise as may be acceptable to the Bank;
(g)
“Implementation Agreement” means any agreement to be 
entered into by the Borrower pursuant to the provisions of Section 
3.02 (a) of this Agreement;
(h)
“Implementation Letter” means the letter from the 
Borrower to the Bank of even date herewith containing: (i) the 
principles and guidelines for resettlement of population affected 
by Subprojects; (ii) the eligible investments for Prevention 
Subprojects; (iii) the Executing Agencies; and (iv) the 
Environmental Assessment Procedures for Subprojects;
(i)
“Operational Manual” means a manual, satisfactory to 
the Bank, to be approved by the Borrower pursuant to Section 6.01 
(a) of this Agreement, setting forth the procedures for 
implementation of the Project including, inter alia, the 
eligibility criteria of Prevention Subprojects and Reconstruction 
Subprojects, the contractual and administrative arrangements for 
implementation of Subprojects, appropriate mechanisms for community 
participation in the preparation and implementation of Subprojects, 
the flow of funds, and the monitoring and evaluation procedures for 
the Project, as the same may be amended from time to time by 
agreement between the Borrower and the Bank;
(j)
“Prevention Subproject” means an investment project 
listed in Annex II to the Implementation Letter or such other 
Page  4
investment project as the Bank may agree, to be carried out by an 
Executing Agency in an Eligible Area under an Implementation 
Agreement;
 (k)
“Reconstruction Subproject” means an investment 
project to rehabilitate or reconstruct economic and/or social 
infrastructure facilities, or to resettle population in an Eligible 
Area which has been damaged by floods or heavy rains occurred 
during 1997 and 1998 as a result of the El Niño Phenomenon and 
which:
(i)
consists of investments in the areas of ports, 
airports, roads and bridges, flood protection 
and drainage, water supply and sewerage, 
municipal services, irrigation, electricity 
supply and distribution, health and sanitation 
and education, and such other areas as the Bank 
may agree;
(ii)
shall be carried out by an Executing Agency 
under an Implementation Agreement; and
(iii)
meets the criteria set forth in the Operational 
Manual including in particular, that: (A) the 
damaged infrastructure facility existed prior 
to the anticipated floods; (B) the damage to 
the concerned infrastructure facility is a 
consequence of flood or heavy rains resulting 
from the El Niño Phenomenon; (C) the proposed 
Reconstruction Subproject is technically and 
economically sound in accordance with criteria 
satisfactory to the Bank; (D) an environmental 
assessment of the Reconstruction Subproject has 
been carried out and, if applicable, a plan of 
mitigation measures has been prepared; and (E) 
if the proposed investments would have an 
impact on indigenous or afro-ecuadorian 
peoples, a development plan satisfactory to the 
Bank has been prepared for implementation.
(l)
“Registro Oficial”  means the Borrower’s official 
gazette;
(m)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in 
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(n)
“Subprojects” means collectively Prevention 
Subprojects and Reconstruction Subprojects; and
(o)
“Technical Unit” means the unit referred to in 
Section 3.04 of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on 
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan 
Agreement, an amount equal to sixty million dollars ($60,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn 
Page  5
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 
1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so 
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and 
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, 
open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in its 
Central Bank, or a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, on terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank including, in the event the 
account is opened in a commercial bank, appropriate protection 
against set-off, seizure and attachment.  Deposits into, and 
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2000 or 
such later date as the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall 
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a 
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn 
from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to 
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to LIBOR Base Rate 
plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from 
and including the date of this Agreement to, 
but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
occurring thereafter, and after the initial 
period, each period from and including an 
Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the 
next following Interest Payment Date.
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date 
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest 
Period, the London interbank offered rate for 
six-month deposits in Dollars for value the 
first day of such Interest Period (or, in the 
case of the initial Interest Period, for value 
the Interest Payment Date occurring on or next 
preceding the first day of such Interest 
Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank 
and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest 
Period: (A) one half of one percent (1/2 of 
1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted average 
margin, for such Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or 
other reference rates, for six-month deposits, 
in respect of the Bank’s outstanding borrowings 
or portions thereof allocated by the Bank to 
fund single currency loans or portions thereof 
made by it that include the Loan; as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
Page  6
percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate 
and LIBOR Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the 
determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice 
affecting the determination of the interest rates referred to in 
this Section 2.05, the Bank determines that it is in the interest 
of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan upon not less 
than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower of the new basis. The 
basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its 
objection thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply 
to the Loan.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable 
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount 
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth 
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through 
the El Niño Emergency Coordination Unit, with the participation of 
the Executing Agencies, all with due diligence and efficiency and 
in conformity with the Operational Manual and the Implementation 
Letter, and appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, 
environmental, and technical practices, and shall provide, promptly 
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall, through the El Niño 
Emergency Coordination Unit, under terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, enter into an agreement with each of the 
Executing Agencies with separate legal personality, setting forth 
their respective obligations in the implementation of the Project 
and, in particular, the Executing Agencies’ responsibility to carry 
out the Prevention Subprojects and the Reconstruction Subprojects 
in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement, the 
Implementation Letter and the Operational Manual.
(b)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the 
Implementation Agreements in such manner as to protect the interest 
of the Borrower and the Bank and to achieve the purposes of the 
Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Implementation 
Agreements or any provision thereof.
Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of the goods, works, and consultants’ services required 
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan 
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Page  7
Agreement.
Section 3.04. Without limitation to the provisions of 
Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall establish, and 
thereafter maintain, until completion of the Project, a technical 
unit  staffed with at least the following professionals: an 
accountant, an administrator, a specialist each for computer 
systems, procurement and environmental and social review, and three 
technical specialists to review Subprojects, all with 
qualifications, experience, functions and responsibilities 
satisfactory to the Bank, assisted by qualified personnel in 
adequate numbers.
Section 3.05. 
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable 
it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with 
indicators satisfactory to the Bank, the carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Bank and furnish to the Bank on or about:
(i)
(A)  June 15, 1998 the indicators referred to 
in paragraph (a) of this Section; and (B) each 
June 15 and December 15 thereafter during 
Project implementation, a report integrating 
the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) 
of this Section, on the progress achieved in 
the carrying out of the Project during the 
period preceding the date of said report and 
setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof 
during the period following such date;
(ii)
December 15, 1998, a report containing the 
Subprojects approved, the related 
Implementation Agreements signed or proposed to 
be signed, and the estimated amount of Loan 
proceeds required for their financing; and
(iii)
December 15, 1999, a report containing the 
specific amounts disbursed or to be disbursed 
in respect of the Subprojects referred to in 
subparagraph (b) (ii) of this Section; and
(c)
review with the Bank, by December 15 each year, or 
such later date as the Bank shall request the reports referred to 
in subparagraph (b) of this Section, and, take all measures 
required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project; and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of such reports and the Bank views on the matter.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall ensure that Subprojects 
are appraised, selected, carried out, financed, monitored and 
supervised in accordance with the provisions of the Operational 
Manual.
(b)
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) 
above, the Borrower:  (i) shall not carry out, and shall restrict 
Page  8
the Executing Agencies from carrying out, any Subprojects that 
involve resettlement, or indigenous peoples, or have an 
environmental impact, all as defined or referred to in the 
Implementation Letter, prior to the Bank’s approval of the 
resettlement program, indigenous peoples development plan, or 
environmental mitigation plan for such Subprojects; and (ii) 
thereafter carry out such Subprojects in accordance with such plans 
and programs.
Section 3.07. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the 
General Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower 
shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the 
Bank and furnish to the Bank not later than six months after the 
Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose 
between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future operation 
of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange 
views with the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be 
maintained records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in 
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, 
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying 
out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section including those 
for the Special Account for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent private auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but 
in any case not later than four months after 
the end of each such year, the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information 
concerning said records and accounts and the 
audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which 
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis of 
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in 
accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, 
Page  9
records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank 
has received the audit report for the fiscal 
year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan 
Account was made, all records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine 
such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are 
included in the annual audit referred to in 
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate 
opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and 
internal controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)
the Executing Agencies shall have failed to perform 
any of their obligations under their respective Implementation 
Agreements;
(b)
Decree 425 or Decree 740 or the Operational Manual 
shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived 
so as to affect, in the Bank’s opinion, materially and adversely 
the ability of the Borrower to carry out the Project;
(c)
the IDB Loan Agreement or the CAF Loan Agreement 
shall have failed to become effective by June 30, 1998, or such 
later date as the Bank may agree; provided however, that the 
provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that adequate funds for 
the Program are available to the Borrower from other sources on 
terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the 
Borrower under this Agreement; and
(d)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw 
the proceeds of the IDB Loan or the CAF 
Loan shall have been suspended, canceled 
or terminated in whole or in part, 
pursuant to the terms of the IDB Loan 
Agreement or the CAF Loan Agreement; or
(B)
any such loan shall have become due and 
payable prior to the agreed maturity 
Page  10
thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not 
apply if the Borrower establishes to the 
satisfaction of the Bank that:
(A)
such suspension, cancellation, 
termination or prematuring is not caused 
by the failure of the Borrower to 
perform any of its obligations under 
such agreement; and
(B)
adequate funds for the Program are 
available to the Borrower from other 
sources on terms and conditions 
consistent with the obligations of the 
Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)
The event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 
of this Agreement or the event specified in paragraph (b) of such 
Section in respect of the Operational Manual shall occur and shall 
continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have 
been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
(b)
The event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 
of this Agreement in respect of Decree 425 or Decree 740 shall 
occur.
(c)
The event specified in paragraph (d) (i) (B) of 
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso 
of paragraph (d) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as 
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement 
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Borrower shall have adopted the Operational 
Manual;
(b)
the Borrower shall have established and staffed the 
Technical Unit; and
(c)
the Borrower shall have put into operation a system, 
satisfactory to the Bank, for the administrative, financial and 
accounting control of the Project.
Section 6.02. The date March 19, 1998 is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Page  11
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance and Public Credit of 
the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower  for 
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the 
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit
Avenida 10 de Agosto y Jorge Washington
Quito, Ecuador
Cable address: 
Telex:
MINFINANZAS
22358 MINFIN
Quito, Ecuador
For the Bank:
International Bank for 
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) 
or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their 
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be 
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, 
United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
By /s/ Alberto Maspons
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Zafar Ecevit
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin American and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Page  12
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
Dollars)
to be 
Financed
(1)
Subprojects
55,000,000
90% of the 
cost of
civil works, 
equip-
ment and 
vehicles, 
and 
consultants’
services of 
the
Subproject
(2)
Consultants’ services
5,000,000
100%
for Part B of the Project
(including audits)
 __________
TOTAL
 60,000,000
 ==========
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no 
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of 
this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not 
exceeding $5,000,000, may be made on account of payments made for 
expenditures before that date but after July 2, 1997; and
(b)
payments for expenditures for Subprojects which IDB 
or CAF shall have financed or agreed to finance.
3.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be 
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures 
for:
(a)
goods and works for Subprojects under contracts not 
exceeding respectively $300,000 and $3,000,000 equivalent 
respectively; and
(b)
consulting services and individual consultants under 
contracts not exceeding respectively $100,000 and $50,000 
equivalent, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.
4.
Without limitation or restriction to the provisions of 
Section 6.03 of the General Conditions, the Bank may terminate the 
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account to 
finance Reconstruction Subprojects in the event that:
Page  13
(a)
the anticipated floods or heavy rains resulting from 
the El Niño Phenomenon do not occur during 1997 and 1998 with the 
intensity anticipated at the time of execution of this Agreement; 
or
(b)
the Loan proceeds are no longer required for the 
financing of Reconstruction Subprojects.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower, on 
an emergency basis: (a) to reduce the loss of human life and a 
deterioration of living standards; (b) to prevent damages to the 
economic and social infrastructure; (c) to rehabilitate damaged 
economic and social infrastructure, all as a result of floods 
and/or heavy rains caused by the El Niño Phenomenon; and (d) to 
strengthen its capabilities to forecast and respond to the El Niño 
Phenomenon.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such 
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon 
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Subprojects
Carrying out Prevention Subprojects and Reconstruction 
Subprojects.
Part B:
Institutional Strengthening
1.
Strengthening of the Technical Unit’s capabilities for the 
monitoring and supervision of Subprojects through the provision of 
the accounting, technical and environmental experts required 
therefor.
2.
Strengthening the Executing Agencies’ capabilities in the 
design and implementation of Subprojects through the provision of 
the technical experts required therefor.
3.
Carrying out of studies for the design of resettlement 
programs, including social and environmental assessments, needed to 
implement Reconstruction Subprojects.
4.
Carrying out of financial and technical audits of the 
Project.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2000.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
 Payment of 
Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in 
Page  14
Dollars)*
On each March 15 and September 15
beginning March 15, 2003
through September 15, 2014
2,500,000
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars 
to be  repaid, except as provided in Sections 4.04 (d) of the 
General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in January 1995 
and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of this Section.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, 
goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and 
paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods and works 
shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $300,000 and 
$3,000,000 equivalent or more each, respectively.
Page  15
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines 
and Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the 
territory of the Borrower .
(c)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract 
estimated to cost $10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be 
advertised in accordance with the procedures applicable to large 
contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
Procurement of Works
Works estimated to cost less than $3,000,000 equivalent per 
contract may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts 
awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three qualified 
domestic contractors in response to a written invitation.  The 
invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, 
including basic specifications, the required completion date, a 
basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant 
drawings, where applicable.  The award shall be made to the 
contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required 
work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the 
contract successfully.
2.
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent per 
contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Direct Contracting
Goods and works consisting of repairs of civil and 
electromechanical works, which are urgently needed to protect life, 
infrastructure and public property during the flooding stages and 
are estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount of $6,000,000 for goods and works, 
respectively, may be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
not later than March 1, 1998 and bimonthly thereafter, furnish to 
the Bank for its review and approval, a procurement plan for the 
goods, works and services to be procured during the following two 
months and, in respect of Subprojects, the source of funding 
thereof, all prepared following terms of reference satisfactory to 
the Bank.  Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been 
approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Page  16
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to: (a) each contract procured pursuant to the 
provisions of Part B.1 hereof; and (b) the first two contracts 
procured pursuant to the provisions of Part C.1 hereof, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of 
this Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with 
the provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the 
“Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 (the Consultant 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this 
Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant 
Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, 
and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ 
services to be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  The short list of 
consultants for services for engineering design and supervision of 
works estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, 
may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Based on Consultants Qualifications
Services for design and supervision of works under 
Subprojects estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
2.
Single Source Selection
Services of consulting firms for technical audits and for 
Part B.1 of the Project which are estimated to cost less than 
$200,000 equivalent per contract, may, with the Bank's prior 
agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Page  17
paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks specified in C.1 and C.2 above, and for 
other tasks, that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 
of the Consultant Guidelines, not exceeding in the aggregate 
$500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded to 
individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for 
proposals, the proposed plan for the selection of consultants under 
the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all 
consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with 
the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to: (i) each contract for the employment 
of consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or 
more; (ii) each contract for individual consultants estimated to 
cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more; and (iii) each contract for 
a consulting firm or individual selected pursuant to the provisions 
of Part B.1 hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 
(other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 
or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and 
terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be 
awarded only after said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of 
this Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to 
the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
Section III.
Special Provisions
A.
In addition and without limitation or restriction to any 
other provisions set forth in this Schedule or the Guidelines, the 
following provisions shall govern all procurement of goods referred 
to in Part B.1 of Section I of this Schedule:
1.
Bids shall be submitted in one single envelope and the name 
of each bidder and the total amount of each bid, as well as any 
alternative proposals, if they have been requested or permitted, 
shall be read aloud when opened.
Page  18
2.
Foreign bidders shall not be required to have a local 
representative for purposes of submitting bids.
3.
Foreign bidders shall be permitted to have their financial 
solvency certified by a foreign bank acceptable to the procuring 
party without recertification by any Ecuadorian bank or other 
Ecuadorian person or entity.
4.
Bid and performance bonds and guarantees issued by foreign 
sureties approved by the procuring party shall be admissible 
without recertification or other participation by any Ecuadorian 
bank or other Ecuadorian person or entity.
5.
Letters of credit issued to any supplier of goods or 
provider of services shall not be required to be counter-guaranteed 
by such supplier or provider in whole or in part. This shall not 
prevent the procuring party from obtaining other performance 
warranties from such suppliers or providers.
B.
In addition to and without limitation or restriction to any 
other provisions set forth in this Schedule or the Consultants’ 
Guidelines, the following provisions shall govern all employment of 
consultants referred to in Section II of this Schedule:
1.
Foreign consultants shall not be required to be locally 
registered as a condition of participation in the selection 
process.
2.
Foreign consultants shall not be required, either directly 
or indirectly, to give any participation in or share of any 
consulting contracts to any local firm or person.
3.
Foreign consulting firms shall not be required, as a 
condition to provide services, to be registered in Ecuador with a 
minimum capital different from that required for Ecuadorian firms.
4.
Foreign consultants, either individuals or firms, shall not 
be required to pay fees to the Ecuadorian Consultants’ Association 
that are different from those required for Ecuadorian consultants.
5.
No consultant shall, at the time he or she is carrying out 
his or her contractual obligations as consultant, hold civil 
service office or any other position in an agency of the Borrower 
or any Ecuadorian public sector entity, nor shall such consultant 
have any right to re-entry into any such office or position upon 
the conclusion of his or her consulting services.
Section IV.
Internal Approvals
1.
With respect to the procurement of goods to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan, any approval of bidding documents and 
contracts required under the laws of the Borrower shall be given 
only by the President of the El Niño Emergency Coordination Unit.
2.
With respect to the employment of consultants, any approval 
of contracts or of consultant selection processes required under 
the laws of the Borrower, shall be given only by the President of 
the El Niño Emergency Coordination Unit.
Page  19
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) 
and (2) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures 
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required 
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan 
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount 
equivalent to $6,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and 
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of 
this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $3,000,000 until the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or 
exceed the equivalent of $9,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the 
provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that 
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the 
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the 
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for 
deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which do 
not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On 
the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for 
deposits into the Special Account at such 
intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, 
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the 
documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment 
is requested. On the basis of each such 
request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall 
have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Page  20
Account for eligible expenditures. All such 
deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from 
the Loan Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent 
amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special 
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall 
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other 
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this 
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits 
into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that 
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly 
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article 
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of 
this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the 
Bank, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) 
of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be 
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the 
audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the 
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right 
of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant 
to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan 
allocated to the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation.  Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan 
Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated 
to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals 
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have 
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the 
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that 
any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an 
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of 
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; 
or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so 
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into 
the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that 
any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required 
Page  21
to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such 
outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to 
the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special 
Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan 
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance 
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions.
