Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
M  ~i ( 4; )Jl'   ii n.'    :    ' kt)l '{
Report No. 9483-POL
STAFF APPRAICAL REPORT
POLAND
PRIVATIZATION AND RESTRUCTURING PP.OJECT
May 22, 1991
Indust-v and Finance Department
CountL Department IV
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Zloty (Zi)
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
(Zlotys per US$)
1986  1987  1988  1989  1990   1991
(March)
US$1.00   Z1             175   2,5  430  4000  9500   9500
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
BRE         -     Export Development Bank
BGZ         -    Bank for Food Economy
BISE        -    Bank of Social and Economic Initiatives
BTT         -     Banking Telecommunication Society
CMEA        -    Council of Mutual Economic Assistance
DDSR        -    Deb'- and Debt Service Reduction
EBRD        -     European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EC          -    European Community
EIB         -     European Investment Bank
ETP         -     Economic Transformation Program
FIDL        -    Financial Institutions Development Loan
IDA         -     Industrial Development Agency
IEDL        -     Industrial Export Development Loan
LIB         -    Limited International Bidding
LIBID       -    London Interbank Bid Rate
LIBOR       -    London Interbank Offered Rate
NICA        -    Non Interest Current Account
MOF         -    Ministry of Finance
NBP         -    National Bank of Poland
PDB         -    Polish Development Bank
PKO BP      -    PKO State Savings Bank
PRP         -    Privatization and Restructuring Project
POLAND - FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
POLAND
PRIVATIZATION AND RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page no,
LOAN AND PROJECT SUM .ARY........................ i-iiL
I.    INTRODUCTION .............................................    1
II.   THE PRIVATIZATION AND RESTRUCTURING PROGMA.              .           2
A. The Economic Environment           .         .                   2
B.  Tne Industrial Sector .........................,,               4
1.  Structure.......................................    4
2. Impact of Past and Recent Policies
on Performance .............,,                        5
C.  The Privatization Program and Progress to Date,.......          6
D.  Constraints to More Rapid Progress             .       .        8
E.  Policies for More Rapid Privatization        .     .            9
1. Mass Privatization.                                       9
2.  Foreign Investment ..............................   10
3.  Privatization at the Local Level ................   11
4.  Other Aspects ...................................   11
F. Institutional Arrangements                  .        .          12
G.  Industrial Restructuring ..............................   13
H.  The Industrial Development Agency              .      .        15
I.  The Role of the Ministry of Industry             .     .       17
J.  Bank Group Strategy for Assistance to
Enterprise Reform ...................................   18
III. THE FINANCIAL INTERMEDIARIES                   ..                   19
A.  Current Status of the Financial Sector            .     .      19
B. Financial Sector Reform                   ..                    20
C.  Financing for Privatization and Restructuring    ..    21
1.  The Polish Development Bank .....................   21
2.  Polish Commercial and Specialized Banks .........   23
3.  Other Inte.,mediaries ............................   23
IV.  THE PROJECT ...............................,,,,,,.....   23
A.  Objectives and Scope of the Proposed Project.23
B.  Project Components ......................,,,,..   24
C.  Policy Component in Support of the
Privatization and Restructuring Program.............   25
D.  The Technical Assistance Component ....................   27
E.  Restructuring/Privatization Investment Component ......   29
F.  Project Cost and Financing Plan .......................   30
G.  Environmental Impact .................................   32
This report is based on the findings of the appraisal mission which visited Poland in March 1991.
The mission comprised Messrs./Mmes. Y. Duvivier (task manager), H. Aghdaey, D. Kocbav, U. Rao
(EM4IF); A. Cordet-Dupouy (RHPOL); A. Ewing (EMTIE); and I. Lieberman (Consultant).
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



V.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATIOM AND ON-LENDING ARAGEMENTS   .......  32
A.  Project Organization and Implementation ..............  32
B.  Lending Arrangements ........    .........................   33
C. Policy Component                   ..                     33
D.  Technical Assistance Component           .      .        34
E. Restructuring/Privatization Investment Component  ..   34
1. The Apex Institution .............................  34
2. The Participating Banks ..........................  35
3. On-lending Arrangements for Investment Financing.  36
4. Procurement ............    ....................   37
F.  Allocation of Bank Loan and Disbursements ............  37
G.  Auditing and Reporting Requirements ........ ..........  38
VI.  BENEFITS AND RISKS   .......................................  38
A.  Benefits of the Project ........     ......................  38
B.  Risks ................................................   40
VII.  AGREEMENTS ArD RECOMMENDATION ............. ...............  40
A.  Agreements . ...........................................   40
B.  Recommendation ............   ...........................  42
1           Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File.  43
2-1    The Privatization Program .46
2-2         Process of Transformation of State-owned Enterprises         79
3-1         The Polish Development Bank .80
4-1         Letter of Policy for Privatization and Restructuring         94
4-2         Technical Assistance Program .111
5-1         Estimated Disbursement Schedule of Bank Loan .126



POLAND
PRIVATIZATION AND RESTRUCTURINg PROJECT
LOAN AND  RECT SMUNRY
Borrower:                Republic of Poland.
Beneficiaries:           Government, Ministry of Ownership Changes, Ministry of
Industry, Industrial Development Agency, Polish
Development Bank (PDB), Privatize* enterprises and
enterprises undergoing privatization.
Amount:                  US$280 million equivalent.
Terms:                   Seventeen years, including a five-year grace period,
at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.
On-lending Terms:        The Government will administer directly ths policy
(US$75 million) and technical assistance (US$65
million) eomponents, but will on-lend funds for
restructuring/privatization investment component
(US$140 million) to PDB, which in turn will channel
these resources through participating banks to
enterprises. On-lending by the Government to PDB will
be denominated in US$ or in OM, at LIBOR or FIBOR plus
one fourth of one percent (0.25X) with the Government
assuming the cross-currency risk. On-lending by PDB
to the participating banks, and by them to the final
beneficiaries will be in US$ or in DM. PDB will lend
to participating banks at LIBOR for US$ and FIBOR for
DM plus 1.50X. Government and PDB spreads will be
reviewed with the Bank semi-annually, to ensure
adequacy and consistency with the cost of funds from
other sources. Loans to the final beneficiaries will
be at market rates determined by the participating
banks. The loans will be for periods not exceeding 12
years with grace periods of up to 4 years. The final
beneficiaries will assume the foreign exchange risk.
ProJect Objectives:      The project's objectives are to provide support to
Poland's efforts to develop and implement an effective
enterprise privatization program, and implement
restructuring across a major share of its industry,
by: (i) assisting with the design of the necessary
policies, the establishment and strengthening of the
institutional framework, and the implementation of the
privatization program; (ii) providing finance in ways
which will mobilize additional rescurces for
privatization, in support of the Government's
objective of privatizing half of the State-owned
assets within 3 years; and (iii) providing finance for
enterprise restructuring programs in those cases where



- il -
investments are warranted and enterprises are private,
or joint-stock or limited liability companies with a
privatization strategy.
Project Description:    The scope of the proposed project includes:
(a)   Policy Component (US$75 million) to support the
Government's program for enterprise
transformation and privatization, specifically,
the implementation of the necessary policy and
institutional conditions facilitating
privatization. Up to US$50 million of this
component could be uised for a Debt and Debt
Service Reduction (DDSR) plan meeting the
requirements for Bank support.
(b)   Technical Assistance Component (US$65 million),
principally to support the key agencies involved
in the privatization and restructuring process.
.(c)   Investm*ent Component (US$140 million) for
privatization/restructuring, wnich will be
channelled through the Polish Development Bank,
and through eligible banks to finance the direct
foreign exchange investment costs, including
physical improvements to production facilities,
permanent working capital, interest during
construction, licenses or other types of
technology transfer, as well as software,
technical assistance and training at the
enterprise level.
Benefits:                The proposed project will yield major benefits to
Poland in terms of establishing and applying the
needed framework for effective transformation of
enterprises, while directly supporting the
privatization/corporatization of perhaps 10-15X of
industrial enterprises. In addition, implementation
of the Project will lead to: (i) improvements in
enterprise management; (ii) economic benefits (related
to returns on investment in the subprojects);
(iii) convertible currency earnings derived from the
increased availability of quality products both for
exports and as substitute for imports; and
(iv) environmental, institutional, social and
demonstration benefits. It will also support efforts
to stimulate private sector development and
privatization in the on-going movement towards a mixed
market economy. The Project, while not directly
addressing the social cost oE reform, will help in
maintaining jobs in efficient enterprises and in
reducing the overall loss of jobs in enterprises
facing difficulties.



- iii -
Risks:                   (i) In the short term there could be delays in
implementation associated with the scale and
complexity of the privatization program, and the
enterprises' willingness to privatize. The
Government's limited implementation capability, the
slow and difficult build-up of the new institutions
and the lack of skills of managers may introduce some
delays which would be minimized by the inclusion of
the comprehensive technical assistance component. (ii)
In the longer term, a risk that could adversely affect
the indirect benefits of the project, stems from the
ambitious program of adjustment and stabilization.
While the Government's current plans are satisfactory,
the major institutional and systemic reforms are
unprecedented in Poland and may take longer than
currently planned. The Bank's on-going economic and
sector work dialogue will be important in helping to
identify and overcome weaknesses in the implementation
of the reform and to support the Government's overall
industrial policy reform program. In addition, the
technical assistance provided under the project to
help develop the needed regulatory and institutional
framework will reduce this risk. (iii) Finally, the
lack of services and qualified consultants may slow
the pace of the demonstration effect, but the design
of the technical assistance component and the Bank's
close supervision of the implementation will minimize
this risk.
Project Cost:                         Local       Foreign      Total
--(US$ million)-
Policy Component                       -           75           75
Technical Assistance Component         30         210          240
Investment Component                  180         420          600
Total Project Cost                    210         Z70 5W
Financing Plan:
IBRr                                   -          280          280
Government (for TA)                    30           50          80
Enterprises/commercial/
institutional sources          180          280          460
EC (for TA)                            -            69          69
Other institutions (for TA)           -            26           25
Total Financing Required              210          75          915
Estimated
DJsburseen_tA:  IBRD FY             1922  .993  1994  122k  12k  1222
----------(US$ million)----------
Annual                   105    68    58    28    14       7
Cumulative               105   173   231   259   273   280
Economic Rate of Retur:        Not Applicable.



PRIVATIZATION AND RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
I.  INTRODUCTION
1.01        The far-reaching raform program now being implemented in Poland is
designed to break the country out of a vicious circle of slow growth,
inefficient investments and low productivity. Its main target is to stabilize
the macro-economic situation, and to move the country rapidly towards an
efficient market economy. Despite the pressure of the new economic
eiuvironment, and initial attempts to adapt operations to the new conditions,
many Polish enterprises are not capable of responding quickly and
competitively. In some cases, the response until now has been largely
negative, such as simply stopping production, closing down and sending workers
home. Most enterprise managers, however, have come to realize the need to
implement modern management techniques, to restructure and/or privatize their
enterprises and to attract foreign partners.
1.02        Recognizing the difficulty of achieving an adequate supply
response and efficiency gains in enterprises owned and operated in the public
sector, the Government has decided that the preferred future for its 9,000
State-owned enterprises (SOEs) is privatization. It is targeting to have half
of them transferred to private owners within three years. A program is being
developed which will lead to rapid privatization of a large r.umber of
enterprises through a variety of alternative procedures, while at the same
time assisting remaining viable SOEs to adjust effectively to the new market-
oriented environment during the transition to eventual privatization.  The
Government is seeking Bank support for this program through this proposed
Privatization and Restructuring Project.
1.03        The proposed project wi'll furt'aer the process of privatization and
restructuring by helping to establish the necessary framework and facilities
through the creation and support of enabling institutions and instruments. In
particular, the project aims at a catalytic role in this challenging
transformation process by providing assistance and funds to help create an
environment conducive to private (domestic and international) involvement in
enterprise management. While the restructuring needs of Polish enterprises,
especially in industry, are considerably greater than can be financed through
a single operation, it is anticipated that this project will have a broad and
decisive impact on the overall restructuring and privatization process
through: (i) its support to the action program of the Government for
enterprise transformation; (ii) its focus on the design and monito:ing of the
institutional framework for privattzation and restructuring; and (iii) its
financial support to specific enterprise restructuring.
1.04        To support the project, the Government is requesting a Bank loan
of US$280 million equivalent. The loan would finance three integrally related
components in^luding: (i) a oolicv component for which US$75 million would be
provided in support of specific policies essential to the Government's
enterprise transformation program; (ii) a technical assistance comonent for
which US$65 million equivalent would be provided to support privatization
transactions as well as key institutional and training activities; and



(iii) an investment component of US$140 million equivalent which would provide
loan financing for restructuring investments in privatized enterprises or
enterprises in the privatization process. The proposed Bank loan will finance
only a small part of the restructuring needs of Poland's industrial sector,
but will have a greater impact by mobilizing and helping to direct cofinancing
from bilateral donors and financing agencies, domestic and foreign private
sourcas, the country's own specialized restructuring institutions, local
commercial banks, and the enterprises themselves.
1.05        The proposed project was prepared and pre-appraised during
missions in February, April/May, July, December 1990 and March 1991, which
comprised -taff of the Industry and Energy Divisions of both the Europe and
Technical Departments of EMENA and consultants. A number of documents
concerning the sector and the project are listed in Annex 1 and are available
in the Project File.
II. THE PRIVATIZATION AND RESTRUCTURING PROGRAM
A. The Economic Environment
2.01        Poland's hyperinflation and severe external payments problems
became untenable in the second half of 1989 and it became evident that a sharp
break with the past was required. A comprehensive Economic Transformation
Program (ETP) was therefore formulated at the end of 1989 and initiated at the
beginning of 1990. A number of measures were agreed in the context of the IMF
Stand-By Arrangement and the recent Bank Structural Adjustment Loan (Loan
3247-POL) in the areas of economic stabilization, macroeconomic policy and
structural adjustment, including stringent financial and monetary policies,
and wide-reaching reforms in the areas of fiscal policy, trade policy,
competition and deregulation, enterprise sector, financial sector and social
safety net.
2.02        Overall, the program has been successful.  Hyperinflation has
subsided, prices are freely determined, and most barriers to international
trade have been removed. The program has also resulted in the following,
somewhat unexpected, developments: a persistent inflation, a large trade
surplus and reserve accumulation, a sharp drop in production, rapidly
increasing unemployment, a large budgetary surplus; and a better than expected
financial performance of enterprises. The rate of inflation has hovered
around 4-5Z per month since Fall 1990, as a result of the devaluation of the
zloty at the end of 1989, the recurrent correction of administered prices and
the wage indexation formula, the loosening of monetary and credit policy in
the second half of 1990, the depreciation of the US dollar and the increase in
international oil prices.
2.03        In response to these developments, the authorities loosened
aggregate demand in the second half of 1990, and the pace in the last quarter
indicated some unsustainable trends. In particular, net domestic assets of
the banking system and wages surpassed the IMF Stand-By limits. The ETP was
recently amplified and extended through the preparation of a Memorandum on



- 3 -
Economic Reform and Medium-Term Policies, which serves as a guide to its
program of work. On the basis of this program, the Polish authorities agreed
with the IMF on a three-year Extended Arrangement, complemented by access
under the Compensatory and Contingency Financing Facility, which replaces the
previous agreement which expired in March.
2.04        For the year 1990 as a whole, the external position of Poland
improved markedly with respect to 1989. The trade surplus in convertible
currency is estimated to be about US$2.2 billion (about 3.5X of GDP). This,
together with private transfers and interest rece!pts, resulted in reserve
accumulation of about US$4.3 billion, with the level of gross reserves at the
year-end 1990 amounting to US$6.5 billion. A generous rescheduling of Paris
Club debt obligations also strengthened the balance of payments position. The
trade surplus for the year is due to a very strong performance of convertible
currency exports, which increased by some 35X in real terms with respect to
1989. Imports increased by 6.1X in real terms for the year as a whole, with
the rebound concentrated in the last two months of 1990. Poland is expected
to face severe problems with the balance of payments in 1991, due to a sharp
reduction in exports to the CMEA because of the virtual collapse of the Soviet
markets and the curtailment of the CMEA trade arrangements. The balance of
payments will also be affected by higher energy import prices (an additional
US$1.5 billion) due principally to the shift to international prices. As a
result, the trade balance is projected to worsen, moving into a small deficit.
Based on the recent agreement with the Paris Club for Debt and Debt Service
Reduction (DDSR) of about 50X, plus possible DDSR with commercial banks and
the contribution of funds from other sources (including proposed quick-
disbursing funds from the Bank), Poland should essentially be able to finance
its balance of payments needs for the decade. An analysis of Poland's balance
of payments prospects is provided in the President's Report for the proposed
parallel Financial Institutions Development Loan (Report P-5535-POL).
2.05        The surplus of the consolidated State budget is estimated to be
approximately 2.5X of 1990 GDP. This represents an extraordinary turnaround:
the stabilization program called for a balanced budget (compared with a 7.41
of GDP deficit in 1989). The surplus continued throughout most of the year
and thus dampened the increase in domestic credit. However, the Government
borrowed from the banking system in November and December. GDP in 1990
dropped by an estimated 121 with respect to 1989. In particular, in 1990,
industrial socialized sector production is estimated to have dropped by 251
whereas private sector production increased by 8.51. During January-February
1991, there was a further 3.21 drop in production sold of the enterprise
sector as a whole, compared to the same period in 1990. The greatest fall in
production occurred in the electro-machinery sector (which accounts for 201 of
all enterprise sector revenues), minerals and metallurgy. Only the food
processing industry and the wood and paper industry recorded an increase of
production sold during the first two months of 1991 compared to 1990.



- 4 -
Unemployment has continued to grow at a rate of 100,000 per month and reached
1.26 million (7X of the total work force) by end-February 1991 1/.
2.06        There is a general consensus that 1991 will be a difficult year
for the Polish economy. The favorable circumstances and outcomes of 1990 ale
unlikely to be repeated and the full consequences of reform measures
introduced in 1990 should begin to bite. On the domestic front, stabili 'in
must be consolidated and an effort will be needed to carry out conservative
monetary and fiscal policies. Additionally, important steps must be taken for
the restructuring of the economy. Large-scale privatization of the enterprise
sector will begin, which together with restructuring and further stabilization
will likely lead to modest output recovery but higher unemployment. The
expected CDP growth of 2.5% in 1991 -_ in part due to carry over from 1990.
On the external front, Poland will face substantially higher energy prices and
a severely depressed CMEA market. Moreover, the relative appreciation of the
zloty will reduce the attractiveness of exports with respect to 1990.
B. The Industrial Sector
1. Structure
2.07        Poland has over 9,000 state-owned enterprises, of which 65% are in
industry, and the remainder in the service, infrastructure, and agriculture
sectors. The industrial sector 2.1 has been the leading sector of the economy
since 1960. Currently, it contributes about 441 of Poland's net material
product, and employs 231 of the country's labor force. Total assets are
estimated at about US$39 billion and total sales for 1990 have reached about
US$63 billion. Socialized industrial enterprises, i.e. state-owned
enterprises and cooperatives, produce about 90% of industrial net production
and contribute about 601 cf Poland's exports. Industrial state enterprises
are generally large in size and capital intensive, and concentrate on the
production of iron and steel, engineering and metal products, transport and
farm equipment, chemicals and chemical-based goods.
2.08        Private sector activity in industry is limited but growing, and
includes already a few sizable firms as well as numerous smail firms in
addition to artisan and household operations, employing about 101 of the
industrial work force. Despite its relative size, private industry has shown
13/    A complete description of the current situation with respect to
employment is contained in the report Poland: Employment Promotion and
Services for a Market Zconomy, Sector Memorandum, World Bank, February,
191.
21   The Polish classification of industry differs from the ISIC as it
includes fuel and power (coal, coke, crude petroleum, petroleum
refining, natural gas, electric and thermal power, etc.) within the
industrial sector. To assess the performance of Polish industry
according to the more usual classification, these activities have been
excluded from the analyses wherever possible.



- 5 -
remarkable dyramism and, since the early 1980s, has consistently grown more
rapidly than the socialized sector. Preliminary survey data for 1990 indicate
that private production currently accounts for about 13X of industrial output,
up from about 9X in 1989. Private operations are also increasing in other
sectors, particula;lIy in rotail trade and services. In 1990 the number of
private companies increased by 12,700 to about 22,800. The overall number of
private businesses, including unincorporated ones, is now in excess of one
million.
2. Impact of Past and Recent Policles on Performange
2.09        Serious inefficiencies persist within the industrial sector
despite the macroeconomic success of the new stabilization and liberalization
efforts. These inefficilticies are mainly due to the inherited industrial
structure characterized by captive domestic markets, an indiscriminate flow of
funds from the central Government, and a heavy reliance on CMEA markets,
especially sales of certain industrial products to the Soviet Union.
Industrial performance in the past has also been constrained by systemic
distortions such as in pricing, subsidies, taxation and wages. These
distortions have historically limited the incentives for improving enterprise
performance and constrained the mobility of resources to economic activities,
thus maintaining existing shortages and impeding efficient growth.
2.10        The policy measures implemented at the beginning of 1990
correcting relative prices, imposing hard-budget constraints, setting interest
rates that are positive in real terms, and increasing competition have put the
enterprise sector under enormous stress. With higher (unsubsidized) prices of
inputs, and limited scope for increasing output prices due to increasing
international competition, many enterprises are facing sharp declines in their
sales. In some cases (for example, where CMEA sales have stopped completely
or in enterprises heavily dependent on the former east German market)
enterprises are faced with a need to completely redirect their activity. The
effects of the demise of the CMEA trade systems will be felt even more acutely
in 1991 as Poland's former trading partners move to a free trading pattern
based on convertible currencies. With the elimination of subridies to
producers in 1990, the increase in energy prices to international levels is
having a severe impact on high energy consuming industries.
2.11        To some extent these negative factors have been offset by the
sharp rise in exports to convertible currency countries, aided by trade
liberalization and the devaluation of the zloty at the beginning of 1990.
Other reasons why the effects of these negative factors have not yet fully
been felt through numerous bankruptcies of enterprises are: (i) the minimal
long-term debt of most enterprises, which was significantly reduced following
hyperinflation; (ii) a temporary increase in inter-enterprise credit; and
(iii) the cautious attitude adopted by many ervl-rprises, drastically reducing
purchases of inputs, drawing down on very large inventories and severely
curtailing investments, in addition to personnel layoffs. However the hard-
budget constraint is also beginning to take effect: 400 SOEs failed to make
mandatory dividend payments (a tax levied on a portion of their equity



- 6 -
capital) to the State during 1990, which is a trigger for initiating special
proceedings which in many cases will lead to liquidation.
C. The PrivatizatinnProrm and Progress to Date
2.12        Privatization has been selected by the Government as the preferred
mode for transforming SOEs, primarily because it will improve enterprise
efficiency, and hence the efficiency of the Polish economy, by providing
better incentives to capital, management and labor. The Government has
gradually elaborated a privatization policy on the basis of extensive
discussions with consultants and with the Bank Group, and in particular with
the help of an initial technical assistance program developed by IFC. The
Privatization Agency was first established (subsequently replaced by the
Ministry of Ownership Changes) and the Privatization Law of SOEs was adopted
in July 1990. The strategy and the details of the proposed privatization
Drotram were further elaborated 2/ and adopted by the Parliament in February,
1991. As noted above (para 1.02) the principal objective of this program is
to transfer about one-half of the 9000 SOEs A/ to private hands within three
years, and to achieve a structure of ownership of the economy similar to that
of EC countries within five years. Beside speed, other major concerns of the
Government are transparency, fairness and compliance of the process with
social justice. Pecognizing the wide variation in the type and condition of
enterprises to be transformed on the one hand, and of potential entrepreneurs
on the other, as well as the current limited availability of Polish private
capital and management skills, the program proposes and elaborates a multi-
track approach to privatization (para. 2.14). The privatization program and
its progress to date are detailed in Annex 2-1.
2.13        Considerable privatization of various types had already taken
place before adoption of the new measures. The principal path to private or
semi-private status to date had been to place part of the assets of an SOE
into a joint venture with a local or foreign partner. In the two years since
the enactment of the Law on Joint Ventures of December 1988, about 1,400 such
joint ventures have been formed. Second, privatization has been accomplished
by leasing all or part of the assets of an SOE to a private company,
frequently formed by the management and employees of the SOE itself. Both of
the preceding routes to privatization were largely initiated and managed by
the enterprises themselves and in some cases led to some abuse. Third, some
bankrupt enterprises have been liquidated and their assets sold to new,
private owners. Fourth, in some cases where enterprises had already been
incorporated as state-owned joint-stock companies, privatization has been
21/   "Program for the Privatization of the Polish Economy".  Government of
Poland. Warsaw, December 1990.
_4/    The present program deals mainly with State-owned enterprises.  Other
state property includes State Bndgetary Entities (such as Schools and
Hospitals), Municipal Property, State Farms and parvially or totally
state-owned joint-stock corporations. For this property, as well as for
some 13,000 cooperatives, specialized schemes are being developed.



- 7 -
effected through a capital increase subscribed by private institutions or
persons. In addition to the Law on Joint Ventures, key legislation providing
the legal framework for these activities includes the Law of the Economics of
§Q g of September 1981, and its subsequent amendments and implementing
decrees, including an important liquidation amendment it, 1990; the Cgwmercial
Code of 1934, as amended at various occasions; the Bankruptcy Law as last
amended in July 1990; and the AntL-MonoRoly Act of February 1990.
2.14        Privatization of these types together with the rapid growth of new
private sector activity has had a discernible effect on the economy. However,
the Government recognizes that a more proactive approach will be required in
order to achieve a much more rapid transformation of the economy. While the
above roads to privatization are still possible, the new privatization law
provides a comprehensive multitrack program comprising two principal routes:
(i) the "commercialization" (i.e. corporatization) of an SOE through its
conversion to a joint-stock company or limited liability company, with a view
to subsequent sale or distribution of shares to private owners, either through
"individual" privatization (public offering, trade sale or employees' buy-
out, as described in para. 2.17) or through "mass privatization" (paras. 2.21-
2.22); and (ii) "liguidation" (i.e. winding-up) of the SOE followed by the
creation of a new private company to which some or all of the assets of the
SOE are contributed, sold or leased. This latter method of privatization
through the transfer of assets (rather than the sale of the enterprise as a
going concern) 1has already attracted considerable interest. The various
methods of privatization, together with the alternative routes for
restructuring or winding-up of enterprises, are illustrated in Annex 2-2.
2.15        Decision-making on privatization is greatly hampered by the
existing ownership/management structure of SOEs. While under their present
form the SOEs are presumably owned by the State through a "founding organ",
the various components of ownership rights (using the property, financial
returns, disposing of the property etc.) are in fact held jointly but in a
shifting and imprecise way among managers, workers and the State. In effect,
the majority of SOEs are basically self-managed, either by a well-organized
workers' council, or when these councils are not effectively organized, by
enterprise managers who act with considerable independence, not only of the
workers but of the state bureaucracy as well. While most decisions concerning
the operation of an enterprise are made by the enterprise management,
agreement must also be obtained from the workers' council of the enterprise.
As workers and/or managers have gained the authority to control the enterprise
but lack the clear title to the assets of the enterprise, they have
considerable incentive to try to appropriate its income and to strip it from
its assets. Under these circumstances it is not surpricing that enterprises
have had difficulty in facing up to some of the hard decisions which in many
cases will be a necessary prelude to successful privatization.
2.16        The commercialization of the SOEs is therefore a crucial step
towards actual privatization which will remove the problems arising from the
currently muddled ownership structure of the enterprises. Through the



- 8
conversion of the enterprises into corporate form 5/, the property rights will
be concentrated in a corporate board of directors appointed by the owners,
initially the State and eventually the new private shareholders. The
corresponding introduction of adequate corporate governance is of utmost
importance, and should be effected as rapidly as possible to remove the state
of uncertainty in which most SOEs presently operate.
2.17        In September 1990, the Government established a new Ministry of
Ownership Changes (MoOC) to manage the privatization program. In the six
months since its formatior  MoOC has assisted 107 enterprises with the first
step of commercializatic'.   ile another 57 are under preparation or awaiting
approval for this process  ~eIn of the large commercialized companies have
been privatized with tbhe    i,tance of foreign investment banks, either
through domestic public .     ings (which includes a comprehensive process of
valuation, preparation 3. 1    .'ectus, and public offering of shares) or
through direct (trade) sales to foreign investors. Another large company was
privatized through a leveraged buy-out by employees. In the cases of the
enterprises sold through public offerings or by trade sales, the employees
were permitted to purchase up to 20% of the outstanding equity at the
preferential price of 50% of the general offer price. Following the
"liquidation" route, 143 small and medium enterprises have been privatized
with the approval of MoOC (in most cases as part of a planned restructuring
with identified buyprs or lessors for the assets), while about 200 more have
started the process or have expressed serious interest in this process.
Significant progress has also been achieved in the area of "small
privatization", or privatization of small and medium-size retail and wholesale
shops as well as services, mostly municipal property: by the end of March
1991, about 80% of retail trade, 40% of construction activities and 60% of
road transportation services had been privatized, mostly through leases.
D. Constraints to More Rapid Progress
2.18        While progress has been significant, certain policy and
institutional constraints must be addressed in order to achieve the much more
rapid pace cf transformation presently envisaged. Constraints related to the
Dolicy environment include: (i) the absence, until now, of a fully elaborated
and implementable plan for privatization on a larger 'mass" scale; (ii) a less
than satisfactory environment for foveign investment (most foreign joint
ventures had been relatively small and confined to the commercial and service
sectors); (iii) problems of land ownership which inhibit real privatization in
some cases, essentially in agriculture; (iv) the lack, until now, of clear
guidelines and procedures for the transformation of the very large number of
cooperatives; (v) the absence of a policy for dealing with property claims of
former owners of nationalized assets now slated for privatization; and
/    Incentives for SOEs to commercialize are significant: after
commercialization, the transformed companies are exempt from paying the
obligatory "dividend" tax of the SOEs; in addition, there is reduction
of the tax on excessive wage increases. Privatized companies are fully
exempt of this tax.



(vi) the lack of a clear industrial policy, which in some cases makes it
difficult to assess the attractiveness of a particular privatization
operation.
2.19        Equally important are the institutional constraints which have
inhibited the pace of transformation: (i) the lack of institutional capacity
to deal with the growing number of involuntary bankruptcies, and voluntary
commercializations, privatization and liquidations; (ii) the occasional
conflicting roles of the various agencies involved in the process; (iii) the
slow (and expensive) individual process of the one-by-one privatization of
medium and large enterprises being prepared by the MoOC; (iv) the inadequacy
of the financial sector and the absence of supporting institutions required to
effect ready transfers of ownership interest from one owner to another;
(v) the absence to date of clear mechanisms and instruments to exercise the
ownership rights of the "State Treasury" envisaged by the privatization law,
which would provide clear ownership of state assets and enable the development
of programs for their more effective management; and (vi) the lack of
managerial and/or institutional capacity in many SOEs to turn them around and
make them profitable and attractive for private investors.
2.20        The recently elaborated privatization program recognizes these
constraints and, as detailed below, the Government is committed to taking
steps to deal with them on a priori.ty basis. The proposed Project is
specifically designed to assist and support this undertaking. The Government
has taken several critical preparatory steps for the program and is expected
to undertake the follow-up actions during the next few months as detailed
below.
E. Policies for More Rapid Privatization
2.21        The Government intends to continue with the currently-used methods
of privatization discussed above. Individual privatization following existing
procedures (valuation, preparation of a prospectus, bidding process) will be
used for some large enterprises and in particular for those which develop
their own privatization plan and/or require a major injection of foreign
capital. However, as further elaborated below, the development of a new
"mass" privatization program is a key element of the Government's strategy to
accelerate the process of ownership transformation. For the 500 largest
enterprises the Government is planning to use the "commercialization" route
followed by individual or "mass" privatization. The smaller enterprises would
essentially be privatized through the "liquidation" route.
1. Mass Privatization
2.22        In December 1990, the MoOC prepared a preliminary plan for mass
privatization the key elements of which as presently envisaged are: (i) the
distribution of "vouchers" to citizens which would be exchangeable for shares



- 10 -
in newly-created financial intermediaries or Privatization Funds j/; and (ii)
the establishment of a number of such Privatization Funds in the form of
privately-managed mutual funds/active holdiag companies which would use the
vouchers entrusted to them to bid for a majority of the shares of
"commercialized" enterprises. These funds, managed with the help of foreign
professional partners, would as controlling shareholder, manage or closely
control the management of the enterprises for a certain number of years (and
in some cases as long as necessary to complete the turn-around of the
enterprises). This innovative concept (detailed in Annex 2-1) creates a
market which would put a value on companies, gives the citizens some choice as
to a Fund (as the Funds could propose different investment strategies and
attract investors with different risk perceptions) and reduces the risk to
investors through portfolio diversification. The concept of the Funds also
has the advantage that they avoid a too large dilution of ownership while
providing professional exercise of ownership rights. With technical
assistance financed by the Bank and the British Know-how Fund, and with the
help of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD), the
Government has undertaken detailed studies to assess the costs and feasibility
of the scheme, identify potential fund managers, and elaborate an
implementation plan with a view to putting it into practice rapidly. EBRD has
proposed to participate actively in the creation of one of the first funds.
2. Foreign Investment
2.23        To remove the current real or perceived barriers which constrain
foreign investment in Poland, and to make Poland competitive in attracting
such investment vis-a-vis other central European countries, the Government is
in the process of replacing the law on joint ventures by a new law on foreign
investment with a view to: (i) making a clear policy statement on the role of
foreign investors in the Polish economy and eliminating the requirement of
prior authorization of foreign investment by the Foreign Investment Agency
(except in a limited number of sensitive activities); (ii) improving the
incentive framework for foreign (and domestic) equity investment through such
measures as accelerated depreciation, loss-carry forward stipulations under
the tax law, and limited tax holidays; (iii) clarifying the way in which
original investments, profits and earnings of foreign nationals employed by
Polish and/or foreign companies can be fully repatriated without bureaucratic
and other impediments; and (iv) removing inconsistencies between the different
laws covering foreign investment (mainly the Privatization Law and the law on
joint-ventures). In addition, the Government intends to promote direct
foreign investments through a number of promotional actions and activities to
be developed in the near future. The Government has submitted the draft of
The preliminary plan envisages that citizens would receive an amount of
vouchers corresponding to 30% of the shares of the selected enterprises;
employees of the enterprises would be entitled to 10 to 20% of the
enterprises' equity; the remaining shares would be held by institutional
investors and by the State who would entrust them during a transitional
period to the Privatization Funds to give them control of the
enterprises.



- 11 -
the new law to Parliament and a promotional program has been developed by the
Foreign Investment Agency to attract foreign investors.
3. Privatization at the Local Level
2.24        Most of the formal privatization activity to date has focussed on
SOEs, in particular on those industrial enterprises of which the founding
organ is the Ministry of Industry. This focus is appropriate first, because
this is by far the biggest concentration of state-owned assets and second,
this set of enterprises, because of size and (in some cases) performance,
presents the most serious transformation problems. Significant privatization
is occurring at the local level, however:
(a)   At the level of the woJewoda which are the founding organ for
about 4,500 enterprises (mostly small and medium sized
enterprises), MoOC plans to decentralize the transformation
process since a central approach to the privatization of such SOEs
would be less efficient and slower. This decentralization will
require major efforts of training and technical assistance, and
the Government is requesting external assistance to design the
necessary programs to achieve this.
(b)   At the level of municigal RroRerty, there are also an estimated
20,000, predominantly local wholesale and retail trade entities,
for which the founding organ is typically the municipal council.
These are in the process of being privatized, at this time mostly
through lease by individuals or small enterprises.
(c)   In the case of the 13,000 cooperatives in Poland, which given
their role in agriculture represent about 20% of GDP, there is no
clear legal framework for full privttization. There have,
nevertheless, been a significant number of "spontaneous"
privatizations of cooperatives, which has been largely
unregulated. The Government is presently working on a draft law
in this area 1/ and is seeking external assistance for this
purpose.
4. Other AsDects
2.25        The Government is also working to resolve other key aspects and
issues which may slow down or hamper the privatization process. The issue of
property claims on assets slated for privatization will be addressed through a
selective plan of compensation of former owners of property (mostly small
2/    In agriculture, the issues of clarification of ownership (through the
liquidation process), the drafting of a new cooperative legislation and
transitional regulations to facilitate the transformation of the current
cooperatives into market-based, member-servicing cooperatives, are being
discussed in the context of preparation of the proposed Agricultural
Development Project.



- 12 -
businesses, farms and land) which had been nationalized in an abusive manner
or without adequate compensation. The general principle is that, except for
limited specific cases, property will not be returned but previous owners will
receive compensation, not in cash but through bonds issued by the State and
convertible into shares of privatized enterprises. This plan will be
supported by appropriate legislation. By stating clearly that compensation
but not restitution would be the rule, except in well-defined cases, this plan
will remove a major cause of uncertainty which could slow down the
privatization process of small businesses or in certain sectors.
2.26        Other issues are being addressed as the Government is elaborating
detailed implementation plans for the various privatization schemes. For
example, criteria and guidelines will be developed for a systematic selection
and preparation of the enterprises to be privatized foll wing each specific
route (among others, individual privatization versus ma s privatization,
commercialization versus liquidation, immediate privatization or privatization
following some restructuring etc..). The Government will also develop a
coherent policy on environment-related contingent liabilities (clean-up costs)
for new owners of privatized state-owned plants and other assets with
potential environmental.problems, and complete preparatory work for the
conversions of external debt into equity of privatized companies.
F. Institutional Arrangements
2.27        The Ministry of Oanership Changes will be pivotal in the future
programs of ownership transformation. Insofar as state-owned industrial
enterprises are concerned, other key agencies are the Ministry of Industry
(MoI) A/, the Anti-Monopoly Commission, and to a lesser extent the Polish
Development Bank and the Industrial Development Agency.   Furthermore, the
Foreign Investment Agency has a critical role in attracting foreign
investments, for both greenfield projects and privatization.
2.28        An important deficiency in the institutional set-up is the absence
to date of a comprehensive package of fully-defined mechanisms and instruments
to exercise the ownership rights of the "State Treasury" on state assets. The
Treasury is the designated owner of state assets (as specified for example by
the Privatization Law) and can delegate such rights to other entities. At the
present time, it is not quite clear how the State will manage its shares in
commercialized companies, for example, what will be the rules for Board
members appointed to oversee the State's interests in companies partially or
wholly owned by the State. The manner by which the State will exercise its
ownership rights will be of utmost importance in the privatization process as
well as in critical cases of enterprises being restructured. The Government
has initiated a large-scale program of selection and training of a pool of
fi]   Or other founding organs with industrial enterprises, such as the
Ministry of Physical Planning and Construction which controls many
building materials industries, or the Ministry of Agriculture and Food
Economy for agro-industries, or local wojewoda or municipal agencies for
smaller industrial enterprises.



- 13 -
potential Board members who will initially represent the State's interest in
the Boards of companies. To clarify their mandate, the Government will,
before October 1991, elaborate policies and procedures to be followdd by these
Board members. The Government will also examine other mechanisms (such as
holding companies) for management of the assets under State control, adopt
them as needed and amend the legal framework acuordingly.
2.29        The Government is now establishing a Stock Exchange and a
Securities Commission to ensure a transparent, efficient and safe securities
market. The French Stock Exchange Association and the American SEC,
respectively, are advising in the design of these two institutions. The
Warsaw Securities Exchange is being established as a joint stock company, with
part of its capital partly owned by the State Treasury, and partly by market
participants, and commenced limited operations in April 1991.
2.30        While in most cases, the respective roles of the various agencies
is reasonably clear, in others there is some overlap in function. The
Government will continue to work to identify those areas where conflict and
inconsistency persists and make the necessary adjustments to eliminate these
differences 9/. Despite this generally coherent desig, all institutions lack
the capacity to fulfil their mandate and the Government has elaborated an
extensive program of technical assistance to rapidly strengthen their
institutional capacity. The proposed project will provide direct support to
this program.
G. Industrial Restructuring
2.31        The Government does not see itself as a major agent in the field
of restructuring individual enterprises and will focus primarily on
privatizing enterprises which can be privatized, and liquidating non-viable
enterprises. Nevertheless, in view of the number of enterprises and the
limited resources for privatization, it is clear that many enterprises will
remain in Government hands for some time and that among this group will be
potentially viable enterprises which may need some preliminary restructuring
before they can be considered candidates for privatization. This is
particularly true in the case of currently unprofitable enterprises, or
enterprises which will soon become unprofitable because of drastic changes in
the economic environment such as the loss of traditional CMEA markets.
2.32        The Government has established procedures whereby an analysis is
undertaken of the prospects for the enterprise's future viability. In cases
where there is clearly no future, the Bankruptcy Law and the Law on State
Enterprises are utilized for an orderly process of liquidation. These laws
empower the Government to intervene directly in enterprises incurring losses
or not paying the compulsory dividends, suppress existing management
i2/   Examples include: the stated intention of all five of the agencies to
undertake subsector studies to guide their work; and the duplication of
many functions in the Ministry of Industry and the Industrial
Development Agency.



- 14 -
arrangements, and direct the enterprise to an ad-hoc Recovery Commission.
This commission carries out, with expert help, a diagnosis of the enterprise's
sii.uation and recommends accordingly its liquidation, sale or restructuring.
While a few liquidations of this type are taking place UQ/, the lack of
institutional capacity is impeding the pace of both the diagnosis of future
viability and the liquidation process itself. The Ministry of Industry, for
example, does not have the capability to deal with the 417 SOEs (out of the
1,200 industrial enterprises under its purview) which as of March 1991 were
already experiencing some financial problems. The Government is seeking
technical assistance in this area, to design and put in place appropriate
mechanisms for dealing with the growing number of liquidations. Some non-
viable enterprises have been fl/ sustained through inappropriate support loans
which amount to indirect budgetary support. However the Government has
reiterated its commitment not to subsidize directly or indirectly enterprises,
and intends to develop a clearly articulated and transparent industrial
policy, and a reorganized Ministry of Industry, itself restructured to
implement this policy.
2.33        In some presently unprofitable enterprises, a diagnosis initiated
by the Government or the enterprise, may show that with a greater or lesser
degree of restructuring--financial and/or physical--the enterprise or some
parts of the enterprise can be restored to profitability. In some such cases,
a private buyer may still be interested in an acquisition of an enterprise--
at a low price--if he sees the possibility for restructuring the enterprise by
his own efforts to restore profitability. This type of individual
privatization will be encouraged. The Government recognizes that in most
cases the possibility of greater returns from the sale by undertaking the
restructuring while the enterprise is still owned by the State will be far
outweighed by the lack of state capacity to design and implement such
restructuring.
2.34        For those enterprises which have good prospects for viability
after restructuring, but for which there is no private interest in the
enterprise prior to restructuring, the Government recognizes its
responsibility to initiate restructuring to make them attractive enough for
privatization. The Government intends to lend support to such restructuring
only to enterprises that have already been commercialized.
2.35         A major aspect of the restructuring of the many integrated or
other multi-plant enterprises is the break-up of the original enterprises into
smaller individual enterprises. This process is initiated generally by a
request of the enterprise to the founding organ, or sometimes by an action of
the Anti-monopoly Commission which then works with the founding organ. The
break-up aims at creating one or more profitable units by stripping off and
subsequently liquidating unproductive assets and focussing each new enterprise
on its core business. Mol and the Anti-monopoly Commission have inadequate
aQ/   In 1990, 22 such liquidations were completed.
]j/   Through the former Industrial Restructuring Fund



- 15 -
capacity to handle this work and technical assistance is being sought as the
pace of transformation accelerates and the pressure builds to proceed with
break-ups in order to delivsr an increasing stock of viable enterprises.
2.36        In most cases, restructuring actions to restore SOEs to
profitability to facilitate subsequent privatization are being developed on a
case-by-case basis. Suuh actions may include financial restructuring,
reorganization, and physical restructuring including the sale of some assets
or investments in others. The enterprise may seek the assistance of the new
Industrial Development Agency (IDA--para 2.38) to prepare its restructuring
plan.
2.37        For some groups of enterprises, the need for restructuring may be
anticipated and in these cases MoI can provide early assistance to prepare for
the necessary adjustment. Polluting industries are one such group, as are
energy-intensive industries, which will soon run into major financial
difficulties when the price of energy inputs is further increased to fully
reflect international prices. There are also strategically important
subsectors which warrant a subsectoral study to provide a backdrop against
which individual enterprises (whether SOEs or private) can evaluate their
restructuring and development proposals. MoI is already commissioning studies
in the textiles, steel, components and packaging sectors, and will seek
financial and technical assistance for further studies of this type in the
future.
H.  The Industrial Development Agency
2.38        Parliament has ratified an Act for the establisnment of an
Industrial Developmert Agency (IDA), as a joint stock company, by transforming
the Industrial Restructuring Fund (IRF) which had previously been the
restructuring arm of MoI.   While the former IRF has been providing financial
assistance to industrial enterprises (in the form of credits and equity
investments), IDA's major role, as defined by its Statute, is to provide
"advisory services and supporting analyses for SOEs in need of restructuring."
IDA is thus basically a technical assistance agency for the preparation of
restructuring programs of industrial enterprises and for the supervision of
implementation of such programs.
2.39        The Chairman of IDA is a Deputy Minister of Industry.  IDA's new
senior management team, recently appointed, consisting of a President and two
Vice Presidents, has prepared a document stating the "Overall Strategy,
Operational Policies and Proposed Work Program for 1991/1992." It reconfirms
IDA's basic role of providing advisory services for restructuring in contrast
to the former IRF role of providing financial assistance.
2.40        Although the agency began to operate as IDA only on January 1,
1991, the precursor organization has actively participated in the preparation
of enterprise restructuring plans, including the preliminary diagnoses of
about 150 enterprises and the appointment of consultants to initiate detailed
restructuring studies in 25 of them. The program for 1991/92 includes a
further 150 diagnostic studies and 100 full restructuring studies. IDA's



- 16 -
needs in technical assistance to implement this program are substantial and
will be addressed partly through t'is project.
2.41        The request for IDA assistance may be made by the enterprise, the
founding organ, or by the Ministry of Finance or MoOC.   Most of the ongoing
studies have been financed through bilateral or multilateral grants at no
charge to the enterprises. It is envisaged that in the future IDA will offer
financing for consulting studies, requiring the enterprises to pay 20X up
front, but will lend the balance of 80X. IDA will assist the enterprise
management to select the consultants and supervise their werk.
2.42        Upon completing the design of a restructuring program, IDA will
review the work in consultation with its clients and help to decide on
appropriate implementation actions. If the results of a study commissioned by
IDA indicate little chance of successful restructuring, the enterprise will be
liquidated and its assets sold off by a liquidator, appointed by the founding
organ. Where restructuring is indicated, at the request of the enterprise or
of the Government (as ownfr), or In some cases where IDA itself is a small
shareholder, IDA will actively suL-rvise the restructuring of an enterprise.
At the present time, six enterprises are actively being restructured with
technical assistance from IDA. Options for restructuring would include: (i)
restructuring by existing management or by change of management; (ii) forming
a joint venture with a suitable external company; (iii) management contracting
with a foreign company; (iv) leasing of the enterprise's assets; (v) selling
partial ownership to a foreign company; and (vi) financial restructuring, as a
prelude to partial or full privatization. IDA is developing a capacity for
'financial engineering" for those enterprises which require financial
reorganization as a part of their restructuring needs.
2.43          Tho Government has not allocated any funds to IDA in 1991, and
has not indicated any plans for additional funding in the future. However,
out of former IRF sources, IDA currently has available liquid resources of
about $95 million equivalent. These may be used for providing financial
assistance to restructuring enterprises which, on the basis of a detailed
consultants' study, are considered to be viable. Such financial assistance
may be in the form of bridging loans, loans convertible into equity or equity
investments. However, as emphasized in IDA's Strategy document, financing of
restructuring enterprises should be provided by the Polish banking and
financial system and not by IDA. As indicated in its Strategy Document and as
confirmed during negotiations, provision of such financial assistance by IDA
would be an exceptional measure, to be provided only in the transitional
period, until June 30, 1992.
2.44        IDA's existing financial portfolio will be transferred to
financial institutions. Loans to enterprises will be sold or transferred to
financial entities capable of managing credit risks (such as PDB and other
banks) and IDA's equity investments in enterprises will be transferred to
equity holding entities, such as independent companies, private funds,
privatization funds or private equity holding companies in which IDA may have
some equity participation. It was confirmed during negotiations that transfer
of IDA's financial portfolio will be completed by June 30, 1992, on the basis



- 17 -
of a study with an implementation program which will be communicated to the
Bank. If after this transfer, IDA continues to hold some shares in equity
investment companies, it would ultimately sell these shares on the market as
feasible.
2.45        IDA intends to support establishment of regional restructuring
agencies (RRAs), which will provide assistance for the sstablishment of small
businesses in regions affected by closure of non-viable enterprises. IDA may
become a minority shareholder (in extreme cases up to 49X); the majority of
the shares will be owned by the local authorities. So far, IDA has become a
minority shareholder in four regional RRAs. In 1991/92 it intends to
participate in ten additional RRAs. The RRAs will assist in the preparation
of restructuring programs for relatively smaller enterprises, as well as
promote the establishment of small and medium size enterprises, but will not
engage in new lending activities.
2.46        Until now, a major constraint on IDA's operation has been the
limited experience of its staff. Although IDA is now permitted to pay more
attractive salaries than the civil service, it has to compete for professional
staff against private companies, including foreign ones. To address this
problem, IDA will hire external professionals for several key positions during
the initial years of operation who, in addition to their operational
responsibilities, will provide "on-the-job" training to young and less
experienced Polish staff. The technical assistance component of the proposed
project supports IDA by providing: (i) partial financing for restructuring
studies of consultants' work within IDA; (ii) assistance in mobilizing TA
grants from international donors such as the EC, the Japanese Grant Fund, and
other sources; and (iii) training for IDA staff.
I. The Role of the Ministry of Industry
2.47        As Poland moves rapidly toward a market economy, and a large
number of SOEs, previously controlled to a greater or lesser extent by the
MoI, are privatized, it is appropriate that the Government re-evaluate the
role that MoI should play focusing it toward supporting an enabling
environment for the private sector. At the same time, it is important to
determine how the Mir:stry should be restructured to undertake this supporting
role. While the new policies have yet to be el&borated, it is clear that the
overall objective of a new industrial policy will be to enhance the
international competitiveness of Poland's industries and enterprises. The
Government intends to play a role in shaping industrial policy, in a way
similar to that of many west European countries. During negotiations, it was
agreed that the Government would appoint a task force and commission a study
with a view to establishing a coherent industrial policy for Poland and
developing the appropriate structure for Mol to implement it (para 4.05).
While drawing extensively on policies and structures in other market-oriented
countries, the final recommendations will give full weight to the special
conditions faced by the transitional nature of the Polish economy.



- 18 -
J. Bank G&aUR Strategy for AssisLAnce to Enterprise Reform
2.48        The Bank supports Po'"nd's objectives to improve efficiency and
productivity of the economy whill upgrading socio-economic conditions, and
this is being accomplished by supporting the market-oriented policies the
Government has adopted to achieve these objectives. Spea-ifically, the Bank is
assisting the Government in implementing its program to: (i' reform the
economic system; (ii) restructure the productive base; and (iii) improve
creditworthiness. Regulatory measures and the institutional framework to
support enterprise reforms have been agreed in the context of the ongoing SAL.
In the industrial sector, the first project--Industrial Export Development
1a/--is contributing to increasing convertible currency industrial exports,
strengthening the role of the banking sector, and initiating the development
of restructuring strategies.
2.49        Industrial sector work j3/ has identified and analyzed the
constraints to the improvements of efficiency and competitiveness of the
industrial sector, and the proposed Project will help promote and implement
necessary changes in the industrial policy and restructuring strategies
through continuous dialogue. To help expedite the privatization and
restructuring of the SOEs, during the preparation of the proposed Project,
some 25 SOEs were visited and diagnosed by Bank staff and terms of reference
for further consultant assignments were prepared. In addition, the Bank,
through the use of EC and Japanese grant funds, and other grant financing has
assisted MoI to initiate industry studies in textiles, steel, and components
subsectors and IDA to initiate sector/enterprise restructuring stueies.
Financing would be provided, under the proposed Project, for implementation of
the consultants' recommendations, as well as additional enterprise and
subsector studies. Finally, through continuous dialogue, the Bank staff has
been able to assist the Polish Government in further elaborating and detailing
its Privatization Program, and under the technical assistance component of the
Project, explicitly address the need for the reorganization of the HoI and the
establishment of a coherent industrial policy, as well as other institutional
needs for the implementation of the Program.
2.50        The ongoing development of projects aimed at modernizing the
financial sector, improving telecommunications and other key infrastructure
sectors, and fostering the private sector through small and medium enterprise
development, will support efforts to restructure Polish industry. The
proposed Project, with a primary focus on privatization of SOEs, is expected
to be the first in a series of such operations. The ongoing SAL includes
provision of income support programs for workers displaced by restructuring,
.12/ Total commitments to-date on this project have exceeded US$100 million
out of a total loan amount of US$260.
j./  An analysis of Poland's industrial sector and its problems, is
contained in the report Poland: Improving effigencv of Polish
IndustrX, Sector MHmorandum, World Bank, July 18, 1989.



- 19 -
while the proposed employment promotion and services project would support
specific programs of human reoource dsvelopment. The onb.ling environment
management projact provides an umbrella framework for addressing environmental
concerns, while a follow-up proJect would deal with mbjor industrial
polluters. Two proposed operations in the agriculture secz'r would deal with
privatization and restructuring of the agro-industry and the Szvte farm
sector.
2.51        IFC has played an important complementary role in the .eform of
the Polish economy. IFC has assisted with the development of the regulatory
framework for commercial banks and securities markets. In addition, IFC has
promoted a joint venture commercial bank and is actively considering the
establistment of a venture capital fund. It also plans to help establish
other non-bank financial intermediaries such as leasing companies, mutual
funds and insurance companies. IFC is also directly active in promoting
Poland's privatization effort. It has advised the Government on the
conceptual framework for privatization and on specific legislative
initiatives, mobt recently, on amendments to the foreign investment and
banking laws. IFC initiated a proposal, and helped secure EC funding for
financing the organization/establishment of the Privatization Agency, which
was later expanded into the MoOC. In addition, IFC is assisting in and
undertaking individual privatization transactions. Furthermore, IFC has
sponsored and is supporting the establishment of the Polish Business Advisory
Service.
III. THE FINANCIAL INTERNEDIARIES
A. Current Status of the Financial Sector
3.01        The banking sector is principally comprised of the central bank,
the National Bank of Poland (NBP), six specialized banks, nine commercial
banks, a development bank, and some 60 private banks which have been
established recently with private domestic or foreign participation (in
addition to 12 representative offices of foreign banks). The specialized
banks include Bank Handlowy (the foreign trade bank); Bank PeKaO S.A. (which
manages foreign exchange deposits of households, savings and a portfolio of
housing loans through an extensive branch network); BGZ (which is specialized
in agricultural lending and serves as an apex institution for the cooperative
banking system); and BRE (the export development bank).
3.02        The nine commercial banks were established in January 1989 out of
the NBP, as part of an overall reform program for the financial sector, where
NBP retained the typical central banking activities and transferred all its
corporate lending activities to the commercial banks. In parallel, credit and
interest rate policies were streamlined and significantly improved. Despite
significant progress, however, the financial sector institutions continue to
be characterized by limited autonomy, weak portfolios, lack of real
competition, lack of real banking skills in a market economy and an
ineffective institutional and legal framework.



- 20 -
B. Financial Sector Reform
3.03        Substantial restructuring of the financial sector and its policy
framework is required for it to support and participate in a significant
manner in Poland's privatization and industrial restructuring program. The
requirements of the banking sce.tor and some of these fundamental policy
revisions are supported under a parallel World Bank Financial Institutions
Development Loan. Key elements of this reform program are presented below:
(a)   Strengthening Sectoral Financing.  The Government has given
priority to the rapid development of a national network of banks
offering basic banking services, with the objectives of (i)
continuing to establish viable new private banks; and (ii)
strengthening, commercializing and privatizing the existing State-
controlled banks to assist in their efforts to provide core
banking services. The strengchening of the national bank network
would also provide for the sectoral (housing, agriculture and
industry) financing requirements previously undertaken through the
centralized allocation process. In addition, a number of
specialized financial institutions (e.g. PDB and IDA) have been
established by the Government to accelerate the industrial
restructuring and privatization program.
(b)   Financial Policy Reform.  A number of actions are intended to be
taken to develop a coherent policy framework addressing the areas
of (i) a closer monitoring of specialized credit programs; (ii)
efficient management of the liq-tidity of the banking system; (iii)
full liberalization of interest rates; and (iv) an improved
foreign exchange management fts.-;iework.
(c)   Development of Bankina Legl,jpfl.  The Government is actively
undertaking the process of harmnizing the Polish legal framework
with that of the European Commurity. Reforms currently
contemplated in the financial sc -or include (i) a comprehensive
revision of the Banking Law and *wt the Act on the Central Bank,
including a further strengthening of prudential regulations; (ii)
the introduction of a law on collaceral security; (iii) the
introduction of an enabling framei-oti for the corporatization and
privatization of banks; (iv) the ctevelopment of legislation for
ensuring the protection of depositors; and (v) the introduction of
a legal framework for capital market activities.
(d)   Institutional Strengthening of Banks.  The institutional framework
of the banking sector needs to be strengthened substantially in
order to foster financial discipline in credit allocation and to
discontinue support to inefficient industries. The inst: itional
development program will involve (i) the development of bank
institutional capabilities (through measures such as reclassifying
bank portfolios, undertaking 3ound financial audits of the banks
and training staff), and (ii) the financial restructuring of
existing institutions, with a view to eventual privatization. A



v 21 -
key measure to promote institutional development is expected to be
the development of "twinning" arrangements with reputable Western
banks, to ensure the rapid transfer of banking know-how.
(e)   DgveloRment of Financial Mackets. With the objectives of further
deepening the financial system, ensuring a more efficient
mobilization of resources and broadening the sources of financing
for the corporate sector, the Government is undertaking the
development of the domestic financial markets. This would include
supporting the establishment of privatization/investment funds,
trairing of financial market participants and the establishment of
the Stock Exchange and the Securities and Exchange Commission.
C.  Financing for Privatization and Restructuring
3.04        A key element of financial sector reform is the provision of
credit to finance enterprise operations and investment. While the enterprise
sector is already important to Polish banks (enterprise credit to the banking
system grew from 471 of banking system's total assets in 1989 to 59X by
October 1990), there is a shortage of medium-and long-term finance for
investments. The banks have traditionally relied on NBP refinance for this
purpose but this has been reduced drastically. NBP has also been the channel
for the intermediated World Bank operations in Poland.
1. The Polish DeveloRment Bank
3.05         To address the problem of investment financing and to further
support the restructuring of the Polish economy while helping to refocus the
role of NBP as a central bank, the Government decided to create a new
financial institution. The Polish Development Bank (PDB) was established by
the Council of Ministers in 1990, as a joint stock company, with equity
participation of the Government (US$84 million equivalent) as the major
shareholder, IDA (US$21 million), and three west European banks (Credit
National of France, and Invest Kredit of Austria and IMI of Italy, US$2
million each). PDB is starting operations during the second quarter of 1991,
under Polish banking regulation and supervision. PDB will act as the main
aoex institution for the provision of industrial development credits mobilized
from external sources, including those of the World Bank, therefore releasing
NBP of the organizational and administrative responsibilities related to such
activities. An appraisal of PDB is contained in Anex 3-1.
3.06        As an autonomous institution, PDB's operations are guided by its
Supervisory Board. The President has been appointed, an organizational
structure is in place, and many of the otaff have been recruited. Management
is presrntly engaged in training staff, and has purchased hardware and
software, prepared operating policies, and formulated a 3-year strategic plan.
3.07        With the mandate of facilitating and promoting privatization,
restructuring and development of private sector, PDB will initially focus its
operation on three "windows" providing financing, mostly through other
intermediaries for: (i) restructuring of private and state-owned enterprises,



- 22 -
primarily those in the process of privatization; (ii) the development of new
private small and medium enterprises; and (iii) minority equity investments in
privatized or joint venture companies, altogether limited to 151 of PDB's
tapital. Later, PDB plans to engage in add'tional activities including
leasing and other financial services.
3.08        Sources of funds in the first few years of operation will be
capital, loans from external banks (including multilateral, regional and
national banks), medium-term deposits and bonds in the Polish capital market,
and possible loans from the Government. PDB's proposed operational
procedures, and funding and lending polictes are detailed in Annex 3-1,
tegether with projected financial statements, confirming that key ratios and
other indicators would be adequate.
3.09        PDB will act principally as a wholesale bank, channelling the
majority of its lending to the final borrowers through eligible Polish
commercial banks. However, since during the transition period of the
financial system, commercial banks may be slow to engage in new activities,
such as medium-and long-term lending (even if resources are irovided
by/through PDB), or introducing new monetary instruments, it has been
anticipated that there will also be a need for limited direct lending
operations by PDB. Direct lending by PDB will be limited to 15X of its total
operations (and similarly direct lending out of the Bank resources proposed
under the present loan would not exceed 15Z of these resources) during the
next three years. These commitments were confirmed in a Statement of
Operating Policy, which was submitted to the Bank during negotiations.
3.10        In the medium term, whent there will be less of need for an apex
institution in Poland, PDB will evolve into a more conventional financial
institution and is expected to further open its capital to private
participation. By the end of 1993, PDB will undertake a review of its role in
light of the progress achieved in the modernization and development of the
financial sector in Poland, and will elaborate accordingly a plan on the
appropriate reorientation of its activities. Such reorientation would be
implemented after consulting with the international and bilateral institutions
providing funding to PDB. By that time, PDB would prepare and start
implementation of a program to increase private participation in its capital.
Commitments on these matters are detailed in PDB's Statement of Operating
Policy.
3.11        PDB may also be a channel for "special credits" from the
Government, earmarked for specific uses, such as restructuring of enterprises
in priority industrial subsectors. For such loans, PDB will serve as an agent
of the Government for a fee and the loans would be given at Government risk
and recorded below-the-line on PDB's balance sheet, with the funds provided
through budgetary allocations JA/.
A/   The mechanism described here is designed to ensure that such financial
assistance by the Government does not prejudice the viability of the
financial system.



- 23 -
2. Polish Commercial and Specialized Banks
3.12        The commerclal and the specialized banks wlll play a major role ln
enterprise restructuring in the future. They have an inherent interest in
promoting the enterprise restructuring process, since it will lead to a
dynamic industrial environment with increased demand for credit and other
banking services. Currently however, due to institutional weakness and
tightening of long-term refinancing from NBP, these banks are not very active
in granting medium-and long-term credits. The institutionial strengthening
programs initiated under the ongoing Industrial Exports Development Project,
and envisaged under the proposed Financial Institutions Development Loan are
addressing these problems and will enable the banking system to have a much
more effective role in mobilization and allocation of medium-and long-term
resources.
3.13        Seven Polish banks have already started implementation of recovery
programs and are therefore eligible to on-lend Bank resources under existing
loans. Further financial and institutional diagnostics programs conducted
under the Financial Institutions Development Loan should enable the remaining
commercial banks to become active participants in the enterprise sector reform
in the near future. It is expected that new private banks would also play a
role in providing financing for privatization, and private sector development.
Eligibility criteria for participation of Polish banks as intermediaries in
the proposed Project are detailed in para 5.12.
3. Other Intermediaries
3.14        Other institutions which could have an important role in financing
industrial restructuring, include: (i) privately-managed orivatization funds
(para 2.22), which will be established to facilitate the proposed mass
privatization program; (ii) future prilvately-managed holding companies which
will actively manage and, where necessary, restructure the enterprises they
hold; and (iii) venture capital funds and other funds providing equity or
quasi-equity. The Polish-American Enterprise Fund already provides some
equity financing and several other new funds are being set-up or proposed
which would also play a role in providing equity or quasi-equity financing to
enterprises.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives and ScoRe of the Pronosed Project
4.01        Privatization and the responsible management of state assets have
emerged as centerpieces of the Government's program to transform the Polish
economy. The principal objective of the proposed project is to provide
timely, responsive support to these efforts, and to strengthen the program
while giving confidence to potential domestic and foreign investors.



- 24 -
4.02        More specifically, these objectives are being achieved by:
(i) assisting with the design of the necessary policies; (ii) supporting the
establishment and strengthening of the institutional framework and the
implementation of the privatization program, in support of the Government's
objective of privatizing half of state-owned assets within three years; and
(iii) providing finance for enterprise restructuring programs in those cases
where investments are warranted and for enterprises which are already private,
or which are under joint-stock or limited liability company form as a first
step towards privatization.
B.  Proiect Components
4.03        The proposed project, supported by a US$280 million Bank loan,
includes three integrally related components:
(a)   A Rolicy component supporting the Government's privatization and
restructuring program through a quick-disbursing tranche, which
will secure the Government's commitment to: (i) implement the
Privatization Program following Action Plans agreed with the Bank;
(ii) adopt a sound aRproach for enterRrise restructuring; and
(iii) address a wider range of related issues, such as management
of state assets and industrial policy, on a longer time period, as
privatization and restructuring are being carried out. The
proposed loan would provide US$75 million equivalent for the
policy component. Up to US$50 million of this component could be
used for a Debt and Debt Service Reduction (DDSR) plan meeting the
requirements for Bank support.
(b)   A technical assistance component which will support the various
institutions which will assist in implementing the program. In
particular, Bank-financed technical assistance would be provided
to four of the key agencies involved in the restructuring and
privatization process: the Ministry of Ownership Changes, the
Ministry of Industry, the Polish Development Bank, and the
Industrial Development Agency. Proposed Bank assistance of
US$65 million under this component would be provided within the
context of an integrated overall program, co-financed by the
Government budget, as well as with the support of multilateral and
bilateral institutions.
(c)   A restructuring/Rrivatization investment finarcing comRonent which
will provide sub-loans (channelled througl   - and approved
commercial banks) to privatized or privatizi. enterprises. Such
sub-loans would finance foreign exchange costs of needed
organizational or physical improvements at the enterprise level.
US$140 million equivalent of the proposed Bank loan would be
allocated for this purpose.



- 25 -
C. Policy Component in SupRort of the Privatization and Restructuring Program
4.04        The evolving policy and mechanisms for the transformation of SOEs
through commercialization, restructuring and privatization, have been
described in detail in Chapter II of this report and are summarized in the
matrix on the following page. Government commitments in this regard are
detailed in a Letter of Policy for Privatization and Restructuring
(Annex 4-1).  The quick-disbursing part of the proposed loan is in support of
this program. Many of the required policy actionis have already been
undertaken during the course of project preparation. Most recently, critical
actions have included:
(a)   preparation of an action plan for privatization, which has been
agreed with the Bank, and includes criteria and mechanisms for
selection of enterprises for specific privatization tracks, and a
program for the establishment of regional offices of Ministry of
Ownership Changes as well as guidelines on privatization for
regional/municipal authorities; and
(b)   establishment of an inter-ministerial task-force with guidelines
for speedy decision of critical restructuring cases (large SOEs).
4.05        Given the considerable progress already achieved and the other
undertakings proposed for the coming year, disbursement in a single tranche of
US$75 million is proposed, with the completion of an implementation plan for
the proposed program of mass privatization, based on careful feasibility
studies, as condition of tranche release. Further progress in the
privatization and restructuring program will be assured through dated
covenants as follows:
(a)   For Rrivatization: (i) preparation of a plan for the application
of debt-equity swaps in individual privatizations of enterprises
(by December 31, 1991); and (ii) preparation of a statement of
policy on environmental contingent liabilities for new owners of
privatized SOEs (by December 31, 1991).
(b)   For the management of state assets: (i) preparation of guidelines
for directors representing the state in supervisory boards of
fully or partly state-owned joint stock companies (by September
30, 1991); (ii) definition of appropriate mechanisms for defining
and delegating responsibility for state ownership of enterprises
by the "Treasury" (by December 31, 1991); and (iii) elaboration of
incentives and other measures which will cause enterprises to
commercialize (by December 31, 1991).



- 26 -
Key SteRs of the Privatization and Rentrueturing Program
Salient Policy Commitments, Conditions, and
Governmnt Intent/Objeotives                            Actions Supported under the Project TA
Continue implementation of the Economic                     Satisfactory progress in continuation of
Transfonmation irogrem                                      implementation of Economic Transformation Program
FXYVATIUATIC
Adopt comprehensive Privatization Strategy (to              Approved in February 1991
privatize 0S of SOEs in three years, using multi-
track approach).
Develop and execute detailed action plan for                 ;laboration and adoption of detailed action plan
implementation of strategy including:                       (satisfactory progress)
mans privatization
liquidation                                      Mess privatization f*&sibility study has started-
decentralization of privatization                -implementation plan to be based on study results.
clarification/streamlining procedures            (Disbursmt Calmitiom, except for TA component)
plans for debt-equity swaps
delineation of roles of and                      Inter-ministerial Coordination Committee
coordination between institutions,               established; (to be supported by the TA
Procurement Unit), implementation and
decentralization mechanism to be detailed in
action plan (supported by TA)
Enact, update and harmonize policies and                    Revision and harmonization of laws and regulations
legislation (on coopsratives, land owmership,               during 91-93 (supported by TA)
labor, taxes, conmercial code, compensation for
original owners, contingent liabilities, etc.)              Program for debt-equity swaps end for contingent
liabilities to be prepared (by Decemr 31, 1991)
Promote and attract Foreign Investment                      New law on foreign investment to be prepared and
development and implementation of promotion
program by Foreign Investment Agency over 91-93
(supported by TA)
ONDRP 8EFUM
Define/Clarify State Ownership of assets and                Preparation of guidelines for Boards of Directors
exercise ownership to improve SOE performance by:           of SOEs (by Sept lber 30. 1991)
corporatizing (convert into joint stock
companies) SOEs to introduce adequate            Definition of mechanisms for defining and
corporate governance                             exercising rights of state ownership
introducing mechanisms for effective             (by Decober 31, 1991)
management of State assets
Elaboration and improvement of incentives to
enterprises to commercialize
(by Doc_ebr 31, 1991)
Define clear policies and develop guidelines for            Clear definition of restructuring policy and
restructuring of enterprises                                mechanisms for dealing with important
restructuring cases (satisfactory progress)
Develop institutional capabilities for                      Build up restructuring capabilities of Hol, IDA,
restructuring, and define roles of different                regional agencies (supported by TA)
agencies and their inter-relationship
Liquidate non-viable SOEs                                   Improvement of liquidation capabilities of MoI,
and other agencies involved in liquidation process
(supported by TA)
INDUSTRIAL MLICT
Formulate a new industrial strategy and role for            Completion of study of appropriate MoI role
Mol to deal inter alie with structural changes              (supported by TA)  (by Decder 31, 1991)
arising from collapse of CMEA trade, non-
subsidized energy prices, etc, and to support               Restructuring of MoI (by June 30 1992)
privatization and private sector development



- 27 -
(c)   For development of a strategy for the Ministry of Industry:
(i) completion of preparation of a study, for presentation to the
Bank by December 31, aimed at establishing a coherent strategy for
industry which reflects immediate restructuring needs as well as
long-term policy goals, and proposes an appropriate role and
structure for MoI; and (ii) restructuring of the Ministry as
required (by June 30, 1992).
4.06        Commitments with respect to the above actions were confirmed
during negotiations and are contained in the Letter of Policy for
Privatization and Restructuring.
D.  The Technical Assistance Component
4.07        The main objective of this component is to provide expert
assistance for the design and implementation of an effective policy and
institutional framework for privatization and industrial restructuring in
Poland. The technical and managerial capacity to handle a task of this
magnitude does not exist in Poland. While considerable progress has been made
in developing the concepts for programs of privatization and restructuring to
effect the necessary transformation, the specialized nature of many aspects of
the work, and the ambitious targets with respect to numbers of enterprises to
be transformed, will require a substantial amount of foreign technical
assistance. Elements of the proposed program of technical assistance,
together with cost estimates, are detailed in Annex 4-2 and summarized in the
following table.
Table 4.1 - Technical Assistance for Privatization and Restructuring Proiect
Estimated Cost and Preliminary Financing Plan
(US$ million equivalent)
Amount to be financed by:
Item                                     Budget  IBRD   EC   EBRD  Others  Total
Ministry of Ownership Changes                62    34    29       -    16     141
Ministry of Industry                          2    10      7      -     -      19
Polish Development Bank                       -      3     -         -          3
Industrial Development Agency                 8    17    19             -      44
Foreign Investment Agency                     8      -     3    10      -      21
Anti-Monopoly Agency                          -            3         -          3
Wojewoda Assistance                           -      -     7      -     -       7
Technical Assistance Units                    -      1     1            -       2
Total Technical Assistance Program           80    65    69    10    16       240



- 28 -
4.08        In parallel with the magnitude of the task, the scope of the
technical assistance requested by the Polish authorities and proposed for
support under the project is unprecedented. Although the Government's
commitment to the program is clearly demonstrated by its own budgetary
allocation to the program, there remain questions about the implementation and
absorption capacity on the Polish side. First, it must be noted that most
(about two-thirds) of the technical assistance is directed to supporting the
design and implementation of transactions at the level of individual
enterprises with committed counterpart capacity. Second, the balance of the
assistance proposed is directed to six different agencies (of which the Bank
will be assisting four), each of which has carefully elaborated its specific
requirements for training and counterpart support. Third, as further detailed
below (para 4.10), a key component of the proposed assistance program is a
procurement/coordination unit specifically designed to facilitate
implementation. Finally, the technical as3sistance proposed and detailed in
this report enr'ompasses all of the assistance envisaged to support the massive
privatization program over the next two years.
4.09        As can be seen from Table 4.1, the proposed Bank allocation of
US$65 million for this component represents about 27X of the total estimated
cost. Efforts are continuing to find additional grant financing and to reduce
the proportion financed by the proposed Bank loan. Details on the entire
technical assistance program are contained in Annex 4-2.  Bank funds would be
used as follows:
(a)   In the Ministry of OwnershiR Changes, for (i) financing
consultancy and other expenditures associated with individual
privatization operations; (ii) a study of the feasibility of a
mass privatization scheme; and (iii) training and institutional
support, including the purchase of key office equipment;
(b)   In the Ministry of Industry, for (i) support in elaborating an
appropriate role for the Ministry in the context of the evolving
structure of Polish industry, including a reorganization of the
Ministry; (ii) studies and assistance for specialized
restructuring activities including liquidation, the break-up of
large enterprises, and the development of approaches for dealing
with difficult restructuring cases which cannot readily be
privatized (high energy users, major polluting industries, etc);
and (iii) training and institutional support, including the
purchase of key office equipment;
(c) The Polish DeveloRment Bank, for general support in establishing
and starting up the bank as well as for training; and
(d)   The Industrial DeveloRment Agency, primarily for financing
restructuring/privatization studies in specific enterprises but
also for general institutional support and training.



- 29 -
4.10        The effort required to manage the procurement and contractual
arrangements !or a program of assistance of this magnitude is considerable.
It is thus envisaged that a special Technical Assistance Unit for this
specific purpose would be set up in the Ministry of Finance. Other than
providing review capability for Terms of Reference and short lists of
consultant candidates, this unit wguld not have a major role in controlling
the technical content of the assistance itself, but would act as a
coordinating office for procuring and contracting World Bank-financed
technical assistance services in response to requests from the implementing
agencies. The European Community (EC) plans to provide similar assistance and
this work will be coordinated between the two agencies.
4.11        In some cases, the necessary technical assistance services can be
provided by individual experts working within the agencies concerned. In
others, foreign firms (consulting firms, investment banks) will have to be
engaged to undertake major specific pieces of work. Agreement on the content
of the technical assistance program was confirmed during negotiations.
E. Restructurin_/Privatization InvestMent ComRonent
4.12        To address the immense challenge of restructuring a large number
of (mainly) industrial enterprises, before or after privatization, a wide
range of financial instruments channelled through different institutions will
be required. Individually tailored financial packages will have to be
developed for many enterprises to ensure the successful implementation of the
respective restructuring plans and privatization. A variety of mechanisms and
financial intermediaries are evolving to meet these needs, including the
proposed investment component of the proposed project, which will provide loan
funds for investments and for working capital required for the restructuring
of eligible Polish enterprises.
4.13        Sub-loans from the proceeds of the proposed Bank loan would be
made available through PDB and eligible Polish banks to eligible enterprises
to finance viable restructuring projects. To be eligible for sub-loans,
borrowing enterprises and their sub-projects must meet the following criteria:
*     The borrowing enterprise must be in the form of a joint stock
company, or limited liability company form;
*     The enterprise must have initiated arrangements to undertake
annual external audits of its operations according to auditing
standards acceptable to the Bank, and to take any necessary
actions as a result of such audits;
*     The enterprise must have prepared and agreed to implement a
strategic development plan and a restructuring program which
demonstrates its long-term viability, deals with any outstanding
environmental problems based on the recommendation of



- 30 -
environmental assessments (para. 4.19), and clearly identifies and
quantifies the benefits of the proposed new investment J./;
*     If not already privatized, the strategic development plan must aim
at eventual privatization;
*     The financial and economic internal rates of return on any
investments included in the restructuring program must be at least
15;
*     Financial projections must demonstrate that the borrowing
enterprise will be able to recover/sustain a sound financial
performance, with capacity to service adequately the additional
debt incurred as a result of the restructuring program; and
*     A complete financing plan for the proposed restructuring program
must be in place, with adequate assurances in this regard from all
financing agencies.
4.14        Agreement on these eligibility criteria for enterprises and their
investments was confirmed during negotiations.
F.  Proiect Cost and Financing Plan
4.15        The total cost of privatizing and restructuring Poland's
industrial sector will be far greater than the funds which would be mobilized
under the present project. Table 4.2 shows an estimate of the total project
cost associated with this specific operation.
Table 4.2 - Privatization and Restructurinz Proiect
Estimated Total Project Cost
(US$ million equivalent)
Amount
Local     Foreign      Total
Policy Component                               -          75.0       75.0
Technical Assistance Component                30.0       210.0      240.0
Investment Component                         180.0       420.0      600.0
Total Financing Required                     210.0       705.0      915.0
2j~. Arrangements for providing assistance in preparing such plans and
program will be made under the Technical Assistance component of the
proposed loan.



- 31 -
4.16        This estimate has been developed on the following basis:
(a)   The amount of the quick-disbursing part of the loan for the policy
component is an amount considered appropriate to: (i) support the
policy program; and (ii) deliver in combination with other
instruments World Bank support to Poland's baiance of payments;
(b)   The estimate for technical assistance is the detailed estimate
presented in &nex 4-2; and
(c)   The estimate for the investment component is based on preliminary
estimates of average investment needs for restructuring 60
enterprises, developed from a number of restructuring studies
presently being prepared. The presence of a substantial pipeline
of restructuring needs and viable projects has been confirmed in
discussions with a number of the Polish banks which are expected
to be financial intermediaries under the project.
4.17        World Bank financing would cover US$280 million equivalent or
approximately 30X of the total cost (40X of the foreign exchange requirement)
of the project. As discussed above, the EC, EBRD and others are expected to
co-finance the technical assistance component, with the balance of foreign
exchange requirements coming from private commercial sources as well as other
multilateral and bilateral institutions (including possibly IFC, which is
already participating in privatization transactions, and EBRD in a similar
operation). The European Investment Bank is considering the provision of a
line of credit of ECU40 million (US$55 million equivalent) through PDB to co-
finance the investment component. Local cost financing would come from
enterprises and local financial institutions such as commercial banks and
specialized restructuring institutions. Based on current experience, it is
assumed that on average, the enterprises themselves would be able to fund
about one-half of the required local currency costs. The financing plan
developed on this basis is presented in Table 4.3.
T&ble 4.3 - Privatization and Restructuring PrQject
ProRosed Financing Plan
(US$ million equivalent)
Amount
Local     Foreign      Total
IBRD                                              280          280
Government (for TA)                     30         50           80
Enterprises/commercial/
institutional sources              180         280          460
EC (for TA)                             -          69           69
Other institutions (for TA)             -          26           26
Total Financing Required               12                      9



- 32 -
C. EnvironMental Imnact
4.18        Environmental degradation is a serious problem in Poland.  Air and
water pollution, generated by urbanization, industrial activity, energy
production, etc. has reached alarming levels. The Government is very
conscious of the environmental issue, and while there is some strong
environmental legislation, the Government lacks a clear strategy towards
environmental protection and conservation. The Bank-assisted environment
technical assistance prc,ect under implementation is providing support to the
Ministry of Environmental Protection and Natural Resources to build-up the
capability and means to ela.borate, enforce or monitor suitable environmental
protection policies and legislation.
4.19        Studies pinpoint the burning of coal, both for power production
and in industry, as the major cause of %ir pollution. Industrial pollution is
also one of the major contributors to the continuing deterioration of the
country's lakes and rivers. Preparation of sub-projects thus includes an
assessment not only of the environmental impact of the facilities to be
installed in the various enterprises, i-ut also of the existing operations of
the enterprises concerned. The project has been screened in category B/C.
PDB and the participating banks will ensure in their on-lending agreements
that all enterprises which benefit from the proceeds of the loan will carry
out an environmental assessment according to current Polish regulations and
acceptable to the Bank, and build facilities and operate their plants,
financed under the project, in accordance with environmental and safety
standards satisfactory to the Bank. These measures were confirmed during
negotiations.
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND ON-LENDING ARRANGEMENTS
A. Project Organization and Implementation
5.01        With the main focus being to support the privatization program and
the initiation of widespread industrial restructuring in Poland, care has been
taken to desigr. the project in such a way as to support the integration of the
diverse agencies concerned with these activities, while at the same time
building in sufficient flexibility to adapt the structure to the evolving
situation.
5.02        Given the ambitious scope of the Government program involving a
number of diverse institutions and enterprises, an appropriata organization
within the Government will be needed in order for the work to be carried
forward expeditiously. In order to ensure better coordination of policies and
programs to implement privatization and restructuring, the Government of
Poland is establishing an Inter-Ministgrial Committee with the participation
of the Ministries of Finance, Ownership Changes and Industry. In addition to
its policy role, the ComLittee will establish guidelines for the use of Bank
funds by the various beneficiaries of technical assistance. The



- 33 -
administration and procurement will be handled by the Technical Assistance
Unit (para 4.10) to be established as an adjunct to the committee. The Inter-
Ministerial Committee is already being formed. Terms of Reference for the
Technical Assistance Unit have been prepared and are attached to Annex 4-2.
During negotiations it was agreed that the establishment of this unit will be
a condition of disbursment of the Technical Assistance component of the
proposed loan.
B.  Lending Arrangements
5.03        The proposed loan will be made to the Government for a period of
17 years, including 5 years of grace, at the Bank's standard variable interest
rate. As detailed in the following paragraphs, the Government will administer
directly the quick-disbursing and technical assistance components, but will
on-lend funds for restructuring/privatization investments to PDB, which in
turn will channel these resources to eligible beneficiaries and participating
banks. Lending rates will be based on LIBOR or FIBOR plus appropriate margins
to bring the rates to the final beneficiaries in line with market rates. On-
lending by the Government to PDB will be denominated in US$ or DM, with the
Government assuming the cross-currency risk between US$ or DM and the Bank's
basket of currencies   To approximate the cost to PDB of funds from other
sources, the Government will on-lend to PDB at ratL. of LIBOR .us 0.25X (for
US$) or FIBOR plus 0.25X (for DM). On-lending by PDB to the participating
banks, and by the participating banks to the final beneficiaries will also be
in US$ or DM, the choice of currency between US$ and DM being left to the
final beneficiaries who will thus assume the foreign exchange risk. PDB will
on-lend at LIBOR plus 1.50X (for US$) or FIBOR plus 1.50X (for DM). PDB's
spread will be reviewed every six months. In the few cases where PDB would
lend directly (para. 3.09), the Government will on-lend to PDB at rates of
LIBOR plus 1.50X (for US$) or FIBOR plus 1.501 (for DM). These on-lending
arrangements were agreed during negotiations.
C. Policy Component
5.04        The US$75 million quick-disbursing component of the loan will be
disbursed against general imports except for the usual small negative list of
ineligible items such as arms and luxury products. Procurement under this
component will follow the procedures established under the SAL. All ccntracts
of US$5 million and above will be subject to International Competitive Bidding
(ICB), using standardized biddine documents. All contracts below US$5 million
will be awarded based on procurement procedures acceptable to the Bank
including: (i) Polish public procedures where these are required and are
acceptable to the Bank; or (ii) established commercial practice based on
quota40ons from at least two countries; or (iii4 for commodities, on the basis
of evaluation and comparison of quotations obtained from more than one
supplier. No Special Account will be needed. Statements of Expenditure will
be used for contracts less than US$500,000 to facilitate disbursement;
standard supervision and auditing requirements will apply.
5.05        A portion of this component will be made available to support an
approved DDSR plan should the Government wish so. Up to US$50 million would



- 34 -
thereby be available upon agreement between the Bank and the Government on a
DDSR program satisfactory to the Bank. Funds unused for DDSR support after
June 30, 1992 could be reallocated for disbursements against general imports.
D. Technical Assistance Component
5.06        The technical assistance component will be managed by the
Technical Assistance Unit which will be organized and staffed to the
satisfaction of the Bank. ExLept as the Bank may otherwise agree, Bank
resources for technical assistance will be made available only to the agencies
and for the purposes elaborated in the agreed technical assistance program
(Annex _4-2). The procurement of goods and services under this component will
be according to Bank guidelines. Normally, for purchases of equipment, except
for proprietary items, in order to ensure competitive prices, International
Shopping Procedures will be followed, comparing price quotations from at least
three suppliers, representing two eligible countries, and selecting the
supplier offering the lowest evaluated offer. The procurement of consulting
services will be according to the World Bank Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants.
5.07        Where technical assistance is to be provided to Government or
other agencies on a non-reimbursable basis, the proceeds of the Bank loan will
be passed on as budget transfers to the ultimate beneficiaries. The detailed
arrangements for channelling technical assistance funds from the Government to
the ultimate beneficiaries were agreed to during negotiations.
E. Restructuring/Privatization Investment ComRonent
1. The Apex Institution
5.08        PDB will act primarily as an apex institution making available
Bank resources to support eligible enterprise restructuring pro{rams (para
4.12), by on-lending Bank resources through eligible participating banks. As
previously noted, however (para 3.09), PDB may also be engaged in a limited
number of direct lending operations. In its role as an apex, PDB will be
responsible for: (i) providing term credit to the participating banks for
financing eligible sub-projects; (ii) assuring that the participating banks
have the capacity to adequately judge the soundness of sub-projects they
propose to finance; and (iii) monitoring the use of project funds and their
repayment to the Bank. All funds for on-lending will be available on a first-
come, first-served basis, without any allocation to specific participating
banks or categories of enterprise.
5.09        To ensure sound and consistent assessments of investment projects
by the participating banks, PDB will: (i) be responsible for preparing and
disseminating standards and guidelines for appraisal and supervision reports;
(ii) support dissemination of all aspects of the project cycle, particularly
appraisal and the required technical, market, managerial, and financial
anelyses; (iii) review sub-project appraisal3 submitted by the banks, and
participate in appraisals for those projects which would utilize more than
US$2 million of Bank funds; and (iv) monitor the technical supervision



- 35 -
conducted by the banks of investments to be financed with Bank resources.
Operating policies and procedures for the administration of the proceeds of
the loan will be similar to those currently being used by NBP in the
adm4nistration of the Bank-supported Industrial Export Development Project.
5.10        To handle all of these activities, PDB will have to appoint
adequate numbers of suitably trained staff, supplemented as required (and
envisaged under the technical assistance component) with foreign expertise
pending the availability of suitable Polish candidates. During negotiations,
assurances were provided concerning the adequacy of the initial staffing of
PDB and concerning the maintaining of competent staff throughout the period of
project Implementation.
2. The Participating Banks
5.11        Any duly constituted Polish bank can become eligible for access to
Bank resources under the project, provided it meets the appropriate
eligibility criteria detailed below (para 5.12). The participating banks
will: (i) identify restructuring investment projects; (ii) appraise
restructuring investment sub-projects; (iii) administer their sub-loans;
(iv) supervise sub-project performance; and (v) submit periodic reports on
sub-project performance to PDB.
5.12        Within each participating bank, the credit department will prepare
the appraisal and supervise all sub-projects financed through the respertive
institution. Each participating bank will appoint, within its credit
department, a "project team" from among existing staff to perform these
functions. Sub-loans to be presented for financing through the participating
banks will be cleared by the respective Credit Committee.
5.13        The following eligibility criteria for participating banks were
agreed to during negotiattons. To participate in the project, a bank must:
(a)   Be in good standing with the banking regulatory and supervision
agency (NBP);
(b)   Have sound financial policies, satisfactory to the Bank;
(c)   Have established a Credit Committee as an advisory body to the
bank's President on credit decisions. The Committee should
include adequate, qualified staff and should review all investment
projects and loans above the limit established for decision of
branch managers, as well as all major supervision problems;
(d)   Establish a technical unit, specialized in medium- and long-term
project lending, properly staffed with at least one industrial
engineer, one financial analyst, and one economist, and capable of
undertaking project appraisal and supervision acceptable to the
World Bank;



- 36 -
(e)   Agree to undertake satisfactory external audits according to
international auditing standards, and to take any necessary
actions as a result of such audits; and
(f)   Negotiate a Subsidiary Finance Agreement with PDB that reflects
the acceptance of these conditions and include provision of
periodic reports on portfolio financed by PDB, for reporting to
the Bank.
3. On-lending Arrangements for Investment Financing
5.14        A number of legal agreements will be required in order to set out
the respective obligations of the various entities, and to regulate the flow
of funds from PDB to the beneficiaries. Formal loan documents associated with
the proposed Bank loan include a Loan Agreement between the Bank and the
Government and a Project Agreement between the Bank and PDB. An On-lending
Agreement between the Government and PDB will be a condition of disbursement
of the investment component. In addition, the conclusion of Subsidiary
Financing Agreements between PDB and the participating banks will be a
condition of participation of those institutions in the project. Finally,
Sub-loan Agreements between the banks and enterprises must be of a form and
content satisfactory to the Bank.  These arrangements were confirmed during
negotiations.
5.15        PDB will make available Bank resources to enterprises with
eligible sub-projects by on-lending Bank resources to the selected
participating banks for re-lending to enterprises. Grace periods and
repayment scbedules will be flexible to suit the case-by-case requirements of
the individual enterprise operation but except as the Bank may otherwise
agree, in no case will the grace period exceed 4 years nor the term of a sub-
loan exceed 12 years.  Repayments by the banks to PDB will match the repayment
schedules of the borrowing enterprise.  Should the final sub-borrower prepay
all or part of the sub-loan prior to maturity, the participating bank will
immediately repay the sum received to PDB.  In case of arrears in principal
repayment, or in payment of interest on any due date from a sub-borrower, the
participating bank will nevertheless be liable for payment on the due date and
will then be responsible for making appropriate arrangements to get the
account current from the enterprise concerned.
5.16        Maximum saub-l2oan..Ly  and maximum amount of financing for eligible
enterprises will be US$10 million equivalent, except as the Bank may otherwise
agree. An initial free limit for sub-loans by banks has been set at US$1
million for PDB review and at US$2 million for Bank review. The first three
appraisals undertaken by each participating bank will be submitted for prior
Bank review, irrespective of sub-loan size.
5.17        During negotiations, PDB confirmed that it will establish a
rollover fund with resources generated by repayments of all sub-loans under
the Project. Resources from the rollover Fund will be available to PDB for
financing additional sub-projects which meet the eligibility requirements.



- 37 -
4. Procurement
5.18        Procurement procedures will be the responsibility of the
enterprises who, as commercialized or privatized companies, are expected to
follow good commercial practice   For equipment contracts of up to $2 million,
the purchaser will follow good commercial practices comparing price quotations
received from at least two suppliers, representing at least two eligible
countries. The respective goods and directly-related services will be
purchased from the supplier offering the lowest evaluated price.
Determination of this lowest evaluated price may take into account such
relevant factors as efficiency, time of delivery, availability of maintenance
facilities and spare parts. For packages above US$2 million, International
Competitive Bidding will be followed. For proprietary items, direct
contracting or Limited International Bidding may be appropriate. Where the
proceeds of the World Bank loan are to be used to finance consulting services,
these should be procured according to the World Bank Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants. Each appraisal report or slmmary will describe how the
enterprise proposes to procure goods and services.
F. Allocation of Bank Loan and Disbursements
5.19        The technical assistance component of the proposed Bank loan will
cooer up to lOOX of: (i) foreign exchange expenditures (CIF) for directly
imported goods as well as lOOX of the eligible ex-factory cost of locally
produced goods; (ii) foreign and local expenditures for consultant services;
and (iii) foreign exchange expenditures for training.
5.20        To facilitate disbursements for technical assistance, a Special
Account will be established and maintained in US dollars in a bank acceptable
to the Bank, and on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, with an
authorized allocation of US$3 million covering an estimated four months'
expenditures. Applications for replenishment of the account will be submitted
quarterly. These arrangements were confirmed during negotiations.
5.21        The investment crmponent of the proposed Bank loan will cover up
to lOOX of: (i) foreign exchange expenditures (cif) for directly imported
goods, as well as up to lOOX of the eligible ex-factory costs of locally
produced goods; (ii) foreign and local expenditures for engineoring, financial
planning, consultant services, computerization for development of management
systems; (iii) foreign expenditures for teehnology transfer, quality
improvements including the cost of licenses and other payments for specialized
technology and associated equipment of a proprietary nature; (iv) foreign
exchange expenditures for training, and for visits abroad by local staff for
engineering, procurement, marketing, technology transfer and training; and (v)
foreign exchange expenditures for interest during construction; and (vi) lOOX
of foreign and local expenditures for consultant services.
5.22        To facilitate disbursements for the investment component, a
Special Account will be established and maintained in US$ in a bank acceptable
to the Bank, and on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, with an
authorized allocation of US$15 million covering an estimated four months



- 38 -
expenditures. Applications for replenishment of the account will be submitted
quarterly, or sooner after one-third of the funds have been disbursed. These
arrangements were confirmed during negotiations.
5.23        The estimated disbursement schedule for the Project, along with
disbursement profiles of other Bank-financed industrial projects in the EMENA
Region, and elsewhere, is contained in Annex 5-1. The expected disbursement
of the loan is based primarily on EMENA experience with similar operations,
adjusted for the expected impact of the quick-disbursing component.
Disbursements for the expenses under the loan will be made against full
documentation for contracts equal to or above US$500,000, and against
statements of expenditure for contracts below US$500,000.
5.24        The proposed closing date for the loan, is June 30, 1998.
C. Auditing and ReRorting Reguirements
5.25        All project accounts, the Special Accounts, the Statements of
Expenditure, and the financial statements of the project entities
(participating banks and borrowing enterprises) will be audited at the end of
each fiscal year by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. Copies of
the audit reports for the participating banks will be forwarded to the Bank
within six months of the end of the reporting period; audit reports from
borrowing enterprises will be retained by the concerned bank and made
available to the Bank on request. Arrangements for auditing have been
assessed. The training provided under previous projects as well as the
establishment of Polish joint-ventures and subsidiaries by international
auditors will ensure audits acceptable to the Bank. Agreements concerning
auditing were confirmed during negotiations.
5.26        To enable the Bank to monitor the progress of project
implementation, and to ensure confoimity with project objectives, the
Government and PDB will furnish the Bank with a series of reports detailing
progress of their respective project components. In addition, the Government
and PDB will prepare a Project Completion Report for the entire project six
months after the completion of disbursements, covering all related activities
during project implementation and describing the Project's costs and benefits.
Reporting formats and schedules were finalized and agreed to during
negotiations.
VI. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits of the Project
6.01        The proposed project will yield major benefits to Poland by
elaborating the policies for privatization, restructuring and the management
of state assets and by designing and adjusting, when needed, the necessary
framework for effective transformation of a substantial part of the country's
state enterprise sector. While directly supporting the transformation of only
perhaps 10-15% of industrial enterprises, the mechanisms developed and the



- 39 -
technical assistance put in place should ensure the continuing transformation
of enterprises in line with national objectives. In addition, it should lead
to: (i) improvements in enterprise management; (ii) economic benefits (related
to returns on investment in the sub-projects); (iii) convertible currency
earnings derived from the increased availability of quality products both for
exports and to substitute for imports; and (iv) environmental, institutional,
social and demonstration benefits, as described below. It will also support
efforts to stimulate private sector development and privatization in the
ongoing move towards a market economy.
6.02        The project will have a positive environmental impact through the
rehabilitation and restructuring of enterprises which will enable the firms to
use more efficient technologies and operations, thus decreasing their
environment nuisances, as well as through addressing specific environmental
problems. Sub-loan covenants will require that sub-projects not contribute to
environmental or safety hazards, and that any facilities to be provided under
the project be installed and operated with due consideration to safety and the
environment (para 4.18). The project is thus introducing a concept which may
lead to similar policies in the participating banks for future lending
operations. Finally, by including as part of project preparation an
assessment of the environmental impact of existing operations undertaking
pre-identified restructuring, the project has helped to focus attention on
potential methods for further improvement.
6.03        The project is expected to have major direct and indirect
institutional benefits. In addition to the strengthening of existing
institutions, in the medium term, the project will benefit the consulting
sector as a whole through foreseeable spin-offs from PDB and IDA. This will
complement the immediate benefit gained by Polish consultants working joir:tly
with international consultants on the preparation of restructuring plans. In
addition, the project is directly assisting the design and implementatior, of a
coherent and supportive industrial policy in Poland.
6.04        Social benefits will also derive from the project.  Although not
addressing directly the social cost and the needed safety net associated with
restructuring (this is being taken care of initially by the SAL, and more
directly by other Bank projects under preparation), this project will help in
maintaining jobs in efficient enterprises and in avoiding total loss of jobs
in enterprises facing difficulties.
6.05        Finally, the project is expected to achieve an important
demonstration effect among similar enterprises in Poland and to disseminate
newly acquired experiences both at the enterprise and Government levels. High
indirect benefits are therefore expected, both from the demonstration effect
and the technical assistance, setting in motion the industry towards improved
efficiency and an increased role of the private sector.



- 40 -
B. Riska
6.06        In the short term there could be delays in implementation
associated with the scale, complexity, and unprecedented nature of the
privatization program, and with the enterprises' willingness to privatize.
The Government's limited implementation capability, the slow and difficult
build-up of the new institutions, and the lack of skills of the enterprise
managers may introduce some delays which would be minimized by the inclusion
of the comprehensive technical assistance component. There might also be
short-term market risks associated with stagnation and adjustment, and pace of
revival of the market, but they will be minimized through sensitivity analyses
and careful market analysis for the enterprises' sub-projects.
6.07        In the longer term, a risk that could adversely affect the
Indirect benefits of the project stems from the ambitious program of
adjustment and stabilization that the Government is implementing. While the
Government's current plans are satisfactory, the major institutional and
systemic reforms are unprecedented in Poland and may take longer than
currently planned. The Bank's on-going economic and sector work dialogue will
be important in helping to identify and overcome weaknesses in implementation
of the reform and to support the Government's overall industrial policy reform
program.
6.08        Finally, the lack of services and qualified consultants may slow
down the pace of the demonstration effect, but the design of the technical
assistance component will minimize this risk.
VII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
A. Agreements
7.01        During negotiations, the following agreements were reached:
1.    With the Government:
(a)   On the Letter of Policy for Privatization and Restructuring (paras
4.05 and 4.06);
(b)   To elaborate for the implementation of the privatization program,
by December 31, 1991: (i) a plan for application of debt-equity
swaps in individual enterprise privatizations; and (ii) a
statement on environmental contingent liabilities (para 4.05);
(c)   To define appropriate mechanisms for the management of state
assets, including: (i) preparation of guidelines for supervisory
boards, by September 30, 1991; (ii) definition of a plan to
exercise the State's ownership function, by December 31, 1991; and
(iii) development of further incentives to commercialize
enterprises, by December 31, 1991. (para. 4.05)



- 41 °
(d)   To prepare a study for presentation to the Bank by December 31,
1991, to establish a coherent strategy for industry which reflects
immediate restructuring needs as well as long-term policy goals,
and proposes an appropriate structure for the MoI. Implementation
of the agreed recommendation on the structure of the Ministry
should be completed no later than June 30, 1992 (para 4.05);
(e)   On the interest rate and on-lending terms to PDB (para 5.03);
(f)   On the technical assistance program (para 4.11) and the detailed
arrangements for channeling technical assistance (para 5.06);
(g)   To establish and maintain the proposed Special Accounts on terms
and conditions acceptable to the Bank (paras 5.20 and 5.22);
(h)   To ensure that all project accounts, the Special Account, the
financial statements of PDB, the participating financial
intermediaries and borrowing enterprises are audited at the end of
each fiscal year by independent auditors acceptable to the bank
(para 5.25); and
(i)   To ensure that audited accounts and other reports are furnished to
the Bank in a timely manner and that a comprehensive Project
Completion Report will be prepared (para 5.26).
2.    With the Polish DeveloDment Ban :
(a)   On its Statement of Operating Policy, including a commitment to
limit its total direct lending to enterprises during its first
three years of operation to no more than 15% of its total lending
and its direct lending out of Bank resources under the loan to no
more than 15% of these resources (para 3.09);
(b)   To ensure that enterprises and sub-projects which will benefit
from the proceeds of the loan will meet established criteria aimed
at achieving project objectives (paras 4.13 and 4.14);
(c)   To ensure that all enterprises that -ill benefit from the proceeds
of the loan will build and operate tneir plants in accordance with
environmental and safety standards satisfactory to the Bank (para
4.19);
(d)   On the on-lending arrangements to the participating banks (para
5.03);
(e)   To appoint and retain the necessary staff (para 5.10);
(f)   To select and enter into agreements with the participating banks
in accordance with the criteria agreed with the Bank (para 5.13);
and



- 42 -
(g)   To establish and administer a rollover fund to recycle resources
generated by repayments of sub-loans (para 5.17).
7.02        Conditions Qf Disbursement:  The following would be conditions of
disbursement:
(a)   For the technical assistance component:  the establishment of the
Technical Assistance Unit (para 5.02); and
(b)   For the Rolicy and investment financing components:  (i) The
elaboration of the proposed program of mass privatization based on
careful feasibility studies and detailed implementation plans
(para 4.05); and additionally, for the investment financing
component, (ii) the execution of the on-lending agreement between
the Government and PDB (para 5.14).
B. Recommendation
7.03        Subject to above, the project is considered suitable for a Bank
loan of US$280 million equivalent, for a period of 17 years, including five
years of grace, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.
May 22, 1991



- 43 -
Anngx 1
Page 1
POLAND - PRIVATIAION AND RESUCTING PRgJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. The Industrial Sector
A.1   "POLAND - Industrial Export Development Project". World Bank
Report No. 7143-POL. Washington, D.C., January 1990.
A.2   "POLAND - Environmental Management".  Draft World Bank Report.
Washington, D.C., January 1991.
A.3   "POLAND - Improving Efficiency of Polish Industry".  Sector
Memorandum, World Bank. Washington, D.C., July 1989.
A.4   "Polish Textiles and Clothing Sector Restructuring Programme".
Volumes I-IV. Boston Consulting Group. December 1990.
B. Proiect Reports and Studies
B.1   "AUTOSAN Restructuring Programme".  Volumes I-II.  Boston
Consulting Group. December 1990.
B.2   "STAR Restructuring Programme".  Volumes I-II.  Boston Consulting
Group. December 1990.
B.3   "Preliminary Restructuring Strategy, WARYNSKI".  Volumes I-II.
Booz.Allen & Hamilton Inc. Warsaw, Poland, January 1991.
B.4   Polish Development Bank, Notary Deed, Statutes.  September 1990.
B.5   Polish Development Bank, Statement of Operating Policy and
Supporting Documents. May 1991.
B.6   Polish Development Bank, 3-year Strategic Plan, 1991-1993.
December 1990.
B.7   Industrial Development Agency, Articles of Association.  March
1991.
B.8   Industrial Development Agency, Overall Strategy, Operational
Policies and Proposed Work Program for 1991-1992. April 1991.
B.9   Ministry of Industry (MoI) - Past and Planned Ministry's Works on
the Restructuring of State-Owned Business. Warsaw, November 1990.
B.10 Central Planning Office - Principles of Procedures in Regional
Restructuring Programmes. Warsaw, September 1990.



- 64 -
Annex 1
Page 2
B.l1  The Ministry for Ownership Transformation (Ministry of Ownership
Changes), The Privatization Program for 1991. January 1991.
B.12  Ministry of Ownership Changes - Documents for Applying for
Privatization of a State-owned Enterprise by way of Capitalization
(Article 5 of the Privatization Law). Warsaw, October 31, 1990.
B.13  Ministry of Ownership Changes.  Legal Foundation, Premises, and
Procedures in Privatizing State Enterprises by Liquidation.
Warsaw, October 1990.
B.14  Ministry of Ownership Changes.  Voucher Feasibility Study, Interim
Report.  DRT Project Team.  DRT International. Warsaw, march 1991.
B.15  Ministry of Ownership Changes.  Existing and Proposed Organization
Chart. march 1991.
B.16  Regional Economy Restructuring Program for Lodz.  Undated.
B.17  Polish Stock Exchange - General Information and Start-up Scenario.
Societe des Bourses Francaises. March 1991.
B.18  Law of 24th February, 1990 on Counteracting Monopolistic
Practices, Warszawa 1990.
B.19  Summary Report.  The Coordination Team for Technical Assistance to
Polish Enterprises. United Nations Development Programme.
Project POL 90/005 and 90/506. September 1990.
B.20  Ministry of Foreign Economic Cooperation, Privatization of Foreign
Trade Units. February 1991.
B.21  "Act on the Privatization of State-Owned Enterprises".  Foreign
Investment Agency. July 1990.
B.22  "Promotion of Polish Privatization Programme".  Foreign Investment
Agency. December 1990.
B.23  Foreign Investment in Poland in 1990.
B.24  "Privatization in Eastern Europe:  The Case of Poland".  Jeffery
Sacks and David Lipton. Harvard University. Conference on
Adjustment and Growth: Lessons for Eastern Europe. Pultusk,
Poland. October 4-5, 1990.



- 45
ADDaxI
Page 3
C. Selected Working Papers
C.1 Terms of Reference for Mass Privatization Advisor
C.2   Terms of Reference for Mol Restructuring Study
C.3   IDA - Preparation of Restructuring Programmes, Plan of Financing,
1991 Budget.



- 46 -
&noreg 2- 1
Page 1
~POLAND - FRIYATIZATIQN 6ANDRESTRUCTUING PROJECT
THE PRIVATIZATIQN PROGRAM
I. FACXXR2UND
A. Introduction
1.          With the objective of creating an efficient market economy, the
Government of Poland in 1989 embarked upon a major program of transformation
of state assets into private ownership. This is expected to result in a
substantial improvement in enterprise efficiency by providing better
incentives to labor, management and capital. Rapid privatization of state
assets has been selected as the preferred mode of transformation, and central
to this program has been the enactment of the "Privatization Law for State-
Owned Enterprises" in July 1990 and the establishment in September 1990 of the
Ministry of Ownership Changes (MoOC).
2.          In view of the significant variations in the types of enterprises
to be privatized on the one hand, and of potential sources of private
ownership on the other, as well as the limited availability of Polish private
capital and management skills, the Government has selected a "multi-track"
approach to privatization. The privatization program, as envisaged, utilizes
both the conventional methods of enterprise sale applied in the West, and more
innovativ methods of privatization which emphasize maximum possible
participation on the part of Polish citizens.
B. Qbiectives of Privatization
3.          The privatization program is based on the following objectives:
(a)   move the economy from a centrally planned system to a
competitive market system, which would encourage the
creation of a profitable private sector;
(b)   improve the performance of enterprises through a more
efficient use of labor, capital and management skills;
(c)   prevent possible distortions of the privatization process
(for example, the sale of state assets to foreign investors
at unduly low prices);
(d)   reduce the size of the public sector and the burden on the
public budget and administration;
(e)   generate funds from the sale of enterprises or their shares;
(f)   ensure a wide diffusion of ownership of privatized assets;
(g)   provide an effective system of corporate governance; and



- 47 -
Annex 2-1
Page 2
(h)   commence the program of exchanging the external debt of the
country into the equity of the privatized enterprises.
4.          The privatization program will transform Poland's ownership
structure to resemble that of Western Europe within five years, with
approximantely half of the state-owned assets to be transferred into private
hands within the first three years. The Government intends to supervise the
process to ensure that it is fair, transparent and meets the requirements of
social j ustice.
C. Present Forms ogf OwnrshiR
5.          At present, there exist four forms of ownership in Poland:  (a)
Treasury property, with state-owned enterprises and state budgetary entities,
such as schools and hospitals; (b) municipal property, with municipal-owned
enterprises and municipal budgetary entities; (c) property owned by
cooperatives and state farms; (d) private or semi-private property (joint
ventures between state-owned enterprises and private foreign or local
partners).
6.          There are approximately 9,000 state-owned enterprises in the
"productive" sectors, approximately 4,500 of which are controlled by the 49
"wojewoda" (regional governments) in the country. The Government intends to
privatize the majority of the state-owned enterprises over the next five
years. The state budgetary entities e.re for the foreseeable future to remain
State property.
7.          The municipalities control predominantly local wholesale and
retail trade enterprises (for which the founding organ is typically the Mayor
or the municipal council).  These enterprises are in the process of b:z.a.ng
privatized at this time principally through lease by individuals (usually
employees) or small ente;rises. Municipal budgetary enterprises include
water treatment facilities and sewage plants, which are expected to be
privatized only to a very limited extent in the foreseeable future.
8.          Cooperatives represent a major part of the economy, and contribute
almost 20X to GNP. They comprise a wide range of economic activity ranging
from agricultural and industrial production, wholesale and retail, to
religious, artistic and social groupings, all of which are controlled by
different laws. The privatization of cooperatives remains "spontaneous" at
this time and is not adequately regulated or legislated.
9.          The private sector which has traditionally been strong in
agriculture (over 70X of arable land is privately owned), and in small artisan
manufacturing and retail trade, experienced a significant growth since the
adoption of the new policies. By end-1990, approximately 23,000 private
corporations were in operation, and 1,400 joint venture companies.
10.         Under the classical central planning system, the functions of
enterprises were largely determined by the central plan, with the "founding
organ" (relevant Ministry or wojewoda) maintaining formal oversight of the



- 48 -
_nnex 2-1
Page 3
enterprise. With the reforms, commencing in 1981, the enterprises were
granted increasing (and in the end almost total) operational and financial
autonomy. While legally enterprises continue to be owned by the State, the
responsibilities entrusted to the enterprise are exercised principally by the
workers. This is typically accomplished through an assembly of the workers
(similar to an annual shareholders meeting) and the Workers' Council, which is
the governing body responsible for all decibions relating to the activities of
the enterprise, including the right to appoint the management of the
enterprise, or veto the Government's choice. In cases where the Council has
been effectively organized, decision-making is controlled through the Council;
in other cases, the managers of the enterprise have acted with considerable
independence of the Council and the State.
11.         As a result, the various ownership rights (use of property,
financial returns and disposal of property, among others) are held jointly,
but in a confused and shifting way among the managers, the workers and the
State. This lack of clarity poses acute problems. A common example has been
the situation where managers with decision-making autonomy, but no title to
the asset. they manage, tend to appropriate the income ar.i strip the assets of
the enterprise. With the increased freedom to set wages, particularly in an
inflationary context, Worker's Councils have pressured managers to raise wages
substantially. Also, in enterprises facing layoffs, the Councils can provide
substantial support to workers, and as such, become a critical factor in the
reform process.
D. Entergrise Semaentation
12.         The multi-track approach to privatization adopted by the
Government is in part based on the vast differences in the nature and size of
the enterprises to be privatized. A systematic segmentation analysis of
state-owned enterprises has been utilized as a means of providing insights
into the modalities that are required to achieve a successful privatization
program.
13.         At the end of 1990, there were a total of 8,900 state-owned
enterprises in the productivo sector and 3,700 state-owned enterprises in the
non-productive sector. Of the former group, approximately 35Z were in the
manufacturing and mining sector, 21% in the construction sector, 201 in the
agriculture sector, 8X in the transportation sector and the remainder in other
sectors. About 10 were municipal level enterprises. The non-productive
sectors included, principally, housing, culture, finance and other service
sectors. The state-owned sector comprised, in addition, approximately 13,000
cooperatives, principally in the manufacturing/mining, agriculture and housing
sectors. Exhibit 1 contains the enterprises classified by sector for 1990.
14.         As mentioned above, the private sector comprises approximately
23,000 enterprises, princioally in the manufacturing/mining and agriculture
sectors. In addition, there are about 1,400 joint ventures (with foreign
investors) and 4,500 partially state-owned joint stock or limited liability
companies.



- 49 -
Annex 2-1
Page 4
15.         In a study undertaken by the IFC in August 1990, the top
approximately 500 state-owned enterprises were classified on the basis of
sales and net income. The analysis used annualized figures from the first
quarter of 1990. These represented 6X of the state-owned enterprises in the
productive sector (medium-sized enterprises accounted for 25X and small for
the remainder). In terms of sales and net income, however, these enterprises
accounted for approximately 47X and 602, respectively, of the state-owned
productive sector. Total sales for the state-owned sector were about US$66
billion and net income, US$10 billion. Using net income as a proxy for
efficiency, the study found that of the 500 enterprises, 32X were "good" (net
income/sales greater than 20X), 40% "average" (net income/sales between 102
and 20X), 202 "poor" (net income/sales between 52 and 102) and 81 "very poor"
(net income/sales less than 52).
E. The Pri_atization Strategy for State-Owned Enterprises
16.         The privatization strategy adopted by the Government envisages a
multi-track approach comprising separate privatization paths for the various
categories of enterprises, often with a simultaneous use of different
techniques of privatization within a category. In practice, this implies
matching privatization instruments or techniques, on the one hand, with large,
medium and small enterprises which perform either well or poorly, on the
other. Enterprises are differentiated principally on the basis of their (a)
size (large enterprises require a diversified ownership structure, whereas in
most cases, small and medium enterprises can be sold in whole or substantial
parts to a single acquiror); (b) economic and financial viability (viable
e-ompanies would then be distinguished as to their immediate salability or need
for prior restructuring); and (c) ownership (whether state-owned enterprises
or under the jurisdiction of local authorities). Exhibit 2 presents a
diagrammatic representation of the privatization process.
17.         The Privatization Law envisages two main alternative tracks to
privatization: i) "commercialization" or corporatization of an state-owned
enterprise, to be followed by transfer of their capital to private owners; and
ii) the 'liquidation" route with the dissolution of an enterprise and the
privatization of its assets. In general, state-owned enterprises which are
deemed to be in "viable" financial and structural condition are prepared for
eventual privatization through "commercialization", or the transformation from
a state-owned enterprise to a state-owned corporation (either a joint stock or
limWt:A liability company) under the governance of the Commercial Code.
Enterpriscs which are deemed "unviable" either financially or in terms of size
are typically privatized through the "liquidation" route, that is, through a
"winding-up" of the enterprise and the subsequent sale or lease in whole or
in part.
18.         Notwithstanding Article 5.3 of the Privatization Law, which allows
the MoOC to "refuse transformation of a state-owned enterprise to a company
due to "financial or economic conditions of the enterprise or important
national interest", it is the Government's primary goal to privatize state-
owned and other public enterprises as soon as possible.



- 50 -
Atrmex 2
Page 5
1. PrivAtigation TEh Commercializatio
19.         The first step of the privatization process is commercialization,
tite transformation of a state-owned enterprise into a joint stock or limited
liability company (single-holder corporation of the State). This is intended
to (a) provide a clear decision-making and control structure; (b) adjust the
legal status of state-owned enterprises to the requirements of potential
foreign corporate partners; (c) create a pressure for market-oriented
restructuring; and (d) prepare the enterprise for privatization.
Commercialization is a vital step towards privatization, and is considered a
priority in the privatization process by the Government, as it effectively
concentrates the ownership righ.ts of the enterprise in a corporate Board of
Directors appointed by the owners or the State. It is a step in the
introduction of sound corporate governance of enterprises, and as such is
considered a priority by the Government for enterprises which will remain
under State ownership for some time. Exhibit 3 presents the diagrammatic
representation of the privatization process through the commercialization
route.
20.         The Privatization Law envisages that commercialization be
initiated by either the enterprise or its founding organ (in agreement with
the management and Workers Council), or be imposed from above by the Prime
Minister, upon a motion of the MoOC. Immediately after commercialization, a
Supervisory Council (Board of Directors, is appointed to the new joint stock
company. The Supervisory Council is comprised of two-thirds of the candidates
being appointed by the MoOC and one-third by the old Workers' Council'. The
training of candidates for the Supervisory Councils has commenced and the MoOC
is expecting to train about 40 to 60 candidates per month. After
commercialization, enterprises are exempt from paying the obligatory
"dividend" tax and 20% of the excess wage tax ("popiwek"). The dividend tax
is a tax levied on a portion of the capital of the enterprise and is based on
the current refinancing rate of the NBP. The excess wage tax is levied on the
portion of the wage increase which is above the allowable wage increases (the
latter are typically based on, but lower than, the increase in inflation).
21.         With a view to an effective implementation of the privatization
program, the MoOC, while emphasizing the principle of voluntary
commercialization, has also established a number of criteria for enterprise
selection. These criteria include: (a) the size of the state-owned
enterprise in terms of its annual turnover, number of employees and the
absence of a monopolistic position; (b) historical and anticipated financial
and operational performance cf the state-owned enterprise; (c) transparent
legal situation, specifically with respect to the ownership of land and
buildings and the absence of an artificial multi-plant structure; (d) the
interest of potential domestic and foreign investors in the state-owned
'Until the equity has been totally or partly transferred to private
shareholders, at which time a new Council is appointed, with the
Directors selected by the shareholders's meeting as per the Code of
Commerce.



- 51 -
Annex 2-1
Page 6
enterprise; and (e) good interpersonal relations within the enterprise between
the management, workers and unions so as to minimize the tensions caused by
privatization. This prczedure will ensure that commercialization, in addition
to changing the legal status of an enterprise, is also the catalyst for the
restructuring program and will set the limJts necessary for an economically
viable program.
22.         Following commercialization, the next step (a-cording to the Law,
theoretically within two years) is privatization which eavisages two
alternative methods: (a) individual or "customized" privatization, and (b)
mass privatization.
23.         (a) Individual Privatigation. Individual privatization along
traditional lines, using public offerings or direct (trade) sales to domestic
and foreign investors, is more appropriate for the larger and more viable
enterprises. The latter group includes the top 500 enterprises in the
Country.
24.         In the case of public offerings, each enterprise will be evaluated
independently by specialist firms and potential acquirors will be provided
with the prospectus specifying asset valuation, historical financial data and
the program for the enterprise's operations in the future. The prospectus
will comply in full with the disclosure regulations of the Securities and
Exchange Commission. The share issues will provide a basis for the
development of a securities market, particularly, stock trading. It is also
expected that the cenversion of external debt into equity of privatized
enterprises will commence. The operational experience gained in the five
pilot privatizations (detailed in paragraph 93) is expected to provide
significant guidance and insight into the process.
25.         According to the Privatization Law, employees of state-owned
enterprises are entitled to purchase up to 20X of the total amount of shares
on a preferential basis, that is, at 50X of the offering price, and retain the
right to purchase more shares on generally available terms. However, the
total value of discounts given must not exceed the product of the average
salary per employee in the enterprise and the number of employees purchasing
shares.
26.         A proposal which is currently under discussion envisages a free
distribution of 10 of the shares to employees, instead of the purchase of
shares on preferential terms described above. The shares will be provided to
employees immediately after the enterprise is converted to a joint stock
company. The share distribution to employees within the company is left to
criteria to be established by the Workers' Council and management of each
company. Consideration will be given to develop a general framework for all
enterprises, which would ensure that the scheme provides an incentive to
enhance employee performance.
27.         The MoOC also prepares the sale of large enterprises through a
direct sale to large domestic or foreign investors. This can be accomplished
either through (a) a private sale to a single or several investors, or (b) a



Annex 2-1
Page 7
full-scale domestic or international tender. The Government's strategy with
respect to foreign investment is described in greater detail below (paragraph
50).
28.         The group of small-and medium-sized enterprises comprises
approximately 25,000 enterprises in construction, transport, distribution,
tourism and other sectors. The number of these enterprises has been gradually
increasing as a result of the steady break-up of multi-plant enterprises into
smaller firms. The break-up decision is typically taken either by the
founding organs, at the request of the enterprises themselves or on the
initiative of the Anti-Monopoly Commission.
29.         The privatization of small and medium-sized enterprises will, as
in the case of the larger enterprises, transform the enterprise into a single-
holder corporation of the State, offer the shares of this corporation to
employees (employee buyouts), investors (typically private individuals),
groups of private individuals and private domestic and foreign firms. The
process may be initiated either by the enterprise concerned, by a potential
buyer with an offer to purchase a major block of shares, the founding organ or
the MoOC.
30.         The acquisition of shares can be facilitated by special credit
programs and by the possibility for individuals to convert State bonds, with a
certain discount, into shares of privatized enterprises. Other arrangements
include payment for shares in installments and the acceptance of privatized
enterprises' bonds as a form of payment (only in the case of corporations in
good financial condition). In cases where the enterprise's organizational and
marketing condition warrants external management contracting, the MoOC may
contract a domestic or foreign firm to manage the corporation.
31.         For the privatization of small and medium-sized enterprises, the
Government has selected, within statutory limits, a more decentralized
approach to this process. In the first half of 1991, regional offices of the
MoOC will be established in 11 voivodships. Each regional office will have
responsibility for 3 to 5 voivodships, and will support the Plenipotentiary in
charge of privatization in the voivodships' administration as well as the
municipal administrations. At the initial stage of decentralization, the
regional offices will have responsibility only for the preparation of the
enterprises for privatization. It is anticipated, however, that in time the
regional offices could also undertake the decision to privatize. The
operational capacity of the regional MoOC offices will be further augmented by
the following:
An industry/sector approach to privatization, where inter-
ministerial teams are being appointed to draft
restructuring/privatization programs for each industry.
Closer cooperation with organizations involved in promoting
the privatization effort at both the local and national
levels.



- 53 -
Annex 2-1
Page 8
-     A standardization of legal and economic procedures e.g.
drafting standard contracts.
32.         Despite the initiative to decentralize, overall control of the
privatization process will be maintained by the MoOC through the application
of uniform criteria and principles of decision-making, the establishment of
the regional offices and training of their staff.
33.         (b) Mass Privatization. In view of the absence of adequate
domestic capital resources and the relatively short time period allocated for
the privatization process, the Government adopted mass privatization as a
method to accelerate the process.   The mass privatization scheme envisages
privatization through specific methods including: (a) offering shares to
employees on preferential terms; (b) free distribution of vouchers to Polish
citizens; and (c) allocation of shares to pension funds and other financial
intermediaries. The Government is undertaking substantial preparatory work in
the first half of 1991 to enable the actual mass privatization to take place
in the second half of 1991. The preparatory work includes:
-     screening the largest enterprises to select those which are
appropriate for mass privatization (a minimum of 100
enterprises);
-     specifying the details of the voucher distribution
operation, in cooperation with foreign experts selected
under competitive procedures;
-     verifying potential Polish institutional investors such as
commercial banks,insurance agencies and pension funds;
-     assessing the macro-economic consequences of mass
privatization; and
-     conducting a public information campaign regarding the mass
privatization program.
34.         Shares to Employees on Preferential Terms.  As described above,
employees will be permitted to purchase 20X of the shares of the privatized
enterprise at a 50% discount, or alternatively, will receive 10 of the shares
in a free distribution.
35.         The principal issue that is raised here is one of the valuation of
th.e shares provided to employees. Although the Privatization Law provides for
the valuation of an enterprise prior to any disposal of shares, the mass
privatization effort, through the voucher scheme (described below), would by
definition establish a value for the shares only after trading commences.
This could result in a share valuation below face value and create significant
perception and credibility problems for employees.



- 54 -
Annex-2-1l
Page 9
36.         The Voucher Scheme and Privatization Funds.  The Privatization Law
specifies the free distribution of "vouchers" to all Polish citizens, which
will be exchangeable for shares in newly-created financial intermediaries.
The latter would be established in the form of "Privatization Funds", holding
companies or mutual funds, which would use the vouchers entrusted to them to
bid against each other for the shares of commercialized enterprises. They
will also, as controlling shareholders, manage or closely control the
management of these enterprises during their turn-around or at least for a
certain number of years. These funds would be managed by a managing firm with
a foreign professional partner. The current proposal envisages the
establishment of ten such Privatization Funds, each holding shares in about 20
privatized enterprises. The vouchers are intended to comprise 30X of the
total shares of the privatized enterprises, and are expected to have a nominal
value of not less than Z1 1 million. An international consulting firm has
been hired by the Govrernment to study the various issues related to the
voucher scheme such as transferability, tradeability, physical vouchers versus
book entry system, face value on the vouchers and the nature of the
funds/holding companies that will hold the vouchers. The logistics and
administrative costs of the scheme are also being investigated to confirm
whether the voucher system is feasible or not as currently proposed.
37.         One of the major issues related to the voucher scheme that is
being investigated at present is that of the precise nature of the
Privatization Funds that would hold and add value to the vouchers entrusted to
them by the citizens. The Privatization Funds should take the form of holding
companies which would play a more proactive role in acquiring, restructuring
and reselling companies, than of closed end mutual funds, where the investment
manager plays the passive role of holding and managing the shares. The
Privatization Funds are a means of reducing investment risk, providing expert
portfolio management and providing effective control of enterprise
restructuring and management. A key issue in the implementation of the Funds
is to acquire the capital necessary for their initial operation. The
Government is seeking to mobilize domestic sources of capital such as private
capital, domestic banks, insurance agencies, pension funds and trad. unions,
and to encourage foreign investors to participate in the creation of such
institutions. Other issues include the means of providing adequate incentives
to the Fund manager, the length of time shares should be retained in the
portfolio, appropriate conditions under which the shares can be sold and the
taxes that the Funds will be liable for (at present, the marginal tax rate is
40X and the withholding tax rate is 30X, which results in a very high blended
rate). It would be useful to structure the Funds as pass-through vehicles for
tax purposes, so as to increase the incentives for investors in the Funds. A
study to develop the objectives, terms of reference and invitations to bid,
for alternative fund schemes, is being prepared with the help of experienced
investment bankers.
38.         Distribution of Shares to Banks. Insurance Agencies and Pension
Funds. The privatization program had initially envisaged the distribution of
10 of shares to the nine state-owned commercial banks. However, given that
this may lead to distortions by placing emphasis on an activity within the
banks which they cannot handle in the light of their constrained resources, it



-55 -
Annex 2-1
Page 10
was suggested that the shares be placed in an employee stock option plan, for
example. Another 20X of the shares will be allocated to the state pension
fund, ZUS.
39.          The mass privatization program envisages an eventual distribution
of the shares of privatized enterprises between the different parties as
follows: (a) 30X to the Privatization Funds; (b) 10 to employees; (c) 20X to
the State pension fund; and (d) in some cases, 30X to large private domestic
or foreign investors. The State will hold the remaining shares of each
privatized enterprise (the "golden" share), and entrust them to the
Privatization Funds, to give them control of the enterprise.
40.         The mass privatization program will be handled by a department
within the M4oOC, comprising people who will play the role of liaisons between
the MoOC and the foreign firms. A Steering Committee, to which the Bank is
being associated, has been established to coordinate with other ministries,
foreign advisors and experts on all the aspects of the program. The
Government recently selected a foreign investment bank to be the lead
manager/advisor for the program, who will also be the formal representative of
the Government. A foreign consulting firm will be appointed to prepare the
information memoranda for the firms to be privatized.
2. Liquidation or Winding-UR
41.         A state-owned enterprise may also be privatized through
liquidation or winding up by its founding organ, on its own initiative or at
initiative of the workers council, with the approval of the MoOC. Three forms
of privatization are permitted by the Privatization Law: (a) sale of all or
part of the assets of the liquidated enterprise to a new company, joint stock
or limited liability company created (for example) by the employees of the
former state-owned enterprise; (b) contribution of assets to such a company;
and (c) lease of assets (regular or involving an eventual transfer of property
rights) to such a company. In the case of enterprises which have been broken
up due to technological, regional or monopoly reasons, these forms of
liquidation may be used jointly. Exhibit 4 presents the diagrammatic
representation of the privatization through liquidation.
42.         A liquidated enterprise may therefore be sold in whole or in part
to a private domestic or foreign acquiror, or its assets may be contributed to
a domestic or foreign owned corporation. The access to privatized
enterprises' assets will not be restricted by practices such as naming the
acquiror in advance, but the founding organ, in its capacity as representative
of the State, will set the minimum price for the disposal of the enterprise.
43.         Leasing is generally recommended for smaller firms, and has proven
to be the most popular method of privatization through liquidetion. The wound
up enterprise is typically leased to the employees of the enterprise, upon the
employees contributing a minimum share capital equivalent to a least 20X of
the capital of the former enterprise (Article 38 of the Privatization Law),
for a pre-set annual fee. The fee is calculated on the basis of the value of
the asset plus an interest rate equivalent to 752 of the current refinancing



- 56 -
Annex 2-1
Page 11
rate of the National Bank of Poland. Eventual purchase of the leased assets
is a possibility and is contractually negotiable at the end of the lease
period. Asset valuation has historically been performed on the basis of the
discounted cash flow of the enterprise. However, it has been found that
managers with the objective of purchasing the enterprise have tended to
contain the operations of the enterprise in order to reduce cash flow and
therefore obtain a lower asset valuation/purchase price. As a solution to
this problem, the current proposal for the valuation methodology for
enterprises is one of the market value of assets plus goodwill, if any.
44.         According to the Commercial Code, employees are required to pay in
only 25X of their contribution to the equity of a privatized enterprise. In
this sense, leasing may be considered to be equivalent to an installment sale
in that the employees are initially liable for only a portion of the share
capital of the new corporation, and retain the flexibility to pay in the
remainder over a specified time period.
3. Possible Risks
45.         Although the privatization strategy has been given considerable
support and technical assistance to ensure its successful execution, there
exist a number of possible risks which, if realized, could create significant
problems of implementation. These include:
(a)   An inadequate "inventory" of enterprises to be privatized
(through commercialization), which would occur as a result
of an insufficient number of state-owned enterprises being
commercialized;
(b)   Workers' resistance to the overall privatization effort
caused by the unemployment (at least initial) resulting from
the restructuring and privatization of enterprises;
(c)   Rejection by Polish citizens of the substantial foreign
involvement (caused not only by foreign direct investment
but also the mass privatization program, when enterprises
would be controlled by foreign-managed Privatization Funds)
in the country's industrial assets; and
(d)   The privatization process becoming overly "politicized" (due
for example to the upcoming Parliamentary elections), and
therefore ineffective.
F. Regional Privatization
46.         The bulk of the privatization effort so far has focussed on state-
owned enterprises. The focus is legitimate inasmuch as, firstly, this is the
largest concentration of state-owned assets, and secondly, due to their size
and performance, some of the enterprises present significant transformation
problems. There are a large number of enterprises, however, which are owned
by the local authorities, which include:



- 57 -
AnneLxa:1
Page 12
(a)   at the level of the wojewoda, which is the founding organ
for many small and medium-sized enterprises, there are
approximately 4,500 public enterprises which have to be
privatized;
(b)   at the municipal level, there were approximately 100,000
businesses, mostly shops and other small businesses, plus
wholesale and retail trade enterprises where the founding
organ is typically the mayor or the municipal council.
These have been substantially privatized, principally
through lease by employees or small private companies
("small privatization", paragraph 84); and
(c)   at the level of the 13,000 cooperatives, privatization has
been hindered due to the absence of a clear legal framework.
There have, however, been a significant number of
'spontaneous" or largely unregulated privatizations. The
specific issues related to the privatization of cooperative
enterprises are discussed in paragraph 89.
47.         In general, the founding organs of regional enterprises are the
*"gminas" or townships. There are approximately 2,200 gminas in Poland. The
responsible department is the "Office of the Plenipotentiary for Self-
Government", which reports directly to the Prime Minister. Although decisions
on the privatization of the regional enterprises are taken by the gminas, the
MoOC plays an advisory role in the process. Specifically, the MoOC will (a)
execute privatization initiatives from the gminas; (b) provide various forms
of consulting and training on privatization; and (c) monitor the course of
privatization.
48.         Significant progress has been achieved in the area of "small
privatization", that is, the privatization of the approximately 100,000 small
and medium-sized retail and wholesale shops (paragraph 84). Small
privatization essentially involves the establishment of corporations by
employees (or under employee stock ownership plans), by means of leasing the
assets of the enterprise, on the basis of a contractually agreed lease rent.
In the majority of cases, employees possess pre-emptive rights and
preferential terms for leasing the outlet. In some areas, however, the gmina
authorities, in the interests of profiting from the lease rent, have conducted
auctions of the property resulting in uneconomically high rent rates. The
Government is taking measures to contain this practice so as to further
promote the small privatization process.
49.         With a view to standardizing and simplifying the privatization
process at the regional level, the Government supported the establishment of
an institute to provide appropriate advise to the gminas. The institute has
prepared a manual on reg'onal privatization which contains a general
interpretation of the Privatization Law as well as more specific guidelines
for privatization at the regional level. The institute is also expected to
monitor the progress of the regional privatization effort.



* 58 -
&DD:L21
Page 13
0. Foreign Investment
50.         To date, foreign investment, typically through joint ventures, has
been a major route to privatization. With the role of foreign investment
growing as a key element of the overall privatization effort, the Government
is revising the Foreign Investment Law to "expedite the creation of a market
economy in Poland and to assure more attractive legal, fiscal and economic
conditions for foreign investment." The new Law will not only eliminates the
minimum investment amount and the rule that foreign equity participation above
10% requires the approval of the Foreign Investment Agency, but also provide a
number of tax and other incentives including: (a) repatriation of a 100% of
after-tax profits and capital invested (previously, the Law limited the amount
of profit and capital that could be repatriated); (b) guaranteed compensation
of all losses as a result of expropriation or a similar event; (c) customs
exemption for in-kind contributions to capital; (d) three-year loss carry
forward; and (d) accelerated depreciation. A newly-revised Land Law also
allows foreigners to own land in Poland, subject to the authorization of the
Ministry of Interior.
51.         In addition, the Government also intends to actively promote
foreign investment into Poland through the Foreign Investment Agency. To
date, the inflow of foreign investment has not been of a size or character
that would contribute significantly to Polish economic growth. Although there
have been approximately 2,800 joint ventures approved at the end of 1990, the
average foreign equity investment has been relatively small (US$140,000), and
typically in commercial operations and component manufacturers. Any increase
in the type and size of foreign investment would require a major promotional
effort.
H. Legal Framework
52.         Although much of the legal framework required for the
privatization program is already in place, the Government is developing key
additional legislation to ensure an efficient implementation ot the
privatization effort, and ensure the effective functioning of the private
sector in the future.
53.         The fundamental legislation underlying the privatization program
is the "Privatization Law for State-Owned Enterprises" (1990), which
initiates, processes and monitors the overall prLvatization of SOEs. Other
key legislation includes (a) the "Anti-Monopoly Act (1990), which establishes
an independent Anti-Monopoly Office and provides for the break-up of large
monopolistic SOEs and cooperatives prior to privatization; (b) the "Law of
Economics of State-Owned Enterprises" (1981), as amended in 1987, 1989, and
1990, and its implementing decrees, which governs state-owned enterprises; (c)
the "Commercial Code" (1934), as amended on various occasions, which governs
the joint stock and limited liability companies which cannot immediately be
privatized; and (d) the "Bankruptcy Law" (1987), which governs the bankruptcy
and subsequent liquidation of joint stock and limited liability companies.



- 59 -
Annex 2-1
Page 14
54.         A key legislation which permits privatization through the infusion
of foreign capital is the draft "Foreign Investment Law" (1991), which
replaces the "Law on Joint Ventures" (1988), as mentioned above. The former
Law on Joint Ventures established the independent Foreign Investment Agency
(FIA) and governed all joint ventures between stat.-owned enterprises and
foreign investors. Previous inconsistencies between this law and the
Privatization Law have been solved in the new draft, which is currently being
considered by Parliament.
55.         To support the process of enterprise reform and privatization, the
Government introduced or modified a number of laws with a view to providing
the legislative basis for a free market economy. The "Law on Financial
Management of State Enterprises" (1989) reinforces financial discipline on
enterprises by imposing budget constraints and making compulsory "dividend"
payments (based on a portion of the share capital of the enterprise) and
providing for a periodic revaluation of assets. The "State Enterprise Law"
was amended in 1990, and allowed the founding organ, in close collaboration
with the Ministry of Finance, to compel a non-performing enterprise into
restructuring/liquidation or ultimate bankruptcy, suppress the Workers Council
management system, and turn the enterprise over to a "Recovery Commission".
56.         The liquidation amendment of Article 25(1) of the Privatization
Law is being used extensively to privatize state-owned enterprises, for
reasons including: (a) financial insolvency; (b) techno/economic reasons e.g.
environmental liabilities; (c) an unfeasible and inefficient corporate
structure. In addition, amendments were made to the "Law on Bankruptcy" in
December 1989, in which all enterprises, state-owned and otherwise, are
equally subject to normal bankruptcy procedures.
57.         The Government also amended the "Land Law" in December 1990 to
address the issue of the ownership of land and other assets by both domestic
and foreign investors. The principal revisions included the following: (a)
foreigners are permitted to acquire privately-held land. In the case of
state-owned land, foreigners are permitted access to the land through the
mechanism of a perpetual (99 year) lease. This lease is transferable and can
therefore be utilized as collateral; (b) privatized state-owned enterprises
will be permitted to acquire both state-owned and privately-held land; and (c)
Polish citizens will be permitted to own multiple real estate assets and will
be allowed unlimited and unconditional access to agricultural land.
I. Institutional Framework
58.         The key institutions influencing the privatization process are (a)
the MoOC, and (b) the "founding organ", that is, the relevant Ministry or
local authority at the wojewoda or the municipal level. Under the
Privatization Law, the privatization of state-owned enterprises is entirely
under the direction of the MoOC. The principal functions of the MoOC are to
initiate, monitor and control the process of privatizing state-owned
enterprises. It is also called upon to provide legal and operational
assistance in the privatization of enterprises at the municipal and
cooperative level. For some enterprises which were recently created as joint-



- 60 -
6=neg 2- 1
Page 15
stock companies with shares held directly or indirectly (through existing
SOEs) by the Sta. , and as such are not administratively and legally state-
owned enterprises, the responsible parties are the founding organs, which may
be one of the 49 wojewoda or one of the other Ministries. The founding organs
are responsible for initiating enterprise privatization and the preparation of
an enterprise for privatization (in terms of breaking up large enterprises and
liquidating unxviable enterprises) at the regional level.
5Q.         Supporting institutions include the Foreign Investment Agency
(FIA), which becomes involved when foreign participation is envisaged, and the
Anti-Monopoly Commission, which is responsible for initiating the break-up of
monopolistic enterprises.  The FIA was created to take primary respons.bility
for the overtll management of foreign direct investment into Poland. Its
principal responsibilities, include promotional and informational activities
to attract foreign investors to Poland, evaluation of applications for joint
ventures and monitoring the activities of the joint ventures after they have
been approved. The latter responsibility would considerably reduced under the
new foreign investment law.
60.         The Anti-Monopoly Commission was created in April 1990 and is
responsible for containing monopolistic practices in the economy and fcr
monitoring and breaking up, if necessary, large and potentially monopolistic
enterprises. A monopolistic enterprise is defined as one having a "dominant
market position", that is, greater than 30% of the market. In 1990, the
Commission reviewed 1500 cases of potential monopoly, of which 200 were deemed
monopolistic and 200 deemed as requiring substantial restructuring.
Enterprise break-up can be initiated either by the owner, after a review by
the Commission, or by the Commission itself.
61.         The financial sector is a key sector which requires further
development for the success of the privatization program. A specialized
financial institution, the Polish Development Bank (PDB) has been established
as a key institution to also assist in financing the overall privatization and
restructuring effort. The new Industrial Development Agency (IDA) is
essentially providing technical assistance to restructuring erterprises. Both
have been established as joint stock companies with appointed Boards to ensure
autonomy from the Government. The PDB will provide medium and long-term
financing for restructuring through a network of financial intermediaries.
62.         The development of a transparent and efficient capital market is a
key element of the institutional framework required for the success of the
privatization program. The Stock Exchange, which is being established with
French technical assistance and is modeled on the Lyon stock exchange, is
expected to provide a complete and modern system of quotation, execution,
settlement and custody for the secondary market of shares issued in past and
future public offerings of privatized enterprises. Although initially the
Stock Exchange was established under the auspices of the Government, the
Government's role will be temporary and confined to start-up. With the
emergence of brokerage houses, the control and ownership of the Stock Exchange
is expected to pass into private ownership.



- 61 -
Annex 2-1
Page 16
63.         The regulation and supervision of the capital market is contained
in the securities law, the "Bill on Public Trading and Trust Funds", which was
approved by Parliament in March 1991, and is implemented by the Securities and
Exchange Commission (SEC). The Bill provides a general legal framework for
the creation of the SEC and determines the conditions for the admittance of
securities for public trading and the principles governing the conduct of such
trading. The SEC, to be established as a new State administrative entity,
will be responsible for the public trading in securities, providing
educational and information services for investors and developing a
comprehensive educational/training program for stockbrokers and SEC employees.
It is envisaged that the stock market will be operational by June 1991, with
limited trading in the shares of the five privatized enterprises to commence
in April 1991.
64.         An important element in the mass privatization effort is the
emergence and development of the Privatization Funds as the intermediary
institutions which will be engaged in holding the vouchers of the Polish
citizens and creating value in the shares of the privatized enterprises. The
Government intends to provide substantial support for the establishment of
these institutions.
65.         The training of Board members, managers and capital market
participants is crucial to the implementation and sustenance of the
privatization effort. The MoOC has already embarked on the recruitment and
training of Directors to the Supervisory Boards of the commercialized
enterprises. The objective is to train approximately 1500-2000 Directors by
end 1991. In addition to the Banking Institute which provides training
programs for bank employees, the MoOC has also established a training
institute, the School of Finance and Management, which offers training
programs at various levels for Directors, managers and stockbrokers. The
training programs cover all relevant areas of finance and management.
J. Specific Sectoral DeveloRments
66.         Although the privatization program is generally aimed at all
sectors of the economy, the bulk of the effort, to date, has been directed at.
the manufacturing sector. This is to an extent justified, in light of the
concentration of state-owned enterprises in the manufacturing sector.
However, there exist a large number of state-owned and public enterprises in
the other sectors which require a more "customized" program of privatization
to take into account the specific characteristics and problems of each sector.
The principal sectors are discussed below. The Government is also currently
in the process of preparing specific sectoral studies (that is, sector-wide
studies comprising the dynamics of each sector and the enterprises within that
sector) with a view to undertaking "cluster" privatizations. Cluster
privatizations essentially would involve preparing a group of small and
medium-sized enterprises for privatization within individual sectors, with the
objective of eventually privatizing them simultaneously or sequentially.
67.         Agriculture.  The agricultural sector is comprised of agricultural
marketing and processing enterprises and cooperatives as well as state-owned



- 62 -
Annex 2-1
Page 17
farms. The Government intends that the privatization of this sector be done
selectively, in light of the type of enterprise and its importance to the
economy. Tn this context, the MoOC requested bids for the preparation of sub-
sector studies which are intended to be utilized as a basis for the
privatization of enterprises in these sub-sectors. Issues specific to agro-
enterprises which have relevance to privatization include:
-     The restructuring and demonopolization of large enterprises
to define a "package" of industrial units that is
economically viable, and which will take into accounc
special factors such as (a) health, environment or
technological constraints; (b) access to raw material supply
in relation to processing capacity; and (c) complementary
activities within a sub-sector or between different sub-
sectors.
-     Sk.parating all non-commercial activities from the commercial
activities. The non-commercial activities should then be
transferred to the appropriate public administration.
-     Infrastructure development such as the development of a
wholesale market network for livestock and fresh produce,
handling facilities for sea and rail transportation and
access to effective communication systems.
68.         The issues of the state-owned farm sector and the development of
an ove all national land policy are crucial for the restructuring and eventual
privatization of the agricultural sector. ihe Government appears committed to
expediting the restructuring and privatization of the state-owned farms and
ancillary state-owned farm lands. A draft law exists which seeks the transfer
of state-owned farm assets to joint stock companies. The development and
implementation of the 2200 farms representing 25% of Poland's agricultural
land would commence formally after passage of this law. At present, state-
owned firms are under severe financial pressure as a result of high leverage,
but are not formally bankrupt due to their managers undertaking methods such
as asset stripping, unrealistic inventory valuations and other creative
accounting procedures to maintain a semblance of profitability. Insolvency on
the part of a large number of state-owned farms will result in an acute
liquidity crisis in the rural sector. In some sub-sectors (export crops, for
example), state-owned farms make a significant contribution to national
output. The approach to privatization has to be selective 3o as to minimize
any negative effects on forward linkages (foreign exchange earnings) or
backward linkages (input supply).
69.         Privatization criteria would therefore have to be developed to
prioritize efforts to (a) inventory land, buildings and equipment on these
farms; (b) assess tnei financial prospects; and (c) determine which state-
owned farms should ;- c.ivided and sold to private farmers, which should be
leased and which should remain State property.



- 63 -
Annex 2-1I
Page 18
70.         To date, a national land policy for agricultural land has not been
developed.  Proposals have been made to the Government to develop a policy
focussed on ar. improvement in the functioning of the private sector land
market, redefinition of the National Land Fund (PFZ) and the development of
legal and financial instruments to foster an improved private land market.
Measures under development include intensification of the land consolidation
effort, initiation of legal instruments for easier land transfers and
provision of support for the purchase of released state-owned farmland.
71.         Banking.  The financial sector is principally comprised of the
central bank, the National Bank of Poland (NBP), six specialized banks, nine
commercial banks, a development bank and some 60 newly-established private
banks. The specialized banks include Bank Handlowy (the foreign trade bank);
Bank PeKaO S.A. (which managed foreign exchange deposits of households,
savings and a portfolio of housing loans through an extensive branch network);
BGZ (which is specialized in agricultural lending and serves as an apex
institution for the cooperative banking system); and BRE (the export
development bank). The nine commercial banks were established in January 1989
out of the NBP, where NBP retained the typical central banking activities and
transferred all its corporate lending activities to the commercial banks.
72.         In view of the general lack of autonomy and accountability and the
need to revise the corporate governance and structure of the state-owned
commercial banks, the Government submitted a program for the transformation of
the commercial banks into joint stock companies to the Economic Sub-Committee
or the Council of Ministers, which was approved in March 1991. The subsequent
privatization of two commercial banks is intended to be accomplished in 1991,
with the remaining seven to be privatized subsequently. The selection of the
two banks to be privatized will be based on their degree of maturity. The
issues which may complicate the privatizations are essentially the .usirtainty
regarding the quality of the banks' portfolios, the problems of valuation and
the poor quality of financial information on the banks.
73.         Culture.  The state-owned enterprises under the jurisdiction of
the Ministry of Culture were considered to be candidates fer relatively rapid
privatization. These enterprises are in the areas of retail and wholesale
publishing, musical instrument manufacture, printing, music and entertainment.
The process of privatization included separate methodologies for each sub-
sector. The principal issue was one of breaking up large enterprises into
smaller and more viable enterprises. For example, the music sub-sector is
dominated by Polskie Nagrania, a phonograph manufacturing enterprise, and the
wholesale publishing is dominated by Dom Ksiazki, a book publishing
enterprise. In the area of publishing, all the newspapers in the country were
managed under a single large state-owned enterprise, RSW. RSW was broken up
into several smaller enterprises, which were subsequently individually
privatized. The majority of the newly-creaced enterprises were purchased by
employee-owned or supported private Polish companies.
74.         The printing and musical instrument manufacturing enterprises are
expected to be privatized through the liquidation method. The specific issue
in the case of these enterprises was one of assets, particularly property, and



- 64 -
Annex 2- 1
Page 19
the proper compensation to be granted to previous owners. The enterprises in
the film sector are expected to be privatized after being broken up into
smaller units.
75.         Energy/Mining.  In 1990, the energy sector contributed
approximately 10% to GDP and employed over 500,000 persons. During the 1980s,
the energy sector suffered from inadequate levels of investment, maintenance
and attention to environment aspects. The sharp economic contraction in the
past few years, in addition, resulted in capacities being generally larger
than demand. The sector is dominated by coal, which in 1990 accounted for
over 95Z of primary energy production and over 75X of primary energy use. Oil
production is negligible and accounts for only about 1X of primary energy use.
Natural gas production has been more significant, accounting for over 31 of
primary energy production. Electricity production accounts for over 55X of
primary energy use.
76.         In general, the energy sector has an important strategic
significance and is characterized by a strong monopolistic structure. The
sector can be broken up in terms of (a) the exploration and exploitation of
primary energy resources; (b) production of energy products; (c) transmission;
and (d) distribution and final sale of energy products. These activities
could be fully integrated as in the case of the gas industry, or kept
"eparate. In early 1990, the Government split the electricity board into one
transmission grid and several generating companies. The coal mining sector,
comprised of 68 independent coal mines and the Hard Coal Agency, is expected
to be restructured into 10-15 independent joint stock companies with the Hard
Coal Agency playing the role of a "transitional" holding company for those
mines which are to be closed down. The restructuring studies, prepared under
the auspices of the World Bank, are being discussed by the relevant
Ministries. The Government is also presently in the process of considering
alternative structures for other energy sub-sectors. The emerging structure
would influence the privatization process and the scope for joint ventures.
77.         Other key issues in the energy sector which would have an impact
on privatization/restructuring include: (a) the shortage of qualified
management; (b) the shortage of domestic capital (in light of the highly
capital intensive nature of the sector); and (c) a comprehensive legal and
regulatory framework. The Government, through the Department of Energy, is
presently in the process of formulating a new Energy Law, and is studying a
privatization proposal submitted to them by a consortium of consultants.
78.         Foreign  Trade.  The foreign trade sector is; comprised of state-
owned enterprises and joint stock or limited liability companies. The state-
owned enterprisos account for about 20X of total exports. Approximately 301
of the state-owned enterprises were "spontaneously" privatized prior to the
formal implementation of the present privatization program. There are
presently 72 foreign trade enterprises, of which 26 are state-owned and 46 are
joint stock or limited liability companies. Shareholders of partially state-
owned foreign trade enterprises are typically industrial groups, mostly
suppliers to the trade enterprises.



- 65 -
Annex 2-1
Page 20
79.         The action plan for the privatization of state-ownb.d foreign trade
enterprises has been prepared by the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations,
the founding organ for these enterprises. The privatization program has been
approved by the MoOC and is expected to be implemented after approval by the
Council of Ministers. Issues that are specific to foreign trade enterprises
which affect the privatization process include: (a) the need to restructure
and break up a number of enterprises; (b) the high valuations that will be
attributable to some of the enterprises owing to their vast marketing and
information networks, and in some cases, high profitability- and (c) the
capital accumulated by the majority of the enterprises which may be utilized
in other areas of the economy. The privatization program does not cover,
however, the joint stock or limited liability companies in this sector. A
large number of these companies are substantially owned by the State, and
require to be privatized.
80.         The privatization program for this sector envisages different
strategies depending on the specific characteristics of each enterprise, its
financial position and its long-term strategy for development. The basic
privatization methodologies are expected to be trade sales to domestic or
foreign investors or secondary share offerings. It is also envisaged that the
employees will participate significantly in the overall process. The
following steps are envisaged: (a) an economic/financial analysis of the
enterprise, including a valuation, plan for restructuring and plan for
privatization; (b) a legal analysis, including particularly the issues of
property ownership; (c) submission to the Council for Privatization (which is
comprised of representatives of the founding Ministry, MoOC, other ministries,
foreign trade units, consulting firms and academicians) for verification; (d)
submission to the founding Ministry and MoOC for approval; and (e)
commercialization and privatization.
81.         Housing Construction.  There are four major "agents" in the
housing sector: cooperatives, municipalities, enterprises and private
households. Cooperative housing is the principal source of new supply, and
accounts for approximately 50X of new housing. State housing comprises two
types, enterprises and municipality housing, and accounts for about 30X of new
housing. The remainder is provided by private housing, most of which is
constructed in smaller cities and villages.
82.         The housing sector in Poland has been deteriorating steadily over
the past several years, particularly since 1989. Factors such as a rationing
of resot-rces away from the sector and generally misguided sector policies led
to higl. housing prices, expensive Government subsidies and declining sector
productivity. The number of households exceeds the number of dwellings by
about 10, the highest in Eastern Europe, and the market price of an average
dwelling is about 20 times the average annual household income. In addition,
productivity is low, with the average time required to complete a new housing
unit is between two and five years, compared to one year in Western Europe.
83.         Despite these problems, however, the Government now perceives the
sector as an important participant in stimulating investment in the economy.
This requires a new regulatory framework and the restructuring of the building



- 66 -
Annex 2-1
Page 21
materials and construction industries. The principal issues in the sector
which would also have relevance to any privatization effort in the sector are
the following:
(a)   The institutional and legal framework, which is undergoing
major changes aimed at stimulating the private housing
sector. Revisions of major laws including the "Civil Code",
the "Housing Act", the "Spatial Planning Act", the "Land Use
and Expropriation Act", the "Cooperative Act" and the
"Construction Act" are under consideration. In addition,
two new laws, the "Local Autonomy Law" and the "Communal
Property Law" are being prepared, which if adopted would
allow local authorities greater responsibility over the
ownership and management of housing stock and related
infrastructure.
(b)   Land development and infrastructure.  There are three main
constraints contributing to the inefficiency in the use of
developed land for housing: (i) uncertainty over land
tenure, where state land to be transferred to local
authorities and land attributed to cooperatives is in
uncertain legal status; (ii) an over-restrictive regulatory
environment; and (iii) a lack of financial resources for
infrastructure development. The immensely inefficient use
of infrastructure and urban land, due to excessive control
of land use, poor land allocation practices and a shortage
of construction materials have constrained the sector.
(c)   The construction industry, which is dominated by large
monopolistic kombinats, which operate substantially below
capacity, are capital intensive and have high fixed costs.
During periods of economic slowdown (as in 1989), these
enterprises cannot reduce their high fixed costs and a high
proportion (reportedly over 70X) faced closure. These
enterprises have to be broken up in an optimal manner and
the newly created enterprises must be structured so as to
increase flexibility and reduce costs.
(d)   A need to broae E the sources of funding (away from
Government subsidies) by mobilizing private savings and
attractLng new forms of institutional savings through a
network of financial intermediaries, in order to solve the
problems of inadequate construction and mortgage financing.
(e)   A need to reorganize the housing cooperatives into smaller
units, c)ncentrating on specific tasks such as building,
maintenance and individual ownership.
(f)   To define a program to include the completion of the
unfinished stock of housing, the sale of the majority of the



- 67 -
Annex 2-1
Page 22
public rental housing and the introduction of new techniques
and principles for managing remaining public housing stock.
84.         Retail and Wholesale Trade.  The retail and wholesale trade sector
essentially comprises approximately 100,000 small and medium-sized shops,
located all over the country. As of the end of 1990, approximately 80X of
these had been privatized ("small privatization"), including 400 pharmacies.
85.         Transportation.  The enterprises in the transportation sector are
very diversified, implying specific problems which would have to be addressed
in the privatization strategy. The principal sub-sectors are railway
transport, air transport, including airports, road transport (trucking and
passenger services) and shipping enterprises, including ports. Apart from the
road transport and airline sub-sectors, the privatization in the other core
sub-sectors (that is, not including ancillary services such as repair and
spare parts, which may be fully privatized) is expected to be largely confined
to commercialization and restructuring. LOT, the national airline company, is
currently seeking a private buyer for 40X of its equity. In addition, to the
purely transport-oriented sub-sectors, the transportation sector as a whole
also comprises a large network of industrial non-transport enterprises, some
of which are in the process of being privatized.
86.         In the road trarsport sub-sector, PKS was the principal enterprise
for the transport of both passengers and freight. Prior to its
reorganization, PKS was comprised of four enterprises, KPKS, the large state
motor transport company, and a further three enterprises, the PKPS
enterprises. In 1990, PKS was divided up into 227 constituent operating
entities, to operate as independent firms. Of these, 27 specialized in
passenger transport, 31 in road haulage and the remainder were engaged in both
activities. The passenger transport units and mixed units were retained under
the supervision of the Ministry of Transport and the road haulage units, were
placed under the relevant wojewoda.
87.         The road transport sub-sector has proved to be particularly
amenable to small scale enterprise and as such, privatization has been
proceeding through the growth of a private truck fleet (approximately 701 of
the road haulage fleet is under private ownership). However, outright
privatization has not been completed to date, although some 100 public
transport enterprises have been earmarked for small or medium-scale
privatization, essentially through sale as going concerns or leasing. In
addition, industrial enterprises with in-house transport divisions have
transformed these divisions into independent subsidiaries, formed as limited
liability companies.
K. Other Issues
88.         There exist a number of other issues which have arisen as a result
of the experience gained in the privatization effort, which have to be
addressed in order to ensure a smooth privatization process. The three
principal issues are: (a) the transformation of cooperative ownership; (b)



- 68 -
Anex 2-I
Page 23
reprivatization; and (c) the macroeconomic effects of the overall
privatization effort.
1. CooRerative Ownership
89.         The cooperative sector is not only highly diverse (housing
cooperatives, labor cooperatives, dairy cooperatives, horticulture
cooperatives, agricultural production cooperatives, cooperatives for the
disabled and cooperative banks, among others) but also holds a substantial
volume of assets in the rural areas. The major issue regarding cooperatives
is the largely unclear ownership structure, which arises particularly when the
cooperative is to be transformed or liquidated. According to the "Cooperative
Law" (1982), cooperatives were essentially regarded as service institutions
which performed economic functions for social purposes. Cooperatives were not
regarded as profit-making entities.
90.         In January 1990, the Parliament amended the Cooperative Law with a
view to restructuring and democratizing the cooperative sector. The
amendments were to (a) elect new member and cooperative representatives, and
(b) liquidate all cooperative unions at the regional and national levels.
These amendments created substantial confusion as a result of their
complexity, inadequate design poor implementation and the absence of an
adequate regulatory structure. In particular, the amendments did not allow
the establishment of new cooperative unions before July 1991 to avoid the risk
of the old structure resurfacing. As a result, there are presently a number
of primary cooperatives in Poland without adequate guidance or support, in
terms of management, training of staff or the establishment of regular
internal control procedures.
91.         The present legal status and diversity, therefore, could present
significant obstacles to the process of initiating and implementing ownership
transformation. Legislative changes should provide a legal basis for
ownership changes, particularly for the transformation of cooperatives into
corporations registered under the Commercial Code. In addition, legislation
should adapt cooperatives to a market environment, while at the same time
ensuring their autonomy and self-management. Specific legislative changes
could include: (a) ascertaining that cooperatives would operate as business
enterprises; (b) ensuring that only members own the cooperatives, and
employees can become members only if there is no obvious conflict of interest;
(c) ensuring that cooperatives are completely independent of the State; (d)
ensuring that sufficient capital is provided by members; (e) ensuring adequate
profit-sharing between members; (f) allowing for the transformation of
cooperatives into share companies; and (g) rebuilding the regulatory structure
that the 1990 amendments abolished.
2. ReRrivatization
92.         The issue of reprivatization is an important element in the
overall privatization process. Prior nationalizations were very different in
their scope and character, implying the need for a case-by-case approach to
reprivatization. According to the proposed regulation, enterprises will be



- 69 -
Annex 2-1
Page 24
reprivatized only in cases where the previous nationalization was "abusive" or
done with inadequate compensation. Except for a few specific cases, however,
the general principle is that property will not be returned, but previous
owners will receive adequate compensation. As of July 1945, there were
approximately 30,000 businesses in Poland, of which about 11,000 were
privately-owned. The balance consisted of state-owned, municipal and
cooperative enterprises. Although the extent of reprivatization is yet to be
determined, the Government, by March 1991, had received approximately 1,200
applications for compensation.
93.         In March 1990, the Council of Ministers accepted a reprivatization
program which covered: (a) smaller properties (e.g. mills, sawmills,
breweries and brickworks) which were illegally and forcefully nationalized,
and then legalized under a 1958 law; (b) other property nationalized under the
1946 law; (c) small farms which were nationalized, although agrarian reform at
the time was to include only farms of over 50 hectares; and (d) Warsaw real
estate nationalized by a 1945 decree. The Government intends to return the
smaller properties in full to their previous owners. In the other three
cases, former owners will receive capital bonds issued by the State, which
will be convertible into shares of privatized enterprises.
3. Macroeconomic Effects
94.         An assessment of the macroeconomic effects of the privatization
process is difficult, and any quantitative forecasts are likely to be
misleading in view of the presently transitional nature of the economy. A
number of trerds are discernible, however, which are included below:
(a)   The free distribution of vouchers, and the eventual purchase
of shares in privatized enterprises with these vouchers,
will increase the private property of Polish citizens. In
addition, dividends on shares will add to household incomes.
Overall spending can therefore be expected to increase as a
result, and savings to fall.
(b)   There may be an impact on the Budget in that private
enterprises are exempt from the obligatory "dividend" tax, a
tax calculated on a portion of the share capital of state-
owned enterprises and levied at a rate which is based on the
refinancing rate of the National Bank of Poland.
Realistically, however, the impact may be expected to be
minimal, given the small proportion contributed by this tax
to State revenues (in 1990, 7X was contributed by these
payments).
(c)   Privatization may be expected to improve investment
efficiency and therefore, production growth in the economy.
However, the increase in productivity may result in the
rationalization of employment, and as a result, short-term
unemployment. The Government should take steps to expand



- 70 -
Anngx 2-1
Page 25
the small and medium-scale private sector (which has a lower
capital to labor ratio) to absorb the excess labor supply.
(d)   Although an excessively high increase in overall demand is
not expected, the Government should be prepared to take
appropriate counter-inflationary measures.
II. ACHIEVEMENTS TO DATE
95.         Until tne enactment of the Privatization Law, privatization had
been limited to "spontaneous" privatizations of state-owned enterprises,
largely at the initiative of the employees and management of the enterprises.
Since then, however, the Government has achieved substantial progress in the
process of privatization, as delineated below.
A. Establishment of the MoOC and development of a Privatization Strategy
96.         The MoOC was established, with assistance from bilateral sources
(USAID, British Know-how Fund, France) and advice from the IFC, as the
principal department of the Government with the mandate to initiate, control
and monitor the privatization effort. Although at this time staffing is still
inadequate (120 local staff and 40 foreign advisors) and significant technical
asEistance is continues to be needed, the MoOC has successfully developed a
privatization strategy and has achieved substantial progress in its actual
implementation.
B. Commercialization of Enterprises
97.         A major effort has been made to initiate the voluntary
commercialization of state-owned enterprises. As of the first quarter of
1991, 107 enterprises have been commercialized, of which 57 are slated for
individual privatization.
C. Privatizations
98.         In addition to the spontaneous privatizations of Universal, a
foreign trade enterprise, and BIG Bank, a state-owned commercial bank, the
individual privatizations of eight large enterprises has been accomplished,
five by public offering, two by trade sales to foreign investors and one
through an employee leveraged buyout. The pilot privatization through public
offering of five enterprises, Exbud, Kabli, Prochnik, Krosno and Tonsil were
completed in January 1990 with a reasonable degree of success. All five
offerings were oversubscribed by between 71 and 201. The premium of the issue
price over the book value of the enterprises ranged between 701 and 1501. The
offerings were principally targeted at the domestic market, although a limited
foreign participation was permitted. In addition, two enterprises, Fampa and
Polam Pila were sold to foreign companies, with 801 of Fampa being acquired by
Beloit of Germany and 511 of Polam Pila by Philips of the Netherlands. The
other enterprise, Zaklady Miesne, was purchased by the employees in a
leveraged buyout, with equity being fully paid up and the debt to be paid off



- 71 -
Annex 2-1
Page 26
over five years. Total estimated proceeds from these privatizations was
approximately US$43 million. Details on the privatizations are contained in
Exhibit 5.
99.         Preparations are also currently underway for a group of
enterprises (including foreign trade enterprises) which are intended to be
sold through domestic public offerings during the first half of 1991.
100.        The Government has also made substantial progress in the
development and preparation of the mass privatization program. In addition,
143 small and medium state-owned enterprises were privatized through the
liquidation route. Of these, 48 were privatized through the sale of assets
and 95 through either leasing or installment sale.
D. Other
101.        The Government has made substantial progress in re-drafting the
Foreign Investment Law to ensure a more conducive investment environment in
Poland for foreign companies. In addition, the Stock Exchange has been
established and expects to be formally opened in June. Also, the new
Securities Law and Securities and Exchange Commission has been established.
The Anti-Monopoly Commission has been established to prevent monopolistic
activity.
102.        A training institute has been established which has commenced the
training of future supervisory board members, stockbrokers and Polish
consultants in the areas of finance and management.  A separate institute to
assist in regional privatization has also been established, and has prepared a
manual to assist regional authorities in the privatization of the enterprises
under their jurisdiction.
III. NEXT STEPS
103.        The Government intends to achieve the following in 1991:
-     Finalize the legal framework in support of the privatization
program: amend, revise or replace the Law on the Economics
of State-Owned Enterprises, the Commercial Code, the
Cooperatives Law and the bankruptcy regulations. Prepare
new legislation for land ownership and privatization of
cooperatives. Enact the law on reprivatization and the
Foreign Investment Law.
-     Develop the criteria and clear mechanisms for the selection
of enterprises for privatization through various routes
(individual privatization versus mass privatization) and
accelerate the pace of privatization through (a) the
commercialization of an adaitional 1,000 enterprises at the
national level and 1,700 enterprises at the municipal level,
to achieve an adequate pipeline of enterprises for



- 72 -
Annex 2-1
Page 27
subsequent privatization. Approximately 40-60 enterprises
are expected to be privatized under this method during the
course of the year (15 through public offerings, 15-20 by
sale to Polish investors and 5-10 by sale to foreign
companies). These enterprises will be selected from among
the 500 largest state-owned enterprises; and (c) the
continuation of the process of privatization through the
liquidation route. Approximately 50-60 enterprises per
month are expected to be privatized in this manner.
Review existing incentives and elaborate/implement as needed
new incentives or other measures to cause state-owned
enterprises to commercialize voluntarily.
Complete the necessary preparatory work and commence the
conversions of external debt into the equity of privatized
enterprises.
Finalize the program for mass privatization. As presently
envisaged, this would include the establishment of a minimum
of five Privatization Funds and the elaboration of a program
for the free distribution of vouchers. It is expected that
the program will actually be implemented in the last quarter
of 1991.
Finalize and commence implementation of the sectoral
privatization programs e.g. commercial banks, insurance
agenc'es, cooperatives, foreign trade companies (the
privatization program for foreign trade enterprises must be
expanded to include the partially state-owned joint stock
and limited liability companies also in existence in the
sector. Some of these are substantially state-owned and
have to be privatized.) and agri;dlture, among others. It
is expected that at least two commercial banks and one
insurance agency will be privatized in 1991.
Further support and accelerate the process of regional
privatization, by bolstering the capabilities of the
regional and local authorities. Develop the plans for
decentralization of the privatization effort and the
establishment of regional offices of the MoOC.
Develop a program for the transformation of the cooperative
sector towards private ownership, while ensuring their full
autonomy and self-management.
Substantially increase the focus of the Foreign Investment
Agency towards promotion.
Establish an inter-ministerial task force to monitor the
overall progress of privatization/restructuring and take



- 73 -
Annex 2-1
Page 28
active measures to ensure that it continues rapidly and
efficiently. This would include a re-definition of the
organization structure of the two principal Ministries, MoOC
and the Ministry of Industry, in the overall process, and
clarification of their respective roles, especially in
marginal cases of state-owned enterprises requiring
restructuring.
Define a policy on contingent liabilities related to
environment for new owners of privatized enterprises or
former state-owned enterprises' assets, and develop a clear
methodology for "sensitive" cases.



Exhibit 1
ENTERPRISES CLASSIFIED BY SECTOR
(as ot December 1990)
State-ned Sector                                      Joint Stock Companies
Non-rot
State-owned       Cooper-                                                                                        Fouixd-
Enterprises       atim               Toal               Slate (1)          Joent-vntue        Private             atones
PRODUCTIVE SECTOR
Mmaucturlngitining             3.107              2,411              5.518                951               853               6.416                20
Con nruction                    1.820               732              2.552                722                71               5.171                21
Agdcultre                       1.733             4.244              5,977                135                48                245                  2
Faort                             58                  -                 58                  7                 4                 33                  -
Traspeo                          741                187                928                 75                67                319                  -
Communicaion                      96                  -                 96                  6                 5               1.767                28
Municipal Enterpdse (2)          8a7                 64                951                 35                 6                139                  8
Other                            420                454                874              1.728               258               5.699                38
Sub-towu              8.862              8.092             16.954             3,659              1.312             19.789                117
NON-PfRDUCTIVE SECTOR
Housing                          220              4.491              4.711                 14                 1                 34                  1
Scbnce                            28                 19                 47                 60                 8                 91                  1
EducdbIon                         47                 12                 5S                14                  1                133                  5
Culture                           28                 32                 60                 20                 15               210                  9
Pealth                            52                 53                105                 9                  6                117                  2
Spots                            187                 15                182                80                 33                356                 20
Fince                          2,914                  5              2.919                55                  8                 46                 -
Oher                             273                281                554                541                61               2.039                19
Sub-total             3.729              4.908              8.637               793                133              3.020                57 ,
(D CtD
TOTAL                12.591             13.000             25.591             4.452              1.445             22.815
(1) Jdnt stock companies which are parilly state-owned. These are differentiated from state-owned enterprises. where the State Is a 100% owner.
and the legal dructure is different from that of a jint stock or limited liability company.
(2) Not including retallhftolesale shops.



- 75 -
Page 30
I
I I
I    j         --
ii
<~1  ,1t
II~~~~~~~~~~~~
I~~~



. 76 -
Exhlbit 3
PRIVATiZATION THRO-UGH COMMfRCALIZATION-                      Ax  - 2 -1
Page 31
Information gathering     I
Enterprisefounding organ conducts feas-
ibility analses of stock of enterprises_I
Initiation by Workers CounciUmnanagemntlounding organ
Yes                                          N
Process continued by
founding organ only
Preparatory team           Founding s.fgan refs      Worker Council
gives opinion to          request to In-house        ends second
Workers' Council           preparatory team for       opion
opinion
Preparatory  tean
givs sOcond opinion
and seds documents
to  iO
i  &'oOC examines privatizalion plan
Yes                       No
ReasonS for refusal
COMMERCIALIZATON                            presented and
solution to problem
PRIlVATIZATION Y |W
Trade      |        Public                            EMpass||ti
sal          Ide                nfn              buot



- 77 -
Exhibit 4
Annex 2 -1
PRIVATIZATION THROUGH LIQUIDATION                            Page 32
Information gathering
Enterprise/founding organ conducts feas-
libillty analyses of stock of enterprim
initiation byWorkers' Council/managienentcfoundiing organ I
Yes                                           No
[Process continued by
founding organ only
Preparatory team           Founding organ refrs        WorkersCouncil
gives opinion to           request to In-house         Sends second
Workers Council            preparatory team for        opinion
opinion
"Il
Preparatory team
gives second opinion
and sends documents
to MoOC
MoOC examines privatiatlon plan
Yes                        No
UQUIDATION                                  Reason)s for refusai
.       .        |                            presented and
solution to problemn
K ]i9            rContribution
of ast 



Exhibit S
PRIVAlIZATIONS TO DATF
LARGE PRATIZAT14S
1. Dmestc Public Ofering
Share Take-Up (NInumber(DOY% of Tota0
Total              Prie per            Dometic
Shwes              Share (US$)        Public              Foreign            Dkmestic                               Maagerment
rnlihdustry                           Otferod (mm)       OtherplEmptlceea   Offering            invetors           Institutions        Fmployee             ad
EXBWDS.A.                                                     11.20                450                 175                  0                200                175
Conmtlucn                                   1.0                6.60              45.0%               17.5%               000%               20.0%              17.5%
SLASKA FA WIRA KA] S.A                                         7.00                700                100                   0                200                  0
FumIture                                    1.0                3.50              70.0%               10.0%               00%                20 0%               0 0%
P FDCIK SBA                                                   S00                 855                 S0                255                 300                  0
(3tenlt mmufachning                         1.6                2.50               57.0%               8.0%              17.o%               20.0%               00%
KROSWO BA                                                     6.60               1.100                 44                616                 440                  0                                         '
Blass anufaturing                           2.2               3.25               b.0%                2.0%              28.0%              20.0%                0.0%
TON9 SA                                                       8.00                 480                450                270                 300                  0
Audio eQuprnent                             1.6               4.00               32.0%               30.0%              18.0%              20.0%                0.0%
2. Les*gdu m-l_
ZAKLADY lESliE mcUMWRa AW
Meat processing
Equlty owned by employes                80.64 m3tlcn    6.000 shar. tuly paid up
Debt                                    S2.48 mrnon   to be paid up ow  5 years
2 yew matudty. variable rate
TotWl proceeds                           3.00 millon
3. TiedS_ as
Of3Q
FAMPA SAX
Tetnile machinery                      Single  we tc  BelcIt                     80%      fo       67.0 monm
plus:    816.0 mMio   new capitW
Employe                                   20%
POLIAM I    SA                         Single invselon Ph"lpe                    61%       ft    S160 mIllin
Lanp                                  Em amyes                                   20%
Troeuy                                    20%



- 79 -
Annex 2-2
POLAND - PRIVATIZATION AND RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Processes of Transformation of State-owned EnterRrises
Privatization - Restructuring - Liquidation
Stock of
State-owned
Enterprises
Large enterprises
v Ent/Mol/ANC
Viable units   Break Lu           Non-viable elements
.            ~~~~of Ilarge     No
Viable                               enterprises
enterprises
I
v Ent
Devetop                 Bankrupt enterprises
enteiprise
strategY
Ent/[DA                   P       a                 MoN/MoI/RC
Preliminar               vPaboten l        Evaluation        Never viable
restructuring   .-                         by Recovery
(if necessary)                             Cr s
.oyr  to                                     N  on-viabte components
Continua as
jSoint   scenterprise
.     .
..c5~~~~~~~~~~~~t.d..c.. ...11 `
~ |                                                Le* 0Mt
Key to responsible agencies:
Ent  a Enterprise
Hol  a Ministry of Industry (or other "Founding organ")
MoOC a Ministry of Ownership Changes
AMC  * Anti-Nonopoly Commission
RC   * Recovery commission
MoF  a Ministry of Finance
IDA  * Industri.  Restructuring Agenc'
IB   a Investment Bank
PF   a Privatizat1on Fund
FIA  a Forefgn Investment Agency



- 80 -
Annex 3-1
Page 1
POLAND - PRIVATIZATION AND RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
The Polish Development Bank (PDB)
1.        The Polish Development Bank (PDB) was established on the basin of
the Council of Minister's decision of July 2, 1990. It was incorporated in
October 1990. By its statute, PDB is an autonomous financial institution, set
a? as a Joint Stock Company. It is subject to regular banking regulation and
supervision by the National Bank of Poland (NBP).
2.        PDB was established to fill a major gap in the Polish financial
system, which does not currently provide medium and long term (MLT) financing
for investment or restructuring projects in the industrial sector, based on
sound technical, economic and financial analysis. Nor does the system have
national financial institutions to promote provision of term financing and
venture capital to either small and medium enterprises (SME). PDB is designed
to be basically an Apex bank for MLT lending to privatized or restructuring
companies as well as to SMEs, using commercial and specialized banks as
intermediaries. It is expected to play a catalytic role in guiding and
assisting these banks in the provision of 14LT financing. In the medium term,
when there will be less of need for an apex institution in Poland, PDB will
evolve into a more conventional financial institution and is expected to
further open its capital to private participation. By the end of 1993, PDB
will undertake a review of its role in light of the progress achieved in the
modernization and development of the financial sector in Poland, and will
elaborate accordingly a plan on the appropriate reorientation of its
activities. Such reorientation would be implemented after consulting with the
international and bilateral institutions providing funding to PDB. By that
time, PDB would prepare and start implementation of a program to increase
private participation in its capital.
3.        PDB will provide financing to the manufacturing, industrial, agro-
industrial, construction, tourism and mining sectors, and associated services
including trade, transport and repair. PDB will generally not finance the
development of agriculture or howuing, for which other banks exist or are
being established, nor will it normally finance basic infrastructure such as
railways or power.
4.        The shareholders have appointed a Supervisory Board (SB), chaired by
Mr. Szomburg, a well known economist who was an adviser to Mr. Walesa prior to
his election as President. Other SB members are Mr. Dabrowski, a prominent
economist who served as deputy minister of finance; Mr. Skarzynski, President
of the Industrial Development Agency (IDA), and two advisers of the Ministry
of Finance, and a well known lawyer, presently in private business. Foreign
shareholders are expected to appoint one voting member and two observers to
the SB. Additional members from the Polish private sector might also be
appointed.
5.        PDB intends to open in the first stage three "windows" for the
following activities:



- 81 -
Annex 3-1
Page 2
(a) financing restructuring and investments of targe private companies
and State-owned companies, primarily those heing privatized or
commercialized;
(h) financing private SMEs;
(c) some minority equity investments in privati7ed companies.
B. Cagital
6.        The major shareholder is the Polish Government (GOP), which
has decided to subscribe Zloty 800 billion (approximately US$84 equivalent) of
PDB's equity, half already paid-in, half to be paid in April 1991. IDA signed
an agreement to subscribe an equivalent of US$21 million in equity. In
addition, Credit National of France and Invest Kredit of Austria decided to
subscribe US$2 million each, provided certain conditions were met. Instituto
Mobiliario Italiano (IMI) of Italy is also likely to invest US$2 million.
PDB's equity will thereby total approximately US$114 million equivalent, which
consists a strong capital basis, at least for the first years of operations.
The three foreign banks will appoint one voting member and two observers to
the SB.
7.        The EC is considering making available to PIDB quasi-equity of ECU 10
to 20 million, out of counterpart funds.
C. Preparatory Work
8.        Since the fall of 1990, an organizing team has been working on the
preparation of PDB's establishment. It consists of Mr. Wojciech Kostrzerva,
an economist who was appointed PDB President, Mr. Matthew Olex, an experienced
banker, Vice President, and two additional Vice Presidents, who altogether
constitute the Managing Board (MB). This team has been engaged in hiring
staff, both foreign and domestic, 'n training, in installing hardware and
software, as well as in planning activities and preparing operating
procedures.
9.        PDB prepared a 3 year strategic plan with three scenarios:  (a)
"base case"; (b) "pessimistic case"; and (c) "low inflation, pessimistic
case". Based on discussions during appraisal, a fourth scenario was prepared,
considered by PDB as a "revised pessimistic case". The latter projections
(summarized in Attachment 1) are considered more reallstic as a basis for
PDB's appraisal. The basic assumption for the projections is a year-end
inflation rate of 511 in 1991, 261 in 1992, and 18X in 1993. The inflation
rate assumed for 1991 appears reasonable, assuming deceleraticn of the much
higher inflation rate in January and February 1991, due to a very sharp
increase in energy prices. The lower inflation rate assumed for 1992 and 1993
depends on the success of GDP stabilization policy. The inflation rate has a
major impact on PDB's income (para. 39).



- 82 -
Annex 3-1
Page 3
Lendiag Targets
10.       PDB's major objective is to provide MLT loans to companies, which
had been privatized or are intended to be privatized, as well as to private
SMEs. The projections assume MLT loans in foreign exchange and in zloty of
US$88 million by the end of 1991, an additional US$168 million by the end of
1992, and an additional US$285 million by the end of 1993. By tFen, the MLT
loan portfolio would thus reach US$454 million. These projections have to be
appraised in view of expected developments in the PolLsh economy and in the
financial system, as well as of PDB's activities.
11.       Until recently, there has been a very limited wrarket for MLT loans
in Poland, for several reasons. First, the demand for ;.vestment loans has
been limited due to the general uncertainty in the Polish economy, to the
general recession, and to the so far slow pace of privatization or
restructuring of industrial enterprises. Second, the high nominal .1/ interest
rates for zloty loans (in recent months some 70-80%), though variable, have
restricted demand for loans, except for short term credit. Third, tht
commercial banks provided only short term loans out of their own resources,
and most of them have shown little interest in providing MLT loans. Until
recently, use of available HLT credit from lines funded by external sources
(World Bank, EIB and bilateral) had been growing slowly.
12.       On the basis of discussions with banks and business consultants,
there are indications that the demand for medium term loans denominated in
foreign exchange has been growing lately. For example, the Export Development
Bank which has started operations less than four years ago, had a loan
portfolio exceeding US$300 million by end 1990, mostly medium term loans, of
up to 3 years. Moreover, in the first two months of L991, the number of loan
applications received ha!s been 10 times higher than in the same months of 1990
(a low period). The newly established private Kredyt Bank has many more
applications for foreign exchange loans than its available resources. So far
it has used its resources only for short term loans, but it has expressed a
strong interest in making MLT loans if funding for such loans were available.
PDB identified a number of individual projects of enterprises in the process
of privatization, as well as joint ventures of foreign companies with Polish
SOE, and Polish subsidiaries of well known foreign companies, uhich are likely
to be looking for MLT loans. Some have already held preliminary discussions
with PDB.
13.       There are generally grod indicators of a substantial demand for MLT
loans by privatized Polish companies, joint ventures and foreign companies in
Poland. It is however difficult to quantify such demand, which depends on
several factors, including: (a) the overall recovery of the Policy economy;
(b) the pace of privatization and restructuring, which is expected to
accelerate; (c) active promotion by the participating banks (PBs); (d) the
1/ There appears to be little understanding by Polish businesses of the
difference between nominal and real interest rates.



- 83 -
An-e3-1
Page 4
pace of organization of PDB itself, as well as its image which it wants to
project as young and dynamic.
14.       However, notwithstanding the above positive points, there are a
number of factors which may render it difficult for PDB to achieve the targets
within the time-scale indicated in the projections: (a) lack of practical
experience on the part of PDB staff in relation to business generation,
project appraisal, completion of loan agreements and disbursement formalities
in a free market environment; (b) similar lack of practical experience on the
part of the banking intermediaries; (c) normal lead-time necessary to complete
all the stages necessary to take a project from the stage of initial
identification through to disbursal of the relevant PDB facilities; (d) on
larger projects, other possible delays arising for example from compliance
with the World Bank procurement requirements. Accordingly, while the growth
targets set in the strategic plan could to stand in the interest of setting
demanding targets, it is likely, particularly in 1991, that they will not be
fully achieved, and that PDB will require a longer lead-time to build up to
its targeted volumes.
15.       Most MLT loans are projected to be in foreign exchange, out of
external resources, including World Bank loans (such as the investment
component of the Project and the proposed SME loan), as well as from other
sources, such as EIB and EBRD. The projected amount of MLT loans from
external sources is US$65 million in 1991, an additional US$114 million in
1992, and an additional US$148 million in 1993. A possible constraint could
be the absorptive capacity of the Polish economy for loans to creditworthy
companies, rather than the availability of funds.
16.       PDB also aims at making MLT zloty loans equivalent of US$21 million
in 1991, an additional US$30 million in 1992 and an additional US$36 million
in 1993, to be financed out of zloty bonds and medium term deposits (para.
28). The likelihood of meeting this target depends to a large extent on
lowering th'; zloty interest rate, following deceleration cf inflation. In
addition, T'DB plans in the first years of operations to make some short term
zloty loans, financed out of its own funds, as well as out of short term zloty
deposits and commercial paper.
D. Lending Policies
17.       PDB is designed basically to be an Apex bank.  However, some direct
lending to SOis is expected to be made at its early stages of activities, when
commercial banks may be slow to engage in new activities such as MLT lending,
even when resources would be provided by PDB. As agreed during appraisal,
direct lending by PDB will be restricted as much as possible, and will be
1lmited to no more than 15% of total lending in the next three years.
Similarly, direct lending out of the Bank-financed resources will not exceed
15% of the total of such resources.   PDB has also agreed not to engage in
direct lending to SMEs. These restrictions on direct lending are stated in
PDB's letter of operational policies, which was be agreed during negotiations.



- 84 
Annex 3..
Page 5
18.       PDB will be making MLT loans (directly or inidirectly) in US dollars
and in DM, out of external credits, at market interest rates. For on-lending
to participating barks (PBs) under the proposed project, it was agreed during
negotiations, that PDB will be borrowing from the Government in either US$ or
DM at Libor or Fibor, respectively, plus a margin of 0.25%, with the
Government bearing the cross-currency risk between the World Bank basket of
currencies and the USS or DM. PDB will lend to participating banks (PBs) at
Libor plus for US$, and at Fibor plus for DM, plus a margin of 1.50%. Lending
at Libor or Fibor (rather than on World Bank rate basis) would bring PDB rates
closer to market. PBs will lend to the final borrower in US$ or in DM at
market rates. For loans made directly by PDB (not through PBs), PDB will
charge the borrower the market rate and borrow from tIle Government in either
US$ or DM at Libor or Fibor, respectively, plus a margin of 1.50%. The above
structure of interest rates and margins was agreed during negotiations. The
interest rates and margins will be reviewed with the Bank every six months.
Lending in zloty (from resources other than Bank-finaniced) will also be made
by PDB at market rates.
19.       One of the conditions for enterprises to borrow out of PDB resources
would be "commercialization", i.e., conversion into joint stock companies
(JSC), as a prelude to privatization. This was confit-med during negotiations.
20.       PDB will generally provide loans only to clearly creditworthy
companies. However, there is likely to be a need for credits to restructuring
companies, which may not yet be creditworthy, but which are expected to be
viable following restructuring. In such cases, PDB could serve for a fee as
an agent for loans out of the Goverrient budget. Such loans would be made at
Government risk, and would be recorded "below the line" in PDB's balance
sheet. Thus, "special credits" would be provided out of Government budget, in
a transparent manner. To the extent the Government would be willing to
provide such credits through PDB, agreements to that effect would have to be
made between the Government and PDB, subject to Bank review. This was
confirmed during negotiations.
21.       As stated earlier, PDB also intends to provide credits through PB's
to private SMEs. In such lending it intends to cooperate closely with the
Polish American Enterprise Fund (PAEF), which is providing MLT loans to small
private enterprises through banking intermediaries. Specific arrangements
with respect to SME lending in general and to the related use of World Bank
resources in particular will established within the proposed Private Sector
Development Project.
22.       The lion's share of PDB lending would bo provided through PBs, which
will take the credit risk. Such PBs will have to be pre-qualified by PDB,
based on their capability of project appraisal and stupervision, on their
financial soundness, and on their willingness to actively promote MLT lending.
For the use of World Bank resources, such banks would have to meet criteria
agreed with the World Bank. PDB intends to qualify in the next few months
some of the existing commercial banks, as well as some newly established
banks, including private ones.



- 85 -
Annex 3-1
Page 6
23.       PDB intends to syndicate some of its larger loans to other Polish
banks, as well as to subsidiaries of foreign banks being established in
Poland. Syndication would be useful in order to reduce PDB's own exposure,
which in any case will be subject to the limit of 15% of its risk asset
portfolio (para. 17).
24.       PDB plans to undertake the following speciaL programs within the
framework of energy conservation and environment protection objectives:
(i) Promotion of energy efficient systems and uLilization of insulating
materials and heat recovery systems. Energy conservation will be
introduced in the construction of family houtsing as well as in the
industrial sector. PDB will provide finan.cing to PBs, which will
on-lend at market interest rates. In addition to providing
financing ;, r energy conservation projects in enterprises, PDB
intends to encourage energy saving mechanismns for the entities in
which it purchases an equity rtake.
(ii) Promotion of environmentally sound projects. PDB plans to
participate in the financing of environmentally-oriented projects in
the same manner, mainly by on-lending through PBs.
E. Equity Investments
25.       PDB intends to make some equity investments, in ordet to help
promote privatization. Equity investments would be made only on the basis of
careful evaluaticon of prospects for capital gains. PDB will lie generally
taking minority positions in privatizing or in private companies. PDB's total
equity investments will be limited to max.,mum 15X of PDB's equity.  This was
confirmed during negotiat.ions.
26.       PDB has already acquired minority positions of US$3.6 million in two
privatized companies. PDB also intends to invest in a Privatization Fund
together with EBRD (401 each); management will be provided by a management
company which will subscribe 201 of the equity. Another minority investment
being envisaged is in a credit rating company, together with a foreign
partner. The equity investments will be made through a separate "window",
which will be a profit center, or by a subsidiary.
27.       The proposed level of involvement in equity, although relatively
small, could imply a significant amount of management time on PDB's part.
This would arise if PDB should become involved in the management of those
enterprises in which it has a shareholding. PDB has confirmed that until such
time as sufficient management resources have been developed, it will not
become actively involved in the management of companies in which it has
acquired an equity interest. PDB intends to finance half of its equity
investments out of its own resources and half from loans from external sources
- such as EIB or EBRD.



- 86 -
Annex 3-1
Page 7
F. Sources of Zloty Funds
28.       As a source of Zloty funds, as well as in order to help develop a
capital market in Poland, PDB intends to take medium cerm deposits from large
companies. Such operations will be limited to large amount deposits from a
limited number of enterprises, and PDB woulo not establish a network of
branches. It also intends to issue- Zloty-denominated bonds (unguaranteed by
GOP), at interest rates slightly higher than the inflation rate.
Nevertheless, such interest might be attractive since interest on bonds is not
taxable under the present legislation. Such activitios appear to be
consistent with PDB's objectives, and until other financial institutions are
ready to be active in this market, they will not compcte with the commercial
banking system. When regular financial institutions would be ready to sell
bonds, PDB would not compete with them. PDB also plans to mobilize short term
Zloty deposits from large companies, but will take care not to compete for
such deposits with retail banking instituticns.
C.   Capital Adequacy
29.       According to its strategic plan, PDB will have at least in che first
three years of operations, a high capital adequacy ratio (defined as paid-in
capital plus reserves divided by total assets) of 49% in 1991, 32% in 1992 and
22% in 1993. Such ratio should give PDB a comfortable cushion, particularly
since it would operate predominately as an Apex bank, and the credit risk
would be taken by ta.e PBs. On the other hand, PDB will provide some loans (up
to 15% of its loan portfolio) directly to companies at its own risk, and will
also make equity investments, in which the risk is likely to be higher than in
loans.
30.       The adequacy of PDB capital will also depend on the quality of its
assets, as well as on the level of provisions it will hold against lower
quality assets. PDB intends to have a reasonable level of provisions of 5% of
ite loan portfolio, in addition to specific provisions and write downs on
doubtful loans, in accordance with generally accepted accounting and auditing
practices.
31.       On balance, the capital adequacy ratios projected for the first
years of operations are prudent, and should help PDB establish itself in the
market. It would also be prudent for PDB to maintain a capital adequacy ratio
of at least 20% at later years. In the future the ratio might be reviewed and
revised, in the light of PDB's experience, and perhaps of the requLiements of
rating agencies.
H.   Income
32.       For its Apex lending activity in US$ or in DM funded out of
investment component of the Project, PDB will start with a margin of 1.25%.
This margin, relatively high for an Apex institution, is based on the fact



- 87 -
Annex 3-1
Page 8
that PDB will have to provide the PBe with intensive training to handle PDB's
facilities, It would be reviewed every six months.
33.       For its short term and MLT Zloty lending, PDB's proposed margin
varies from 3.5-4% in year 1 to 2.0-2.5% in year 3. This mainly reflects
PDB's view on the margins obtainable in the Polish market place, and appears
achievable.
34.       On the whole, the proposed margins appear reasonable.  The
sensitivity analysis in the strategic plan indicates that the net income is
less sensitive to small changes in the margins than to other variables, for
reasons explained in para. 39.
(ii) Salaries and Overheads
35.       Salaries amounting to a projected total of US$2.5 million constitute
a very substantial proportion of overheads estimated at US$4 million for 1991.
PDB's current staff of 68 is projected to increase to 105 by December, 1991.
These staff levels could ba considered high for an Apex bank, but in view of
the range of PDB's proposed activities and its proposed (albeit relatively
small) involvement in direct financing, these staffing levels are acceptable.
Moreover, in view of the need to train staff on the job, since there is a
severe shortage of bankers in Poland, such costs might be considered partly as
an investment for future years, once the size of operations increases. In
addition, included under salaries are the payments to five expatriate staff
members. There is a possibility that some or all of these costs would be
financed out of grant TA, but the full figure has been included in budgeted
costs.
36.       Total administrative costs are projected to decline from 1.6X of
assets in 1991 to 0.8% is 1993. The relatively high ratio in 1991 reflects a
fixed cost element during initial organization. In later years PDB will
attempt not to exceed the ratio of 0.8% projected for 1993.
(iii) Provisions
37.       PDB intends to set up provisions of 5% of its loan and equity
portfolio, a substantially higher lovel than in earlier drafts of its
strategic plan. This level appears reasonable for an Apex bank, in which 85%
of the credit risk will be assumed by the PB's. As an additional security
safeguard, PDB proposes to include in its agreements with PB's a clause
whereby in the event of failure by a PB, there would be assignment of
collateral from PB in favor of PDB, with respect to PDB-funded loans; this
should provide PDB with some additional comfort. Overall, the proposed
provisions level appears acceptable, but should be kept under regular review
as PDB develops a track record. In addition to general provisions, PDB would
make specific provisions or writedowns on doubtful loans, in accordance with
generally-accepted audit practices.



- 88 
Annex 3-I
Page 9
(iv) Not Income
38.       Projected net income would be US$10.9 million in 1991, US$13.3
million in 1992, and decline to US$8.2 million in 1993. Return on equity,
defined as net income divided by equity, is projected at 9.0% in 1991 and 9.8%
in 1992, to decline to 5.8% in 1993. The net income level is affected by the
asset portfolio, the margins assumed, as well as administrative expenses.
However, it is particularly stxongly influenced by the rate of inflation in
Poland. A major source of revenues is interest on money market deposits, in
which a large part of PDB equity is invested. As a consequence, the assumed
deceleration of inflation to 18% in 1992, together with the increase in the
lending activities, tend to reduce net income ve .y substantially. The
projected return on equity of 5.8% in 1993 is low. PDB will need to review
its planned activities, as well as its income projections, in order to seek
ways and means to increase the net income projected for 1993 to achieve a
satisfactory return on equity in later years.
C.  Management of Risk ExRosure
39.       PDB is currently developing its policies in relation to the
management of its risk exposures, relative to its own capital base and the
capital base of the proposed PB's through which it will operate. Where PDB is
directly financing a client, its maximum eyposure to that client may not be
greater than 10% of PDB's capital base. This limit is reasonable.
40.       A PB using PDB's funds will not be allowed to provide a single
client credits, out of PDB's funds together with the PB's own funds, of more
than 10% of the PB's capital base. Total credits PDB can provide to a PB will
not exceed 30% of PDB's capital. These criteria in relation to credit risk
exposure appear reasonable.
41.       As stated earlier, in using World Bank funding, the Government
rather than PDB will assume the cross-currency risk. PDB will borrow from the
Gove- ment and on-lend to PB's in the same currency (US$ or DM). The currency
risk will be taken by the final borrower, in both PDB's direct and indirect
lending. PB's will ascertain that the final borrower understands well such
risk, wfhich should also be covered by adequate collateral.
H.   Credit Approvals
42.       Credits for both direct and indirect lending will nave to be
approved by credit committees, as -ollows:
(a) Up to US$0.5 million by a credit committee, ccmposed of the manager
and the deputy manager of the credit departmnent, and one member of
the managing board.
(b) Credits of US$0.5 million and US$10 million by all members of the
managing board.



- 89
nnLx 31
Page 10
(c)  Credits of over US$10 million by a high level credit committee,
composed of all members of the managing board and at least two
members of the supervisory board, one representing the foreign
shareholders. This committee will meet that least every three
months.
(d)  Credits from US$5 million to US$10 million (a) for restructuring and
(b) for beneficiaries with less than 3 years experience in the
activity for which the funds are dedicated, will be consulted with
activity or sector specialists, respectively, of a foreign
shareholder institution.
43.       Staff seconded to the PDB by the foreign banks shareholder in PDB,
will be integrated into the credit decision making at an appropriate level
relative to their seniority and experience. The credit decision making
process, and in particular the involvement of the foreign partners, will be
reviewed with for the appropriateness of limits and the efficiency and speed
of its functioning. This would be done after actual subscription of PDB's
capital by the foreign shareholders.
G.   Operational Procedures
44.       PDB is currently in the process of developing operational procedures
for each of its proposed areas of activity. An advisor, experienced in office
management and systems, has been retained to carry out this task. In
addition, PDB has access to material and assistance from other banks, in
particular, Lloyds. In the short term, PDB is concentrating on installing its
basic systems, taking into account 'he need to develop systems which would
provide profit center and related data for individual product types or
"windows'.
45.       PDB's approach to development of its operational procedures appears
thorough and logical. Each department initially prepares a draft of its
proposed procedures; this is then discussed with those other departments with
which it interfaces; the proposals are then reviewed by the Legal Department
and Internal Audit; the proposals, as they are being developed, are
continuously reviewed by a Procedures Advisor to ensure that they fit into the
proposed overall system. Finally, the proposed procedures are presented for
review to the appropriate Board member. When approved, the proposals will be
incorporated in the PDB's procedures manual, which will be regularly updated
to provide for new aevelopments.
46.       A review of some initial draft procedures, particularly in relation
to the Credit Department, indicates that PDB is moving in the right direction.
However, additional refinement will be required. PDB is conscious of this and
is keen to ensure that procedures will facilitate the smooth operation of the
bank's activities and the safeguarding of its assets.



* 90 -
Annex3-
Page 11
H.   Personnel and Training
17.       PDB has so far hired 68 employees.  The staff are generally young
(average age 35 years), well educated and enthus'astic towards the development
of PDB. PDB's personnel policy is geared towards payment based on results
rather than seniority. In addition, staff are hired initially for a 3 to 12
months probationary period, during which they must achiieve set goals to ensure
continued employmen.t.
48.       Where PDB staff are at a disadvantage is their lack of extensive
practical experience of operating the range of PDB's proposed products in an
open market economy. This disadvantage will be ameliorated to some extent by
PDB's proposed employment of five expatriate bankers (which may be increased
by a further five) experienced in the various areas of banking. At the
present time, the director of the Treasury department is an expatriate
experienced banker. Two experienced bankers form Canada are presently working
in the credit departments for a period of three months. Another expatriate
advisor is expected to work for six months particularly on cooperations with
PB's. PLB is presently seeking to hire an experienced expatriate banker to
head the Credit Department.  The foreign shareholders, as well as lending
institutions, should assist in recruitment of a few senior managers and
advisers to key positions.
49.       PDB staff have already attended various banking training courses,
both in Poland and abroad, partly provided by the prospective foreign
shareholders. Further intensive training is needed for staff of PDB as well
as of PBs. One aspect of training missing in Poland is an in-depth course in
financial analysis and credit appraisal. PDB will explore the possibility of
initiating such course, to be managed by a management training institute.
50.       At the request of PDB, the TA component of the proposed project
includes financing of US$3 million for training and experts. FDB will
preferably use first TA grants from other sources, if 'vailable, for these
activities.
I.   Orkanization
51.       PDB has prepared an organization chart, with seven departments
reporting to the managing Board. The two business departments consist of a
credit and a capital investment department. Two separate sections will be set
up within the credit department--one for large companies and one for SMEs--
and will be run as separate profit centers.
52.       In the organization chart, the internal audit unit reports to the
managing board, rather than to the supervisory board. To maintain an
independent view on PDB's activities, it was agreed that an Audit Committee of
the Supervisory Board will be formed.



- 91 -
Annglox 3-1I
Page 12
J.   Range of Activities
53.       PDB intends to start lending operations before July 1991, focusirig
on three types of activities: (a) loans to companies; (b) lending for SMEs;
(c) some equity investments. The strategic plan proposes to undertake later
several additional activities, including the following: promotion of energy
conservation and environmentally-oriented projects; provision of financing
through PBs for micro enterprises and workshops; participation in the
development of the Polish capital markets by means of underwriting and asset
trading; leasing and other financial services.
54.       PDB's contention is that if it does not instigate these activities,
certain of them will be extremely slow to develop in the Polish market. While
this may be correct and PDB's objective in developing these activities may be
laudable, PDB's primary objectives are directed towards the provision of MLT
credit. As a consequence, PDB will be careful not be spread its scarce
managerial and banking knowledge over too wide a range of services.
Accordingly, PDB will initially focus its primary attention on developing its
skills in the area of credit delivery. Additional activities may be
undertaken in later years, when PDB staff will be well trained and capable of
undertaking such activities. This was confirmed during negotiaticns.
K.   Overall Assessment
55.       Despite the fact that PDB was only recently established and will be
operating in a rapidly changing economic and social environment, its proposed
strategic plan, while ambitious, could be substantially achieved. However, as
mentioned above, the timing of achievement of the various objectives may be
slower than scheduled. While certain caveats have been mentioned earlier, PDB
is on the whole approaching in a reasonable manner the range of tasks
necessary to achieve its objectives.



- 92 -                                        l
POULH DEVELOPMENT BANK                                 Page 1
SUMMARY PROJECTIQNS
(US$ 000s, unless ot'nrwise indicated)
BALANCE SHEbTS
Year ending December 31.                 1991               1992               1993
ASSETS
Cash                                  $6,099             $6,764             $7,050
Reserves                                1,594             1,992              2,494
Deposits                             120,039            121,779            137,013
Net loans                            1 03.7"            267,732            460,207
Equity positions                      17,381             19,278             20,094
Netfixedassets                           618                865               662
TOTAL ASSETS                       $249,474           $418,411           $627,521
UABIUTIES
Zioty-denorninated Deposits          $42,500            $53,125            $66,512
Extemal MLT Loans                     7S,000            200,000            350,000
Bond issues                           10,000             30.000             70,000
Equity                                121,974           135,286            141,008
TOTAL UABILTES AND EQUITY          $249,474           $418,411           $627,521
INCOME STATEMENTS
Year ending December 31,                 1991               1992              1993
Interest Income                       $41,837            $55,654            $51,870
Fees and dMidends                         S00              1.250              3,750
Total Revenues                        42,337             56,904             55,620
Interest payments                      13,594             21.376             26,485
Ove fleads                              3,962              4,409              5,134
Depreciation and provisions             6,578              8,934             10,376
Total Expenditures                    24,134             34,718             41,995
Income before tax                      18,203             22.186             13,625
Tax          40.0%                       7,281             8,874              5,450
NET INCOME                           $10,922            $13,311             $8,175
Divdends                                   $0                 $0             $2,452
,. Y RATIOS
Captal Adequacy                         48.9%             32.3%              22.5%
Retum on Asss                            7.3%              5.3%               2.2%
Return on Equity                         9.0%              9.8%               5.8%
Profltabiity                           75.4%             63.9%              32.4%



93 -                                       Annew   3-1
Atachmentt
Page 2
i3alianc Sheet
1. The NBP has required that banks maintain 15% of deposits as a non-remunerated
reserve. Other MLT deposits (interbank deposits) are exclJded from statutory reserves.
Only 25% ot PDi's commercial deposits will apply; therefore, 15% of these
commercial deposits will be held In non-interest beaing reserve.
2. Self-funded ST loans represent ST assets financed by PDi Sr zloty deposits. Self-
funded MiT loans represent MLT asset financed by PD1B MLT zloty depoits.
3. External MLT loans represent assets financed by llabil ties against other
banks, such as the World Bank. They are denominated In hard currencies.
4. Other equity positions represent 50% of total equity positons and are financed by
liabilities against other banks. Total equity Increases by 20% each
year. POO has already purchased minority stakes in two of the pilot privatizations.
Ohter areas of equity participation are anticipated to Include (I) $3-S4 million
to set up a Privatization Fund with EBRD, and (ii) $2-S3 million for participation
in business information systems.
5. Equity Includes the initial USS 84 million from the State budgt, approximately
US$ 6 million expected from foreign shareholders and US$ 21 million from IDA.
The 1990 budget allocated US$ 21 million and an additional US$ 21 million from the State was
allocated at end January 1991. The remainder will be allocated In April 1991.
6. Cash to be maintained at a level of 5% of total equity.
7. Provisions set at 5% of total loans.
Income Statement
1. Interest earned on cash Is determined from the average cash ba;ane invested
at a rate of 10% in 1991, 7% in 1992 and 5% In 1993.
2. Interest earned on money market deposits Is estimated at rates of 54.5% for
1991 28.5% for 1992 and 20.0% for 1993.
3 The gross sprodi of ST and MLT deposits and loans In 1991 Is assumed to
be 3.5% ano 4.0% respectively. This spread will decrease as the market grows more
competitive to 2.5% and 3.0% in 1992 and 2.0% and 2.5% In 1993.
In 1991, expected rates for ST and MLT dpeoslts are 51% adn 52%; the expected rates
for ST and MLT loans are 54.5% and 56.0%. In 1992 the xpeted rates for ST and
MLT deposits are 26% and 27%; the rates for ST and MLT loans are 28.5% and
30.0%. In 1993, the rates for Srand MLT deposits are 18I0% and 19.0%; the rates for ST
and MLT loans are 20.0% and 21.5%.
4. Interest earned on other MLT loans (non-zioty) Is 1.25% of the Other MLT
loan amount for 1991 and 1.0% for 1992 and 1993.
5. Variable rate Interest on POD MT Bond Issues Is estimated for 1991 through
1993 at 53% (2%), 29% (.3%) and 22% (.4%).
Other
1. CapIW Adequacy -TOItl Equity/Total Assets (unweighted)
I RFturm on Auss * Pro-ta IncomrTotal Assets
3. Retum on Equity m Net licounaflotal Equity



- 94 -
Page 1
May -, 1991
The World Bank
1818 H Street NW
Washington, DC
USA     ,0433
Reference: Privatization and Restructuring Program
Dear Sirs:
1.          The Government of Poland has embarked on a program for
transformation and modernization of the economy supported by the Bank and the
International Monetary Fund. With this program in place, a suitable
environmeat exists for privatization and restructuring of the productive
sectors.
2.          To this end, the Government aims to privatize most state-owned
assets. The long-term objective is to have Poland's ownership structure
resembling that of Western Europe. it is anticipated that more than half of
state assets will be in private hands within the next three years. While
immediate privatization is the objective wherever possible, in some cases
restructuring will be a necessary prerequisite. Also essential is an
effective system of providing responsible and commercially-oriented management
for those assets which are still under state control. Finally, insofar as the
industrial sector is concerned, the Government proposes to design and
implement supportive policies which will foster private sector development and
guide the evolution of the sector towards a structure similar to that found in
EC economies.
3.          To support this far-reaching program of privatization,
restructuring, and management of state assets, the Government is seeking
assistance not only from the World Bank group, but also from other
multilateral and bilateral agencies. This policy letter and the accompanying
matrix have been prepared to describe the objectives of the program, the
achievements to date, and the actions the Government intends to take. The
Government understands that the Bank will review with the Government the
implementation of the program and agrees that disbursement of the policy
component of the proposed World Bank loan will be conditional on continued
satisfactory implementation of the program.



-95-
Annex 4-1
Page 2
I. Privatization
A. Strategy
4.          The Government anticipates that rapid privatization of the bulk of
national property will result In major qualitative changes in enterprise
behavior by increasing competition and by enforcing the adjustment of
enterprises to their new environment. The Government will supervise the
process, to ensure that it is transparent, fair, and meets the requirement of
social justice. The Government's approach to privatization is detailed in a
policy document ("Privatization Program for 1991") which was approved by the
Parliament in February 1991.
5.          Recognizing the wide variation in the types of assets to be
privatized, the variety of types of new owners, as well as the current limited
availability of Polish private capital, the approved program comprises a
multi-track approach aimed at accomplishing the task as quickly and
efficiently as possible.
6.          For state-owned enterprises (SOEs), three main routes to
privatization are envisaged:
(a)   Individual transactions, such as public offerings or direct sale
to domestic or foreign investors, which is apprcpriate for viable
and generally larger enterprises, the share offerings of which
will create the basis for an active capital market. It is
anticipated that the conversion of external debt into equity of
privatized enterprises will also be utilized;
(b)   Winding-up of SOEs and sale or lease of their assets to private
owners, which seems to be partict'larly appropriate fox smaller and
medium-sized companies; and
(c)   "Mass" privatization aimed at passing ownership of enterprises to
Polish citizens through privatization funds and a voucher
distribution system.
7.          The Government is taking a proactive role in accelerating these
privatization processes. As further detailed below, a number of individual
transactions involving winding-up of SOEs with sale/lease of their assets have
already been achieved; the proposed mass privatization scheme is still being
elaborated.
8.          Foreign investment, primarily through the formation of joint
ventures, has been the major route to privatization until now but the results
have not been particularly impressive. To remove the current real or
perceived barriers which have constrained foreign investment in Poland, and to
make Poland competitive in attracting such investment vis-a-vis other central
European countries, the Government is in the process of replacing its law on
joint ventures with a more liberal law on foreign investments covering joint



- 96 -
Annea 4-1
Page 3
ventures, privatization and greenfield investments. The Government also
intends to promote further direct foreign investment through a number of
promotional actions and activities. The revised draft law is now before
Parliament. The promotional program is being developed by tits Foreign
Investment Agency.
9.          Privatization of public assets other than SOEs is proceeding along
a variety of alternatiN.3 routes including the auction (for sale or lease) of
small shops and businesses which has now been substantially completed. In
other areas, such as land ownership, the privatization of cooperatives, and
problems related to contingent liabilities such as environmental clean-up
costs, a number of policy issues are still being addressed.
B.  The Legal Framework
10.         The Government is developing a legal framework to ensure efficient
transformation of the economy while at the same time ensuring that it
functions effectively in the future. Key legislation is already in place, in
particular: (ij the "Anti-Monopoly Act" (1990), which mandates the break-up of
large monopolistic SOEs prior to privatization; and (ii) the "Privatization
Law for State-Owned Enterprises" (1990), which is the fundamental legislative
basis for the program described in this letter; (iii) the "Law on Public
Trading in Securities and Trust Funds". Other existing legislation supports
the process, although a number of necessary revisions are being preparad. In
particular: (i) the "Law of Economics of SOEs" (1981) together with a
liquidation amendment (1990) is being further revised aimed at ensuring the
efficient operation of enterprises which cannot be immediately commercialized;
(ii) the "Commercial Code" (1934) with various amendments is being revised;
(iii) the "Bankruptcy Law" (1987) was amended in 1990 but additional
supporting regulations are being prepared to facilitate the orderly closure of
bankrupt enterprises; and (iv) the "Law of Joint Ventures" (1988) has been
rendered largely obsolete by the passage of subsequent legislation and as
noted above, will be replaced by a new law designed to improve the
attractiveness of foreign investment. New regulations in respect of
accounting and auditing have been introduced. New legislation now under
consideration or in the process of being drafted will ensure the proper legal
frAmework for compensation to original owners, land ownership and
transformation of cooperatives.
C. Institutional Arrangements
11.         SOEs are responsible to a "founding organ" which may be one of
number of Ministries or one of the forty-nine district or "wojewoda"
governments. Under the legislation described above, the founding organ is
responsible for ensuring that before an enterprise can even be considered for
privatization, monopolistic enterprises will be broken up (with the assistance
of the Anti-Monopoly Agency) and non-viable or non-performing enterprises will
be liquidated. In addition, enterprises which may be excessively vertically
integrated may seek heip for restructuring into viable separate units.



-9/ 
Annex 4-1
Page 4
12.         For viable enterprises, the first step in the privatization
process is for the founding organ, the enterprise management and the worker's
council to mutually agree on a privatization approach with the help, where
necessary of foreign and/or Polish consultants.  If the agreed approach is
dissolution and sale of assets, then representation is made to the Ministry of
Ownership Changes (MoOC) which will then oversee the procedure. If, on the
other hand, the agreed approach involves privatization of the business as a
going concern, the first step must be "ceuimerc-alization" through the
formation of a joint stock company, the shares of which will initially be held
by the MoOC on behalf of the Government. MoOC will then be responsible for
organizing the privadization of the newly-formed company using external
assistance to the extent necessary. The Government has left the primary
decision as to whether and when to initiate privatization at the level of the
enterprise and the founding organ primarily in order to ensure the involvement
of enterprise workers in the process. Tax and other incentives are being
introduced to encourage transformation. Nevertheless the Government's primary
goal is the privatization process itself and if the response is inadequate,
the legislation allows the Council of Ministers, upon the recommendation of
MoOC, to require that enterprises enter the program.
13.         To assist the privatization process and to accelerate
privatization at the local and regional level, the Government intends to
decentralize the process by establishing over ten regional branch offices of
the MoOC. The privatization of other public assets. including foreign trade
companies, banks, and state farms is under the resr-- lbility of the
respective agencies representing the Government owr.. ship of these assets,
e.g. Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations, Ministry of Finance and Ministry
of Agriculture.
14.         In addition to the primary institutions involved in privatization,
the Foreign Investment Agency is promoting foreign participation in the
process as well as reviewing all transactions involving foreign buyers, while
the Ministry of Finance reviews all transactions with tax and budgetary
implications. Other institutions (the Polish Development Bank, other banks,
the Industrial Development Agency, etc) may be involved in specific
operations. An inter-ministerial coordinating committee has been established
to ensure the efficient implementation of the program. This committee will
ensure that the process of privatization proceeds as rapidly and efficiently
as possible, and will act quickly to deal with any bureaucratic or other
impedimt,nts which may emerge.
D. Achilevements to Date
15.         A large number of enterprises have already been privatized through
the formation of joint ventures. In addition, in the ten months since the
passage of the 'Law on Privatization of State-Owned Enterprises", the
Government has achieved substantial progress in the process of privatization
as follows:



- 98 -
Page 5
*     Establishment of an institutional infrastructure including the
Ministry of Ownership Changes.
*     Development and adoption of a clearly defined strategy for
privatization.
*     Commencement of operations of a stock-exchange within the
framework of the new Law on public Trading in Securities and trust
funds.
*     Privatization of 242 enterprises, including five large firms
through the methods of initial public offerings; trade sales of a
number of enterprises to domestic or foreign investors; and 143
small and medium enterprises through the dissolution route, 48
through the sale of assets and 95 through leasing (with deferred
purchases).
e     In addition, "small privatization" of retail stores and other
services (for example, trucking services) has been proceeding (80X
of retail outlets; more that 50 of road transportation and more
than 40Z of construction services are now in private hands).
a     The adoption by the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations of a
program of privatization of the foreign trade companies, in
February 1991.
*     Commercialization of a further 150 enterprises, half of which are
slated for individual privatization. These enterprises are now
joint stock companies, operating as autonomous entities under the
direction of their Supervisory Boards of Directors.
*     Established a training institute which has begun training future
supervisory board members, stock brokers and Polish consultants in
the areas of management and finance.
16.         The Government has also made considerable progress in the design
and preparation of the proposed mass privatization program. A preliminary
concept has been approved by the Council of Ministers which would essentially
involve the establishment of a number of Funds to which Polish citizens would
entrust vouchers distributed freely to them. The Funds would use the vouchers
to compete for the purchase of shares in commercialized companies. The
Government has appointed an advisor to assist Us in elaborating the program
and in attracting international fund managers to operate the Polish
Privatization Funds. The advisor will build on the conclusions of an
international accounting firm which has been appointed to determine for us
aspects of the implementation of the voucher scheme. The final concept, which
will also have to give due consideration to the ma -oconomic effects, will be
decided upon only after completion of this work.



- 99 -
Page 6
17.         Finally, through an institute established to assist privatization
at the municipal level, the Government has issued practical guides and
handbooks to assist the municipal councils in privatizing local firms.
E.  Next Stoes
18.         The Government intends to achieve the following in 1991:
*     Complete the preparation of new legislation in support of
privatization as detailed above (para 10).
*     Accelerate the pace of privatization through winding-up and sale
of the assets of SOEs. Approximately 600 small and medium sized
firms will have been privatized in this manner in the course of
this year.
a     Complete preparatory work for establishing procedures for the
conversions of external debt into equity of privatized
enterprises.
*     Commercialize 1000 enterprises so that there is a pipeline of
firms for subsequent privatization.
*     Continue the process of individual privatization.  Seven more
enterprises are about to Le privatized under this program and a
further 40-60 firms will be during the course of the year.
*     Finalize the program for the mass privatization upon establishment
of its feasibility.  As presently envisaged, this would include
the establishment of a number of Polish Privatization Funds and
the elaboration of a program for the distribution of vouchers. It
is expected that the first privatizations (some 50 - 100
companies) under this program will be conducted in the last
quarter of 1991.
e     Initiate the implementation of a program to privatize the banks,
which should lea.d to 1-2 banks being privatized in 1991. The
privatization process for insurance companies has also commenced
and at least 1 insurance company should be privatized in 1991.
*     Further support and accelerate the process of decentralization of
privatization at the level of the wojewodas (regional governments)
and the municipalities.
*     Significantly liberalize the foreign investment legislation in
order to attract capital and investment from abroad, and
substantially redirect the activities of the Foreign Investment
Agency towards promotion.



- 100 -
Annex 4-1
Page 7
*     Implement a program for the privatization of approximately ten
foreign trading companies under the program prepared by their
founding organ, the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations.
*     Develop a program for the cooperative sector which will allow for
the transformation of cooperatives into corporations, or otherwise
adapt them to a market environment, while at the same time
ensuring their full autonomy and self-management.
*     Establishment of a policy on contingent liabilities for the new
owners of privatized SOEs, particularly environmental clean-up
costs.
*     Monitor the overall progress of privatization and take active
measures to ensure that it continues rapidly and efficienLly.
19.         To achieve this ambitious program, considerable institutional
strengthening will be required along with the measures necessary to ensure
effective coordination between institutions. For this purpose, the Government
is seeking World Bank technical assistance proposed under the present project,
assistance from EBRD and the EC PHARE program and other bilateral support.
II. Restructurinif
A. Strategy
20.         The Government recognizes that creation of a competitive
environment is necessitating substantial and continuous adjustment in the
Polish industrial sector. While enterprise restructuring will normally occur
through private initiative following privatization, a number of enterprises
will require reorganization or other forms of restructuring prior to
privatization. For such cases, a cohesive program of restructuring is
essential in order to assist Polish industry to become more competitive and
efficient, prevent market failure that would derail the privatization process,
and allow orderly exit. Restructuring will also deliver a stock of profitable
enterprises to the privatization process.
21.         To support the overall restructuring of the productive sector, and
in the context of an evolving industrial policy more appropriate to the new
enviroument, the Government will initiate and sponsor the dissemination of
sector information in order to provide enterprises with information on their
performance versus best practices internationally. The Government anticipates
little or no additional role in this process, other than to assure firms a
supportive industrial policy, a strengthened financial sector and an active
capital market.
22.         At the enterprise level, there are a number of unprofitable units
or enterprises which have been severely weakened by drastic changes in the
economic environment such as import competitien, loss of traditional CMEA



- 101 -
Annex 4-1
Page 8
markets, higher energy prices and a more stringent enforcement of anti-
pollution regulations. In a trial program, the Government is attempting to
sell a number of these enterprises. However, it is inevitable that in many
cases, even where there is potential viability, no immediate buyers will be
found and restructuring will be a necessary prerequisite to privatization.
The Government recognizes its responsibility to initiate the restructuring
effort, at least to the degree that it will deliver viable entities which will
attract commercial attention through one of the available privatization
routes. In addition, as foreseen in the Privatization Law, in certain
specific instances of enterprises requiring restructuring prior to
privatization , in cases clearly of national interest, financial assistance
will be provided through transparent budgetary allocations. It must be
emphasized, however, that the Government does not intend to undertake major
investments in any state enterprise. If enterprises do not have any potential
to be restored to viability, they will be liquidated.
23.         While in the past, some non-viable enterprises have been sustained
through support loans which amounted to indirect budgetary support, the
Government reiterates its commitment not to subsidize enterprises directly or
indirectly, and intends to develop a clearly articulated, transparent and
redirected industrial policy and a reorganized Ministry of Industry (MOI),
itself restructured to implement this policy. Financial assistance to failing
enterprises will be the exception, limited to clear cases of national
interest, and will be provided through transparent budgetary allocations.
Financing for restructuring will normally be provided through the financial
system, without jeopardizing the health of the financial sector, on the basis
of normal commercial and prudential practice.
24.         In addition to support for enterprise restructuring, the
Government is developing a program of regional assistance where there is at
present or there is the potential for regionally concentrated layoffs.
B. Institutional Arrangements
25.         Restructuring programs are being supported by a variety of
institutions within Poland and, as is the case for privatization, there is
movement towards decentralization of the process and intensive use of Polish
and foreign consultants. The primary institutions active in the process are:
(i) the Ministry of Industry, which has launched and coordinated subsector
studies, and is monitoring the operation of the SOEs under its responsibility;
(ii) the Anti-Monopoly Agency responsible for initiating the breakup of
enterprises with a dominant position on the market, (iii) the Industrial
Development Agency, a state-owned joint stock company under the auspices of
the MOI, organized to assist firms sseking restructuring assistance; and (iv)
the Polish Development Bank (PDB), a public joint stock company with foreign
minority shareholders, which will provide medium- and long-term financing on a
commercial basis for restructuring, throvgh a network of authorized financial
intermediaries. The rapid development of a diversified domestic consulting
industry will further support this process. A committee has also been
established by the Government consisting of representatives of the Ministries



- 102 -
Annex 4-1
Page 9
of Finance, Ownership Changes and Industry, which meets on a regulaL ,asis,
and coordinates all efforts for the restructuring of enterprises. On a more
long-term basis, the committee will assist in developing a coherent industrial
policy.
C. Achievements 1o Da
26.         The major achievement in restructuring comes from the economic
reform and liberalization process. In addition to the historically private
agricultural sector, there is now a very dynamic formal and informal private
sector in the country, particularly in the retail and service sector, but
increasingly also in the wholesale sector, notably for consumer goods. By
stimulating demand for assets and labor, these developments are also having a
positive spillover effect in the state enterprise sector.
27.         At the enterprise level, restructuring achievements to date
include:
*     Improvement of competition by the Anti-Monopoly Agency, which has
been active in formulating competition policy and enforcing this
policy through break up of monopoly enterprises and sectors.
During 1990, the Agency reviewed 1,500 anti-trust cases and ruled
that 200 cases represented monopolistic practices and that 200
enterprises required changes in their structure. This usually
involved the breakup of multi-plant or multi-location enterprises
in agriculture and industry. During 1991 the Agency completed a
special analysis of 15 large monopolies in the context of the
commercialization/ privatization of these enterprises. In
addition, all commercialization cases require approval of the
Anti-Monopoly Agency.
*     The development of enterprise monitoring procedures by MOI which
give early warning of financial problems. In such cases, analysis
is undertaken of the prospects for the enterprise's future
viability. In cases where there is clearly no future, the
bankruptcy law and the law on state enterprises can be utilized
for an orderly process of liquidation. Three enterprises were
baAtkrupted during 1990. In addition, the Government liquidated
sixteen and is initiating procedures for liquidating seven
additional nonviable enterprises. For three enterprises which
were in serious financial problems, recovery programs were worked
out and are being implemented.
*     Restructuring actions to restore SOEs to profitability to
facilitate subsequent privatization are being developed on a case-
by-case basis. Restructuring plans, which include financial
restructuring, reorganization, physical restructuring through sale
of assets or minor investments, have been prepared for about 12
enterprises. IDA is actively participating in the preparation of



* 103 -
Page 10
enterprise restructuring plans and has undertaken preliminary
diagnoses in about 150 enterprises.
28.         The Government is alsc developing programs to support sector-wlde
restructuring and also to identify groups of enterprises which will likely
face financial difficulties. In particular:
*     A number of slbsector studies have been initiated.  During 1991,
the Government, with the assistance of external consultants
completed and widely disseminated a study of the textile industry.
It is in the process of completing a study on the
cosmetics/detergents industry. In preparation are studies of the
construction, packaging, steel, components and pulp and paper
industries. Not only will these studies provide a basis for
understanding the restructuring needs of the enterprises, but they
will provide the basis for assessment of various industrial
subsectors in selecting candidates for privatization and for the
analysis of anti-monopoly activity.
a     Groups of enterprises which might be facing difficulties due to
rapid changes of the external environment have been identified.
For example such groups include firms that will encounter
difficulties due to th6ir past orientation towards CMEA trade
especially with Soviet Union; heavy polluters and energy intensive
industries. The Government has arranged for preliminary diagnosis
to be carried out and has appointed a working group on how best to
deal with these firms.
F.  Next steDs
29.         During 1991, the Government will focus on strengthening
institutional capacity for restructuring. In particular technical assistance
through consultan._ies and training will be utilized to:
*     Improve MOI's systems for monitoring enterprise performance and
speed up and improve the quality of diagnosis of problem
enterprises
*     Add capacity for helping entferprises to develop feasible plans for
breaking them up when they arc excessively integrated
*     Add capacity in MOI to deal with the growing number of
liquidations.
*     Accelerate the procedures for assessing monopoly and dominant
situations
*     Foster the development of indigenous and foreign-owned capital
market intermediaries such as stockbrokers, security dealers and
investment banks.



- 104
Page 11
30.         The role of IDA will be critical in the support to enterprises in
trouble. To improve its assistance, IDA will refocus its activity and expand
its program for 1991/92, to includes a further 150 diagnostic studies and 100
full restructuring studies. It will also support the implementation phase of
the restructuring in liaison with the MoOC.
31.         In some of the most affected regions, the Wojewodas in cooperation
with the Central Planning Office are in the process of completing indicative
strategies for restructuring at the regional level. During 1991, three such
programs will be developed. Regional programs are being developed initially
for three regio2ts--Katowice, Lodz and Walbrzych. This initiative will assist
in job retraining and entrepreneurial development as well as infrastructure
modernization necessary to attract new investments into these regions. The
programs will also focus on environmental issues.
III. Management of State Assets
A. Strategy
32.         Ownership and management of assets which remain in state hands
continues to be a critical issue. After the transformation of SOEs into
companies with a corporate structure, the owner of shares not held by private
owners will be the Government (in most cases for a transitional period).
Under the existing law, the Government is represented by sector Ministries or
other bodies such as Regional Governors. The Privatization Law stipulates,
however, that the Government would be represented by a State Treasury as a
central d,lpository for state assets. The concept of the State Treasury as an
organization must be suitably developed before the necessary legislation is
enacted.
33.         While policies for exercising ownership rights of state assets are
still evolving, the Government has long recognized the need to address the
problem of responsible management of state assets. As early as 1981 a process
of decentralization of the decision-making process to the enterprise level was
begun, whereby enterprise managers, in cooperation with workers' councils,
have largely been responsible for decision-making.
34.         In view of the processes of democatization and the radical change
in the economic environment, there remains a clear need to further address the
issue of corporate governance for entities which are not easily privatizable
and which will remain in state hands for some time. The Government is
actively examining all of these questions and is reviewing the experience of
EC and other countries in order to develop appropriate means for managing the
state assets which remain under its control.
35.         In the meantime, hard budget constraints as a result of monetary
and fiscal policies, which mandate dividend and tax payments, are the main
mechanisms for tightenlng the controls over SOEs. As enterprises are



- 105 -
Anne"_4-
Page 12
commercialized as the first step to privatization, independent supervisory
boards of directors are appointed, which oversee the performance of the
enterprise.
B. AciUeyements to Date
36.         A major achievement has been the positive impact on enterprise
management behavior, of the creation of a competitive environment, based on
hard budget constraints and liberalization of the economy. The hard budget
constraints have forced the enterprises to focus on their financial
discipline.
37.         As an initial step in developing solutions to the longer-term
problem of corporate governance, the Government has initiated a large-scale
program of selection and training of a pool of potential board members which
will initially represent the state's interest on the boards of companies
partially or wholly owned by the state. The first round of this program
received over 4000 applicants, of whom 550 candidates were selected. Training
covered the commercial code, financial analysis, accounting, general
management and organization strategy in some detail, as well as presentations
from Directors and Ministers from MoOC. The course had a success rate of
approximately 60X, resulting in a current pool of approximately 300 potential
directors. The program is continuing.
C. Next SteRs
38.         The Government is already unidertaking a number of further steps
aimed at addressing the problem of corporate governance. These include:
*     Continuing to explore options for the proposed State Treasury,
aimed at finding an appropriate balance between the objectives of
decentralization with improved governance, and then introduction
of the appropriate enabling legal framework.
*     Definition of appropriate mechanisms for defining and delegating
responsibility for state ownership of enterprises by the Treasury
*     The creation of new financial intermedieries, the investment/
management funds (Privatization Funds) under the voucher scheme,
which while primarily the vehicle for mass privatization, will
also hold in trust the State's residual shares in the companies
privatized under this scheme, and discharge an active management
role in these companies.
*     The creation of pension funds which will be endowed by the State
with shares from newly privatized companies.
*     The creation of other privately managed holding companies which
would manage the state's interest in groups of enterprises with a



* 106 -
Annex 4
Page 13
view to improving their performance and attractin- further private
participation.
39.         To conclude, we would like to remind you that Poland has made
substantial strides in ecvnomic reform over the last two years. It is clear
now that the country n_.  make further efforts to restructure and modernize
the real and financial   I-ors of the economy.  This can best be done through
an accelerated progrr-r mod at increasing private ownership in all sectors of
the economy.  This 1E      'etter reflects the Government's commitment in this
regard. This program :-.n6,.t `;e achieved without substantial and continuous
external assistance. Tha._ Lb why the financial resources that will be
provided by the Privatization and Restructuring Project are essential to
assist the Government to imp'lement these policies.
Sincerely yours,
Minister of Ownership Changes,                   Minister of Industry,
for the Government of Poland                     for the Government of Poland



POLAND - Privntization and Restructuring Program
Subject/Objective/Approach                                  Actions to Date                                            C-nitments / Further Actions
PINAUZATION
Strategv
Privatize state assets with the lonx-term               Adoption by Parliament of an overall strategy            Finalize implementation pLans end the legal
objective of achieving an ownership structure            for privatization and establishment of the              framework for privatization as further detailed
similar to that of Western Europe. and au               Ministry of Ownership Changes (MoOC).                    below; develop programs for privatization of
intermediate objective of having 502 of state-                                                                   such assets as cooperatives. and enterprises
owned assets in private hands within three                                                                       governed at the level of the wojewoda or
years.                                                   Preparation and approval by Parliament of a              municipality (91/92)
detailed privatization strategy (March 1991)
Three main routes to privatization are                                                                           Develop: i) criteria/mechanisms for the
envisaged:                                              Preparation of Government's plan for                     selection of enterprises for privatization
compensation of former owners of unduly                 through varioua mechanisms; ii) plans for
c  Individual transactions (including public          nationalized property, to clarify framework for          decentrilization of privatization and
offerings, private placements, etc)                subsequent privatization of this property                establisbment of regional offices of NoOC.
("Reprivatization")                                     (Boeard Coditiim)
*  Dissolution (liquidation) and sale or
lease of assets                                                                                             Finalize impluwentation plan for  3ass
privatization upon establisbment of its
*  "Mass" privatization aimed at passing                                                                       feasibility (Disbursiot Canditiem of  olicy
ownership of enterprises to Polish                                                                         *md Invsstot Ccpeasnts)                                  O
citizens; currently envisaged through
privatization funds and a voucher
distribution system                                                                                         privatization of enterprises (De. 91)
Statement of policy On contingent Liabilities
for now owners of privatized SOEs
Privatization of 242 enterprises completed, of          (environmental clean-up costs) (Dec. 91)
whicb:
* 8 enterprises have been individually                  *  Privatize in 91 approximately 40-60 firc
privatized;trubiniiulpiaztos
* 143 enterprises have been privatized                      through individual privatizatioDS
through the dissolution route;                        *  Privatize about 600 small and meditc
enterprises in 1991 tbrough liquidation.
Letal Framework
Passage of key implementing legislation:
Establish appropriate legal framework for the
transformation of the economy and ensure its                 Privatization Law for SOEs (1990)                   Amend. revise, replace cr cmplement. Law on
efficient functioning in the market economy        .         Anti-monopoly Act (1990)                            Economics of SOEs. Comrcial Code. Bakruptcy
Securities Law (1991)                               regulations. Prepare mnow Legislation for land  lb
ownership and privatization of cooperatives.   aq
Enact laws on reprivatization and securities   0
exchanse regulations. (91/92)



Subject/Objective/Approach                                  Actions to Date                                            Camitments / Further Actions
ZUlV I OM   (cmtind)
institutional Arranaements
Adequate institutional arrangements must be in           An Interministerial Committee has been created          Statement on coordination between Ministries
place to deliver adequate numbers of                     to oversee the whole process of privatization           tHoOc, MoOI) on preparation and implementation
enterprises and ensure the smooth                        and ensure the elimination of any bureaucratic          of restructuring/privatization of individual
transformation of the economy                            or other impediments                                    enterprises (Board Conditien).
Key institutions include:                                                                                        Monitor the overall progress of privatization
and take active measures, including measures to
*  Foundina orzans (ministries, wojewodas,            Incentives are in place to encourage                     modify institutional structures and operations
municipalities. etc) together with                 enterprises to commercialize as the first step           as necessary, to ensure that it continues to
enterprise managers and workers' councils          to privatization.  107 enterprises have been             operate rapidly and efficiently (91/92).
prepare privatization proposals for SOEs           commercialized to date.
for consideration by the MoOC                                                                               Commercialize a further 1000 SOEs proparatory
to privatization during 1991; prepare an
*  The Industrial Develonment Agencv                                                                           additional 1700 enterprises at the municipal
A comprehensive program of technical assistance         level for privatization through
*  The Anti-Monopolv Agencv                           has been designed which will add capacity and            comrcialization during 1991.
strengthen the diverse institutions involved in
*  The Ministry of Ownership Changes                  the privatization process                                Continue to strengthen all agencies through a
comprehensive program of technical assistance
*  The Foreirn Investment Agencv                                                                               financed through Government resources supported
by the World Bank and other multilateral and
bilateral financial institutions                        O
Foreign Investment
Foreign investment, primarily through the               New law on foreign investment to replace the             Enact new law (91)
formation of joint ventures, has been a major           "Law on Joint Ventures" has been prepared and
route to privatization until now but the                is currently before Parliament.
results have not been very impressive.
Object is to remove real or perceived barriers          Foreign Investment Agency has prepared a                 Implement promotional program (91/92)
to foreign investment and to redirect                   promotional program and is currently making
activities of Foreisn Investment Agency away            arrangements for its implementation
from regulation and towards promotion
OQt
> %



SubjectICIbjective/Approach                               Actions to Date                                          Co-itments / Further Actions
Restructuring is envisaged at:
(a) The sectoral level; primarily through the         Competition has been improved by the anti-              Interministerial task-force will be established
dissemination of sectoral information             monopoly agency which, during 1990:                     with specific guidelines for speedy decision on
(such as comparative competitive data)                                                                    critical restructuring cases (Board Ceditlom).
which will be made available to both                 * Reviewed 1500 antitrust cases and ruled
existing enterprises and potential new                 that 200 cases represented monopolistic            During 1991. the Government will focus on
investors; and                                         practices and that 200 enterprises                 strengthening institutional capacity for
required changes in their structure                restructuring.  In particular  Ci) improving
(b) The enterprise level:                                                                                     systems for monitoring enterprise performance
* Completed a special analysis of 15 large,          and speeding up and improving diagnosis of
*  By new private owners;                                 monopolies in the context of the                    problem enterprises; (ii) adding capacity to
commercialization/privatization of the se          help overly integrated enterprises to develop
*  Only in those cases where private                      enterprises                                         feasible plans for break up; (iiI) adding
Investors cannot be found, in comercialized                                                                   capacity to deal with the growing number of
state-owned enterprises where it can be               Restructuring of enterprises is being driven,           liquidations; and (iv) accelerating procedures
clearly demonstrated that they will be viable         inter alia, by hard budget constraints which            for assessing monopoly and dominant situaticos
(and potentially attractive for                       have been in place since January. 1990.
privatization) after the restructuring has
been undertaken                                       The MDI bas set up an enterprise monitoring             Restructuring efforts will be decentralized
system to give early warning of enterprise             with creation of regional restructuring
There is no intention to use "restructuring" as         financial difficulties.  In 1990, MDI:                  agencies (91/92).
a vehicle for providing support loans to non-                                                                                                                          0
viable enterprises                                        * Liquidated 16 enterprises and is                   Special programs are being developed for                '0
initiating procedures for 7 more                   sector-wide restructuring and for groups of
enterprises which will likely face financial
* Began recovery programs for 3 troubled             difficulties:
enterprises
* Sector studies/development of
* Bankrupted 3 enterprises                                 restructuring ploas for detergents,
construction, packaging, steel and
The Industrial Develoument Aencv (IDA) has                   components will start in 1991
been set up to provide technical assistance for
restructuring enterprises. IDA has already
undertaken detailed studies for 37 such
enterprises                                              *  Diagnostic studies/pre p ration of
restructuring of groups of enterprises
The Polish Develoument Bank CPDB) has been set               which may face difficulties because of
up to provide long-term refinancing at market                CMEA-dependance. high energy use.
terms to the financial sector.  PDB will act as              environmental problem, etc (91/92)
an apex institution for World Bank lo.kas
*  Regional studies in tbree hard-hit aras
being initiuted in 1991.
IDA will refocus its activity and expand its
progrm and in 1991/92 will undertake 150            X
diagnostic studies and 100 full restructuring 1 X



Subject/Objective/Approach                                  Actions to Date                                            Commitments / Further Actions
INIM    W STATE hSS
Policies for exercise of ownership rights of             In program to develop suitable legislation for          Elaborate/implement guidelines for directors
state assets are to be defined. The                      a "Law on the State Treasury", advice is being          representing state in supervisory boards of
privatization law envisages a State Treasury             sought from the Govermments of EC and other             fully or partly state-owned companies (SepL.
which would be the central repository for state          countries as to an appropriate model for the            91); define mechanisms for delegation of atate
eassts but there is concern that this could             management of assets which remain in state               ownership of enterprises (Dec. 91).
become a giant, centrally-managed holding,               hands
Additional work is required before this concept
can be finalized.                                        In the meantime, improved management of state-          Review existing incentives and
owned enterp-ises is being driven by:                   elaborate/implement as needed new
incentives/other measures to force SOEs to
* Competitive forces in a rapidly opening-            commercialize in order to bring them under a
up market with minimal protection from              more tightly managed structure.
import competition                                  (Dec. 91)
* The additional discipline imposed by a
mandatory "dividend" based on the value of
assets. in addition to hard budget                 Review alternatives and eventually develop a
constraints                                         comprehensive workable model for the control of
state assets which represents a suitable
In addition, for those enterprises which become         balance between decentralization and improved
"commercialized' on the way to becoming                 governance (91/9Z).
privatized, a supervisory board of directors
representing the owners must be appointed. To                                                                   F
ensure an initial supply of suitable board                                                                      0
members, MaOC has undertaken a selection
process followed by a training course and has
thus prepared 300 directors
IRIXETRIAL lUKJC
Complete study on industrial poLicy nd review
Develop new industrial policy and reorganize                                                                     it w  ) the Bank (Dec. 91).
MoI to implement it.
Complete reorganization study for Mol (Dec.
91). Implementation of recomn ndatians (to be
completed Jeme a).
to
lb0



- 111 -
Annex 4-2
Page 1
POLAND - PRIVATIZATION AND RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Technical Assistance to Support the Privatization and Restructuring Programs
A. Introduction
1.          The unprecedented efforts to transform Poland's economy through
privatization and restructuring requires massive technical, managerial,
institutional and advisory capacity which currently is not available in
Poland. Nevertheless, the Government wants to conclude the transformation as
rapidly and efficiently as possible. It has thus developed an integrated
program of technical assistance (TA) aimed at providing consulting services,
institutional support, and training for the main agencies engaged in the
process. The estimated overall cost of the proposed program over the next two
years is of the order of US$240 million. At least one-third of this cost will
be covered by the Polish budget, but the Government is also seeking Bank,
other multilateral and bilateral support for the program.
2.          The Bank has been asked to help in the design and coordination of
the program as well as to finance US$65 million equivalent of key technical
assistance in selected agencies. In this context, it has been agreed that
Bank funding would only be utilized where grant funding cannot be found; the
present financing plan is based on the grant funding which has been identified
to date, but loan documents between the Bank and the Government would maintain
flexibility and allow for the reallocation of Bank resources designated for TA
to other project components if suitable grant financing can be identified
during the course of project implementation.
3.          This Annex describes the overall technical assistance program and
the specific areas proposed for World Bank support. An attachment Ftzsvides
draft Terms of Reference for a proposed Technical Assistance Unit which would
help coordinate and supervise the use of Bank funds for the project.
B.    Overall ScoRe of the Program
4.          Technical assistance will be focussed on providing support to:
(a)   The six key agencies involved in the restructuring and
privatization process: The Ministry of Ownership Changes (MoOC),
the Ministry of Industry (MoI), the Anti-Monopoly Agency, The
Polish Development Bank (PDB), the Industrial Development Agency
(IDA), and the Foreign Investment Agency (FIA); and
(b)   A Rilot program for restructuring/Rrivatization at the level of
the wojewoda which will support the agencies concerned with
transformation of state-owned enterprises whose founding organ is
at that level. Three selected wojewodas with a significant
locally-controlled industrial base will initially be supported
through this program, but provision will be made for possible
extension to provide greater geographical coverage if the initial
results are promising.



- 112 -
Annex 4-2
Page 2
5.          The effort required to manage the procurement and contractual
arrangements for a program of TA of this magnitude is considerable. It is
t.Aus envisaged that a special TA;Unit for this specific purpose would be set
up in a centralized location, most likely the Ministry of Finance. Other than
providing review capability for Terms of Reference and short lists of
consultant candidates, this unit would not have any central administrative
role, but woull act as a coordinating office for procuring and contracting
World Bank-financed TA services in response to requests from the implementing
agencies. The European Community (EC) plans to provide similar assistance and
this work will be coordinated between the two agencies.
C. Cost and Financing Plan
G.          The estimated total cost of the program, and the proposed sources
of financing, are summarized below in Table 1.
Table 1 - Tentative Financing Plan for Proposed TA Program
Amount
Item                                 Budget  IBRD   EC   EBRD  Others  Total
(US$ million equivalent)
Polish Agency
1. Ministry of Ownership Changes        62    34    29      -    16     141
2. Ministry of Industry                  2    10      7     -     -       19
3. Polish Development Bank               -     3      -     -     -        3
4. Industrial Development Agency         8    17    19      -     -       44
5. Foreign Investment Agency             8     -      3    10     -       21
6. Anti-Monopoly Agency                  -     -      3     -     -        3
Program for Assistance to
selected Wojewodas               -      -     7      -     -       7
Bank and EC TA Units                      -     1      1     -     -        2
Total Technical Assistance Program       80    65    69    10    16       240
7.          In preparing the cost estimates, the concerned Polish agencies
have focussed on TA requirements for ambitious programs which they consider
can be accomplished during 1991. The Bank estimates are based on the same
numerical targets, but given the extent of the organizational and
administrative task involved, believes that these will not be achieved within
that time frame. The above table is thus the Bank's estimate of the cost of
TA to support privatization and restructuring through 1992.



- 113 -
Annex 4-2
Page 3
8.          As indicated in the table, the Government is allocating
substantial budgetary resources for TA to assist this program 1/ which is a
measure of its substantial commitment to the privatization and restructuring
program. The European Community PHARE rrogram has committed ECU 50 million of
support. The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development is considering
financing a number of key TA components which in total will cost. Finally,
the financing of a number of individual experts in the program has also been
agreed with several bilateral agencies, notably with the British Knowhow Fund,
but also with US and French assistance.
9.          Details of the proposed TA program for each agency, including the
basis for the cost estimates, are contained in the following paragraphs.
C.    Details of TA Programs
1. The Ministry of Ownership Changes
10.         The MoOC is the focal point of privatization of all state
enterprises in Poland and will utilize by far the most substantial part of the
TA funds envisaged for the privatization and restructuring program. The
estimated cost and financing plan for TA in this Ministry is as follows:
1/         In addition to the US$80 million equivalent indicated in Table 1,
US$100 million has been budgeted to assist with the implementation
of the voucher scheme for mass privatization when preparatory
studies have been completed and the feasibility of the proposed
program assessed.



- 114 -
Ann 4 - 2
Page 4
Table 2 - Cost Estimate and Financing Plan for_TA to MQoC
Amount
Item                                Budget  IBRD   EC   EDRD  Others  Total
(US$ million equivalent)
A. Individual Privatization
1. Large enterprises                 20.7   5.5  14.0    -       -     40.2
2. Small/medium enterprises           2.3   4.5   4.5    -    1.2    12.5
3. Sectoral studies                   2.6  10.0    -      -      -     12.6
4. Special cases                        -    6.5   1.5    -      -      8.0
B. Mass Privatizatioa
1. Mass Privatization Advistf          -      -     -     *    3.0      3.0
2. Preparation                         -      -    6.0    -      -      6.0
3. Voucher Scheme                      a/    -      -     -      -       A/
4. Auction                            2.0    -      -     -      -      2.0
C. Financial/Institutional Infrastructure
1. Stock Exchange                     4.0    -      -     -    3.0      7.0
2. Securities Exchange Commission    2.0    -       -          3.0      5.0
3. Legislation and Regulation         1.0    -    1.0    -    1.0       3.0
4. Public Relations and Education   23.8    -       -     -    0.2    24.0
5. Training                           1.0   2.0   0.7    -    0.3       4.0
D. General Ministry Support
1. Consulting Studies                 1.0   1.0    -      -     -       2.0
2. Personnel                          1.6    -      -     -    4.3      5.9
3. Equipment                           -    1.5   1.3    -      -       2.8
E. Allowance for Additional
Studies/Actions/Contingencies       -    3.0    -      -             3.0
Total Requirement                     62.0  34.0  29.0    -   16.0   141.0
Al    A provisional allowance of US$100 million has been allocated from the
Government budget.
11.         MoOC has prepared a detailed plan for each of the activities
tabulated above. Briefly, these include:
(a)   Individual privatization of SOEs.  This program is the main
activity of MoOC to date. The program envisaged for 1991 is:
(i) for large enterprises, to complete the privatization of 45
enterprises (15 through public offerings, 15-20 by sale to Polish
investors and 5-10 by sale to foreign companies), and to bagin the
process for an additional 70-90 enterprises. These enterprises
will be selected from among the 500 largest SOEs. Technical
assistance (local as well as foreign) will be utilized to
preparation and valuation of enterprises, to design privatization
strategies, to prepare enterprise prospectuses and to carry out



- 115
Annex 4-2
Page 5
the privatization. (ii) for small/medium enterprises, the
objective is to privatize 1000 enterprises. It has been projected
that foreign consultant assistance to prepare these sales would be
required for 250 operations, while the remaining 750 would be
prepared with local consultants. (iii) sectoral studies, which
will be the basis for privatizing some industries. About 15
sector studies should start in 1991, in a program coordinated with
the MOI and IDA. (iv) for special caBes, which are generally
considered as the large and difficult privatizations which may
require some special preparatory effort.
(b)   Mass orivatization of SOEs.  Mass privatization will accelerate
the process of ownership transformation while also leading to the
wide dispersion of share ownership. The program is still being
developed but the first step, the appointment of an investment
bank advisor to assist in the design and implementation of the
scheme is imminent. The advisor will examine all aspects of the
program including: aspects of policy, privatization funds,
privatization fund managers, enterprises and the auction/bidding
process. Subsequent steps which require TA include the
preparation of companies for privatization, the elaboration of a
feasible voucher scheme, and the auction of enterprises.
(c)   Financial and institutional infrastructure, which includes the
establishment of a stock exchange and a securities and exchange
commission. TA will also be required to assist in drafting and
implementing the necessary legislation and to prepare and
undertake an educational and public relations campaign. A major
training program is included under this category, which would
provide courses for directors, consultants, accountants, financial
officers, lawyers and stockbrokers.
(d)   General suoRort to MoOC including consulting studies on
organization and staffing and the installation of information
systems, financing of foreign experts to supplement the capacity
of the ministry, and the provision of equipment such as computer
hardware and software and telefax and telex machines.
2. The Ministrv of Industry
12.         As the founding organ responsible for the most important portion
of state-owned assets, the Ministry of Industry is encountering some
difficulty in redefining its role in the reforming Polish economy. On the
positive side, MoI is showing effective leadership to the industrial sector by
taking the lead in initiating in-depth studies in such important industrial
sub-sectors as steel, textiles and packaging. The results of these studies
should provide an invaluable tool in guiding the effective restructuring and
privatization of enterprises in these sub-sectors. Similarly, MoI has worked
closely with the Ministry of Foreign Trade in trying to stimulate ar. advance
program of special attention for that group of enterprises which will be most
adversely affected by the dismantling of the CMEA system. Other current



- 116 -
Annex 4-2
Page 6
activities of the Ministry, which are appropriate in the current transition
situation, include assistance with the breaking up of large and monopolistic
enterprises under its control. and in supervising the liquidation of non-
viable enterprises. On the other hand, the Ministry does not seem to be able
to relinquish its previous role as the provider of resources to enterprises on
an ad hoc basis, and in this way its actions counter the efforts of other
agencies to effect a rapid and effective restructuring of the industrial
sector.
13.         There is an appropriate and vital role for a Ministry of Industry
in designing and administering industrial policy and this role is particularly
important in a country such as Poland which is attempting to rapidly transform
its entire industrial sector. The following program of technical assistance
for MoI is thus designed to support the appropriate activities of the Ministry
within the overall framework designed by the Polish authorities to effect such
transformation.
Table 3 - Cost Estimate and Financing Plan for TA tp MQI
Amount
Item                                Budget  IBRD   EC   EBRD  Others  Total
(US$ million equivalent)
A. Industrial Policy
1. Policy guidelines studies           -    1.1   0.5    -      -       1.6
2. Implementation and monitoring       -    0.2   0.2           -       0.4
B. Sectoral Studies
1. High material/energy industries   1.0   0.7   4.3    -       -       6.0
2. Branch studies                     1.0   1.0   2.0    -      -       4.0
C. Industry Restructuring
1. Break-up of large enterprises       -    0.6    -      -     -       0.6
2. Liquidation                         -    2.4    -      -      -      2.4
D. Ministry Support
1. Consulting studies                  *    1.0    -      -     -       1.0
2. Equipment                           -    2.0           -     -       2.0
3. Training                                  1.0                        1.0
Total Requirement                      2.0  10.0   7.0    -       -     19.0
14.         MOI has prepared detailed plans for each of the activities
tabulated above. Briefly, these include:
(a)   Support for elaborati   of industrial DoliCv.  This component will
finance an ac'visory task force to work with the Ministry to
develop an effective industrial policy for Poland within the
context of the present direction of economic development, and to



- 117 -
Page 7
elaborate the appropriate ministerial structure to implement this
policy. Extensive reference will be made to the role of similar
ministries in market economies, while allowing for the important
differences relevant for an economy in transition.
(b)   Strategic studies for key sectors.  There is a vital need for
information to support restructuring and privatization operations
in at least 25-30 key industrial sub-sectors and branches.
Priorities and the nature and content of such studies are being
developed in conjunction with the other concerned agencies.
(c)   Industry restructuring.  The break-up of large enterprises
requires careful analysis of linkages as well as the ability to
make realistic forecasts of the continuing viability of the
individual elements following a break up. Support is proposed for
this activity through the services of senior advisors and
analysts. The liquidation of assets is a specialized and time-
consuming process which is currently being handled by ministry
staff but which is quickly growing to unmanageable proportions.
It will be appropriate to contract this work out to specialized
liquidation agencies.  Supp_rt is envisaged to finance the cost of
foreign liquidators for some of the major operations until
adequate Polish capacity is developed.
(d)   Ministry sunport.  MoI has a need for additional senior advisory
staff to help implement its redirected industrial policy and to
oversee the program of sub-sector studies. In addition, there is
a need for additional equipment and software for office technology
and information systems. Finally, training programs need to be
developed and implemented for personnel in: (i) industrial policy
administration; and (ii) liquidations.
3. The Polish Development Bank
15.         The Polish Development Bank is an embryonic institution which is
just now elaborating its objectives and recruiting its staff. The estimated
total cost of the TA envisaged in 1991/92 is US$3.0 million equivalent, of
which US$2.7 million would finance foreign advisors in PDB and the balance
would be the cost of training PDB staff during this same period. The
tentative financing plan envisages that all of this TA would be financed by
the World Bank. The program would provide:
(a)   General aemncv supRort.  PDB has an institutional design
comprising nine departments in each of which it perceives the need
for a senior foreign advisor at least through 1992. Active
recruitment of these specialists has already begun.
(b)    X.ijning.  A detailed training program has been developed covering
all aspects of PDB's work. Some training has already been
undertaken (at Credit Suisse in Zurich, First Boston in London and
Credit National in Paris). The program is being elaborated and



- 118 -
Annex 4-2
Page 8
organized by PDB's personnel department; training for 82 persons
is envisaged during 1991.
4. The Industrial DeveloRment Agency
16.         IDA is the main technical agency charged with the responsibility
for providing technical assistance to industrial enterprises requiring help to
design and implement restructuring programs. In addition, IDA has been
allocated financial resources to help with the restructuring process which it
proposes to use for equity investments in selected cases. Bank TA support is
proposed primarily in support of IDA's technical activities. The estimated
cost and financing plan for TA to IDA is as follows:
Table 4 - Cost Estimate and Financing Plan for TA to IDA
Amount
Item                                Budget  IBRD   EC   EBRD  Others  Total
(US$ million equivalent)
1. Diagnostic studies                  -    1.4   0.6    -      -      2.0
2. Restructuring studies              ;.0  12.6  12.4    -      -     31.0
3. Overall agency support              -   1.0   6.0    -              7.0
4. Training                    .       .o  2.0                         4.0
Total Requirement                      8 0  17.0  19.0    -      -    44.0
17.         Technical assistance at IDA A-,uld support:
(a)   Diagnostic studies program.   dA is developing an internal
capacity to undertake quick ciajnoses of enterprises and, where
appropricte, to prepare Terms of Reference for more comprehensive
follow-up restructuring studies aimed at defining an enterprise
strategy for restructuring and transformation. The agency plans
to undertake 300 such studies in 1991/2. The assistance of 2
senior advisors to help guide this program through 1992 is
proposed, and also funds for financing Polish (and occasionally
foreign) consultants to provide guidance in special cases.
(b)   ResOt-cturinn Itudies RrogrAM.  As noted above, the follow-up to
the diagnostic studies is frequently a more substantive
restructuring study. In principle, such studies should be
financed out of the enterprise's own resources but in many cases
this will not be possible. By providing finance for these studies
from Government budget resources and grant funds from the EC as
well as World Bank funds, IDA will be able to offer a variety of
financing packages for enterprise studies which takes into account
the enterprise's ability to pay.



- 119 -
Annex 4-2
Page 9
(c)   General agency support.  In addition to support for its enterprise
diagnosis activity, IDA has requested senior advisory staff to
help manage its other operations and to oversee the detailed
restructuring studies which it will manage. In addition, IDA will
be directly supervising the restructuring of a number of
enterprises and will require supporting advisors to assist. These
activities will also need to be supported with appropriate office
technology and information systems capacity.
(d)   Training.  IDA is providing training to its own staff and to
Polish consultants to extend the domestic capacity to undertake
enterprise diagnostics and simple restructuring studies. This
training will continue through 1991/92 and will be supported under
the project.
5. Foreign Investment A5ency
18.         The Foreign Investment Agency (FIA) is the main agency in charge
of promotion and monitoring of foreign investment in Polish enterprises. It
will support the Privatizaticn Program by a special promotion campaign in
Poland as well as selected foreign countries. The estimated cost and proposed
financing for this program for 1991/92 is as follows:
Table 5 - Cost Estimate and Financing Plan for TA to FIA
Amount
Item                                 Budget  IBRD   EC   EBRD  Others  Total
(US$ million equivalent)
1. Overall agency support              2.0    -    3.0   1.1            6.1
2. Design of PR campaign               1.9    -      -    2.1    -      4.0
3. Implementation of PR campaign       3.6    -      -    5.3    -      8.9
4. Training                            0.5    -      -    1.5    -       2.0
Total Requirement                       8.0    -    3.0  10.0    -       21.0
19.         The proposed TA will support the following:
(a)   Overall agency support.  It is envisaged that the &gency staff
would be strengthened through the recruitment of 5-6 foreign
experts who would support all aspects of the agencies activities
while providing special support for the design and implementation
of the proposed public relations campaign. This component also
includes computer hardware and software and a satellite-based
telephone system to ensure reliable external communications.
(b)   Design of PR campaign.  Foreign consultants will be needed to
assist in the design of a successful public relations campaign



- 120 -
Annex 4-2
Page 10
aimed at promoting foreign investment in Poland. Terms of
Reference for this work are being completed.
(c)   IM2lementation of PR_cAmnaig.  Foreign consultants will be
selected in a competitive bidding process to implement the PR
campaign.
(d)   Iaining.  FIA requires internal and external training for its
staff. Areas identified include joint venture analysis and
negotiation, foreign languages, and internships abroad in similar
investment promotion agencies.
6. Anti-Monopolv Agencv
20.         The Anti-Monopoly Agency was established in April 1990 and now has
a staff of 70 at its head office in Warsaw and another 25 in six regional
branches. The Agency has developed a program of TA reqttirements with the
assistance of EC. The estimated total cost of the program is US$3.0 million
equivalent and EC has tentatively agreed to finance this amount. The program
of TA includes:
(a)   Legal advisors, including a long-term advisor and a number of
short-term consultants to bring West European expertise to Poland
and to carry out studies related to complex cases and for
establishing appropriate policies and regulations for anti-
monopoly control.
(b)   Training, for agency staff, according to a program now being
elaborated.
(c)   Agency support, with such facilities as computers, simultaneous
translation equipment, vehicles, documentation, etc. A
feasibility study to determine the appropriate needs and equipment
specifications is now under way.
7. Program for Assistance to Selected Woiewodas
21.         This program is being elaborated.  As presently envisaged,
however, five wojewoda will be selected to test and demonstrate the potential
effectiveness of TA to assist restructuring and privatization at the local
government level. This component of the technical assistance program will be
further elaborated through consultation with the relevant central and regional
authorities.
8. Centralized TA Unit
22.         Procurement of World Bank-financed consulting services requires
adhsrence to certain procedures designed to ensure the efficient use of Bank
resources. While the procedures are relatively straightforward, their initial
adoption by new borrowers requires a process of familiarization which
initially can lead to delays in the securing of urgently-needed assistance.



- 121
Annex 4-2
Page 11
The small centralized TA Unit is being proposed to prevent any such delays,
particularly in view of the large number of institutions which will be
supported under the proposed comprehensive TA program. A staff of three
specialists with local support staff is proposed to handle this work. In
addition to procurement itself, this unit will have the capability to assist
with the preparation of consultant terms of reference and will maintain lists
of suitable consultants from which short lists could be developed for
particular tasks. Draft Terms of Reference for the unit are attached.
23.         The EC proposes to provide similar support for contracts to be
financed with EC funding. These efforts are being coordinated.
May 1991



- 122 -
Annex 4-2
Attachment
page 1
POLAND - PRIVATIZATION AND RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Technical Assistance to Supp2rt the Privatization and Restructuring Erograms
Terms of Reference for TA Unit
Background
1.          The ambitious program of privatization and restructuring launched
by the Government of Poland will require massive technical assistance (TA),
much of it supplied by foreign consultants and consulting firms from outside
Poland. The costs of TA will be borne largely by the Government budget, but
substantial support is also being provided by the World Bank, the EC, the EBRD
and bilateral agencies from the UK, the US, France and elsewhere. TA will be
provided to some six agencies of the central Government as well as to a number
of the regional (wojewoda) governments, under a coordinated TA program which
has been agreed to by the Polish agencies concerned as well as by the external
agencies supporting it.
2.          Within this overall coordinated framework, the World Bank is
proposing to finance specified activities in four of the centralized agencies
as follows:
(a)   In the Ministr=  of OwnershiR Changes: (i) assistance to the
program for the individual privatization of enterprises through
the financing of consultants/investment banks to assist
enterprises to prepare themselves for privatization and to
undertake sectoral or other special studies to support the
privatization process where needed; (ii) financing of an
investme;ut advisor to help assess the feasibility of a "mass"
privatization scheme; (iii) general supp,ort to the Ministry
through the provision of specialist advisors, training,
organizational studies and the financing of data processing and
other office equipment.
(b)   in the Ministry of Industry: (i) coordl,.   on of studies and
action plans to develop and implement stracegic objectives for the
Ministry; (ii) limited support to sectoral analysis designed to
assist, where appropriate, the restructuring process in ailing
industries which cannot immediately be privatized;
(iii) institutional support and training to the Ministry to
improve its capacity to assist with the break-up of overly
integrated and monopolistic enterprises, and with the liquidation
of non-viable enterprises under its purview; and (iv) general
support to the Ministry through the provision of specialist
advisors, training, organizational studies and the financing of
data processing and other office equipment.



- 123 -
Annex 4-2
Attachment
page 2
(c)   In the Polish Development Bank: general support to the bank
through the provision of specialist advisors and through training.
(d)   In the Industrial Development Agencv: (i) assistance in financing
the program of the development of strategic plans for individual
enterprises which require restructuring before they can be
privatized; and (ii) general support to the Agency through the
provision of specialist advisors, training, organizational studies
and the financing of data processing and other office equipment.
The Need for a TA Unit
3.          The above program of Bank assistance will require the appointment
of a rather large number of advisors and specialists. Procurement of World
Bank-financed consulting services requires adherence to certain procedures
designed to ensure the efficient use of Bank resources. While the procedures
are relatively straightforward, their initial adoption by new borrowers
requires a process of familiarization which initially can lead to delays in
the securing of urgently-needed assistance.
4.          A second area which necessitates special attention is the need to
maintain coordination among the various providers of TA to the privatization
and restructuring process. Bank support will finance only about one-fifth of
the assistance envisaged over the next two years, and coordination with other
financiers is essential to avoid wastage, duplication and conflict.  The
Governm.ent is anxious tc avoid any grand "master plan" which may unnecessarily
bureaucratize the process of providing TA, but is rather aiming for a flexible
program, decentralized to the level of the various agencies charged with
implementing its different components. Thus the coordination activity
envisaged is merely first, to ensure the unimpeded exchange of information,
second, to add flexibility an. responsiveness to the system by enablirg the
transfer of tasks from one financing agency to another where this may be
appropriate, and third, to ensure that when cooperation is needed, such as for
the cofinancing of a single activity, the necessary mechanisms can be quickly
adopted.
5.          Bank staff normally provide this necessary procurement and
coordination assistance through the project supervision process, but the scope
of the activities envisaged under the present project is unprecedented, and
supplementary assistance is required to ensure that the Bank processes do not
become an impediment to the rapid provision of effective assistance.



- 124 -
Annex 4-2
Attachment
page 3
Scone of Work Envisaged
Phase OQn
6.          An experienced TA Advisor snould be appointed as quickly as
possible (not necessarily only after further processing of the proposed Bank
loan) in order to:
(a)   Provide immediate assistance to the Borrower and the beneficiary
agencies in the procurement of Bank-assisted TA, in particular
through:
* Review of terms of reference for advisors and studies, and
provision of advice to ensure their clarity of objective,
suitability for the proposed purpose, and likely acceptance by
the World Bank
* Assistance in the preparation of short lists of specialists
and/or consultants, and assessment of their likely acceptance
by the World Bank
3 Review of draft contracts between the Polish agency and the
specialist/consultant, and assessment of their likely
acceptance by the World Bank
(b)   Establish liaison/coordination links with World Bank staff in
Washington and Warsaw, and with the other financiers of TA for the
privatization and restructuring program, in particular by:
* Ensuring that the co-financiers are aware of TA activities
being financed by the Bank and vice versa, with a view to
avoiding duplication of effort or conflict of objectives
* Assisting with the arrangements for cofinancing TA where this
is envisaged under the overall TA program
(c)   As the work proceeds, develop a program for the appointment of
additional expatriate and local staff to provide similar services
on a wider scale as the pace of project implementation
accelerates. In particular, the TA Advisor will:
* Prepare terms f reference for additional staff for the
proposed TA Unit, and develop an appropriate schedule for their
hiring and the length of time for wbich they will be required
* Ensure that suitable office space is made available, and
prepare a plan for communications, data processing and other
supporting infrastructure



- 125 -
Annex 4-2
Attacbment
page 4
* Present the foregoing in terms of a costed program with
detailed implementation schedules for review by the Borrower
and the Bank.
7.          The TA advisor would be an expert familiar with the preparation of
Terms of Reference for, and contracting of, consulting services, and should
also be familiar with World Bank procedures. His initial a;:ointment would be
for six months, at which time he would have prepared the program for the full
unit, based on his experience and assessment of the situation.
Phase Two
8.          The work envisaged for Phase Two is exactly as for Phase One, but
on a larger scale as the pace of activity accelerates. At this stage, it is
envisaged that the total group would consist of a maximum of three expatriate
advisors and three Polish counterparts, and that the unit would disband by
mid-1993. Nevertheless, the final definition of the scope of work for this
activity would be prepared by the TA Advisor as detailed above. This proposal
would be reviewed and approved by the Bank and the Borrower to allow actual
needs to be reassessed prior to any final implementation decision.
May 1991



- 126 -
Annex 5-1
POLAND - PRIVATIZATION AND RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule of Bank Loan
Estimated Schedule
Cumulative      X of
Calendar Year            Fiscal Year        Amount       Amount       Total
and Semester             and Semester        ---(US$ million)---
1991   II                FY92    I            31.5        31.5         11.3
1992    I                FY92   II           73.5        105.0         37.5
II                FY93    I           50.0        155.0         55.4
1992    I                FY93   II           28.0        173.0         61.8
II                FY94    I           30.0        203.0         72.5
1993    I                FY94   II           28.0        231.0         82.5
II                FY95    I           18.0        249.0         88.9
1994    I                FY95   II           10.0        259.0         92.5
II                FY96    I            7.5        266.5         95.2
1995    I                FY96   II             6.5       273.0         97.5
II                FY97    I            5.0        278.0         99.3
1996    I                FY97   II             2.0       280.0        100.0
Note: The high levels of disbursement during the first three years are due to
the quick-disbursing component (US$75 million) which is assumed to be
disbursed fully during FY92, as well as the technical assistance
component which is a two-year program and assumed to disburse during
FY92-94. For the line of credit (US$140 million) the profile for the
region has been followed.



