Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 24365
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-33420; SCL-3342A)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$280 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF POLAND
FOR A
PRIVATIZATION & RESTRUCTRUCTURING PROJECT
06/21/2002
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective May 9, 2002)
Currency Unit = Polish Zloty (PLN)
PLN 1 = US$ 0.247
US$ 1 = PLN 4.05
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CEM                 Country Economic Memorandum
CMEA                Council of Mutual Economic Assistance
EBRD                European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EFSAL               Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
EIB                  European Investment Bank
ETP                 Economic Tranformation Program
EU                  European Union
FDI                 Foreign Direct Investment
GDP                 -Gross Domestic Product
IEDP                Industrial Export Development Project
MOE                 Minsitry of Economy
MOF                 Ministry of Finance
MOST                Ministry of State Treasury
MPP                 Mass Privatization Program
NBP                 National Bank of Poland
NIF                 National Investment Fund
PDB                 Polish Development Bank
PRP                 Privatization and Restructuring Project
TA                  Technical Assistance
TAPU                Technical Assistance Procurement Unit
USAID               United States Agency for Intemational Development
VAT                 Value Added Tax
Vice President:  Johannes F. Linn
Country Manager/Director:  Michael F. Carter
Sector Manager/Director:  Paul J. Siegelbaum
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Melinda Roth



POLAND
PRIVATIZATION & RESTRUCTURING
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                    1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                             6
5. Major Factors Affecting.implementation and Outcome                              9
6. Sustainability                                                                 11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                  11
8. Lessons Learned                                                                 13
9. Partner Comments                                                                14
10. Additional Information                                                        15
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                               44
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                              45
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                              46
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                              47
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components              49
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                  50
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                             51






Project ID: P008571                                       Project Name: PRIV & RESTRUCT
Team Leader: Melinda A. Roth Alexandrowicz                YZ Unit: FSD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: June 26, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: PRIV & RESTRUCT                               L/C/TF Number: CPL-33420;
SCL-3342A
Countrv/Department: POLAND                                              Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: BP - Privatization; DV - Privatization; IR -
Industrial Restructuring
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   06/21/1988                             Effective: 11/07/1991
Appraisal:  05/22/1991                               MTR:
Approval: - 06/11/1991                             Closing: 06/30/1998         12/31/2001
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: REPUBLIC OF POLAND/GOV/IDA/PDB
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Johannes Linn                             Wilfred Thalwitz
Country Manager:     Michael Carter                            Ian Hume
Sector Manager:      Paul J. Siegelbaum                        Anil Sood
Team Leader at ICR:  Melinda Roth -                            Annie Cordet
ICR Primary Author:  Basil Kavalsky
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: HL
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        U
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The project was designed as part of a group of other lending operations and analytic work
which together constituted a major program of support for the start of Poland's privatization
efforts at the beginning of the nineties.  Poland's first efforts to establish a market economy
in 1989/90 led to severe problems of macro-economic management, characterized by falling
production levels and hyper-inflation.  The stabilization program which was introduced in
1990 established a hard budget constraint on state enterprises.  There was a consensus that
privatization was. needed for the manufacturing enterprise sector to recover and contribute
effectively to economic growth, but there was little consensus on the means to be used for this
purpose.
The Bank allied itself closely with a group of reformers in Government to push for rapid
privatization through a mix of approaches which was likely to win political support. The first
was the mass privatization program in which a large group of enterprises was to be privatized
through the issue of vouchers to the general public; second was capital privatization where,
usually large, enterprises were sold off to strategic investors either before or after
restructuring;  third although in principle commercialization was a stage on the road to
capital privatization, in practice long delays between commercialization of enterprises into
joint stock companies, with majority shareholdings retained by the state, and eventual sale to a
strategic investor, suggest that this can be regarded as a separate category; and finally for
companies where there was little or no prospect of viability as on ongoing enterprise these
would be liquidated so that their assets could be sold on the market.
The mandate of the Privatization and Restructuring team was to design a project which would
support the reformers' effort to maintain the momentum of the privatization program and to
ensure that it proceeded in a successful manner by providing resources which could be tapped
by the newly privatized enterprises for restructuring.  The project they designed had the
following objectives:
*   First, to develop further the capacity of the institutions which were responsible for the
enterprise sector in general and privatization in particular. The key institution here was
the Ministry of Ownership Changes which would be the 'home base' of the project. But
also important were the Ministry of Industry and its key operating arm, the Industrial
Development Agency which functioned as a public consulting firm for State enterprises.
Although not explicitly defined as an objective it seems to have been understood from the
beginning that the project would also support the financing of studies at the sub-sector
level which would help design a strategy for restructuring and privatizing the enterprises in
key sub-sectors such as coal, telecommunications, railways, etc.
*   Second, to help keep the privatization program moving forward at an acceptable pace
and particularly to support the successful achievement of the mass privatization
program as a key component of this. The Government itself had established a goal of
privatizing half of the state enterprises within a three year period and the program was
-2 -



specifically intended to support the achievement of this goal.
*   Third, to assist commercialized and privatized enterprises to restructure, by providing
them with the technical assistance needed to prepare investment programs and, through
the newly organized Polish Development Bank, to channel the foreign exchange funding
needed to finance this.
3.2 Revised Objective:
In 1995 the project was restructured through partial cancellation and reallocation of funds
between components. Since the overall objectives of the project did not change, there was no
need for Bank Board approval for this restructuring. The component dealing with enterprise
financing through the Polish Development Bank was closed down except for the small amount
which had been committed for one sub-project. In practice the third of the objectives above was
limited therefore to supporting the privatization of enterprises through technical assistance.
3.3 Original Components:
A.    Policy Component
The policy component consisted of a $75 million quick-disbursing loan to support
Government commitments expressed in a Letter of Policy for Privatization and Restructuring.
These included actions taken prior to Board approval to prepare an action program for
privatization and set up a ministerial task-force, and a set of steps linked to covenants dated
31 st December 1991 to assist policy design, support establishment and strengthening of the
institutional framework, and proceed with the implementation of the privatization program.
B.    Technical Assistance Component
This component provided $65 million which was mainly intended to support the key
institutions involved in implementing the program, i.e. the Ministry of Ownership Changes
(which subsequently became the Ministry of State Treasury), the Ministry of Industry (which
subsequently became the Ministry of Economy), the Polish Development Bank and the
Industrial Development Agency. Apart from building the capacity of these institutions
directly, the intention was also to support the sub-sector and enterprise-level restructuring
studies which these institutions needed to carry out.
C.    Restructuring/Privatization Investment Financing Component
This component was intended to provide sub-loans channeled through the Polish
Development Bank and approved commercial banks to privatized or privatizing enterprises.
$140 million was provided for this,purpose.
-3 -



3.4 Revised Comnponents:
The project was amended in 1995 to re-allocate funds out of the Investment Financing
Component which had only disbursed minimal amounts, into the Technical Assistance
Component and more specifically into payment of the management fees of the National
Investment Funds (the mechanism for the mass privatization program). While technically this
was consistent with the purposes of the TA component, had this been foreseen from the
outset it would almost certainly have been defined as a separate project component.
Subsequently in 1998 a large amount of funds in the TA component was earmarked for
support for the restructuring of the coal sector.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
A.    Consistency with CAS Objectives and Government Priorities
Privatization was undoubtedly one of the key challenges facing the Government in the
transition to a market economy. It was also an area where the Bank had significant value to
add given its involvement in the issue in many countries around the world. The Bank's initial
efforts had focused on building capacity in the financial sector and it soon became clear that
this would not succeed unless something could be done to strengthen the enterprise sector
whose inadequate performance was at the core of the banking sectors' problems. The project
was therefore one of the central pieces in the Bank's strategic approach in Poland. It drew on
the 'vision' of the reformers in the Polish government who wished to move quickly to make
the shift to a market economy irreversible and privatize a significant number of state
enterprises. On this strategic dimension, quality at entry must be rated Highly Satisfactory.
B.    Consistency with the Bank's Safeguard Policies
This does niot apply to this project.
C.    Quality of Design and Reasonableness of Assumptions about External Factors
The three components were not properly matched to the achievement of the objectives. The
objective of achieving successful implementation of the privatization program over time
required continuing leverage over policy. The disbursement component was designed as a
single quick-disbursing tranche which was intended to disburse within the first 9 months of
project implementation. The quick-disbursing component was for a relatively small amount
compared to other Bank adjustment lending. The other components which were not
conditioned on policy were designed to disburse over periods ranging to 7 years for the TA.
From the perspective of the overall design the quality at entry is rated unsatisfactory.
The strategic objective of the policy component depended on aflow of new adjustment loans
to support the successful continuation of the privatization program. In practice this
happened in the following two years with inter alia the successful EFSAL (Enterprise and
Financial Sector Adjustment Loan). In the mid-90s a new government which took office,
-4 -



while still broadly committed to the privatization objective, was somewhat less forceful in
moving the program forward. In this context the Bank's willingness to shift resources from
other components to support the mass privatization program was a valuable contribution to
the eventual achievement of that program. Because of this the quality at entry of the policy
component is rated satisfactory.
The TA component was designed to maximize theflexibility of the Polish authorities to make
use of the fundsfor support of the privatization process. The component was over-scaled
relative to the willingness and capacity to identify, prepare and irmplement good institution
building and restructuring projects, particularly in the context of substantial availability of US
and European Union grant technical assistance for the same purposes. But the flexibility
allowed this component to be 're-invented' at various stages in the project processing.
Initially it served as an institution building fund for the key ministries and agencies, then in the
middle years it provided the support cited above for the MPP, and finally in the last four years
of implementation it allowed the government to take on some major privatization and
restructuring studies for key sectors, particularly coal. In the final two years of the project
when other sources of funding for enterprise restructuring had run out, there was a revival of
interest in using this component for enterprise restructuring and privatization analysis. The
quality at entry of the TA component is therefore rated satisfactory.
The Investment Financing component was unrealistic given the inexperienced banking sector
which was unwilling to finance projects withoutfull collateral, and the availability of
fundingfirom other sources (such as EIB) with much less onerous conditions and better
(often subsidized) rates. The Bank had been lulled into thinking that this component could
disburse quickly by the apparent initial progress of another project, the IEDP which was a
credit line to enable exporters to shift production from CMEA to western markets. The Bank
had identified and helped prepare a pipeline of sub-projects for that credit and the expectation
was that the loan would disburse quickly against that pipeline. In practice that did not happen
and even if it had, it would not have meant that similar success could be projected for the
credit line of the PRP. A number of factors seem to have stood in the way of the success of
this component. First, enterprises were unable at this stage to prepare business plans, but
reluctant to hire external consultants to do this given the very high costs this implied. Second,
the banks themselves were reluctant to put money into investments as opposed to working
capital. Already at the outset of the project, voices were raised in the Bank arguing that it
was doubtful if this component would disburse at a satisfactory pace. Although the Bank had
moved more quickly than other institutions, at this time the European Investment Bank was
already considering a possible credit line and shortly afterwards EBRD also stepped forward.
The Bank was also overly influenced by the head of the Polish Development Bank for whom
the access to substantial resources such as this was a matter of importance in getting PDB off
the ground. Not enough attention was paid to the fundamentals of demand and the likely
behavior of the participating banks and enterprises. The quality at entry of this component is
rated unsatisfactory.



4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Over the decade that the project remained on the books, the Polish privatization program
moved steadilyforward at a slower pace than the reformers had wanted, but without losing
its general direction and momentum. From a starting point of  Opercent ofproduction in
the private sector, Poland now has 70 percent of its production private, though a significant
amount of that is based on new private enterprises rather than privatized ones. While it is
difficult to establish that the pace of privatization was more rapid or more successful than it
would have been in the absence of the loan, the project allowed the Bank to maintain a voice
in this critical dialogue and to add its weight to the European Union and the US who were
also strong advocates of proceeding with restructuring and privatization.
The successful implementation of the mass privatization program is almost certainly an
important achievement of the project. The Bank's interest in ensuring that the MPP went
ahead and its willingness to finance the fees of the managers of the National Investment Funds
was a significant contribution to the implementation of this program. There was a great deal
of foot-dragging on the Polish side and without the steady dialogue, advice and resources of
the Bank this might well have resulted in the shelving of the program. While in the broader
scheme of things the successful completion of the MPP was not as critical to the overall
success of privatization as it seemed at the time, it helped in building up the Warsaw Stock
Exchange by greatly expanding the volume of trading activity and it helped to move a group
of middle-size companies more rapidly through the system than might otherwise have been the
case. The MPP also played an important psychological role in winning popular support for
the privatization program as a whole.
The technical assistance was successful in helping to build the capacity of the Ministry of
State Treasury in particular to provide effective supportfor the privatization program. The
fact that the Ministry of State Treasury was able to build up its technical capacity and data
bases was important as also was the fact that its access to TA funds which did not have to go
through the budget process enabled it to ensure that studies were carried out and technology
improved in a number of instances where they might not otherwise have been.
The availability of TA funding in the late 90s under the project allowed the Government to
support the implementation of other World Bank-supported projects, in particular the Hard
Coal restructuring program, and to undertake important privatization and restructuring
studies which would have been difficult if not impossible to carry out without this funding
source. In the late-nineties, the project closing date was extended twice. By this time Poland
had little access to concessional funds from the EU or bilateral donors for technical assistance
for privatization and restructuring. There were some exceptions such as the steel sector
where the EU was keen to see restructuring move ahead, but in general the Bank loan was the
main source of funding outside the budget which could be used for this purpose. A fortunate
outcome of the closing date extensions was the possibility of assisting some of the Bank's
core strategic programs such as for the coal sector - an area where the Bank had provided
-6 -



major adjustment loan support for restructuring, but where it would have been impossible to
get support for borrowing for preparing privatization.
While the project failed in providing finance for investments associated with restructuring at
the enterprise level, in concert with other Bank lending, it helped enhance the capacity of
Poland's financial sector. In practice this proved not to be a major area of weakness for the
Polish privatization program. There were alternative resources available on more favorable
terms, and the Polish banking system developed rapidly to a point where increasing liquidity
led commercial banks to take a more liberal view of the financing needs of restructuring
enterprises. The sustained and rapid growth of the economy in the nineties helped enterprises
generate their own investrnent resources and increasingly also to attract foreign direct
investment, as Poland gradually became the most attractive venue for FDI in central and
eastern Europe. But the credit line enabled the Bank to maintain a close relationship with
PDB and the commercial banks in Poland and to 'lobby' for investment finance and help build
the capacity needed to provide it.
4.2 Outputs by components:
A.    Policy Component
The policy component helped support some important initial steps and there was subsequent
Bank leverage over the privatization program exerted through other adjustment loans.
Although there was a minor delay in disbursement by and large this component achieved its
modest aims in providing an intermediate mechanism for supporting privatization policy until
the larger adjustment loans were undertaken in the following two years.
B.    The Technical Assistance Component
i. Capacity enhancement of the key Ministries
The technical assistance component was successful in building the capacity of some of the
key government institutions. The Ministry of Privatization in particular, and to a lesser extent,
the Ministry of Economy, benefited substantially from the technical assistance, training and
systems improvement, which were undertaken as part of the project. In addition, the Ministry
of Finance maintained a careful watch to ensure that funds were only used to finance activities
which were strictly needed for the project and not activities which should be undertaken as
part of the concemed Ministry's regular budget. :A shortcoming here is that the Bank did not
look more closely at the need to strengthen the capacity of the various institutions involved in
the project to coordinate more effectively to achieve the project's objectives. There were
cumbersome approval processes and inadequate mechanisms for resolving differences of view
in a,timely fashion. The borrower itself has noted that this was a major difficulty in
implementing the project and the Bank tended to react to each issue as it arose, without
dealing with the problem on a systemic level.
-7 -



ii. Sub-sector studies
A number of important sub-sector studies were carried out through the project culminating
in the studies for the Hard Coal Sector at the end of the decade. As pointed out this proved
a somewhat unexpected benefit of the project as the Ministry did not have to deal with
parliament which would have been very reluctant to support new technical assistance
borrowing at that time. While in theory these could have been funded out of Ministerial
budgets, the large amount of funding needed would have made this very difficult.
iii. Enterprise level restructuring studies
Some of these studies were carried out, but much less than had originally been envisioned.
By the end of the project there was an increasing number of these studies financed under the
project, in part because other sources of funds for these purposes were increasingly limited
and in part because of the availability of well-qualified Polish consultants at relatively low
cost. Indeed a useful achievement of the project was to provide some support for the
developing Polish consulting industry through this means.
iv. Management fees of the National Investment Funds
The decision to usekfunds from the TA component (including funds transferredfrom the
investment component) in 1995 for the managementfees of the National Investment Funds
was well justified. The Bank's involvement resulted in a better qualified group of managers
given their increased confidence in getting paidfor their efforts. This was critical to the
effective establishment of the investmnent funds. 512 companies were allocated to the
National Investment Funds in 1995 - roughly 10 percent of the total number of companies for
which privatization processes were started during the period from mid- 1990 to end-200 1.
C.    Investment Component
The investment component did not achieve itsfinancial objectives. As indicated above
alternative funds were available which were more flexible than the Bank funds. EIB for
example was willing to finance permanent working capital which was critical for many Polish
enterprises at this time. This did not prove possible under the Bank loan. The Polish
Development Bank made a valiant effort in the first two years of the project to make the
project work and their staff, along with the Bank's financial sector specialist in the Warsaw
office visited many commercial banks and enterprises in an unsuccessful attempt to persuade
them to borrow from this line of credit. As explained earlier, the objectives of the component
were indeed achieved in due course as investment funding became relatively plentiful in
Poland, but the project played no role in this. As indicated the Bank's support was however a
valuable contribution to capacity enhancement for Poland's financial sector.
-8 -



4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable
4.5 Institutional developnment impact:
The project had a substantial institutional development impact on the ministries and
agencies involved, in particular the Ministry of State Treasury. A number of technical
assistance projects in the earlier years involved external advisers being located in the ministries
assisting them to carry out the design and implementation of the privatization program. By
1995 it was no longer necessary to provide this assistance and the focus shifted to
management information systems and technology for more efficient operations. Similarly
much of the external foreign consulting which was done in the earlier period gradually gave
way to the hiring of local consultants - often the same people who had been sub-contracted to
work with the external consulting firms on earlier projects. Finally, the project supported a
number of training efforts for Ministry staff as well as financing over 100 Polish individuals
hired as consultants to supplement civil servant staff.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The primary factor outside the control of either the government or the implementing agency
was the attitudes of the various parliaments to the privatization process. With many of
Poland's governments consisting of unstable coalitions of different political interests, new
legislation required a delicate balancing act and a careful lobbying effort to succeed. This was
a significant cause of delay, though arguably part of the overall success of Poland's
privatization program has been the success in proceeding at a pace which made it possible to
maintain broad support.
The attitude of parliament towards the use of external consultants was also an important
factor in the implementation of the project. Very early on there -were concerns about highly
paid foreign consultants who did not in the eyes of the politicians deliver value for the money.
The resistance was all the stronger when these consultants had to be paid out of loan funds
rather than being financed by donor grants. This was certainly a factor in the slow initial
implementation of both the TA and investment financing components.
Another set of exogenous factors, though positive for Poland overall, also affected the project
outcome. This was the very substantial availability of external assistance in the early 1990s.
At the time the Bank first became involved in the project there was still some uncertainty
about whether the European Union would make sizeable funding available. In any event, a
- 9-



large commitment both of TA funding and investment funding was forthcoming. USAID had
been active initially but the Bank expected that this would not be maintained and that Bank
funds would be needed to replace USAID funds. In practice the EU money more than took
up the slack.
5.2 Factors generally stubject to government control:
Among the factors subject to government control was the ineffective coordination between
the different agencies involved in the privatization process. The relative success in
implementing technical assistance programs under the project was in some part due to the
capacity of the project unit in the Ministry of State Treasury to attract and retain well qualified
staff and manage the program effectively.
5.3 Factors generally stubject to implementing agency control:
The borrower's report on the project complains that the lack of clear criteria on eligibility of
sub-projects for inclusion was an important source of delays. This is correct, but it raises the
question of why the borrower did not flag this to the Bank and try to clarify with the Bank a
set of eligibility criteria, or alternatively develop its own eligibility criteria for discussion with
the Bank.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The project as originally designed envisaged that Bank funds would be supplemented by
donor funding. In practice the attitude quickly shifted from seeing the Bank project as
leveraging other donor resources to concem about the competition which these resources
represented. While the Ministry estimates the quantity of donor resources and presents these
as being part of the project as a whole, once the supervision process began there was no
attempt to quantify such funds or to present them as substantially filling the project objectives,
in spite of slow disbursement of the Bank resources.
As far as the Bank funding is concemed, of the $280 million originally envisaged, the full $75
million quick disbursing component was disbursed with only minor delay; of the $140 million
investment component only $2.7 million was disbursed, while $47.3 was cancelled in
mid- 1996 and the balance $95 million was transferred to the TA component to pay for the
management fees of the National Investment Funds. Of the revised amount in the TA
component, in practice $70.8 was disbursed for the management fees of the NIFs. In
December 1999, $20 million was cancelled from the revised technical assistance component
based on the implementation plans of the Ministry and $36.3 was originally allocated to coal
retsructuring technical assistance. By closing, $35.4 million in total (excluding the
management fees of the NIFs) was disbursed on all technical assistance. The over-scaling of
the project meant that even with an extension of the implementation phase of the TA
component from an originally envisaged 7 years to a total of 10 years, there was still $23.5
million which was cancelled at closing.
-10 -



6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating:
There is little doubt that the project outcomes are highly likely to be sustained. The
privatization program in Poland has proceeded to a point comparable to many Western
European countries. The remaining challenges are mainly related to the infrastructure sector.
Even there the general direction is positive though progress is slow. No one at any point on
the political spectrum sees a possibility of reversing the progress which has been achieved.
The institution building achievements are also built into the system by now. The ministries
concerned do a competent job of day-to-day management of contracts and their management
systems are up-to-date technologically.  Poland has an increasingly sophisticated and
competitive consulting industry which for example, is being used on Bank projects in other
countries.  The capital market and stock exchange are strong and Poland's securities and
exchange commission has been singled out as an example for other emerging markets.
The Polish enterprise sector is in relatively sound financial shape and has fared surprisingly
well during the current economic downturn.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Not applicable
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The loan was prepared with a high degree of collaboration with the Polish authorities. While
the Bank accurately identified the needs, in retrospect, some parts of the project were not well
designed to meet those needs. Unfortunately this pre-dated the age of program lending
instruments in the Bank which would have been a much superior means of supporting the
privatization program. Given the circumstances, the mission put together a mix of different
Bank instruments, each geared to different parts of the Government and with quite different
implementation needs. These were three loans rather than three components. A more
traditional design of a large tranched adjustment loan with a separate technical assistance
operation associated with it, might have provided a better fit with the objectives.
7.2 Supervision:
Three quite separate project phases emerge from the Bank's supervision reports.
* The Bank initially focused its supervision mainly on the progress of the privatization program.
Early supervision reports do not evaluate for example the pipeline of the possible investments
or technical assistance proposals.. These reports on privatization constitute an impressive



historical record of the program and illustrate the critical role the Bank played in maintaining a
dialogue on the process over time. At the same time there were considerable efforts to get the
technical assistance and investment components off the ground, but these were carried out on
a day-to-day basis by the staff of the Resident Mission and are not recorded in the supervision
record. In the mid-nineties the focus shifted and this became increasingly a review of the
progress of the various technical assistance sub-projects envisaged for the privatization
program.
*   The second phase of the program was the shift in focus to the National Investment Funds in
1995 where the Bank showed substantial pro-activity in ensuring that resources could be
made available for the management services needed to get these up and running.
*   The third phase of the program in 1998 spotlighted the technical assistance effort with the
strategic objective shifting to supporting the coal restructuring program and a demand for
other technical assistance funds to replace those of other donor agencies.
Within each of these phases, Bank project teams made strenuous efforts to support the
implementation of the loan. A great deal of time for example was spent on supporting DBP
and the commercial banks in the attempt to implement the credit component. While as
indicated, the component was unsuccessful, those on the Polish side who interacted with the
Bank had high praise for the professionalism of these efforts and for the institution building
and capacity enhancement that took place through them. Support throughout the life of the
loan for the project unit's work on implementation and procurement was also an important
contribution to building capacity.
The three phases reflected a positive attempt to find new purposes for the loan and avoid
cancellation. The question remains of whether with hindsight this was the right approach.
The initial project extension seems to have been provided with little real evidence of the
likelihood of effective implementation. The second extension has clearer justification given
that by then the project was critical for the coal restructuring program. One way to asess
these extensions is to ask whether the Bank would have, at the time of each extension,
considered a new loan for the Government of Poland for technical assistance support for
privatization. The most likely answer is that at the time of the first extension, given the
slowing pace of the privatization program overall, the Bank would probably not have agreed
to a new loan; while at the time of the second extension given the new support for coal and
railway restructuring, it would probably have done so. One can argue that the value of the
second extension validates the first extension.
Two other points on Bank performance: Beyond the first phase, little senior management
time seems to have been spent on the project. It should also be noted that the borrower
complains of slow turn-around on its requests for clearance of procurement and disbursements
relating to the TA component during the final phase of implementation.
-12-



7.3 Overall Bank performance:
This is a rather mixed record, which reflects in large part the difficulties in implementing and
supervising the project as designed. Overall the Bank's performance is rated satisfactory,
based on the Bank's contribution to capacity enhancement during the course of the loan and
its efforts to be flexible and find worthwhile uses for the funds committed.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
There was close collaboration in the preparation process focused mainly on the overall design
and nature of the privatization program
7.5 Go vernment implementation performance:
The Government's implementation performance was satisfactory. The overall privatization
program moved steadily ahead although the MPP was implemented with substantial delay.
But the government did not take a sufficiently pro-active stance on either the investment
component and the failure of the Polish Development Bank to take action, nor on the rather
slow implementation of the TA component. In addition the Government was extremely slow
to resolve some of the technical problems which arose in project implementation relating to
issues such as the use of Polish language for international contracts, and the retroactive
application of VAT to contracts under the project. This contributed to the cancellation of
some useful sub-projects late towards the end of the program.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The implementing agency was mainly responsible for the TA component. In general it
performed in a satisfactory manner coordinating activities with increasing competence over
time and handling the technicalities smoothly.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Reflecting the generally positive outcomes, the borrower's performance is deemed
satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
*     The relationship of the project outcomes to the project design needs to be explicit. The
project was designed to maintain the momentum of the privatization process in Poland, yet the
only component which could effectively provide for this was the quick-disbursing component
which was disbursed in the first year of a project which was 7 years as designed and 11 years as
implemented. Fortunately Poland maintained the overall direction of privatization subsequently,
in part due to other projects which the Bank introduced into the program, in particular the
EFSAL (Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment Loan).
-13 -



*     Institutional assessments are an indispensable part of complex projects with multiple
implementing agencies. The failure to work through the underlying institutional model in the
implementation of the program meant that the Bank did not anticipate the potential for delays.
Poland might not have adopted an alternative model for coordination and decision-making under
the project, but the Bank should have worked through the implications of the current one and
recommended approaches for more effective coordination.
*      Where other donor/partner institutions are providing similar funding, it is important to
work with them and develop a coordinated approach. The Bank should have ascertained the
willingness of the European Union institutions to fund the program and analyzed the likely impact
of such funding. This might have helped the Bank avoid the over-scaling of the project.
*     Unless there are clear construction requirements, projects should not be designed to
disburse over very long periods. Designing a 7 year implementation period for the TA
component inevitably meant that the project would be overtaken by changes in personnel, in
government policies and the evolution of the economy. A much smaller loan with a shorter
disbursement period could have allowed for a follow up loan which built on the lessons of
experience of the earlier program.
There are also lessons for the ICR process: The value ofpreparing an ICR eleven years after
Board presentation is questionable - inevitably recollections are biased to the most recent period
and those interviewed about the earlier period were usually unable to separate out the impact of
the project from the general course of events.
It would have been more useful to review the overall Bank program of supportfor
privatization. With operations that are part of a core strategic program, isolating a single
operation does not give an adequate picture of the credibility of the Bank's overall support for the
objective. In this particular case some of the design factors which seem highly questionable in
and of themselves are justifiable in the broader context of the Banks support for Poland's
privatization program.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Regarding the draft complete ICR we have only one comment:
In point 4.1. (outcome/achievement of objective), 4th paragraph - we have some doubts if the
parliament would be the right body to accept borrowing for preparing privatization of the coal
sector. The same comment concerns point 4.2, part B (technical assistance component), sub-part
ii.(sub-sector studies).
(b) Cofinanciers:
There were no fornal confinanciers.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
- 14 -



There were no other partners.
10. Additional Information
In addition to the comments contained in the above section, the Borrower has prepared its own report as
follows:;
- 15 -



Ministry of the Treasur-y
Republic of Poland
Privatization and Restructuring Project
Loan no. 3342-POL
Implementation Completion Report (Borrower's part)
Warsaw, May 2002
- 16 -



Privatization and Restructuring Project Loan no. 3342-POL
Implementation Completion Report (Borrower's part!
1. Background and Introduction
In 1990 Poland finished implenientation of the Economic Transformation Program (ETP). Overall,
the program has been successful. Hyperinflation has subsided, prices were freely determined, and
most barriers to international trade have been removed. The other results of the Program were:
large budgetary surplus, good financial performance of enterprises, large trade surplus, reserve
accumulation and a sharp drop in production, increase of unemployment. In these terms aggregate
demand was loosened, which was followed by extension of the Program through preparation of
Memorandum on Economic Reform and Medium-Term Policies.
The performance of the Polish economy in 1990 showed much progress with respect to 1989. The
trade surplus was over USD 2 billion, reserve accumulation over USD 4 billion and level of gross
reserves at the end of 1990 about USD 6.5 billion. In respect to 1989 the exports increased by
35% while the imports by 6%.
From the perspective of 1990 it was expected that the Polish economy would face severe
problems in next years. Firstly, because of the collapse of eastem market. Secondly because of an
increase of energy import prices. These should result in a continued drop in industrial production
and rising unemployment.
From 1960s, the industrial sector played a leading role the Polish economy. In 1990 it contributed
44% of Poland's net material product and employed. 23% of the country's labor force. It was
estimated that total assets are about USD 39 billion and total sales in 1990 reached USD 63
billion. The structure of this sector was however inefficient. The participation of the private
companies in industrial production was very limited. 90% of industrial net production came from
socialized enterprises (state-owned enterprises and cooperatives), but it created 60% of Poland's
export. In 1990 there were 8,453 state-owned enterprises of which 65% were in industry.
The policy measures taken under ETP have put the state-owned sector under enormous stress.
The lesser demand and higher output prices (due to cutting of the subsidies) brought a sharp drop
in production. Some of enterprises faced the necessity of redirecting their activity. These negative
factors were only partially offset by several points: sharp rise in exports in convertible currencies,
the minimal long-term debt of most enterprises, a temporary increase in inter-enterprise credit and
some precautions undertaken by enterprises. It was estimated that the year 1991 would bring
deepening of this tendency, especially because most of the above mentioned relaxing factors were
consumed in 1990.
The Government has selected privatization as the preferred method for transforming state-owned
- 17 -



enterprises, primarily because it was supposed to improve enterprise efficiency and effectiveness
of the whole economy. The principal objective of the proposed Privatization Program was a
transition of about one half of the state-owned enterprises into private ones within three years.
Three paths of privatization were planned: commercialization, liquidation and mass privatization.
"Commercialization" means the transition of a state-owned enterprise into a joint-stock company
or limited liability company with a view of subsequent sale or distribution of shares to private
owners. Liquidation is supposed to be followed by selling the assets of the enterprise to private
owners. This flexible approach was caused by different situation in state enterprises and was
supposed to obtain best output.
Mass privatization in 1990 was in the phase of planning. The process was supposed,to include:
distribution of vouchers to all citizens, creation of investment funds, building the portfolio of
investment funds with the shares of selected state-owned companies and exchanging the vouchers
for shares in investment funds.
The goals of privatization, except the increase in effectiveness of enterprises included
strengthening of the just created free market, preparation for competition in terms of open market
economy, creation of financial markets (especially the stock market) and starting the process of
capital accumulation.
The pivotal role within the Privatization Program was to be played by the privatization agency,
later transformed into the Ministry of Ownership Changes (Ministry of Privatization) - established
1.08.1990. The Ministry of the Treasury took most of its tasks after the administration reform in
1996 and was established 1.10.1996. The other players in this program were the Ministry of
Industry (from 1.09.1991 the Ministry of Industry and Trade) until 31.12.1996 and the Ministry of
Economy from 1.01.1997, the Ministry of Transport and Maritime Economy, the Industrial
Development Agency established 25.01.1991 and the Agency of Privatization.
The privatization and restructuring program is from the beginning financed with many resources.
Beside the budgetary resources and resources of companies under privatization the foreign
assistance was used to significant extent. The main portion of external assistance was provided by
the World Bank. Firstly, it was the part of the loan 3166-POL "Industrial export development",
followed by the loan 3342-POL "Privatization and Restructuring Project" and the loan 3599-POL
"Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment Loan". Second important resource for privatization
restructuring was the program PHARE. From 1990 to assist this tasks over 40 mln euro was
committed from PHARE. In addition assistance was committed by the USAID and the British
Know How Fund.
To assist realization of this program the World Bank committed USD 280,000,000.00 under the
loan no. 3342-POL Privatization and Restructuring Project. As the central implementation agency
of the Project, the Government set up the Ministry of Privatization. To co-ordinate the project the
Technical Assistance Procurement Unit (TAPU) was set up. It was composed of the
representatives of agencies, which implemented the project. The president of the TAPU was
always the representative of the Ministry of Privatization (Ministry of the Treasury).
- 18 -



2. Original Objective
The original objective is described in Staff Appraisal Report as follows:
"4.01 Privatization and responsible management of state assets have emerged as centerpieces of
Government's program to transform the Polish economy. The principal objective of proposed
project is to provide timely, responsible support to these efforts, and to strengthen the program
while giving confidence to potential domestic and foreign investors.
4.02 More specifically, these objectives are being achieved by: (i) assisting with design of
necessary policies; (ii) supporting the establishment and strengthening of institutional framework
and the implementation of the privatization program, in support of the Government's objective of
privatizing half state-owned enterprises within three years; and (iii) providing finance for
enterprise restructuring programs ih those cases where investments are warranted and for
enterprises which are already private, or which are under joint stock or limited liability company
form as a first step towards privatization."
These objectives were clearly defined and consistent with the Government's policies of improving
effectiveness and competitiveness of state-owned enterprises and of the whole economy, building
the private sector, especially in industry and creating capital markets. To achieve this objective it
was necessary to prepare policies for, each path of privatization (which was pointed in point (i) of
the objective), to build up institutions for realization of the program and to implement
privatization policies. In some cases it was necessary to assist enterprises or companies within the
restructuring process. Sectoral actions must have been taken including analyses, and restructuring
operations.
The objective, however, did not specify the policies, as they were supposed to be prepared. The
institutions were also to be created. Both of these made the project vulnerable to many
unexpected risks. This made objective underestimated in terms of timing. Also the number of
enterprises to be privatized might have changed by the time of launching the privatization process
on a greater scale. Mainly it is the unique character of the program and specific situation
(economic system transformation) which caused this underestimation and the risky design of the
objective. It should be noted, that above mentioned risks for realization of the project firstly
threaten the Government's program in similar scope. The reduction of extent of the Mass
Privatization Program pushed many enterprises in more time-consuming paths. This resulted in
prolonged project timing.
3. Revised Objective
The objective was not revised.
4. Original Components
The original components are specified in SAR as follows:
(a) A policy component supporting the Government's privatization and restructuring program
- 19 -



through a quick-disbursing tranche, which will secure the Government's commitment to: (i)
implement the Privatization Program following Action Plans agreed with the Bank; (ii) adopt a
sound approach for enterprise restructuring; and (iii) address a wider range of related issues, such
as management of state assets and industrial policy, on longer time period, as privatization and are
being carried out.
(b) A technical assistance component which will support the various institutions which will assist
in implementing the program. In particular, Bank-financed technical assistance would be provided
to four of the key agencies involved in the restructuring and privatization process: the Ministry of
Ownership Changes, the Ministry of Industry, Polish Development Bank, and the Industrial
Development Agency.
(c) A restructuring/privatization investment fmancing component which will provide sub-loans
(channeled through PDB and approved commercial banks) to privatized or privatizing enterprises.
Such sub-loans would finance foreign exchange costs of needed organizational or physical
improvements at the enterprise level.
5. Revised Components
The components were not revised. However during realization of the program reallocation of
resources were undertaken. Almost full amount of component (c) was partly shifted to component
(b) and partly cancelled. It was caused by disappointed results of the credit lines. It is more
specifically discussed later. Changes and amendments to the composition of the loan are specified
in Appendix 1.
6. Ouality at Entry
The whole project was tailored along with the government's policy of economic transformation in
Poland. It was designed as strengthening and assisting project. However, the objectives had been
created before some primary strategies were prepared. This made the project highly vulnerable
especially in terms of timing. The privatization process was also dependent on political decisions
which affected the scale and the range of each privatization stage and path. The need of
cooperation of several institutions: the Ministry of Privatization (later the Ministry of the
Treasury), the Ministry of Industry (later the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Transport
and Maritime Economy), Industrial Development Agency, Polish Development Bank, the Ministry
of Finance and the National Bank of Poland made the management of the project highly complex
and produced extra delays (in some cases subprojects were abandoned). For example there were
cases, where three parties were involved: two ministries (client and payee) and the contractor. In
such cases details of projects had to be approved by both ministries and the World Bank. The
Technical Assistance Procurement Unit was built of members from different institutions,
implementing the project. This situation mitigated the above-mentioned problem.
All these reasons resulted in several reschedulings of the project.
- 20 -



The policy component was implemented swiftly. Therefore its quality at entry is "Satisfactory."
The technical assistance component was the most endangered one by the above specified obstacles
and suffered most. As the least specified one it was the most complicated to implement. Therefore
delays are related to this component. However, the implementation of the objective in the scope of
this component eventually succeeded. The ministries' capacities for realization of such complex
program were strengthen. Several projects became the starting points for privatization. The
Ministry of the Treasury was prepared to its future main function - management of the Treasury.
The quality at entry of technical assistance component is "Satisfactory."
The restructuring/privatization investment financing component. As in many other sector credit
lines the transitional problems were underestimated. Moreover, the demand for lending and
capacity of repayments were overestimated. Following factors caused such situation: high real
interest rate, availability of credit lines on easier terms from other agencies, reluctance of the
banks to lend without security and big supply on money markets. The quality at entry is
"Unsatisfactory."
It is important to notice that the project followed both the government's and Bank's policies.
Specifically, did not cause adverse impacts in most important area specified in the Bank's policy
documents.
7. Outcome/Achievement of Objective
The objective of the program was to provide timely and responsible support to the efforts of
privatization and responsible management of state enterprises. More specifically there were three
points listed.
(i) assisting with design of necessary policies. Beside of the designing of policies, they must
have been implemented to the legal framework. The legal system seems to be best indicator for the
evaluation of the quality of design and implementation of the strategy. The basic requirements for
launching privatization were met by the Law of July 13th, 1990 on privatization of state
enterprises. This law was a pathfinder law, which set the standards and defined the principles of
Polish privatization, which in turn became an example for other transformation economies.
In the privatization law the principles and procedures were established for state enterprises
transformation into Treasury Corporations, as well as the principles of shares and stakes
acquisitions in these companies and also paths for liquidation privatization. The Legislature
envisaged two main privatization paths for state enterprises: capital and liquidation privatization.
(According to the new law it is called indirect and direct privatization.)
Very important change occurred in April 1997, when the law of. August 30th, 1996 on
commercialization and privatization of state enterprises replaced the privatization law. Transition
process was much better defined and some very important component were incorporated. This
law has been repeatedly amended since it was passed, adjusting the regulations to the changing
economic environment. The commercialization law constitutes a substantial extension of the
privatization law. Most of all, it introduced and defined the notion of commercialization. It also
retained the basic privatization paths: capital and liquidation.
-21 -



An innovation brought by this law was granting the Minister relevant to the Treasury matters the
right to initiate ownership transformation processes. The previous law reserved such right solely
to the enterprise and founding bodies. Additionally, in the commercialization law a clause was
introduced which makes a pre-privatization analysis of enterprises intended for privatization
obligatory. In accordance with the Ordinance of the Council of Ministers of June 3rd, 1997 the
analysis should include:
- legal status of the property;
- estimate of the value of the enterprise;
- its current situation and future development prospects;
- evaluation of how environmental and cultural heritage requirements are fulfilled.
Thanks to the commercialization with debt-to-equity conversion a possibility was created for
simultaneous debt reduction process in the state enterprise and its privatization.
This part was fully implemented. The policy and strategies of privatization were created. The legal
framework for privatization was implemented, which enabled the privatization process to be
realized. This section can be rated as "Satisfactory."
(ii) supporting the establishment and strengthening of institutional framework and the
implementation of the privatization program, in support of the Government's objective of
privatizing half state-owned assets within three years; within realization of the privatization
program several institutions were created. First of all the privatization agency was expanded into
the Ministry of Ownership Changes (the Ministry of Privatization). The Industrial Development
Agency was founded, and later also the Agency of Privatization was set up. The other ministries
were also involved in the privatization process, of them the Ministry of Industry in the first place.
After the administration reform in 1996 new ministries were created and administrative tasks
distribution was changed. In the place of liquidated MoOC and MoI, beside others, two new
bodies were created: the Ministry of the Treasury and the Ministry of Economy. Some of
privatization tasks were also given to the Ministry of Transport and Maritime Economy and other
agencies (for example province governors).
The main player in the privatization process was, until the administrative reform the Ministry of
Ownership Changes, and after the reform the Ministry of the Treasury. The privatization process
was strengthened by hiring external consultants. Consultants were hired both for creation of
detailed paths of privatization and for preparing the pre-privatization analyses. During the
implementation of the program the role of consultants changed from advisory in privatization as a
whole process to focused on privatization of particular enterprises. It will be elaborated in the next
section, but the importance of hiring consultants is related to the strengthening of capacity of the
administration and of providing independent opinions.
The key institutions were assisted mainly with three channels. Firstly, there were consultants hired
in the Ministry of Ownereship Changes (the Ministry of the Treasury) and Ministry of the
Economy. During implementation of the project 139 individual consultants were hired, 329
contracts were signed, USD 2,560,384.33 were disbursed on theirs remuneration. They helped to
shift the quality of these Ministries' work to the level of western standards fast. With their
- 22 -



assistance it was possible to prepare the staff to meet challenges of complex privatization program
(and management of the Treasury in future). Secondly, these two Ministries purchased modem
computer system for management of information. This was necessary to fulfill its tasks within the
program. The third channel was the training of the staff of agencies implementing the project.
There were seven subprojects for training groups of the employees. Disbursements for these
subprojects amounted USD 1,471,204.58. The Ministry helped also its employees to finance other
training on individual basis. This assistance covered 540 employees and cost USD 312,829.53.
During implementation of the program some others institutions, characteristic for free market
economies were created and developed. The two most important are the Warsaw Stock Exchange
and the Polish Securities and Exchange Commission.
It must be stressed that the program to privatize half of the state-owned enterprises within three
years was delayed. Mostly because of the complexity of this process and the changing economic
environment. In 1990 there were 8,453 state-owned enterprises. This number was reduced to
4,427 by the end of 1995. However, some of the enterprises removed from SOE's register were
converted into state companies (i.e. commercialized) yet not privatized. In 1996 there were 3,665
state-owned enterprises and 289 treasury companies, whose shares were not distributed. Together
it makes 3,954. We may assume that it fulfills the objective to privatize half of enterprises, but
with delay. In December 2001 there were 2,054 state owned enterprises and 588 companies,
where the Treasury has over 50% of voting power. Together it makes 2,642, which is around one
third of the number of enterprises in 1990. Until the end of 2000 there were 1439 companies
established as a result of commercialization of state owned enterprises and 1639 companies
established on the basis of assets of directly privatized and liquidated enterprises.
However, as this part experienced big timing problems it can be rated as "Satisfactory."
(iii) providing finance for enterprise restructuring programs in those cases where
investments are warranted and for enterprises which are already private, or which are
under joint stock or limited liability company form as a first step towards privatization.
This part of the objective was altered substantially. It was supposed to be realized as an under
component (C), via private banking sector and with sub-loans. As the implementation of
component (C) was impossible, the restructuring part of the objective was realized through other
methods.
There were two ways of assistance for enterprises, which were most popular. Firstly, after
commercialization, The Treasury as the sole or main stakeholder insisted on companies to invest
all income in development. A well-prepared privatization was also meant to help companies in the
restructuring process. Secondly, in some cases the restructuring analyses were financed by
ministries or public agencies. As stated before, since 1997 the pre-privatization analysis has been
obligatory. Its main purpose is to prepare an evaluation, but it also covers information which may
be used for future restructuring.
A separate field of restructuring public aid are sectoral analyses and restructuring programs. The
larger program is the restructuring of the hard coal sector. It is realized as a separate government
program, but it is also related to privatization. There were also several analyses prepared for the
- 23 -



purpose of restructuring of other sectors. Those were much helpful for creating privatization
strategies for these sectors.
The judgment of quality of these actions can be made on performance of privatized enterprises. As
of 1999 most of important indicators were slightly better for privatized enterprises than for ones
of private origins and much better than state-owned ones. For example, gross profitability
indicators were: public sector (state-owned): -1.2%; private: 2.2%; privatized: 3.0%; under
privatization (including liquidation): -2.0%. Export to sales, respectively: 0.09; 0.10; 0.16;
0.10. Investment expenditures to financial surplus: 2.33; 2.08; 1.63; 2.48. the current state of
privatization of state enterprises in Poland in sectoral breakdown is presented in Appendix 5.
However, as this part of the objective was supposed to be implemented through other methods, it
should be rated as "Satisfactory" due to good performance of privatized enterprises and effects of
all privatization to which the effects of the restructuring program contributed.
8. Output by Components
8.1. A policy component. Although some delays in disbursement occurred, it can say that, this
component fulfilled its objective. It was to assist the rest of the project in the beginning and
finance the first procurements. Thanks to implantation of this component, the whole project was
possible. Therefore its output can be rated as "Satisfactory."
8.2. A technical assistance component was utilized for many paths of the privatization and
restructuring processes. This component was the most important part of the project in terms of
assistance in realization of the program. Four sub-components can be defined:
(i)    assistance for strengthening the government administration in the field of privatization and
restructuring (the Ministry of Ownership Changes, the Ministry of Industry, the Ministry of the
Treasury and the Ministry of the Economy);
(ii)   creation of the strategy and implementation of the Mass Privatization Program;
(iii)  assistance with capital privatization, including sectoral analyszes;
(iv)   restructuring of hard coal sector.
Assistance for strengthening government administration helped create institutions of much better
abilities then before, as at the beginning of the 1990s the Privatization program was implemented
to a large extent with assistance of external consultants. Now, the analyses play only an advisory
role and every time are verified by the staff of the Ministry of the Treasury. The capacity to
manage data of privatization and management of the Treasury has been also much extended. It
was possible thanks to purchasing and installing of a modem computer system both at the Ministry
of the Treasury and at the Ministry of the Economy. This has transformed the style of work in
these offices. It would be, most likely, impossible to implement any efficient system for
management of state treasury and economic policy data without investments covered by sets of
subprojects of Integrated Information Systems in the Ministry of the Treasury and the Ministry of
the Economy. Within the Program this sub-objective was realized with three methods: extemal
consulting services (mostly important at the beginning of the Program), technical transformation
of ministries (purchasing and installing modem data management systems) and advancement of
- 24 -



administrative staff. The bank financed subprojects for purchasing computer equipment, building
Information Systems, advance training for the staff of the ministries and Industry Development
Agency and services of extemal consultants.
The Mass Privatization Program was a unique and challenging undertaking. Consisting of several
steps, it has influenced many aspects of development of the Polish economy. The main goal was to
enable the participation of a maximum number of Polish citizens in a significant portion of capital
of Polish enterprises and securing restructuring processes in enterprises included in the Program.
The program was built of the following steps: creation of the strategy and implementation of
needed Acts, selection of companies (enterprises) included in the Program, creation of National
Investrnent Funds (NIFs) with selection of management companies, production and distribution of
vouchers, conversion vouchers into shares of NIFs and further development and management of
the program. The creation of the strategy was key point for the quality of the Program. The
Ministry hired White & Case as the main consultant at the first stage. White & Case prepared the
drafts of basic Acts, which regulated implementation of the Program. The first phase was
completed when the Parliament accepted all legal regulations (the most important: the Act on
national investment funds and their privatization - April 30th 1993). In 1991 the Ministry chose
400 enterprises which were envisaged to be included in the program. As the Program was
recognized as the key factor in Polish capital market and ownership transition process, only the
enterprises indicating good performance were taken into account. In the following four years,
however, the changes in the list were made. Some big companies from the top of the list were
replaced by poorer ones. Finally, there were 512 enterprises included in the Program. At the same
time the other important process was undertaken - selection of companies for managing the assets
of the National Investment Funds. It was realized through an intemational tender, which was
necessitated by utilization of the World Bank financing. The distribution of vouchers started the
phase of the Program where the influence on many aspects of Polish transformation was expected.
Firstly, it was the educational campaign of the Program (There were in fact two campaigns: the
first related to distribution of the vouchers, the second to convert vouchers into shares of NIFs).
This campaign was also intended to create the spirit of participation in the ownership changes and
the new economy among ordinary citizens. The number of people participating in the Program can
measure the results of this campaign. There were 27,395,000 people entitled to receive the
vouchers. 25,855,417 people, which is 94.5%, picked up the vouchers. 25,547,705 vouchers were
converted into shares, which is 98.7%. The numbers exceeded the expectations. Such results were
achieved thanks to a good information campaign and a well carried out process of distribution and
conversion of vouchers (for example good access to the points of distribution). The last stage of
the main part of the program was placing the shares of NIFs on the Warsaw Stock Exchange. This
is the second aspect on which the program had influence on other aspects of transformation. It
helped in development of the Polish capital market. The conversion process was driven by brokers
which helped in creation of many brokers' companies. The introduction of NIFs to the WSE
affected the turnover and development of the market. The new form of capital investing was
created. Although the Program had some shortcomings (for example the performance of NIFs are
worse then expected, some of the companies included in the Program have also poor
performance) its importance should not be underestimated. It influenced the whole transition
- 25 -



process in Poland and must be judged in such context. The current stage of the program is based
on management of assets of the Treasury and their gradual privatization.
The Bank financed promotion of the program, by Corporate Profiles DDB, DPA and Poczta
Polska, several analyses and remuneration for companies managing the NIFs. Also the preparation
of legal framework provided by White and Case was financed by the Bank, but mainly under the
loan no. 3166-POL.
The capital privatization played a different role in the transition process in Poland. Only the main
goal of transforming state-owned enterprises into marked oriented companies was the same.
Beside this capital privatization has other aims. The first is to introduce into a company an
investor who would restructure it. To achieve this the privatization deals impose many obligations
on investors. The Ministry ensures that this process would let the company adjust to the market
economy with investors' capital and know-how investments. For the whole economy creation of
marked oriented companies, managed in a modem way, is only one aspect of this process.
At the beginning of the transition in Poland it was recognized that in order to achieve fast
sustainable growth the flow of foreign investment capital is necessary. Foreign investments
balance the deficit of the Polish current account. The capital privatization and its follow-up
processes constitute the important part of foreign investments in Poland. The tasks in this field of
privatization were the sectoral and particular analyses. Their role is to assist in creation of the
strategy of privatization both for the sector and for specific enterprises. Several factors must be
taken into account to avoid adverse effects in economic, social and environmental aspects. The
securing of sustainable growth for enterprise is the leading goal. Achievement of all of these aims
usually needs restructuring process in the company. That is why it is so important to choose
proper strategy of privatization and the proper investor. The pre-privatization analyses are
supposed to ensure such effect. For a better outcome it is essential, that analyses be prepared by
external consultants. This provides an independent view on all important factors.
By December 2001 315 Treasury companies were privatized along this path. In 253 companies
investors purchased more than 50% of shares. 42% of investments represents foreign capital. The
following types of subprojects were financed under the Project (Loan): sectoral analyses;
restructuring analyses and pre-privatization analyses. This assistance was used in more complex
cases. The Bank for example financed preparation of analyses for Stocznia Gdafiska, PLL LOT,
Polska - egluga Ba3tycka and SIARKOPOL, and several sectoral analyses.
Restructuring of the hard coal sector is a separate program. However, a portion of some
preparatory tasks was incorporated in Project for Privatization and Restructuring. As the Program
"Reform of hard coal mining in Poland 1998 - 2002" is to be completed in the year 2002 it is
impossible to verify its achievements now. However by the end of 2001 the outcomes of this
program were better than planned. In Program for 2001 the net financial loss aggregated for the
sector was planned: PLN 795.9 million and it was achieved PLN 397.7 million of profit. Under
Privatization and Restructuring Project among others seven sectoral analyses were developed.
These subprojects assisted the Ministry of the Economy with upgrading the hard coal sector
restructuring program. The Bank, under the project Privatization and Restructuring, financed
- 26 -



several sectoral analyses.
The technical assistance component should be rated as "Satisfactory". However, the unpredictable
obstacles had been experienced, the program was adjusted to the changing environment and was
gradually upgraded. The interruption, changes and delays are caused by the complexity of the
program. This component was the most supporting one. Because of this it was important to adjust
it the changing needs of the program. The list of subprojects can be find in Appendix 2 and
disbursement report (in annual and subcomponental breakdown) is presented in Appendix 3. Four
cases are described in Appendix 4.
8.3 A restructuring/privatization investment financing component did not achieve its objective as it
failed to disburse and therefore is rated as "Unsatisfactory."
The almost entire component was re-allocated to technical assistance or cancelled.
9. Institutional Development Impact
It was mentioned before that the realization of this program helped expand the institutional
capacity, especially of the Ministry of the Treasury. It is the output of technical assistance
component. Thanks to the program the staff has earned experience of modem management and
finance. The Ministry purchased new tools for realization of its tasks. The program has also
influenced the development of Polish capital market and the Warsaw Stock Exchange. This is
probably the most beneficial secondary effect of the program. The assistance for financial market
development was both direct and indirect. Direct assistance was related to creation of such
institutions as the Warsaw Stock Exchange and the Polish Securities and Exchange Commission.
Indirectly the program affected the growth of Polish financial market, because this market was the
device for implementing the program. The first five companies quoted at the WSE were privatized
state enterprises. In 2001 over 80% of turnover at the WSE were related to companies of
privatization origin. The Mass Privatization Program pushed many aspects and institution of the
market. The NIFs increased the volume and liquidity of the stock market, distribution of the
vouchers and its transformation into shares made easy starting for brokers and National
Depository for Securities. As the most of companies included in the MPP entered the
over-the-counter market it also helped this market to be created. The capital privatization also
contributed to the development of capital market, because it increased the volume of the WSE and
because some of the companies were privatized via public offer.
10. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
10.1. Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency.
The year 1991, when the project was approved, was a difficult year for the Polish economy. It was
the first year after the implementation of the Economic Transformation Program, a decisive,
market oriented program which consisted of radical stabilization, price and trade liberalization,
partial currency convertibility, elimination of subsidies and monopolies, and the creation of
favorable conditions for the economic activity of the private sector. The economic climate was
-27 -



further exacerbated by collapse of the CMEA system, the Poland's major export market, and the
shift to international prices and hard currencies for all CMEA trade. The early years of the project
were also characterized by near hyper inflation, high interest rates and considerable economic
uncertainty, all of which sharply increased the risks and curtailed demand for medium and
long-term credit from potential borrowers and discouraged lending institutions. As a result, most
of the IBRD credit lines to Poland, including the loan to Polish Development Bank have failed to
disburse.
10.2. Factors generally subject to government control
Two factors affected the implementation of the project. The first one is a long decision taking
process, especially in the subcomponent of Mass Privatization Program. There were several
reasons for such situation. Firstly, it was complex and unprecedented operation. The wrongly
prepared strategy might be harmful for the whole transition process. The MPP program was also
the "social" part of this process. There were lots of the uneconomic aims related to it. (creation of
"the participation spirit", recompense for underpaid work in the communist system etc.) This
resulted in delays in the implementation. The changes in the list of companies brought weakening
of the financial results of the program.
The unstable and complicated taxation system in the area of foreign assistance caused significant
delays in realization of subprojects (in some cases even resignation).
It should also be noted that speed of privatization to a large extent depends on economic policy
realized by the government.
10.3. Factors generally subject to implementing agency control
The TAPU and the staff of the Ministry of the Treasury put a lot of efforts to overcome problems
related to co-ordination of the project implementation. Many times the meetings were held for the
staff of other agencies to explain the rules and regulations related to the implementation of the
loan. This made possible to realize many threatened subprojects. During realization of the project
the staff of the Ministry of the Treasury expanded their knowledge on management of state and
companies' finance. It enabled them to require better products from consultants and create smooth
standard path of privatization.
11. Rationale for Sustainabilitv Rating
The sustainability of the project should be rated as "Highly Likely". The majority of state
enterprises has been privatized. They have been transformed into privately managed companies or
liquidated and their assets were distributed to the private sector. In the year 2000 72.5% of labor
force was employed in the private sector and 71.9 % of industry sold production represents the
private sector as well. In the EBRD Transition Report 2001 the index of institutional development
for Poland was 3.5 (max. 4.0). The private sector development is not threatened. In the end of the
year 2000 there were over 160,000 private companies. Over 3000 of them was established as a
consequence of privatization of state enterpises. Since 1996 it is required by law that
- 28 -



environmental effects of privatization and restructuring must be taken into account. It is also
common practice that such analyses have priority at every step of the process. An analysis of
social and cultural effects is also required.
The system of management of the Treasury has also been created. In 1998 for the first time in
history the Report on the Status of the Treasury Assets (as of the December 31st 1997) was
completed and presented to the Parliament. The reports are being prepared on an annul basis. The
database of the state treasury was 'built within the project (completed in 1999) but is still under
development. The creation of the modem administration within the privatization process will
benefit also the future realization of the tasks related only to management of the assets of the
Treasury. There is still great goal of consolidating this management.
12. Transition Arrangements to Regilar Operation
The privatization process in Poland, although very advanced, has not been completed and will not
be for at least few years. It is important to assure proper financing. Currently it is mainly financed
from privatization revenues. It may be impossible to rely on this resource in future as the hardest
cases will be realized. The privatization, according to the strategy of the govemment is to be
completed by 2005 (the share of the public sector in the economy should be limited to 10%). In
future the main stress will be shifted from privatization to management of the Treasury's assets.
13. Bank and Borrower Performance
13.1. Bank
The overall performance of the Bank can be rated as "Satisfactory". The Bank conducted regular
supervision missions. They were very helpful for the Borrower as let him adjust implementation
schedule. The flexible position of the Bank in many cases made possible to realize some
unpredicted aspects of privatization process. The Bank also helped Borrower in many situations
which were unclear in terms of eligibility of projects . The main problems were related to delays
in responding. Delays occurred both during the procurement and disbursement parts of
subprojects' implementation process. There were also contradictory opinions on some points in
projects and contracts. This was confusing for the Borrower and made it harder to adjust its own
standards to Bank's policy.
13.2. Borrower
The TAPU and the staff of the Ministry of Privatization overcame many difficulties which were
caused by unpredicted factors which appeared in long period of implementation of the loan.
Loosely designed scope of the project led to a situation where participating agencies were
sometimes not certain about eligibility of proposed subprojects, in consequence dropped them or
implemented with other financing resources. On the Borrower side there were also delays caused
by the number of involved departments. There were also contradictory opinions on some cases.
The lack of awareness on planned legal changes (especially in the area of taxation) made a number
of prolonged interruptions in subprojects' implementation. All these factors and changing needs of
-29 -



financing made implementation of the project a challenging goal. The surmounting of these
obstacles let rate the Borrower's overall performance as "Satisfactory" as the project was
implemented and the program realized.
14. Lessons Learned
The realization of the privatization program was the core goal of the transition process in Poland
after 1991. The commitment of the government should not be underestimated. Because the delay
in implementation of the program was mainly caused by the unrealistic assumption in the terms of
timing, it is important to put more attention on the timing aspects in projects plans. In more
complex programs where appearance of unpredicted obstacles is highly likely the significant time
reserve should be incorporated in the schedule.
Creation of the schedule of disbursement related to tasks, which did not have the legal
environment, proved to be highly risky. The implementation experience showed that, the project
should have been limited to only one step of privatization (i. e. creation of strategies and all
necessary legal acts). If the assistance in the whole process were essential, the project should have
been divided into several smaller sub-projects related to steps of privatization process. During
designing of every next sub-project lessons from the preceding ones should have been taken into
account. The every next sub-project should also be adjusted to the effects or expected effects of
completed ones, and those under implementation. Any such complex multi-phase program should
not be supported by a single general project.
From Borrowers' view the project should not have been implemented by several agencies on
combined competence. This make the project much more complex then it is necessary. In case of
this project it caused delays in realization of sub-projects as involved institutions disputed them.
The procedures became complicated; the responsibility was divided. The situation was also
unclear for contractors. For better results the project should have been realized by only one
agency. If there is a need to utilize a portion of resources via another channel, clearly defined part
of the project should be moved to another institution with full procurement and disbursement
powers.
The Bank's procurement requirements have also showed to be bureaucratic and time consuming.
It was mentioned by all co-operating institutions. It was also regarded as unclear that Bank
intervened in the very specific parts of contracts (e.g. penalties in contracts). That caused
interfering of the Bank and Government's standards. The simplification of disbursement should
also be considered. The realization of application takes approximately three weeks. It causes
delays in payments.
- 30 -



Appendix I
Amendments to the Loan 3342-POL
I.    The Loan was signed on June 10, 1991. The amount was USD 280,000,000.00 and
according to Staff Appraisal Report was divided into three components:
(1) Policy component                USD 75,000,000.00
From the policy componentfor debt reduction plan Borrower could use up to
USD 50,000,000.00
(3) Technical Assistance (Part C of the Project)  USD 65,000,000.00
(4) Credit line (Part D of the Project)  USD 140,000,000.00\
The closing date was set on June 30, 1998.
2.    Due to unsatisfactory implementation of Part D of the Project and launching of Mass
Privatization Program amount of USD 90,000,000.00 was shifted from component (4) into
component (3) and the amount of USD 47,277,820.23 was classified as Unallocated. The
component (3) was divided into subcomponent (3a) amounted USD 60,000,000.00 and new
subcomponent (3b) with amount of USD 95,000,000.00. This amount was allocated for
remuneration for companies managing the National Investment Funds. This amendment took place
on February 1, 1995.
3.    Due to lower utilization of the Loan on April 17, 1996 unallocated amount of USD
47,277,820.23 was cancelled.
4.    On June 30, 1998 the closing date was moved into December 31, 1999. The undisbursed
part of the Loan was transformed into SCL 3342A-POL.
5.    Because the Bank accepted financing of government's program for restructuring of the
hard coal sector the component (3) was rescheduled. Subcomponent (3a) was limited to USD
47,800,000.00, (3b) to USD 70,867,798.87 and new created subcomponet (3c) amounted USD
36,332,201.13. This amount was allocated for hard coal sector restructuring program.
6.    On December 31, 1999 the closing date was moved into December 31, 2001. From
subcomponent (3c) amount of USD 20,000,000.00 was cancelled and amount of USD
10,000,000.00 was shifted to subcomponent (3a).
7.    Due to grace period up to April 30, 2002 from component (3a) amount of USD
23,500,000.00 was cancelled on January 3, 2002.
- 31 -



Appendix 2
List of subprojects fmanced by component 3 excluding remuneration of managing
companies of NIFs
Number of                         Description                    Amount disbursed in
Subproject                                                             USD
MPW/07/91      Polish consulting companies                              474 524,16
MPW/19/91      Furniture for Information Center                         110 000,00
MPW/20/91       Computers for Information Center                        153 703,62
MPW/21/91       Furniture for Securities Commission                       2 666,00
MPW/26/91      Computer equipment for Ministry of Privatization         225 745,83
MPW/32/92       Hard chemical sector                                   2 950 000,00
MPW/35/92      Sector of wires                                          611 272,00
MPW/46/92      Conference in Berlin                                       3 508,00
MPW/1 16/92    Prvatization and Restructurng                            402 600,00
MPW/121/92     Consultant BEATA KO SKA-CICHOCKA                          23 758,00
MPW/122/92      Consultant MARK. PRESTON                                  15 000,00
MPW/123/92      Consultant ARTUR CZARKOWSKI - SZKOLENIE                   3 451,68
MPW/124/92      Consultant TADEUSZ KO CIELAK                              17 242,36
MPW/1 27/92     Consultant MARK CABAJ                                    20 350,05
MPW/1 30/92    Consultant TERESA PINSKI                                  20 753,17
MPW/134/92      Consultant TADEUSZ JARZEMBOWSKI                          45 333,00
MPW/142/93      Consultant PAWE WOJCIECHOWSKI                             50 482,00
ARP/146/93/MPiH Restructuring analyses for LOT                           263 582,00
MPW/1 50/93    Preparing staff for Controlling Boards for AWR            17 105,56
MPW/155/93      Enterprise pact                                         569 315,50
MPW/165/93      Polish consulting companies                              347 127,32
MPW/166/93      Consultant TERESA PINSKI                                  13 540,00
MPW/167/93      Consultant MALCOLM TOTLAND                                29 613,23
MPW/169/93      Preparing and distribution of letters and brochueres for MPP  1 443 394,28
MPW/170/93     Consultant ALEKSANDER WILCZEWSKI                          9 210,00
MPW/1 72/93    Consultant DAWN KOHUT                                       8 800,00
MPW/173/93     Consultant MICHA MRO EK                                    43 903,00
MPW/175/93     Consultant PAWE KRZECZUNOWICZ                              14 400,00
MPiH/176/93     Study for restructuring of Iron sector                  513 000,00
MPW/1 79/93     Consultant BARBARA KO&SKI - CICHOCKI                     24 748,20
MPW/180/93     Selection commission for MPP                              144 299,00
MPW/181/93     Consultant ALEKSANDER WILCZEWSKI                           13 622,00
MPW/182/93      Consultant LARRY MICHEL                                    4 800,00
MPW/184/94     Consultant PAWE- GRANIEWSKI                                18 000,00
MPW/186/94     Consultant PAWE WOJCIECHOWSKI                               4 000,00
MPW/187/94     Consultant SUSAN CUMMINGS                                   3 500,00
MPW/1 88/94    Consultant TOMASZ BOGUS-AWSKI                               4 214,59
MPW/189/94     Consultant BOGUMI- BINCZAK                                  4 214,59
MPW/190/94     Consultant LUDWIK KOZ OWSKI                                 1 576,67
MPW/191/94     Consultant ROMUALDA SARZY SKA                               1 715,77
MPW/192/94     Consultant TADEUSZ KO-CIELAK                               11 250,00
MPW/192/A/94   Consultant TADEUSZ KO CIELAK                                3 750,00
- 32 -



MPW/193/94      Selection commission for MPP                              168 412,64
MPW/194/94      Consultant TERESA PINSKI                                   4 200,00
MPW/197/94      Consultant ZBIGNIEW MACIOSZEK                              10 717,00
MPW/198/94      Consultant ALEKSANDER WILCZEWSKI                           13 622,00
MPW/1 99/94     Consultant ROMUALDA SARZY-SKA                              2 747,74
MPW/201/94      Consultant BEATA KONSKI                                    12 394,00
MPW/202/94      Consultant W-ODZIMIERZ MUSZ                                 5 480,45
MPW/203/94      Polish consulting companies                               141 395,65
MPW/204/94      Consultant PAWE- GRANIEWSKI                                21 000,00
MPW/205/94      Consultant BOGUMI BICZAK                                    5 469,78
MPW/206/94      Consultant TOMASZ BOGUS AWSKI                               5 469,78
MPW/207/94      Consultant RAFA- KASTERSKI                                  6 459,76
MPW/208/94      Consultant JOLANTA' CETWISKA                                6456,47
MPW/209/94      Consultant TADEUSZ KO-CIELAK                                9 000,00
MPW/210/94      Consultant ROMUALDA SARZY-SKA                               1 129,26
MPW/211/94      Consultant ALEKSANDER WILCZEWSKI                            8 039,00
MPW/212/94      Consultant ZBIGNIEW MACIOSZEK                               6 281,00
MPW/217/95      Consultant PAWE- GRANIEWSKI                               20 081,56
MPW/220/95      Consultant BEATA KONSKI                                     3 000,00
MPW/221/95      Consultant KRZYSZTOF G OGOWSKI                             13 337,98
MPW/224/95-233/ Individual consultants                                   127 687,31
96
MPW/234/96      Data input to computer data system                         88 688,30
MPW/235/96      Pre-privatization analyses for Cementownia WIEK          55 687,29
MPW/236/96      Consultant MONIKA STAROSZ                                    679,51
MPW/237/96      Training for members, of Controlling Boards              94 347,10
MPW/238/96      Pre-privatization analyses for Polska *egluga Ba-tycka    61 752,18
MPW/239/96      Pre-privatization analyses for Kopalnie Odkrywkowych     43 909,75
Surowccw Drogowych we Wroc-awiu
MPW/240/96      Production of TV Broadcast "Szansa hie bez ryzyka"       83 989,17
MPW/241/96      Pre-privatization analyses for Stocznia Gda-ska          169 538,80
MPW/242/96      Enhancement of Integrated computer system in the Ministry of  106 245,13
Industry and Trade
MPW/243/96      Information Memoranda for MPP companies                  124 335,37
MPW/244-253/96 Individual consultants                                    62 650,82
MPW/254/96      Pre-privatization analyses for KIELECKIE ZAK-ADY         43 547,72
PRZEMYS-U WAPIENNICZEGO w MIEDZIANCE and ZAK-ADY
WYROBEW KAMIONKOWYCH "MARYWIL" w
SUCHEDNIOWIE
MPW/255/96      Pre-privatization analyses for Siarkopol S.A.            20 477,49
MPW/257/96      Pre-privatization analyses for five companies of hard chemical  35 662,77
sector
MPW/258/96      Project for restructuring and transition process of public transport  151 603,08
companies in Bia-ystok
MPW/259/96      Technical equipment for Ministry of Privatization        264 636,81
MPW/261-265/96 Individual consultants'                                     18 667,88
MPW/266/96      Advisor for National Investment Funds Program            281 766,69
MPW/267/96      Preparation of the program of transition proces in shipbuilding  95 188,24
sector
MSP/268-291/96 Individual consultants                                    171 895,25
MSP/292/96     Individual consultants                                     287 193,92
MSP/293/96      Training for the staff of Ministry of Privatization       49 709,05
- 33 -



MSP/293/A197    Individual training for the staff of Ministry of Privatization  44 420,77
MSP/298/97      Project and construction of wiring infrastructure in Ministry of the  1 417 168,92
Treasury, purchase, and setup of computer network.
MSP/299/97      Construction of hardware and software part of Integrated  979 848,03
Computer System in Ministry of Treasury
MSP/300/97     Project and construction of systems of databases and decision  1 142 752,04
system
MSP/304/97     Power network, security network, and emergency network  1 504 556,56
MSP/309/97     Marketing services for the MPP - Promotion, education,  1 813 562,67
Information
MSP/310197     Preparing of specific rules for Treasury's evidence      137 633,47
MSP/343197     Individual consultants                                   438 955,78
MSP/347/97     Equipment for lecturers room for the Ministry of Economy  11 513,23
MSP/390/98     Project and construction of network infrastructure in regional  2 111 400,69
offices and teleinformation system
MSP/391198     Training for the staff of the Ministry of the Treasury on new  393 663,32
Computer Data System
MSP/399/98     Preparing of Business plans for Coal companies           111 978,47
MSP/400/98      Preparation of the contract for guarantee of intemational offer  17 559,09
for TP S.A. Stocks
MSP/401/98     Individual training for the staff of Ministry of the Treasury  306 586,32
MSP/402/98     Individual consultants                                   78 898,15
MSP/403/98     Trainings: "Methods of restructuring and privatization of state  155 840,09
enterprises and state companies" and "Strategic management in
modem company"
MSP/408/98     Analyses of business plans for 1998-2002 prepared by the  57 799,65
boards coal sector state companies
MSP/409/98     Pre-privatization analyses and consultancy for privatization of  971 190,00
'Budryk"
MSP/411/98     Project and construction of wiring infrastructure in Ministry of the  1 621 229,30
Economy, purchase, and setup of computer network devices
and telephone exchange
MSP/412/98     Power network, security network, and emergency network for the  1 663 663,31
Ministry of the Economy
MSP/413/98     Construction of hardware and software part of Integrated  1 257 421,04
Computer System in Ministry of the Economy
MSP/414/98     Project and construction of systems of databases and the  962 176,67
system for information processing
MSP/416/98     Pre-privatization analyses for power plant Rybnik        198 412,51
MSP/432/99     Opinion on environment in hard coal sector                365 271,50
MSP/434/99     Analyses for hard coal sector                           2 000 000,00
MSP/435/99     Verification of the costs of liquidation of mines        22 863,63
MSP/437/99     Pre-privatization analyses and consultancy for privatization of  38 086,97
_ "Lumel"
MSP/438/99     Pre-privatization analyses and consultancy for privatization of *  17 655,50
three companies of stone mining companies
MSP/466/99     Program for restructuring of mining and processing of the sulfur  182 596,82
MSP/469/99     Opinion on the stage of preparation of light industry for  300 000,00
integration with the EU
MSP/472/99     Pre-privatization analyses and consultancy for privatization of  59 599,64
"Lubtar"
MSP/490/99     Market study on wool sector                              29 689,36
MSP/493/99     Marketing strategy for Fabryka Kosmetykow MIRACULUM      31 442,71
-34-



MSP/494/99      Strategy for FOZI                                          50 784,98
MSP/496/99      PROGNOZA CH-ONNO*Cl RYNKU W-GLA KAMIENNEGO W              164 322,89
POLSCE W PERSPEKTYWIE DO 2025 ROKU
MSP/499/99      Preparation and implementation of restructuring programs by  61 122,56
PIA-SF method in 12 enterprises
MSP/500/99      Economic, financial, structural, and marketing analyzes for  7 597,26
KRAKOWSKIE ZAK-ADY GARBARSKIE S.A. W KRAKOWIE
MSP/501/99      Restructuring program for'ENERGOMONTA-' PW                 73 160,71
MSP/502/99      Opinion and strategy for efficient operation of ZTD Detex  29 540,07
MSP/503/00      Individual consultants                                    584 952,17
MSP/542/00      Training for the staff of the Ministry of the Economy     442 725,14
MSP/545/00      Preliminary analysis: Program for implementation of computer  40 000,00
l________ system for managing of state debt for Ministry of Finance
MSP/555/00      Study for parts of electric energy sector in Poland with  179 631,81
privatization analyzes
MSP/557/00'     Assistance for the Ministry of the Economy in merging of mining  96 142,61
companies
MSP/600/00      Training for the staff of coal companies in controlling    89 855,68
MSP/604/00      System of data archives generated and aggregated in Integrated  994 997,00
Data system
MSP/609/01      Business plans for restructuring for the group of enterprises  61 798,04
covered by IDA assistance
MSP/610/00      Preliminary analysis: Program for implementation of computer  11 195,50
system for managing of state debt for Ministry of Finance
MSP/61 1/00     Sectoral analyses for hard coal sector                    81 306,72
MSP/612/00      Economic analysis of mining damages of earth subsiding    91 490,60
MSP/613/00      Analysis of costs and advantages of alternative solutions of salt  98 409,61
water problem in Gliwicka Sp6-ka W-glowa
MSP/622/01      Training for staff of IDA                                 20 221,93
MSP/623/01      Individual training for civil service members              63 859,62
MSP/624/01      Application of constitutional and commercial law related to  75 995,21
privatization and treasury issues
MSP/626/01      Preparation of business plan for agency assisting creation of new  20 286,22
innovative high-tech companies with PSBP model
MSP/627/01      Training: Changes in Accountant Law                       17 827,79
TOTAL        35 350 285,61
- 35 -



Appendix 3
Disbursements from component 3 of the Loan 3342-POL
Category 3a                         Category 3b   Category 3c
Year      Assistance for Mass      Pre-privatizati Remuneration  Hard Coal  Total
strengthening Privatization on sectoral  for managing  Sector
the          Program     analyses    companies of
government                            NiFs
administration                              .
1991            0,00  412 676,01        0,00          0,00        0,00    412 676,01
1992     2 401 410,58  224 175,28       0,00          0,00        0,00   2 625 585,86
1     2 177 633,7   18 010,00   611 272,00         0,00         0,00  2 806 915,75
9
9
3
1       195 359,74  683 046,25       0,00          0,00         0,00    878 405,99
9
9
4                         .
1        54 091,9   312 072,41       0,00   8 896 108,79        0,00  9 262 273,10
9
9
5                    .
1       523 133,4  994 313,74    55 687,29  37 099 992,86       0,00  38 673 127,31
9
9
6
1      1 910 436,41 1 482 272,20  105 661,93  24 901 915,47     0,00  28 400 286,01
9
9
7.
1     2 469 674,0  1 444 663,64  35 662,77         0,00         0,00   3 950 000,46
9
9
8
1     5 092 614,68  90 175,52   121 824,86         0,00         0,00   5 304 615,06
9
9
2      3 712 769,8  72 065,31   348 412,51         0,00    530 254,19  4 663 501,87
0
0
2     4 013 928,9   28 441,01   300 000,00         0,00  2 116 299,10  6 458 669,09
0
0
1
2002     1 440 235,91       0,00   823 761,18         0,00   548 249,13  2 812 246,22
Total      23 991 289,28 5 761 911,37  2 402 282,54  70 898 017,12  3 194 802,42 106 248 302,73
- 36 -



Appendix 4
Examples of subproiects.
MSP/437/99: Pre-privatization Studies at Lubuskie Zak3ady Aparat6w Elektrycznych
"LUMEL" S.A. in Zielona G6ra, Poland
The project covered following reports:
1.    Legal Due Diligence of the Company;
2.    Review of Company's Current Position and Development Prospects
3.    Report on Analysis of Financial statements for 1998-2000 and Economic and financial
analysis of the Company;
4.     Environmental Impact Assessment and Evaluation of the Performance of Environmental
Obligations by the company, including Assessment of the Cultural Heritage Conservation by the
Company;
5.    Company Valuation;
6.    Privatization strategy;
7.    Information Memorandum.
Based on the reports, the privatization strategy was prepared. Consultant showed four objectives,
which should be met:
1.    to ensure full privatization of the company by selling all shares currently held by the state
Treasury, which will provide satisfactory proceeds for the State treasury from privatization,
2.    to give the company access to modem technologies and new product markets,
3.    to ensure fulfillment of social protection requirements relating to the privatization,
4.    to give the employees an opportunity to sell the shares acquired free of charge.
Thanks to these analysis the Ministry of the Treasury was able to shift the privatization of
LUMEL to second stage - selling of shares. Second stage will be financed from the budget of the
Ministry. It means that whole program of privatization of LUMEL was co-financed by the
Ministry's own resources and the Loan.
Computer System for the Ministry of the Treasury
This is a set of subprojects for construction and setup of Integrated Computer System in the
Ministry of the Treasury. First stage was realized under subproject MSP/298/97 Project and
construction of wiring infrastructure in Ministry, of the Treasury, purchase, and setup of
computer network Under this subproject the physical framework was installed including
connection of all rooms in the building. Next subproject was MSP/299/97 Construction of
hardware and software part of Integrated Computer System in Ministry of Treasury. Within this
subproject the Ministry purchased the servers and terminals. That finished construction of the
hardware part of the system. The basic software was also purchased and installed under this
subproject. Thanks to this the computer network was put in motion. Next stage was realized
within the subproject MSP/300/97 Project and construction of systems of databases and decision
- 37 -



system. It covered construction and implementation of dedicated computer program, based on
database structure, for all Ministry's task related with collecting and processing of information and
for accounting and personnel tasks. In addition the decision assistance system was set up. Next
phase, subproject MSP/390/98 Project and construction of network infrastructure in regional
offices and tele-information system, covered connection of regional offices of the Ministry of the
Treasury. Finally the staff of the Ministry was trained under project MSP/391/98 Trainingfor the
staff of the Ministry of the Treasury on new Computer Data System. In addition the archive
system was purchased under project MSP/604/00 System of data archives generated and
aggregated in Integrated Computer System.
MSP/309/97 Marketing services for Mass Privatization Program
In order to assure of professional marketing services for Mass Privatization Program, Ministry of
Privatization in co-operation with European Commission organized international tender to choose
the consultant for the Ministry in field of marketing, advertising and public relations of MPP. The
company Corporate Profiles DDB was chosen to implement these tasks. This company rendered
services until 1998. These services were financed with usage of the following resources:
*     European Union Fund PHARE,
*      World Bank Loan 3342-POL,
*      Budgetary resources.
The contract MSP/309/97, financed with the Loan, covered following marketing activities:
*      Educational campaign related to capital market,
*     Advertising campaign encouraging citizens to exchange vouchers for stocks of National
Investment Funds (due to introduction of NIFs into Warsaw Stock Exchange),
*      Educational campaign related to realization of decision of the Constitutional Tribunal
connected with the case of the right for receiving of vouchers by citizens not registered between
November 22, 1995 and November 22, 1996,
*      Educational campaign on the deadline of exchange of the vouchers for stocks of NIFs
(December 31, 1998) and possibility of selling them on stock exchange.
Three-year information campaign for enterprises realized by Corporate Profiles DDB contributed
in substantially to success of the program. It helped Ministry during the process of selection of
companies and enterprises. The research was prepared on effects of promotional campaign of
MPP. It showed that 95% of citizens knew about the program and rules of participation. The
results of the campaign can be therefore highly judged.
MSP/432/99 - "Sectoral analysis of environment in hard coal mining"
The following task were included in this subproject:
-      analysis of legal status of all mining companies in terms of currently in force requirements
on environment's protection,
-      collection and analysis of data on status of environment and influence of mines on
environment caused by past and current activities in particular influence on water, air and ground
for storing and biotic environment,
-38 -



-      collection and analysis detailed data on financial status of all companies,
-      organization and realization of public consultancy with non-governmental environmental
organizations on reduction of pollution and mitigation of damages in environment,
-      preparation of proposals of evaluation criteria for environmental action and methods of
pollution control in particular the cost and benefits analysis,
-      analysis of current implemented and planned by the mines environmental and pollution
control actions in terms of direction of restructuring process
-      preparation of proposals of measures and institutional means for assuring timely and
efficient implementation of environmental actions (e.g. monitoring, fees)
-      preparation of training,
-      separate study "analysis of costs and profits for alternative solution of salt water problem
in Nadwicelafiska Sp63ka Weglowa".
This study was the first complete evaluation of the influence of the hard coal mining sector,
including 'analysis of financial areas, on environrental funds. The results of this study were used
by the Ministry of the Environment by the analysis of contracts for debt reduction for mines.
Second part of the study dealt with the case of creation of plant to remove the salt from water in
Nadwicelafiska Sp6lka Weglowa. The effect of the study was abortion of construction of the plant
and proposal of alternative solution of the problem - reduction of salt water on surface.
- 39 -



Appendix 5
Privatization of state enterprises in Poland
1990 -2002
In accordance with the economic strategy of the Polish government: Entrepreneurship
-Development - Work, the core ownership transformation processes should be completed by 2005.
By that time Poland, as a result of privatization, should reach the ownership structure similar to
the one of EU member states. According to the strategy, privatization is to be an active element of
the government's economic policy, while privatization revenues are to be allocated in
infrastructural projects and assist with creation of strong economic entities.
State control will be retained in companies of network and infrastructural nature: airports and
seaports, railway, electric energy and gas transmission networks. Sectors which will also remain in
the state domain are the ones in which it is not possible to implement full market regulation
(public utilities) and enterprises executing state monopolies (gambling and lotteries).
From the perspective of the past 12 years it can be estimated that privatization has been completed
in sectors such as: food processing, tobacco industry, cement industry, construction sector, beauty
products, home appliances production, commerce, automotive industry, shipbuilding, furniture
sector and paper production. Sectors in which privatization processes are considerably advanced
are banking and insurance, pharmnaceutical industry, telecommunications, sugar sector and spirits
industry. The last group consists of sectors whose privatization has begun only recently, and its
continuation depends closely on implementation of restructuring, liberalization and deregulation
processes. These are sectors such as: electric energy, the gas sector, petroleum industry and
transportation. In 2002 the activity of the Ministry of the Treasury will especially focus on
privatization of sectors of energy, oil, steel and defense.
Below we present information on the advancement of privatization processes in the most
important sectors together with our privatization plans for those sectors:
The electric energy sector
Until the present day the following entities from the sector have been privatized: 4 out of 19
power plants, 7 out of 19 heating and power plants and 1 out of 33 energy distribution companies
(EDCs). At present activities are being implemented which lead to privatization of further 8
EDCs. Privatization activities are also well advanced in the Warsaw EDC (STOEN).
After the Assumptions of energy policy for Poland until 2020 had been adopted by the
Government this April, privatization activities in the electric energy sector will be carried out
according to the following concept:
1. in the production sector:
*      merging lignite mines with ligrite-fuelled power plants,
*      grouping of power plants: Belchat6w, Opole i Tur6w (BOT) as the strategic energy
resource of the Treasury (guarantee of energy security) and proper functioning of the market),
-40 -



subject to limited privatization in the future,
*      gradual privatization of the remaining power plants (sale of majority stakes, with the
exception of BOT).
2. in the sector of trade and distribution:
*      continuation of privatization processes in the group of EDCs (so called G-8 group) and
STOEN;
*      separation, on the basis of the existing EDCs, of energy trading companies and
infrastructural companies (distribution of electric energy, development and utilization of electric
energy transmission infrastructure) with their subsequent privatization;
3. under the framework of the transmission system:
*      separation of electric energy trade from PSE (Polish Power Grid - entity currently
responsible for transmission of electric energy) while retaining its function of balancing the
national energy system,
*      establishment of basic functions of Polish Power Grid as the operator of the transmission
system and inter-system links, as well as separation from its structure of dependent entities whose
operational profile differs from basic PSE functions (separation of commercial activities from
public obligations as the transmission operator),
*      gradual privatization of the company of the transmission system operator initiated no
sooner than in 2005.
The oil sector
At present, the concept of privatization of the domestic oil market is being implemented, based on
the model, adopted in the majority of European countries: one strong entity (25-50% of the
market), medium size entities (15-25% of the market) and small entities. In accordance with that
concept, the privatization strategy which had been adopted earlier is being pursued in the case of
two largest entities: PKN Orlen and Rafmeria Gdafiska. PKN Orlen is undergoing the third stage
of privatization consisting in the sale through an IPO of a 27.58% stake currently held by the
Treasury. The second attempt to privatize Rafmeria Gdafiska is also under way (negotiations with
a British consortium Rotch Energy continue).
The steel sector
Privatization concepts for the steel sector were defined in the Restructuring Program for the Steel
Sector (updated in March 2002). In accordance with the program the decision was made to carry
out the restructuring and consolidation processes before privatization of the largest Polish steel
plants. As a result of contributing assets of selected largest steel plants (Huta Katowice, Huta
Sendzimira, Huta Florian and Huta Cedler) to one newly created company, Polskie Huty Stali
(Polish Steel Plants) company will be established. It is envisaged that strong international branch
investors will participate in its privatization. That process will be carried out by way of non-public
procedures (i.e. the privatization offer will be directed to selected investors).
-41 -



The defense sector
So far 2 out of 38 defense sector entities have been privatized: PZL Warszawa-Okecie and WSK
PZL-Rzesz6w. The Government Economic Strategy envisages restructuring of the sector, aimed
at attaining economic effectiveness and profitability of the defense companies' products, while
simultaneously expanding and modernizing production range, in order to meet the requirements of
orders made under the Defense sector restructuring program and support for modernization of
the Armed Forces and succeed on the competitive international markets. It is envisaged that a
consolidation of the defense sector entities will take place through establishment of two or three
trade & industry groups having at their disposal a part of the defence industry assets which would
be economically effective and consistent in the technological sense and allocation of privatization
revenues from the processes carried out in defense sector companies to financing of the
restructuring costs.
The banking sector
As a result of the privatization process implemented so far, approx. 76% of own capital in the
banking sector in Poland is in the hands of foreign capital. The Treasury retained direct control
over 3 banks:
-     Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, which provides bank clearings between the State and
economic entities, will remain in state hands;
-     PKO-BP as a retail bank specializing in services for individual customers, will be
controlled by the Treasury which will retain a majority stake; in 2003 the sale of a minority stake
in PKO-BP through the Stock Exchange is possible;
-     Bank Gospodarki Zywnoceciowej specializing in services for rural customers and
agriculture will be separated from the structure of co-operative banks (at present, approx. 44% of
the bank's shares is controlled by co-operative banks); it can play an important role as the
distribution channel for EU resources allocated to co-financing of regional policy projects; in the
medium term increase of BGZ's capital is envisaged and listing of its shares on the Stock
Exchange.
Telecommunications
Privatization of TP S.A., the largest Polish telecom operator, took place in two stages. During the
first stage (1998) 15% of shares in the company were made available through an IPO. During the
second stage (2000), a 35% block of shares was sold to a consortium of two entities: French
company France Telecom and Polish company Kulczyk Holding. Last year's contract concerning
the purchase by the consortium of France Telecom and Kulczyk Holding of another 12.5% block
of shares in TP S.A. was a continuation of that stage (the investor also gained the option to
purchase additional 2.5% of shares + 1 share by the end of 2002).
Air transport
As a result of the first stage of privatization of PLL LOT, which took place in 1999, a 10% block
of shares was sold to SairGroup (mother company Swissair), which subsequently increased its
share in PLL LOT to 37.6%. In November 2001, in order to avoid financial problems experienced
by SairGroup, the Treasury increased its share in the company's equity from 52% 67.96%. Due to
Swissair's bankruptcy (the leader of Qualiflyer, an alliance of 11 airlines), Poland decided to join
another carrier group - Star Alliance.
-42 -



The gas sector
In accordance with Evaluation of implementation and correction of the Assumptions of energy
policy for Poland until 2020, in order to create a competitive gas market in Poland, its gradual
remodeling has been envisaged which would involve the following steps:
*     separation from PGNiG, (POGC - Polish Oil and Gas Company) Polskie G6mictwo
Naftowe i Gazownictwo S.A. - Treasury corporation around which the gas sector is clustered, of
subsidiaries responsible for gas trading which will be the first privatized entities in the sector (the
trading sub-sector),
*      separation from PGNiG of subsidiaries which will be responsible for gas transmission in
low- and mediur-pressure networks as well as development and maintenance of infrastructure,
and then independent sale of stakes in regional distribution companies (distribution sub-sector),
*     separation from PGNiG of a company responsible for gas & oil search and exploration
(exploration sub-sector),
*      definition of the system operator function for PGNiG, which would administer long-term
contracts for gas supplies as well as high-pressure gas transmission network, PGNiG will retain its
capital links with separate companies administering low- and medium-pressure gas networks as
well as with the gas & oil search and exploration company.
Hard coal mines
In accordance with the document Evaluation of: implementation and correction of ,, the
Assumptions of energy policy for Poland until 2020, privatization of the hard coal mining will be
preceded by restructuring and consolidation of the sector. The first stages will include the
following steps:
*     grouping the mines in 3 - 4 comnpanies (two or three power coal companies and one
coking coal company) and launch of mines' privatization,
*     establishment on the basis of power coal mines, Zdzieszowice and Przyjazn coking plants
and Polski Koks (Polish Coke) company, of a sole coke producer.
In the first stage of privatization the Ministry of the Treasury envisages making available majority
stakes in all created companies - mining groups. The long-term objective for the Ministry of the
Treasury is sale of the remaining stakes and withdrawal from the ownership function for the
benefit of a regulator and administrator of the hard coal mining sector.
The spirits sector
So far 4 spirits companies have been privatised. It is envisaged that by the end of 2002
privatization agreements regarding sale of shares in further 6 companies will have been signed.
The remaining 5 companies from the spirits sector have been scheduled for direct privatization.
The pharmaceutical sector
So far 8 out of 14 companies from the pharmaceutical sector have been privatised. Shares of Jelfa
and Polfa Kutno were made available'through a public offering, correspondingly, in 1994 and
1995. The remaining privatised pharmaceutical companies were: Polfa L6dz, Polfa Rzesz6w,
Polfa Krak6w (all three in 1997), Polfa Poznafn (1998), Polfa Lowicz (1999) and Zaklady
Farmaceutyczne Polpharma w Stargardzie Gdafiskim (2000).
Consolidation and privatization processes in the remaining companies continue.
-43 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Indicator                                           Actual/Latest Estimate
progress in implementabon of the Govemmenrs        Poland utlized multi track approach to privatizabion. By
prvatizabon program, including number of enterprises  end 2001, 970 enterprises had been privatized through
restructured and prvatzed                          capital privazatbon; 2,084 enterprises had been privalized
through direct privatization; and 1,751 enterprises had
been liquidated.
institubional development and strengthening of the Ministry  3 methods for insttutional development (i) hiring of 139
of State Treasury                                 individual consultants over the course of the loan; (ii)
purchase of modem computer systems in both the the
Ministries of State Treasury and Economy; and (iii) training
for all ministries and agencies involved, which covered 540
employees.
progress in carrying out the Mass Privatizaton Program  Mass Privatizabon program completed with 512
companies privatized through 15 Nabional investment Funds.
95% of the popuiabon originally pardcipated.
- 44 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by    Appraisal Estimate  Actual/Latest      Percentage of
Component          US$ million        Estimate            Appraisal
Policy Component   75.0                75.0               100%
Technical Assistance
Component
_________________   240.0  n/a  (seel)
Investment
Component          600.0              n/a (see 2)
Total Financing
Required           915.0              n/a (see 3)
Notes:
1     The Ministry does not keep separate accounts to determine the amount of budget spent on
technical assistance since 1991.
2     The Investment Component, while mostly cancelled in this loan, was financed by
enterprises themselves, other bank credits, other multilateral and bilateral credit lines, and in some
rare cases, even the budget (ie coal debts).
3     Given the length of time that this covers, the total financing is impossible to estimate.
Technical Assistance Component Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Government
estimate)
(Amounts in 000 USD)
Expenditure        Procurement Method          Total Cost
Category
NCB             Other
Goods          2,105              12,517              14,622
Services                           91,626             91,626
Total          2,105              104,143            106,248
-45 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Not relevant
- 46 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle               No. of Persons and Specialty        Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)  Implementation Development
Month/Year   Count          Specialty                   Progress     Objective
Identification/Preparation
02/01/90                  6    SOO, E, SIS, PIS, FSS, PS
Appraisal/Negotiation
06/28/90                  6    SOO, E, SIS, PIS, FSS, PS
05/08/91                   7   SOO, SIS, PIS, FSS, PS, SIS,
FSS
Supervision
03/08/92                   2   E, IS
03/30/93                   2   SOO, SIS
12/11/93                   3  SOO, FSS, PIS
11/22/96                   2  PIS, FSOO                        S            S
05/05/97                   2   SOO, FSOO                       S            S
12/05/97                   3  TL, SOO, PSS                     S            S
06/19/98                   5   PTL, PSDS, SOO, PFSS, PS        S            S
12/22/98                   1  SOO,                             S            S
10/19/99                   1  TL                               S            S
06/15/00                   2   TL, PS                          S            S
06/15/00                   1   PS                              S            S
06/19/01                   1  TL                               S            S
ICR
4/15/02                   2    TL, PTL
E      Economist
FSOO   Fin Sector Operations Officer
FSS    Financial Sector Specialist
IS     Industrial Specialist
PFSS   Principal Financial Sector Specialist
PIS    Principal Industrial Specialislt
PSDS   PSD Specialist
PS     Procurement Specialist
PSS    Private Sector Specialist
PTL    Program Team Leader
SIS    Senior Industrial Specialist
SOO    Senior Operations Officer
TL     Team Leader
- 47 -



(b) Staff'
Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ C(0)
Identification/Preparation                 n/a                        187
Appraisal/Negotiation                      n/a                        341
Supervision                                n/a                       1,156
ICR                                         9                          50
Total                                      n/a                       1,734
Note: Given the age of the loan and the number of different people utilized, the Bank systems render it
impossible to deternine staff weeks for supervision or earlier project cycles.
- 48 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
OMacro policies                      O H O*SU O M O N O NA
OSector Policies                     O H OSUOM       O N O NA
0 Physical                           OH   OSUOM      ON   ONA
O Financial                          O H OSU*M O N O NA
O Institutional Development          O H O SU 0 M 0 N 0 NA
OI Environmental                     0 H O SU 0 M 0 N O NA
Social
L Poverty Reduction            0 H O SU 0 M 0 N O NA
fO Gender                      OH    OSUOM ON       *NA
LI Other (Please specify)      OH O'SU O M O N      O NA
O Private sector development         0 H   O SU 0 M O N 0 NA
O Public sector management           O H O SU *M O N O NA
O Other (Please specify)             OH OSUOM ON *NA
-49 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                              Rating
Z Lending                                          OHS OS      *U     OHU
0 Supervision                                      OHS OS      O U    O HU
M Overall                                          OHS OS      O U    O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                           Rating
F Preparation                                      OHS OS      O U    O HU
 Government implementation performance            O HS OS     0 U    0 HU
 Implementation agency performance                O HS OS     0 U    0 HU
 Overall                                          OHS OS      O U    O HU
- 50 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Staff Appraisal Report (1991)
2. Supervision Reports (1991-2001)
3. Comments on draft ICR from Borrower
4. "Information on Participation of Foreign Investors in the Privatization Process of the Polish Economy
1990-2002"' prepared by the Borrower
5. Project Files
- 51 -















IMAGING
Report No.:         24365
Type:     ICR



