Document of
The World Bank
FOR O aFICIAL USE ONLY
M . (  V1 C 11Al ( )PY
t   H.epc}rt llo. V'- ,b,b,9- POI                      Report No. P.5559-POL
E)UVVIVIM;K   f X3584 / /  M141F
MMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT GF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN ANi AlOuNT EQUIVALENT TO US$280 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF POLAND
FOR A
PRIVATIZATION AND RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
May 22, 1991
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfotmance of
their of.ficial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Zloty (ZI)
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
(Zlotys per US$)
1986  1987  1988  1989  1990   1991
(May)
US$1.00   Z1             175   265   430  4000  9500  11100
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
CMEA        -           Council of Mutual Economic Assistance
DDSR        -           Debt and Debt Service Reduction
DM          -           Deutsche Mark
EC          -           European Community
FIBOR       -           Frankfurt Interbank Offered Rate
ICB         -           International Competitive Bidding
LIBOR       -           London Interbank Offered Rate
MoI         -           Ministry of Industry
MoOC        -           Ministry of Ownership Changes
PDB         -           Polish Development Bank
SOEs        -           State-owned Enterprises
TA          -           Technical Assistance
Wojewoda    -           Regional Government
POLAND FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



ZLou                    FOR OMCL4 Use ONLI
PRUIVTZATION AMD RESTRUCURIN  PROJECT
IA  AAD PROJECT SU!
BKrromex:                 Republic of Poland.
AlfS2  arLk;lE:          Government, Ministry of Ownership Changes, Ministry
of Industry, Industrial Development Agency, Polish
Developmeut Bank (PDB), Privatized enterprises and
enterprises undergoing privatization.
Amount:                   US$280 million equivalent.
Terms:                    Seventeen years, including a five-year grace period,
at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.
On-lending Terms:         The Government will administer directly the policy
(US$75 million) and technical assistance (US$65
million) components, but will on-lend funds for
restructuring/privatization investment component
(US$140 million) to PDB, which in turn will channel
these resources through participating banks to
enterprises. On-lending by the Government to PDB
will be denominated in US$ or in DH, at LIBOR or
FIBOR plus one fourth of one percent (0.25X) with
the Government assuming the cross-currency risk.
On-lending by PDB to the participating banks, and by
them to th final beneficiaries will be in US$ or in
DM. PDB will lend to participating banks at LIBOR
for US$ and FIBOR for DM plus 1.50X. Government and
PDB spreads will be reviewed with the Bank semi-
annually, to ensure adequacy and consistency with
the cost of funds from other sources. Loans to the
final beneficiaries will be at market rates
determined by the participating banks. The loans
will be for periods not exceeding 12 years with
grace periods of up to 4 years.  The final
beneficiaries will assume the foreign exchange risk.
Project Objectives:       The project's objectives are to provide support to
Poland's efforts to develop and implement an
effective enterprise privatization program, and
implement restructuring across a major share of its
industry, by: (i) assisting with the design of the
necessary policies, the establishment and
strengthening of the institutional framework, and
the implementation of the privatization program;
(ii) providing finance in ways which will mobilize
additional resources for privatization, in support
of the Government's objective of privatizing half of
the State-owned assets within 3 years; and (iii)
providing finance for enterprise restructuring
This document has a restricted distribution and may be u, A by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwta, j. disclosed without World Bank authorization.



* Ii -
programs in those cases where investments are
warranted and enterprises are private, or joint-
stock or limited liability companies with a
privatization strategy.
Prolct  Descrintion:      The scope of the proposed prcject includes:
(a) *lij LQmng a t (US$75 million) to support the
Government's program for enterprise
transformation and privatization, speciflcally,
the implementation of the necessary policy and
institutional conditions facilitating
privatization. Up to US$50 million of this
component could be used for a Debt and Debt
Service Reduction (DDSR) plan meeting the
requirements for Bank support.
(b) TehnSical As8sitance CogMonent (US$65 million),
principally to support the key agencies involved
in the privatization and restructuring process.
(c) Investment Component (US$140 million) for
privatization/restructuring, which will be
easnnelled through the Polish Development Bank,
and through eligible banks to finance the direct
foreign exchange investment costs, including
physical improvements to production facilities,
permanent working capital, interest during
construction, licenses or other types of
technology transfer, as well as software,
technical assistance and training at the
enterprise level.
&=nfits:                  The proposed project will yield major benefits to
Poland in terms of establishing and applying the
needed framework for effective transformation of
enterprises, while directly supporting the
privatization/corporatization of perhaps 10-152 of
industrial enterprises. In addition, implementation
of the Project will lead to: (i) improvements in
enterprise management; (ii) economic benefits
(related to returns on investment in the
subprojects); (iii) convertible currency earnings
derived from the increased availability of quality
products both for exports and as substitute for
imports; and (iv) environmental, institutional,
social and demonstration benefits. It will also
support efforts to stimulate private sector
development and privatization in the on-going
movement towards a mixed market economy. The
Project, while not directly addressing the social
cost of reform, will help in maintaining jobs in
efficient enterprises and in reducing the overall
loss of jobs In enterprises facing difficulties.



- iii -
]&is_ks:-                  (i) In the short term there could be delays in
implementation associated with the scale and
complexity of the privatization program, and the
enterprises' willingness to privatize. The
Government's limited Implementation capability, the
slow and difficult build-up of the now institutions
and the lack of skills of managers may introduce
some delays which would be minimized by the
inclusion of the comprehensive technical assistance
component. (ii) In the longer term, a risk that
could adversely affect the indirect benefits of the
project, stems from the ambitious program of
adjustment and stabilization. While the
Government's current plans are satisfactory, the
major institutional and systemic reforms are
unprecedented in Poland and may take longer than
currently planned. The Bank's on-going economic and
sector work dialogue will be important in helping to
identify and overcome weaknesses in the
implementation of the reform and to support the
Government's overall industrial policy reform
program. In addition, the technical assistance
provided under the project to help develop the
needed regulatory and institutional framework will
reduce this risk. (iii) Finally, the lack of
services and qualified consultants may slow the pace
of the demonstration effect, but the design of the
technical assistance component and the Bank's close
supervision of the implementation will minimize this
risk.
Financint Plan:            IBRD                               US$ 280 million
Government (for TA)                US'   80 million
Enterprises/comercial/
institutional sources          US$ 460 million
EC (for TA)                        US'   69 million
Other institutions (for TA)        USS  26 million
TOTAL                                 91521JJm
Estimated
Disbursements    IBRD FY     12   12   1994 1222             122£
-----------(US$ million)----------
Ann.jal           105    68    58    28    14       7
Cumulative        105   173   231   259   273   280
Economic gate of Return:  Not Applicable.
Staff ApDraisal Renort:   Report No. 9483-POL, dated May 22, 1991.



MEMOPANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF POLAND
FOR A PRIVATIZATION AND RESTRUCTM&ING PROJECT
1.          The following memorandum and recommendation on a proposed loan to
the Republic of Poland for US$280 million equivalent, to help finance a
privatization and restructuring project, is submitted for approval.  The
proposed loan would have seventeen years maturity with five years grace and
carry the Bank's standard variable interest rate.
2.          Background.  Poland has about 9,000 state-owned enterprises
(SOEs), of which 65% are in industry. The remainder are in the service,
infrastructure, and agriculture sectors. The industrial sector has been the
leading sector of the economy since 1960. It contributes about 44% of
Poland's net material product, and employs 23X of the country's work force.
Socialized industrial enterprises, i.e. state-owned enterprises and
cooperatives, account for almost 90% of indust..ial production and contribute
about 602 of Poland's exports. Private sector activity is still modest but
expanding rapidly, particularly in retail trade and services, and since the
early 1980s, has consistently grown more rapidly than .he socialized sector.
3.          To break the country out of the vicious circle of slow growth,
inefficient investments, and low productivity, Poland is implementing a far-
reaching reform program to reorient the country towards a market economy with
decentralized decision-making. Recognizing the difficulty of achieving an
adequate supply response and efficiency gains in enterprises owned and
inefficiently operated in the public sector, the Government has decided to
implement an ambitious program of enterprise transformation. This program
focuses on privatization but also deals with the liquidation and restructuring
of state-owned enterprises as well as the proper exercise of ownership rights
and corporate governance.
4.          Critical initial steps were taken in 1990 with the adoption of
general guidelines and preparation of a basic institutional framework to
support enterprise reform. The Government has embarked on a privatization
program, with the enactment of the Law on Privatization of SOEs in July 1990
and the establishment of the Ministry of Ownership Changes (MoOC) in September
1990. The Government's strategy is based on a "multi-track" approach,
including "commercialization" (i.e. corporatization) of SOEs followed by
privatization, either on an individual enterprise basis or through mass
privatization (through the simultaneous privatization of groups of
enterprises, using Privatization Funds, the shares of which would be widely
distributed through the population); or through liquidation of the enterprise,
with the sale, contribution or lease of its assets to new private companies.
The main objectives are: (a) rapid implementation of the program; (b) reducing
the size of the public sector and the burden on the public budget and
administration; (c) ensuring a wide diffusion of ownership of privatized
assets; (d) providing an effective system of corporate governance; and (a)
ensuring that the process is fair and transparent. The program aims to



- 2 -
transform Poland's ownership structure to resemble that of Western Europe
within five years. The commercialization of SOEs is a critical step in
removing ths problems arising from their currently unclear ownership and
governance structure. Through commercialization, the enterprises are
conve:ted into corporate form, which concentrates governnance in a corporate
board of directors appointed by the owners, initially the State and eventually
private shareholders.
S.          As MoOC and other critical institutions became operational in the
second half of 1990, the pace of enterprise transformation has been gradually
accelerating. To date, 242 SOEs of which 8 large and 143 others of
significant size, have been privatized using the different routes.
Privatization has progressed at a fast pace also in the retail trade sector,
with an estimated 80X of shops taken over by the private sector by the end of
1990. Some 107 enterprises have completed the commercialization step while
growing numbers are under preparation or waiting approval for this process.
The break-up of 188 large enterprises into smaller units was initiated in 1990
by the Anti-Monopoly Commission and about 400 industrial enterprises have now
come under the scrutiny of the Ministry of Industry with a view to their
privatization, restructuring or liquidation. Implementation of the programs
supported under the proposed project will significantly accelerate the pace of
enterprise reform.
6.          Rationale for Bank Group Involvement.  The Bank supports Poland's
objectives to improve the efficiency and productivity of the economy while
upgrading socio-economic conditions, and this is being accomplished by
supporting the market-oriented policies of the Government. Specifically, the
Bank strategy in Poland is to assist the Government in implementing its
program to: (i) reform the economic system; (ii) restructure/privatize the
productive base; and (iii) improve creditworthiness. Since the initiation of
lending in 1990, the World Bank has provided loans amounting to about US$1.1
billion in six projects. The status of the Bank Group operations is provided
in Schedule D.
7.          The proposed Bank lending prograa builds on the major reform
initiatives supported by SAL I (Report P-5294-POL)--enterprise sector reform
and privatization to promote an active supply response, financial sector
reforms to develop a modern institutional basis for resource mobilization and
allocation, and the social safety net to alleviate the burden during
adjustment and to deal with poverty. These three key aspects of the reform
program will be specifically addressed in the proposed project and the
parallel Financial Institutions Development Loan (Report P-5535-POL), and the
forthcoming Private Sector Development Project and Employment Promotion and
Services Project. A second Structural Adjustment Loan is also under
preparation, and will sustain programs initiated under SAL I, and focus on
budget reform, labor market flexibility, trade development and possibly also
pensions and civil service reform. Other sectoral operations, in particular
in energy, agriculture and key infrastructure, will provide additional support
to the restructuring of the economy, and the acceleration of the supply
response. The scale of potential assistance from other sources is large. The
Bank has encouraged close collaboration with these sources and is actively
helping to develop vehicles suitable for cofinancing. Given the importance of



. 3 -
dealing with the debt overhang, the lank is expected to take an active role in
supporting the needed debt workout. With an agreed medium-term macroeconomic
framework and good progress in arranging a Paris Club DDSR (or equivalent
m8aures), the Bank, in concert with the IMP, would be prepared to provide
venhancements, if needed, for an acceptable Brady Plan workout for commercial
b4nks consistent with Bank guidelines.
8.          Initial measures to support enterprise reform were implemented in
the context of the ongoing SAL, while the development of restructuring
strategics in some key industrial subsectors has been initiated under the
Industrial Export Development Project (Report 7143-POL). The proposed project
would expand and reinforce enterprise reform by assisting the Government to
elaborate its Privatization and Restructuring Program as well as the
transformation of SOEs and ownership reform, address the institutional needs
for their implementation, and promote the necessary changes in the industrial
policy. At the same time, consistent with the ongoing reform and adjustment
process, the loan will provide balance of payments support as part of the
Bank's contribution to Poland's overall financing plan. Poland faces a
significant worsening of its balance of payments in 1991, mainly because of
the sharp reduction of exports to the USSR coupled with increased energy
import prices resulting from changes in CMEA trade. An analysis of Poland's
balance of payments prospects and financing needs is provided in the
President's Report for the Financial Institutions Development Loan, paras
2.08-2.17.
9.          IFC has played and is playing an active role in promoting Poland's
privatization effort. It has advised the Government on the conceptual
framework for privatization and on specific legislative initiatives, most
recently, on amendments to the foreign investment and banking laws, and is
assisting in and undertaking individual privatization transactions. IFC has
also assisted with the development of the regulatory framework for commercial
banks and securities markets, has promoted a joint venture commercial bank, is
actively considering the establishment of a venture capital fund, and plans to
help establish other non-bank financial intermediaries such as, leasing
companies, mutual funds, and insurance companies. Furthermore, IFC has
sponsored and is supporting the establishment of the Polish Business Advisory
Service.
10.         Protect Objectives   The project would support Poland's efforts to
implement an effective enterprise privatization program, improved enterprise
governance, and restructuring across a major share of its industry.
Specifically the project aims to help che enterprise reform process by: (i)
assisting the development of the policies, legislation, and the institutional
framework necessary for implementation of the Privatization Program;
(ii) supporting privatization by helping to mobilize additional foreign
capital; (iii) supporting the restructuring programs of privatized enterprises
or enterprises in the privatization process; and (iv) bringing about ownership
reform and adequate corporate governance, paving the way for private
investment in sound enterprises. The project would indirectly support
Poland's objective of developing sustainable employment.



11.         Prolect DesrpltoJLn.  The proposed project includes three
integrally relatid components: (i) a policy component supporting the
implementation of the policy and institutional actions necessary to accelerate
SOE prlvatization and transformatLon; (iL) a technical assistance component
supportlng the key agencies involved in the privatization and restructurlng
process; and (Li) an Lnvestment component financing foreign exchange costs
assocLated with privatization/restructuring of Polish enterprises, mainly in
industry.
12.         The first component, supported by tlS$75 million in quick-
disbursing funds, would help to translate the Government's objectives of SOE
privatization and transforriation into a concrete program. This component
would secure the Government's commitment to: (i) implement the Privatization
Program following stion Plans agreed with the Aank; (ii) adopt a ammnd
annroach fcir enterprise restructuring; and (Wii) address a wider range of
related issues, such as management of state asetas and Lndustrial noglcx, in a
longer time frame, as privatization and restructuring are boing carried out.
Up to US$50 million of this component could be used for a DDSR plan meeting
the requirements for Bank support.
13.         The second component addresses the critical institution-building
needs and privatization transactions essential for the successful
Implementation of such reform. The technical assistance reqvested by the
Polish authorlties and proposed under the project is necessarily large in
scope and is structured as follows: (i) about two-thirds of the technical
assistance is directed to supporting the design and implementation of
transactions at the level of individual enterprises; (ii) the balance of the
assistance is proposed to be directed to different agencies, each of which has
carefully elaborated its specific requirements for training and counterpart
support; and (iii) a key component of the proposed assistance program is a
coordination unit specifically designed to facilitate implementation of the
TA. The proposed US$65 million component of the Bank loan would finance about
one fourth of this activity, with EC providing ECU 50 million (US$69 million
equivalent) in grant funds. Additional "bilateral* and "multilateral3 grant
financing is expected.
14.         The third component will provide financing of US$140 million to
the privatized or commercialized enterprises during the critical stages of
transformation and restructuring. Thls component, to be channelled as a line
of credit through the Polish Development Bank (PDB) and participating banks,
will finance a small part of the restructuring needs of Poland's industrial
sector, but is expected to have a major impact by mobilizing and helping to
direct cofinancing from bilateral donors and financing agencies, domestic and
foreign private sources, the country's own specialized restructuring
institutions, local commercial banks, and the enterprises themselves.
15.         Environmental degradation is a serious problem in Poland. The
Government is very conscious of the environmental issue, and with the support
of the Bank-assisted Environment Kanagement Project (Report P-5256-POL), is
building-up the capability and means to elaborate, enforce or monitor suitable
environmental protection policies and legislation. For the preparation of
sub-projects under the proposed project, PDB and the participating banks will
ensure in their on-lending agreements that all beneficiary enterprises will
carry out an environmental assessment according to current Polish regulatlons



and acceptable to the Bank, and build facilities and operate their plants,
finaced under the project, in accordance with environmontal and safety
standards satisfactory to the Bank. The project has been reviewed and placed
in envltonmental screening category B/C.
16.         Total project cost is estimated at US$915 million equivalent, with
a foreign exchange component of JS$705 million. A breakdown of costs and the
financing plan are shown in Schedule A. Details on procurement methods and
disbursoments are shown in Schedule B. A timetable of key project processing
events and the status of Bank Group operations in Poland are given in
Schedules C and D respectively. The Staff Appraisal Report, No. 9483-POL,
dated Nay 22, 1991, is also attached.
17.         Actions to-date and A.eed Aegions. The Government has fulfilled
the following important undertakings to date: (a) presentation of
Privatization Strategy to Parliament, which has approved it; (b) presentation
of the new Foreign Investment Law to Parliament; (c) enactment o_ the Law on
the creation of the Stock Exchange and on Securities; (d) elaboration of
Government's plan on compensation of former owners of nationalized property,
slated for privatization; (e) signature of a Policy Letter on Privatization
and Restructuring; (f) preparation of an action plan for privatization, agreed
with the Bank, including, criteria and mechanisms for selection of enterprises
for specific privatization tracks, and a program for the establishment of
regional offices of the Ministry of Owr-rship Changes as well as guid-lirtes on
privaeization for regional/municipal ausnorities; and (g) establishment of an
Inter-ministerial task-force with guidelines for speedy decision of critical
restructuring cases (large SOEs).
18.         At negotiations the following agreements were reached with the
Government, as:
3     Conditlons of disbursement: (a) for the technical assistanMe
egmonent, the establishment of the Technical Assistance Unit; (b)
for the olicy component, the elaboration of the proposed program
of mass privatization through Privatization Funds, based on
careful feasibility studies, including detailed implementation
plans; and (c) for the investmnt comuonent, the fulfillment of
the disbursement condition of the policy component (as in (b)
above) and the execution of the subsidiary loan agreement between
the Government and PDB.
*     Dated covenants: (a) development of a plan for application of
debt/equity swaps in individual privatization of enterprises by
December 31, 1991; (b) statement of policy on environmental
contingent liabilities for new owners of privatized SOEs by
December 31, 1991; (c) definition of appropriate mechanisms for
the management of state assets including: (i) preparation of
guidelines for supervisory boards, by September 30, 1991; (it)
preparation of a plan tc exercise the State's ownership function,
by December 31, 1991; and (iii) development of further incentives
to commercialize enterprises, by December 31, 1991; and (e)
elaboration of a new industrial policy by December 31, 1991 and
completion of the reorganization of the Ministry of Industry by
June 30, 1992.



-6
19.         anefits:  The proposed project will yield major benefits to
Poland by elaborating the policies for privatization, restructuring and the
nagement of state assets and by designing and applying the needed framework
for effective transformation of a substantial part of the country's state
enterprise sector. While directly mupporting the transformation of only 10-
15 of industrial enterprises, the mechanism developed and the technical
assstance put in place should ensure the continuing transformation of
enterprises in line with national objectives. In addition, implementation of
the project wlll lead to: (i) improvements in er.terprise management;
(ii) economic benefits (related to returns on investment in subprojects);
(iii) convertible currency earnings derived from the increased availability of
quality products both for exports and as substitute for imports; (iv)
environeantal benefits of the physical investments of restructuring
enterprises, reducing their environment nuisances; and (v) institutional,
social and demonstration benefits. It will also support efforts to stimulate
private sector development and privatization in the ongoing move towards a
market economy. While not directly addressing the social cost of reform, the
project will help to maintain jobs in efficient enterprises, and reduce the
Loss of jobs in enterprises facing difficulties by helping to restore their
viability. In the long term, the project would pave the way for further
development of productive capacity and employment in privatized/restructured
enterprises.
20.         Riask.  In the short term there could be delays in implementation
associated with the scale, complexity, and unprecedented nature of the
privatization program, as well as the of enterprises' resistance to privatize.
The social costs of restructuring could result in watering down of or
introducing inconsistencies in the transformation program. The Government's
limited implementation capability, the slow and difficult build-up of the new
institutions, and the lack of skills of the enterprise managers may introduce
some delays; the inclusion of the comprehensive technical assistance component
is designed to minimize this risk. In the longer term, a risk that could
adversely affect the indirect benefits of the project stems from the ambitious
nature and pace of the program of adjustment and stabilization. The major
institutional and systemic reforms called for under this program are
unprecedented in Poland and may take longer than foreseen. The Bank's
on-going economic and sector work and intense policy dialogue will be
important in helping to identify and overcome weaknesses in implementation of
the reform and to cupport the Government's overall industrial policy reform
program. In addition, to minimize this risk, major TA will be provided to
develop the needed regulatory and institutional framework of Poland. Flnally
the lack of services and qualified consultants may slow down the pace of the
demonstration effect, but the design of the technical assistance component and
the Bank's close supervision of the implementation will minimize this risk.



21,         c5SiS1datLgtD   I am satisfied that the proposed loan would
comply with the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the
Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
May 22, 1991



-8-
ScebduleA
pMIVATIZATION AND RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Estimated Costs and Financing Plan
Estimated Costs:
Loal        Foreig      Total
--------(US$ million)--
golicy Component                            -           75          75
Technical Assistance Co2ponentW
Ministry of Ownership Changes         25         116         141
Ministry of Industry                              19          19
Polish Development Bank                            3           3
Industrial Development Agency         5           39          44
Foreign Investment Agency                         21          21
Anti-Monopoly Agency                               3           3
Wojewoda Assistance                                7           7
Technical Assistance Unit            -2
Sub-total TA                         30          210         240
Investmentt Co Donent                     180          420         600
Total Costs                          9Q                     295
Financing Plan:
IBRD                                 -           280         280
Government (for TA)                  30           50          80
Enterprises/commercial/
institutional sources         180         280          460
EC (for TA)                          -            69          69
Other institutions (for TA)          -26                     -a
Total                                2          zu           2
31    In case of alternative sources of grant financing for TA the Bank loan
allocation for this category will be reduced and added to the Investment
Component.



9
Schedule B
PRIVATIZATION AND RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Procurement Method and Disbursements
Procurement Methed'/
Items                                IC           ISiDZ V     Other         Total
----------------(US$ million)----------
(1) Policy Componentif                 15           60                       75
(15)        (60)          -          (75)
(2) Technical Assistance                                       240          240
(65)        (65)
(3) Investment Component              150          450                      600
(50)        (90) -240)
Total                           165          510         240          915
(65)       (150)         (65)       (280)
1/    Figures in parentheses are the amounts financed by the Bank loan.
a     Includes international shopping and direct purchase.
Includes services procured under the Bank's consultant guidelines, and
goods and services to be procured locally using local competitive
procurement procedure.
Up to US$50 million of this component could be used for a Debt and Debt
Service Reduction (DDSR) plan meeting the requirements for Bank support.
Disbursamne
Amount
-.Atzgo2y              (USS milluon}       X Finman&g
(1) Policy Componentl1           75        100X of foreign expenditures & 1001
of local expenditure (ex-factory
(2) Technical Assistance         65        cost), for goods; 1001 of
expenditures for services of
(3) Investment Component                   consultants domiciled within the
territory of the Borrower and 1001
of foreign expenditures for services
of other consultants; and 100X of
Total                                foreign expenditures for training.
1     Same as note i/ above.
Estimated IBRD Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year
ma9  1223  1994t 1995  122i 122
------     (US$ million)----------
Annual                               105    68    58    28    14       7
Cumulative                           105   173   231   259   273   280



- 10 -
POD
PRIVUTIZaTIN AND RESTUCTRIN  PRJECT
Tlmetable of Key Project Procegasng  Uvant
(a)  Time Taken to Prepare:                     16 months
(b)   Prepared by:                              Participating institutions
with Bank assistance
(c)   First Bank Mission:                       February 1990
(d)   Appraisal Mission Departure:V             March 1991
(e)  Negotiations:                              May 8-11, 1991
(f)   Planned Date of Effectiveness:            September 1991
(8)   List of Relevant iCRs and PPARs:          None
The project was originally appraised during June/July of 1990,
with emphasis on restructuring and technical assistance. In
October 1990, however, the project was redesigned to better assist
the new Government's privatization program, and therefore was
reappraised in March 1991.



Schdue D
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS In PLAD
A. STATEMENT OF USN IS 1
(as of M(arch 31, 1991)
AMont In US$ millol
Loa       Fiscal                                                                     (Loee  canesllations)
li.         Year           Eorewto                       PURoSo                       Bak    llndibusb*ed
5166       1090   Hktl Dauk of Poland         Ird. Dup. Prewtion                    260.00       248.11
3167       1010   Wtal Dank of Polnd           Aroird. Up. Irootion                 100.00        85.09
3190       1990   Republi of Poland           Environmt IMnaoBnt                     18.00        17.36
3193  /    1990   Republic of Poland          Trasort                                  4.75        4.75
3194       1990   Polish Railway Corp.        Trasport                              145.00       141.83
3215       1990   Poligh Oil 6 Ma  Corp.       e rgy Resources Deyt.                250.00       231.31
* 3247       1991  Republic of Poland           SAL T                                  300.00      221.38
Subtotal.                                                        1077.75      949.83
of which repaid RI                                              -
Total now outstanding                                            1077.75
AUmot Bold                                                          -
Total now held by Bank 2                                         1077.Z5
TotaL undisbursed                                                             949.83
B. STATEMT OE IFC INVESTMENTS
(as of March 31, 1991)
Gross Camm=taints
ZiscaL                                                                              _ US8 Million
tear                       Oblisor            oTue °f 9usiness               Lo       Eauitv       mutal
1989               Hortox                     BHrticulture                   17.12                 17.12
lSO               Export Dovt. Bank           Export credit                 31.66                 31.66
1991               Bristol Hotel               Hotel developet               1          1      0 .06
TOTAL   Original Gross Comituents                         58.84      -         58.84
LESS    Cancellations, Trminations, Exchange
Adjustoments. Repayments, Write-offs & Sales      .2La                  .12
TOTAL   Comitments now hold by ZFC                       IL.         -         56ZZ
TOTAL   Undisbureed                                       42.15      -         42.15
TOTAL   Outstanding                                       14.57      -          14.57
U The status of projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on all Bank/IDA
financed projects in execution, which in updated twice yearly and circulated to the
Executive Directors on April 30th and October 31st.
ZI 3193 and 3194 are two loans for one project
U Excludes a loan of US$120 million fir a Telecomunicaticns Project which was approved
by the Executive Directors on April 23, 1991 (aot yet sisned).
I/ Prior to exchange adjustments.
S SAL, SECAL or Proaran Loan.



