CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1068 TUN
Loan Agreement
(Irrigation Rehabilitation Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED DECEMBER 31, 1974


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1068 TUN
Loan Agreement
(Irrigation Rehabilitation Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED DECEMBER 31, 1974


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 31, 1974, between REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in the
financing of the foreign exchange cost of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B)   The Project will be carried out by the Office de la Mise en Valeur
de la Vallke de la Medjerda et des Primtres Publics Irrigue's, by the Office de
Mise en Valeur de Nebhana, and by Banque Nationale de Tunisie with the
Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make
available to Office de la Mise en Valeur de la Vallee de la Medjerda et des Perimetres
Publics Irrigues, to Office de Mise en Valeur de Nebhana, and to Banque Nationale
de Tunisie, respectively, part of the proceeds of the Loan as hereinafter provided;
and
(C)   The Bank is willing to make the Loan available upon the terms and
conditions set forth hereinafter and in project agreements of even date herewith
between the Bank and Office de la Mise en Valeur de la Vallie de la Medjerda
et des P6rimetres Publics Irrigu6s, and Office de Mise en Valeur de Nebhana,
respectively;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank,
dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were fully set
forth herein, subject, however, to the following modifications thereof (said General
Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, as so
modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions):
(a)   The following sub-paragraph 19 is added to Section 2.01:


﻿4
"19. The terms "OMVVM Project Agreement," and "OMIVAN Project
Agreement" shall have the meaning set forth in the Loan Agreement"; and
(b)   Section 6.06 and 10.03 are amended by inserting the words ", OMVVM
Project Agreement, OMIVAN Project Agreement, after the words "Loan
Agreement".
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "OMVVM" means "Office de la Mise en Valeur de la Vallie de la
Medjerda et des Perimetres Publics Irrigue's" an etablissement public a caract&re
industriel et commercial established and operating pursuant to the Borrower's Laws
No. 58/63 of June 11, 1958 and No. 58/76 of July 9, 1958, and Decree-Law
No. 70/10 of September 28, 1970, including any successor thereto;
(b)   "OMIVAN" means "Office de Mise en Valeur de Nebhana" an
6tablissement public a caract&re industriel et commercial established and operating
pursuant to the Borrower's Law No. 73/28 of May 7, 1973, and Decree
No. 73/391 of August 2, 1973, including any successor thereto;
(c)   "BNT" means "Banque Nationale de Tunisie" a SocietM Anonyme
incorporated and operating under the Borrower's Code de Commerce promulgated
by Law No. 59/129 of October 5, 1959 and pursuant to its Statuts;
(d)   "Statuts" means BNT's Article of Incorporation as filed with the
R6gistre du Commerce of Tunis, as the same may be amended from time to time;
(e)   "OMVVM Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank
and OMVVM of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to
time, and such term includes all schedules to the OMVVM Project Agreement;
(f)   "OMIVAN Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank
and OMIVAN of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules to the OMIVAN Project Agreement;
(g)   "BNT Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and BNT pursuant to Section 3.01(c)(i) of this Agreement, as the
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
to the BNT Agreement;


﻿5
(h)   "Dt" means dinars in the currency of the Borrower;
(i)   "Sub-Loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made to a Project
Farmer under Part C of the Project;
(j)   "Project Farmer" means a beneficiary of a Sub-loan under Part C of
the Project;
(k)   "Project Area Farmer" means a proprietor of irrigable land in the
Project area, which has benefited from public investments enabling his land to
be irrigated;
(1)   DEGTH means the Direction Gnrale des Etudes et Grands Travaux
a directorate established and operating within the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture
including any successor thereto;
(m)   "DAFL" means the Direction des Affaires Foncires et de Ldgislation,
a directorate established and operating within the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture
in accordance with Article 12 of the Borrower's Decree No. 70-104 of March 28,
1970, as the same may be amended from time to time, including any successor
thereto;
(n)   "CCN" means the "Cooperative Centrale des Legumes et Fruits
Nebhana", a cooprative de service, established and operating under the laws of
the Borrower, and pursuant to its statuts filed with the Registre du Commerce
of Tunis under No. 34858, as the same may be amended from time to time,
including any successor thereto;
(o)   "Investment Contributions" means contributions towards public
investments to irrigate land in the Medjerda Valley, and in public irrigated areas,
respectively, as those contributions are defined (i) in Section I of the Borrower's
Law No. 58/63 of June 11, 1958 (as amended by the Borrower's Law No. 6/60
of July 26, 1960) applicable in the Medjerda Valley portion of the Project, and
(ii) in Section 1 of the Borrower's Law No. 63-18 of May 27, 1963 (as amended
by the Borrower's Law No. 71-9 of February 16, 1971), including the Decrees
taken pursuant thereto, which are applicable in the Nebhana portion of the Project
area;
(p)   "Settler" means an assignee of state land in the Medjerda portion of
the Project area pursuant to the provisions of Law No. 70-25 of May 19, 1970
and of Decree No. 70-199 of June 9, 1970;


﻿6
(q)   "Contr6leur Financier" means the person referred to in Article 19 of
the Borrower's Law No. 58-76 of July 9, 1958 and in Article 11 of the Borrower's
Decree No. 73-391 of August 2, 1973.
(r)   "Attestation" means the certificate referred to in Article 7 of the
Borrower's Law No. 74-53 of June 10, 1974 and delivered by the Borrower's
Minister of Agriculture to Settlers, or assignees of land pursuant to the Borrower's
Law No. 58-63 of June 11, 1958 (as amended by Law No. 6-60 of July 26, 1960)
or of Law No. 63-18 of May 27, 1963 (as amended by Law No. 71-9 of
February 16, 1971).
(s) " SONEDE" means Socidte Nationale d'Exploitation et de Distribution
des Eaux, an 6tablissement public a caractre industriel et commercial established
and operating pursuant to the Borrower's Law No. 68-22, dated July 2, 1968 (as
amended by Law No. 72-37 dated April 27, 1972), including any successor thereto;
and
(t)   "STEG" means Socit6 Tunisienne de L'ElectricitM et du Gaz, an
itablissement public a' caractWre industriel et commercial established and operating
pursuant to the Borrower's Decree-Law No. 62-8 dated April 3, 1962, including
any successor thereto.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to twelve million two hundred thousand dollars
($12,200,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, contracts for the
purchase of goods, the carrying out of works or services (other than consultants'
services) for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan,
shall be awarded in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.


﻿7
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1982 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Bank.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of eight per cent
(8%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually on
February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal of the Loan in
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.09. For the purposes of taking any action required or permitted
to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article
V of the General Conditions, are designated as representatives of the Borrower:
(i)        BNT with respect of withdrawals to be made under Category
IV of the table set out in paragraph I of Schedule 1 to the
Loan Agreement; and
(ii)       The Borrower's Minister of Agriculture with respect of
withdrawals to be made under Categories I, II and III of the
table set out in paragraph I of Schedule I to the Loan
Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project through its
departments, agencies and offices and with the assistance of OMVVM and OMIVAN
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound administrative,
financial, agricultural, technical, engineering and credit practices, and shall provide
or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.


﻿8
(b)   Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations
under the Loan Agreement, the Borrower shall cause (i) BNT to perform in
accordance with the provisions of the BNT Agreement, (ii) OMVVM to perform
in accordance with the provisions of the OMVVM Project Agreement, and (iii)
OMIVAN to perform in accordance with the provisions of the OMIVAN Project
Agreement all their respective obligations therein set forth, shall take and cause
to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable BNT, OMVVM and OMIVAN,
respectively, to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken
any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(c)  The Borrower shall make available:
(i)        to BNT that portion of the proceeds of the Loan required for
the execution of Part C of the Project and provided for under
Category IV of the Allocation of the Proceeds of the Loan set
forth in paragraph I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement under
an agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and BNT
under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by
the Bank;
(ii)       to BNT such funds out of its own resources as shall be required
for the execution of Part C of the Project, provided, however,
that after the effective date of the BNT Agreement, such funds
shall be so made available to BNT under the BNT Agreement
and under the terms and conditions of the BNT Agreement,
which shall have been approved by the Bank; and
(iii)      to OMVVM and OMIVAN, respectively, by way of a grant, that
portion of the proceeds of the Loan required for the execution
of Parts A and B of the Project and provided for under Categories
I, II and III of the Allocation of the Proceeds of the Loan set
forth in Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement and such other
amounts from its own resources as shall be required to carry
out Parts A and B of the Project;
(c)  The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the BNT Agreement in
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to
accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate or waive the BNT Agreement
or any provision thereof.


﻿9
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall cause DEGTH to construct, operate and
maintain in the Nebhana portion of the Project area dams, tubewells, pipelines
and other irrigation water delivery devices located outside the public irrigated areas
of Nebhana.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall at all times take all such steps as shall
be necessary to allocate adequate amounts of water for irrigation in the 2,000
hectares of land referred to under Part B(ix) of the Project.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall carry out an agricultural credit study to
be made available to the Bank, together with the Borrower's proposals based thereon
no later than December 1, 1975 (or such other date as the Bank may agree).
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making loans to, or with
the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in normal circumstances, special security
from the member concerned but to ensure that no other external debt shall have
priority over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of foreign
exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such member. To that end,
if any lien shall be created on any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security
for any external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the benefit
of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realization or distribution
of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso
facto and at no cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in creating or
permitting the creation of such lien, shall make express provision to that effect;
provided, however, that, if for any constitutional or other legal reason such
provision cannot be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of
its political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall promptly and at no
cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the
Loan by an equivalent lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b)   The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any lien created on
property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as security for payment of the
purchase price of such property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course
of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date.


﻿10
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause all works and facilities included
in the Project to be adequately maintained and repaired in accordance with sound
engineering and agricultural practices and standards and shall cause all dams, canals,
pipelines, structures and other works and facilities not included in the Project but
necessary to the proper and efficient operation thereof to be operated and
adequately maintained and repaired in accordance with such practices and standards;
(b)   Without limitation or restriction upon the generality of the provision
of the foregoing paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall cause DEGTH:
(i)         to carry out an inspection by qualified personnel no later than
December 31, 1978 (or such other later date as the Bank may
agree) and thereafter at intervals of not more than five years,
of the Oued Mellegue and Sidi Messaoud dams and their
appurtenant structures, to determine whether actual or potential
deficiencies exist in the condition of these dams or in the quality
and adequacy of their operation and maintenance;
(ii)        to forward promptly to the Bank copy of the reports related
to the inspections referred to in the preceding paragraph (b)(i)
of this Section; and
(iii)       to undertake promptly, as and when needed, any necessary
action to operate and adequately maintain and repair the Oued
Mellegue and Sidi Messaoud dams, in accordance with sound
engineering and agricultural practices and standards.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall take, or cause to be taken, all action
as may be necessary in accordance with a timetable acceptable to the Bank to:
(i)         charge, and to collect from, Project Area Farmers the Investment
Contributions;
(ii)        prepare and deliver to Project Farmers an Attestation;
(iii)       carry out land consolidations in the Project Area;
(iv)        implement limitations on the size of land holdings in the Project
Area; and
(v)         implement requirements of Project Area Farmers to irrigate their
land.


﻿*                                  11
(b)   Before making any changes in the timetable referred to in paragraph
(a) of this Section, the Borrower shall submit such changes to the Bank for approval.
Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall charge and collect, or cause OMVVM and OMIVAN, respectively, to collect,
from Project Area Farmers water charges at levels which will produce a rate of:
(i) not less than Dt 0,006 per cubic meter of water delivered to Project Area
Farmers located in the Medjerda Valley portion of the Project Area; and (ii) not
less than Dt 0,0008 per cubic meter of water delivered to Project Area Farmers
located in the Nebhana portion of the Project Area;
(b)   Without limitation or restriction on the provisior  4 the foregoing
paragraph (a) of this Section and unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall, from time to time, but in any case not less than once in every three years,
adjust its water charges so as to provide revenues sufficient to cover the full
peration and maintenance cost of the irrigation facilities included in the Project.
(c)   The Borrower shall promptly inform the Ban' of any adjustments of
water charges made in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (b) of this
Section.
ARTICLE V
Reinedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   BNT, OMVVM or OMIVAN shall have failed to perform any of their
respective covenants, agreements or obligations under the BNT Agreement, the
01\iVVM Project Agreement or the OMIVAN Project Agreement, respectively;
(b)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that BNT, OMVVM or OMIVAN will be able to perform their respective
obligations under the BNT Agreement or the OMVVM or OMIVAN Project
Agreements, respectively;
(c)   Law No. 73/28 of May 7, 1973 or Decree No. 73/391 of August 2,
1973 shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated or waived in such a way
as materially and adversely to affect the ability of OMIVAN to carry out the
covenants, agreements and obligations set forth in the OMIVAN Project Agreement;


﻿12
(d)   Laws No. 58/63 of June 11, 1958 and No. 58/76 of July 9, 1958,
or Decree Law No. 70/10 of September 28, 1970 shail have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived in such a way as materially and adversely
to affect the ability of OMVVM to carry out the covenants, agreements and
obligations set forth in the OMVVM Project Agreement; and
(e)  The "Statuts" shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed
or waived in such a way as materially and adversely to affect the ability of BNT
to carry out the covenants, agreements and obligations set forth in the BNT
Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Bank to the Borrower; and
(b)   any event specified in paragraphs (c), (d) and (e) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c)
of the General Conditions:
(a)  The execution and delivery of the OMVVM Project Agreement on
behalf of OMVVM have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate
and administrative action;
(b)   The execution and delivery of the OMIVAN Project Agreement on
behalf of OMIVAN have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate
and administrative action; and
(c)   OMIVAN shall have employed the senior advisor referred to under
Section 3.05 of the OMIVAN Project Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 12.02(c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:


﻿13
(a)  The OMVVM Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified
by, and executed and delivered on behalf of OMVVM, and is legally binding upon
OMVVM in accordance with its terms; and
(b)  The OMIVAN Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified
by and executed and delivered on behalf of OMIVAN, and is legally binding upon
OMIVAN in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date May 1, 1975 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Ministre du Plan of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministre du Plan
Minist6re du Plan
I Rue de B6ja
Tunis, Tunisia
Cable address:
MINISTERE DU PLAN
1 Rue de B6ja
Tunis
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿14
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
By /s/ Ali Hedda
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s / Munir P. Benjenk
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿15
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated               % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                   Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
I.    Civil works                     1,919,000          39% (representing
the estimated
foreign expendi-
ture component)
II.   Equipment,                     3,026,000           100% of foreign
vehicles and                                       expenditures or
Livestock                                          77% (representing
the estimated
foreign expendi-
ture component)
III.  Consultants,                    1,043,000          100% of foreign
studies and                                        expenditures
fellowships
IV.   Medium- and                    2,125,000           38% (representing
long-term credit                                   the estimated
for fruit tree                                     foreign expendi-
orchards, live-                                    ture component)
stock stables,
farm housing,
sprinkler equip-
ment, stilling
and storage
basins, and
marketing sup-
port facilities
and seasonal
credit
V.    Unallocated                    4,087,000
TOTAL         12,200,000


﻿16
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expenditures" means
expenditures for goods or services supplied from, the territory, and in the currency,
of any country other than the Borrower.
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan shall be disbursed on account
of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods
or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if any event occurs which shall affect the amount of any such taxes
included in the cost of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, correspondingly adjust the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such item.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals may be made in respect of Categories I and II on account of
expenditures incurred after June 1, 1974 in an aggregate amount not exceeding
$100,000; and
(b)   sub-loans under Category IV cf the Allocation of the Proceeds of the
Loan set forth in paragraph 1 of this Schedule until the execution and delivery
of the BNT Agreement on behalf of the Borrower and BNT, respectively, shall
have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and administrative
action; provided, however, that if the BNT Agreement shall not have been executed
and delivered in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.01(c)(i) of this
Agreement, by February 1, 1976 the Bank may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan
Agreement, by notice to the Borrower cancel the amount of the Loan provided
for the carrying out of Part C of the Project and under Category IV of the
Allocation of the Proceeds of the Loan set forth in paragraph I of this Schedule.
5.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or the disbursement
percentages set forth in the table in paragraph I above, if the Bank has reasonably
estimated that the amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category to the
extent required to meet the estimated shortfall proceeds of the Loan which are
then allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are
not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully
meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable


﻿17
to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.    If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the procurement of any
item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to
in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting
any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan Agreement, by
notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan as in the Bank's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿18
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Borrower's Program (i) to close the gap between
the low utilization of existing public investments in irrigation and the productive
potential of these investments, (ii) to raise incomes of small farmers by intensifying
and diversifying the cropping patterns, (iii) to increase the security of land tenure,
(iv) to increase the accessibility and volume of agricultural credit to small farmers,
(v) to provide needed public services and to improve housing conditions for the
lowest income farmers in Medjerda, and (vi) to strengthen agricultural institutions.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A:     Activities to be carried out in the irrigable area of the Medjerda Valley
(i)         rehabilitation of the existing irrigation, drainage, and road
networks over a net area of about 20,000 ha;
(ii)        construction of about 370 farmhouses, installation of facilities
to provide about 614 existing farms with electricity and about
678 existing farms with drinking water, rehabilitation and repair
of 7 existing rural centers and construction of 2 new centers
and construction of housing for 30 extension agents;
(iii)        establishment of windbreaks for crop protection over about
5,000 ha;
(iv)         purchase and   utilization  of equipment and machinery for
operation and maintenance of the irrigation, drainage, and road
networks over about 20,000 ha;
(v)         strengthening of OMVVM        through  provision of specialists,
fellowships and vehicles;
(vi)        on farm   development on Settler holdings and on holdings of
about 600 Project Area Farmers, including supply of farm
machinery; and
(vii)       purchase of about 900 selected dairy cattle.
Part B:     Activities to be carried out in the irrigable equipped area at Nebhana
(i)         assistance   in  land    reform   through    consolidation  and
establishment of farm titles for about 3,800 small private farmers


﻿19
with holdings totalling about 5,000 ha and through the provision
of supplementary consultant services;
(ii)       rehabilitation of existing irrigation, drainage, and road networks
over about 5,000 ha;
(iii)       construction of irrigation and drainage works over about
2,000 ha;
(iv)        establishment of windbreaks over about 1,500 ha;
(v)         purchase and utilization of equipment and machinery for
operation and maintenance of the irrigation, drainage and road
network over about 5,000 ha and for additional land
development work;
(vi)        purchase and utilization of field boxes and vehicles and
construction of buildings to improve marketing services;
(vii)      strengthening of OMIVAN      through provision of specialists,
fellowships and vehicles;
(viii)      carrying  out of a detailed feasibility study and detailed
engineering for development of irrigated agriculture over about
3,000 ha not included in the Project; and
(ix)        on-farm development on about 2,000 ha.
Part C.     Provision of Credit
(i)         provision of medium- and long-term   credit in the Medjerda
portion of the Project area to Settlers and to about 600 Project
Farmers for the establishment of fruit orchards over about
850 ha, the construction of housing and stables, and provision
of short-term credit to Settlers and to about 600 Project Farmers
for crop production inputs; and
(ii)        provision in the Nebhana portion of the Project area of (a)
medium- and long-term credit (A) to Project Farmers for the
establishment of fruit orchards over about 300 ha, for sprinkler
irrigation equipment for about 400 ha, and for the construction


﻿20
of stilling and storage basins, and (B) to marketing cooperatives
for the equipping and construction of marketing support
facilities and of (b) short-term credit to such Project Farmers
for crop production inputs.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 30, 198 1.


﻿21
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                                 (expressed in dollars)*
August 15, 1982                                       165,000
February 15, 1983                                     170,000
August 15, 1983                                       180,000
February 15, 1984                                     185,000
August 15, 1984                                       195,000
February 15, 1985                                     200,000
August 15, 1985                                       210,000
February 15, 1986                                     220,000
August 15, 1986                                       225,000
February 15, 1987                                     235,000
August 15, 1987                                       245,000
February 15, 1988                                     255,000
August 15, 1988                                       265,000
February 15, 1989                                     275,000
August 15, 1989                                       285,000
February 15, 1990                                     300,000
August 15, 1990                                       310,000
February 15, 1991                                     325,000
August 15, 1991                                       335,000
February 15, 1992                                     350,000
August 15, 1992                                       365,000
February 15, 1993                                     375,000
August 15, 1993                                       395,000
February 15, 1994                                     410,000
August 15, 1994                                       425,000
February 15, 1995                                     440,000
August 15, 1995                                       460,000
February 15, 1996                                     480,000
August 15, 1996                                       495,000
February 15, 1997                                     515,000
August 15, 1997                                       535,000
February 15, 1998                                     560,000
August 15, 1998                                       580,000
February 15, 1999                                     605,000
August 15, 1999                                       630,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a currency other
than dollars (see General Conditions, Section 4.02), the figures in this column
represent dollar equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿22
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums payable on
repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the principal amount of the
Loan pursuant to Section 3.05(b) of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                                Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                 3/4%
More than three years but not
more than six years
before maturity                               2-1/4%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                                   3%
More than eleven years but
not more than sixteen
years before maturity                         4-3/4%
More than sixteen years but not
more than twenty-one
years before maturity                         6-3/4%
More than twenty-one years
but not more than twenty-
three years before maturity                   7-1/2%
More than twenty-three years
before maturity                                   8%


﻿23
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.    General Procedures
1.   Except as provided in Part A.2 hereof, contracts shall be let under procedures
consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World
Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in April 1972, as revised
in October 1972 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
2.   (a) Contracts for civil works (including construction of rural centers) may
be advertised locally only, and when competitive bidding procedures shall prove
to be impractical, such works may be carried out under force account in accordance
with the Borrower's (which term shall, for the purpose of this Schedule, include
OMVVM and OMIVAN, as appropriate) regulations applicable to the Borrower's
Ministry of Public Works, and in accordance with procurement regulations
applicable to OMVVM, OMIVAN, SONEDE and STEG, as appropriate.
(b)   For specialized hydraulic equipment including repairs thereof and civil
works, OMVVM may negotiate purchases of replacement equipment from its usual
suppliers, provided, however, that the aggregate amount of such purchases shall
not exceed the equivalent of $600,000; and
(c)   Contracts for livestock may be awarded after receiving at least three
quotations from suppliers for each contract to be awarded.
B.    Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for Domestic
Manufacturers
1.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the supply of
goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry)
price for imported goods, or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured
goods; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales
and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall be excluded; and (iii) the
cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the
delivery of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.    Goods manufactured in Tunisia may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:


﻿24
(a)   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly
indicate any preference which will be granted, the information required to establish
the eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following methods and stages
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b)   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the
following three groups:
(1)   Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Tunisia if the
bidder shall have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower
and the Bank that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in Tunisia equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory
bid price of such goods.
(2)   Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured in Tunisia.
(3)   Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c)   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among
themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import taxes on goods to be
imported and any sales or similar taxes on goods to be supplied domestically, to
determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group. The lowest evaluated bid of
each group shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d)   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) above, the lowest
bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be further compared with the
lowest evaluated bid from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the
imported goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the importation
of the goods offered in such group C bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of
such goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group
A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award;
if not, the lowest evaluated bid from group C shall be selected.
C.    Review of Procurement Decisions by Bank
1.    Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for (i) all equipment for irrigation (including
electromechanical equipment, parts of pumping stations, pipes, taps, turnouts, water


﻿25
meters and sprinklers) and all operation and maintenance equipment (including
farm machinery and vehicles) estimated to cost the equivalent of $20,000 or more,
and (ii) for civil works (except for works to be carried out under force account
as provided in Part A2(a) of this Schedule) estimated to cost the equivalent of
$100,000 or more:
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, for
its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other
bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures to
be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's concurrence before
it is issued to the prospective bidd. rs.
(b)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Bank of the name of the bidder
to which it intends to award the contract and the reasons for the intended award
and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report
to be prepared by OMVVM and OMIVAN as applicable on the evaluation and
comparison of the bids received, together with the recommendation for award and
such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if
it determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.
(c)   The terms anL conditions of the contract shall not, without the Bank's
concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.
(d)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the Bank
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect
of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis
of bids, recommendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the contract
was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.


