Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FILE CPY
Report No. 4728-KO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KOREA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
March 1, 1984
Transportation Division
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Won (W)
US$1                        -    W 800 (as of January 1, 1984)
US$1.25                     =     W 1,000
US$1 million                =    W 800 million
US$1,250                    =    W 1 million
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND NEASURES
1 meter (M)                     =   3.2808 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)       2        -   0.62 mile (mi)
I square kilometer (km ) 2          0.3861 square miles (sq mi)
I hectare (ha) = 0.01 km2       =   2.4711 acres (ac)
1 kilogram (kg)                 -   2.2046 pounds (lbs)
1 metric ton (m ton)            =   2,204.6226 pounds (lbs)
1.1023 short tons (sh tons or 2,000 lbs)
0.9842 long tons (Ig ton or 2,240 lbs)
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ADB                -  Asian Development Bank
ADT                -  Average Daily Traffic
BPR                 -  Bureau of Public Roads
EPB                 -  Economic Planning Board
ERR                 -  Economic Rate of Return
FFYP               -  Fifth Five-Year Economic and Social
Development Plan
GNP                 -  Gross National Product
KHC                 -  Korea Highway Corporation
KMPA               -  Korea Maritime and Port Administration
KNR                 -  Korean National Railroad
MOC                -  Ministry of Construction
MOCI                -  Ministry of Commerce and Industry
MOER                -  Ministry of Energy and Resources
MOF                -  Ministry of Finance
MOHA                -  Ministry of Home Affairs
MOST                -  Ministry of Science and Technology
MOT                -  Ministry of Transport
VOC                 -  Vehicle Operating Costs



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KOREA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
INTRODUCTION .....................................................               1
I.  TRANSPORT SECTOR ................... .............                        1
A.  Geographic and Economic Setting ..........1............. 
B.  The Transport System          .     ..................... . ...... ....  2
,.  Transport Sector Objectives and Issues in the 1980s  ...             3
IGHWAY SECTOR       ...................................                 4
The Network                      . ....   4
Traffic .....5.....                                                  5
.  Road Safety           ...........................................     5
D.  Institutions          ..........................................     6
E.  Planning and Financing . ....       ...........................      6
r.  Design and Construction ..............................               7
G.  Maintenance        ...........................................       7
H.  Past Highway Projects .....................       .     ..           8
III.  ISSUES RELATED TO EFFICIENCY IN THE HIGHWAY SECTOR . .......              9
A.  Highway Investment Planning .....       .....................        9
B.  Regulation and Pricing ...................................           9
C.  Energy Conservation  ...................... .............           12
IV.  HIGHWAY SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PLAN (1982-86) .14
A. Background.                        . ..........                      14
B.  Objectives .   .............14
C. Description                  . . .15
Overall Scope and Cost of the Plan. .                             15
Road Construction Program            . . .16
Maintenance Program ....                   ......   .........    17
D. Assessment .17
Institutional Capacity             . . .17
Financial Aspects              . . .18
Economic Aspects               . . .19
This report has been prepared by B.P. Kennedy (Engineer) and A.F. Ballereau
(Economist).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Page No.
V.  BANK PARTICIPATION                * *   *.................................... *    ...  20
A. Objectives                                .                                20
B. Description    ..20
C.     General Sector Conditions - Action Plan             .     .24
D.   Conditions for Subprojects.                                              24
E. Procurement    ..25
F. Implementation                         ...25
G. Disbursements    ..26
H.  Auditing                                       .                          26
I.  Progress Reporting and Monitoring    .                  .27
J.  Environment and Urban Aspects    .                    .27
K.  Assessment of Risk ...                ..27
VI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ................           ....         28
TABLES
1.1  Growth Trend of Domestic Passenger Traffic (1961-82).                          31
1.2  Growth Trend of Domestic Freight Traffic (1961-82)                             32
2.1 Public Roads Network (1962-82)               ..33
2.2  Registered Motor Vehicles (1962-82) .......................                    34
2.3  Korean Motor Vehicle Production (1962-82)             .       .35
2.4  Motor Vehicle Fuel Consumption (1962-82)                  .      .36
2.5  Road Authorities and Agencies .............................                    37
3.1  Commercial Licensing of Road Transport
Companies (1974-82) .....................................                   38
3.2  Trucks by Categories of Ownership (1967-82)                 .     .39
3.3  Cars by Categories of Ownership (1967-82) .40
4.1  Forecast for Domestic Passenger Transport (1980-86)                            41
4.2  Forecast for Domestic Freight Transport (1980-86)                              42
4.3  Comparison of Investment Plans (1977-81 and 1982-86)                           43
4.4  Fifth Five Year Plan: Expenditures for
Roads (1982-86)..                                                          44
4.5  Fourth Five-Year plan: Expenditures for
Roads (1977-81) .45
4.6 Expenditures on Roads (1962-81)               ..46
4.7  Expenditures on Roads (1981).                                                  47
4.8(a)  Actual Highway Investment Plan:   Expenditures for 1982-86
(1983 prices) .48
4.8(b)  Actual Highway Investment Plan:   Expenditures for 1982-86
(current prices)                                                           49
4.9  (a)  Summary of Highway Investment Plan: Capital Expenditures
for 1982-86 (1983 prices).                                                  50
4.9  (b)  Summary of Highway Investment Plan: Capital Expenditures
for 1982-86 (Current prices) .51
4.10  Road User Charges (1972-81) ...............         ..    ..............       52
4.11 Pump Price of Major Petroleum Products
in Korea (1980-83)  ...................                                    53



- iii -
Page No.
5.1 Selected National and Provincial Roads: Traffic
Estimated Costs and Rate of Returns .....................        54
5.2  Highway Design Standards ........................... ...... ,    55
5.3  Cumulative Disbursement Schedule  ...........                       ...............  58
ANNEXES
1.    st Fivc-Year Transport DevelopmerF Plans and Bpnk's
Involvement (1962-81) ........... ......    ... .    ,           59
2.  Transport Policy Letters and Action Plan .63
3.  Progress Reporting Requirements .................   * .........    69
4.  Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File           73
CHARTS
1.  Ministry of Construction Organization (World Bank - 19013) ....   74
2.  Korea Highway Corporation:  Organization (World Bank - 19016)      75
3.  Bureau of Public Roads:  Organization (World Bank - 19015)          76
4.  Ministry of Home Affairs:  Organization (World Bank - 24249)        77
5.  Ministry of Home Affairs:  Organization for Road Management
(World Bank - 24250) .     .................... ...................  78
6.  Road Organization at Provincial Level (World Bank - 24251) ....   79
7.  A Typical County (Gun):  Organization (World Bank - 24252) ....   80
MAP
No. 16730R1 - Highway Sector Project






KOREA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:            Republic of Korea
Amount:              $230.0 million equivalent, including the capitalized
front-end fee.
Terms:               Repayable in 15 years with 3 years of grace, at the
standard variable rate.
Project
Description:       The basic objective of the project is to assist the
Borrower to increase economic efficiency in Korea's
highway sector through improvements in investment
planning, transport regulation and pricing, and energy
conservation. The loan funds would help finance a three-
year time-slice of the highway investment program for the
years 1984 through 1986 to meet the increasing traffic
demand by improving and paving roads, improving highway
maintenance, and reducing the traffic accident rate.
To achieve these objectives, an Action Plan will be
carried out as follows:  (a) highway investment planning -
to establish a system under which all highway construction
and maintenance investments are planned and funded on an
integrated and sound economic basis; (b) energy conserva-
tion - to expand and improve the effectiveness of a
Government program to increase energy efficiency in the
transport sector; (c) transport regulation and pricing -
(i) to study the impact of the present regulatory system
on the cost of transport services with a view to the
identification and removal of unnecessary regulations;
(ii) to study and identify the most appropriate method of
apportioning highway costs among users; and (iii) to study
the use of freight terminals to improve road transport
efficiency.
The proposed loan entails risk of delays in implementation
of the Action Plan which would be reduced by quarterly
reviews of progress. There are also some risks as to the
carrying out of two studies under the Action Plan and the
adequacy of budget support for the highway investment
program. The risks regarding the studies will be reduced
by the requirement that as a condition of loan effective-
ness contractual arrangements satisfactory to the Bank be
established with consultants for the conduct of the



- ii -
studies on transport regulation and pricing.    The risk
resulting from any reduction in the highway investment
program for budgetary reasons will be diminished by
choosing high priority subprojects for financing under the
project.
Program                                                  Local   Foreign  Total /a
Cost:                                                  ----- ($ million) ----
Highway Investment Program
(1984-1986)                      800      805        1,605
Total Program Cost            800      805        1,605
Financing Plan:
World Bank Loans:
Provincial and County Roads Project
- (Loan 2228-KO)                           -        115          115
Highway Sector Project                     -        230          230
Asian Development Bank:
Fifth Highway Project                      -        100 /b       100
Korean Government:                           800      360        1,160
Total                                      800      805        1,605
Bank FY      1984   1985   1986   1987
Estimated
Disbursements:    Annual                                50.0   70.0   60.0   50.0
Cumulative                          50.0  120.0  180.0  230.0
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 4728-KO
Map: No. 16730R1
/a   Capital expenditures proposed for years 1984 through 1986 in constant 1983
prices. Total cost net of tax, estimated at about 10%, is US$1,440 million.
/b   Includes an amount of $20 million of commercial bank cofinancing.



INTRODUCTION
The Government of the Republic of Korea has requested Bank Group
assistance in the financing of its road investment program for the latter part
of the Fifth Five-Year Plan Period. Bank Group support for the development of
Korea's roads has been extended through five previous projects, starting with
a First Highway Project (Loan 769-KO) in 1971. The proposed project would,
however, be the first involvement on the basis of a Highway Sector Project and
a major objective would be to increase efficiency in the highway sector in
Korea. The issues related to this objective were identified by a recent
transport sector review mission. The proposed project would also continue
Bank support to the development and maintenance of the Korean road system.
The project was prepared by the Ministry of Construction (MOC), the
Ministry of Home Affairs (MOHA), and Ministry of Transport (MOT). Pre-
appraisal missions visited Korea in April/May 1983 and this report is based on
the findings of appraisal missions comprising Messrs. B. P. Kennedy (Engineer)
and A. F. Ballereau (Economist) which visited Korea in May and July 1983. A
Transport Sector Issues Survey Report No. 4423-KO was issued on
December 27, 1983.
I. TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Geographic and Economic Setting
1.01      The Republic of Korea has a land area of 98,500 sq km.  About 70% of
the land area is mountainous and agriculture is confined to about 22,600 sq
km, or 23% of the total area, mainly in the river valleys, lower hillsides and
coastal plains. The climate is seasonal with very cold dry winters and hot
humid summers. Annual rainfall averages 800 mm to 1,400 mm with about 60%
falling between June and September. The land mass is drained by a well
developed river system with seasonal variations in flow which give rise to
frequent flooding. The rugged terrain, extensive river system and severe
winter climate make the construction of transport facilities, particularly
roads, difficult and costly.
1.02      The population is presently estimated at 40.0 million and growing at
an annual rate of 1.7%. Population density is estimated at 388 per sq km of
total area or 1,702 per sq km of agricultural land. Urban population is
estimated to be growing at an annual rate of 4.6% and has increased from 40.7%
of the total in 1970 to 55.9% in 1982. The increasing urban population has
created significant transport demand in the areas around the cities and
industrial centers and particularly in the Seoul greater metropolitan area.
1.03      Korea's export-led industrialization has been among the most
successful examples of economic development in recent history. During 1962-
78, real GNP grew by 10% p.a. and per capita income more than tripled in real
terms. Coupled with industrialization and urbanization, major developments
and changes in the transportation sector complemented and supported the
transformation of Korea's economy. Passenger traffic tripled between 1964 and



- 2 -
1971 and tripled again by 1981; freight increased nine times and five times
respectively during the same periods.
B. The Transport System
1.04      Throughout much of the past 20 years, the transport system has been
strained by the demands of rapid growth and it has required massive public
sector investments in transport infrastructure. The Government has been
allocating regularly, since the beginning of the Second Plan in 1967, about
one quarter of its total capital expenditure to expand and modernize transport
infrastructure. Investments have been concentrated on the Seoul-Busan axis
where most industrial development is taking place and on other corridors
serving the northeastern and southeastern parts of Korea.
1.05      Substantial changes in the modal distribution of traffic are
illustrated by traffic statistics for the 1961 to 1982 period (Tables 1.1 and
1.2). Freight traffic moving by rail, although showing growth in absolute
terms, fell from 88% of total ton-km to 37%, while the road and coastal
shipping shares increased from 8% to 36% and from 4% to 27%, respectively.
For passenger traffic, the rail share of total passenger-km fell from 53% to
22% over the same period, while the road share increased from 45% to 75%.
These changes reflect both the economic advantages of the various modes and
the different growth rates experienced between industries served, as rail and
coastal shipping increasingly were concentrated on long distances and bulk
commodities while road transport handled the short distances and more general
cargo. In addition, rapidly expanding personal consumption generated large
increases in personal travel, further fueled by changes in consumption
patterns. Road transport has been the main beneficiary of these increases.
1.06      The Government of Korea's (GOK) basic objective in the past has been
to increase the capacity of the system in line with projected traffic growth
and to avoid major bottlenecks. This objective has been largely achieved.
The present system is reasonably balanced and there is little uneconomic
allocation of traffic among the various modes. Investments in transportation
have been linked to broader concerns in Korea's spatial and economic
planning. For example, considerable efforts have been made to develop new
industrial complexes in coastal areas, to take advantage of Korea's natural
potential in harbors and to exploit low-cost coastal shipping while avoiding
excessive congestion on road and rail. Similarly, in its efforts to ensure
that appropriate development priorities were reflected in the allocation of
scarce transportation means among the competing claims, the Government has
maintained fairly tight regulations in the sector, with a restrictive
licensing system and administered pricing for all transport activities. These
tight regulations have not enhanced efficiency in transport. Korea's vehicle
fleet has been kept small due to a policy of high taxation of cars and high
prices for gasoline.
1.07      Large investments in transportation infrastructure have been com-
plemented by a considerable effort to improve the efficiency of the trans-
portation system, through the establishment and strengthening of institutions
to plan, construct, maintain and operate the facilities and services. In the
public sector, institutions such as the Korean National Railroad (KNR), the



Bureau of Public Roads (BPR) in the Ministry of Construction (MOC), the Korea
Highway Corporation (KHC), and the Korea Maritime and Port Administration
(KNPA) have been established or strengthened in many instances with increasing
financial and managerial responsibility as semi-autonomous public
corporations. In the private sector, a highly efficient contractor system has
evolved for civil works which reflects both the insistence on competitive
bidding in the award of contracts as a matter of policy, and the large volume
of construction that has been carried out in Korea during the past 20 years.
There are now some 500 firms capable of handling a broad range of public
works. Furthermore, with Government encouragement, the major construction
firms have successfully expanded their construction activities overseas.
1.08      Details on the last four Five-Year Investment Plans (1962-81)
together with the Bank's involvement in the transport sector are given in
Annex 1.
C. Transport Sector Objectives and Issues in the 1980s
1.09      Objectives.  The Government's main goals for the transport sector as
stated in the Fifth Five-Year Economic and Social Development Plan (FFYP) are
to: (a) selectively increase transport capacity by modernizing equipment and
optimizing investments in the sector; (b) enhance transport efficiency by
improving intermodal traffic allocation and conserving energy; and (c) streng-
then maintenance activities.
1.10      These FFYP goals are appropriate and timely.  Recovery from the
recession of 1979/81 is now in progress, but the growth rate of the economy in
the medium-term is likely to be more modest than during the 1970s. The impact
of these developments on the transportation sector is two-fold. On one side,
the timing of investments needed to sustain further improvements in transport
capacity aad quality of service will be influenced by growth-induced traffic
expansion. On the other side, the capacity of the public sector to finance
the necessary upgrading and expansion of infrastructure and facilities in
transportation may be sharply constrained by budgetary limitations.
1.11      Issues.  A Bank transport sector mission reviewed the transport
investments proposed in the FFYP and identified the policy and institutional
issues impeding efficiency in the sector. The mission concluded (in the
Transport Sector Issues Survey Report dated December 27, 1983) that, although
most of the transport investments proposed under the Plan pursue development
priorities which are appropriate, considerably more could be done to increase
the productivity of existing facilities and equipment. It was clear to the
mission that the increasingly complex traffic patterns and higher traffic
densities, the growing requirements for maintenance of the expanded system,
and the need to conserve energy, will call for even greater efforts to
maximize efficiency and the use of scarce investment capital in this capital
intensive sector. The mission identified three main areas requiring specific
attention in the current more demanding economic environment: (a) planning,
(b) regulation and pricing, and (c) energy conservation. The mission's
recommendations, based on the analyses of those issues which hinder the effi-
ciency in the Korean highway sector, are discussed in detail in Chapter III.



- 4 -
1.12      Overall Transport Investment Planning  Despite considerable efforts,
spatial planning of the transportation system is still hindered by generally
inadequate interagency coordination, by comparatively limited expertise in
planning and economic appraisal techniques, and by the limited capacity to
undertake appropriate longer-term preinvestment studies. The World Bank's
efforts to provide support and encouragement for these activities has met with
mixed success. In 1970, the Government set up a Transport Planning Office in
the Ministry of Transport (MOT) on the recommendation of a study financed
under a Transport Technical Assistance Credit. The Government tried again, in
1975, to improve transport coordination through a Transport Coordination
Committee (TCC) with representation from the various ministries most directly
concerned. The TCC, however, has not, in practice, been able to carry out its
responsibilities for the coordination of transport sector investment very
satisfactorily. More effective mechanisms need to be worked out.
1.13      Internal mechanisms, procedures and criteria need to be established
to ensure that investments and action programs proposed by the various
responsible agencies in each mode are internally fully consistent. Further-
more, all modal plans should be reviewed and integrated to enable the most
cost-effective transport solutions to be selected, drawing on the complemen-
tarity of each mode based on its comparative advantages or relative effi-
ciency. A system for effective coordination could probably best be organized
by the EPB because of its general planning responsibilities and level. In
particular the EPB's project evaluation functions would need to be strength-
ened in order-to systematize the comparison of investment alternatives between
modes. At the same time, the objective of ensuring effective integrated plan-
ning can be advanced by having project studies focus on multimodal solutions
as the means to satisfy transport demand for specific commodities or in
specific geographic areas. This approach is now being followed with the
multimodal transport studies in the Seoul-Busan Corridor, and the Gyeonggi
(Seoul) Region. A similar approach would also be useful for transport needs
of the Southeastern Industrial Belt. The institution of multidisciplinary
study groups, guided by steering committees representing the agencies con-
cerned, will demonstrate in practice the coordination concept and contribute
to the development of suitable institutional mechanisms for overall transport
coordination. To do this, more staff skills need to be upgraded through
appropriate training. There is also a need to recruit experienced planners,
transport economists, intermodal and program analysts, and transport opera-
tions specialists from post graduate students and the domestic research
institutes. The planning issues in the highway sector, which will be
addressed under the proposed project are discussed in Chapter III (paras. 3.01
and 3.02).
II. HIGHWAY SECTOR
A. The Network
2.01      The public road network totals about 87,000 km comprising 13,400 km
of national roads, 9,700 km of provincial roads, 11,500 km of county roads and
52,400 km of village access roads (see Table 2.1). The national highways
include 1,245 km of toll expressways. Road density at 0.9 km/sq km is



- 5 -
generally sufficient to serve transport needs, particularly as about 70% of
the total land area is mountainous, but most of the network still needs
improvement. Despite heavy investments in road improvements since 1967, only
64% of the national roads, 13% of the provincial roads, and 5% of the county
roads are paved and a high level of investment will continue to be required to
ensure an adequate level of service for growing traffic volumes.
B. Traffic
2.02      Road trarnsport has grown rapidly over the last 15 years, not only in
absolute terms but also in relation to other modes, particularly railways.
Road freight traffic in ton-km grew twice as fast as all freight traffic,
averaging 45% p.a. in 1967-71 and 13% p.a. in 1972-76 and 9% p.a. in 1977-
81. The share of freight traffic by road is expected to continue increasing
in the long-term although probably more gradually. Passenger traffic on
highways also grew rapidly, at 15% p.a. in passenger-km in 1967-71, 14.1% in
1972-76 and 9.1% in 1977-81. In 1981 it amounted to nearly three quarters of
the total with the remainder going by rail, a complete reversal of the
situation in 1961.
2.03      While the growth of road traffic has been rapid, government policy
has been to regulate and to restrain growth. The policies of heavy taxation
on motor vehicles and high user charges (gasoline taxes) have been mentioned
in para. 1.06. As a result, the motor vehicle fleet in Korea is still very
small (Tables-2.2 and 2.3) when compared to other countries at similar levels
of per capita income. Motor vehicle fuel consumption has grown in line with
the growth of road traffic (Table 2.4). The dimensions and axle loads of
vehicles are strictly controlled on the expressways to ensure compliance with
the regulations on same, which are satisfactory, and this control is
increasingly being extended to the rest of the network. However, because of
the generally high proportion of trucks on the network, agreement was reached
with Government at negotiations chat the Government will ensure that the
dimensions and axle loads of vehicles using the road network will not exceed
those allowed under the regulations. Restrictive commercial vehicle licensing
policies have also contributed to moderating traffic growth. These were
somewhat relaxed following agreement under the Second Highway Project
(Loan 956-KO). Further improvements are to be tested under the ongoing Pro-
vincial and County Roads Project (Ln. 2228-KO) with the introduction of
unscheduled passenger transport services (mini-buses) in selected remote rural
areas, where such services are now largely lacking due partly to the restric-
tive licensing system. The introduction of the services has been delayed.
However, a plan for these services has now been agreed with the Government and
implementation of this plan would be a condition of loan effectiveness.
C. Road Safety
2.04      A serious road accident problem exists in Korea.  For reasons not
fully understood, road fatalities were about 65 persons per 10,000 vehicles in
use in 1982 - among the highest of a group of 34 countries for which com-
parable statistics are available. Research on road safety and its promotion
are the responsibility of a Road Traffic Safety Association, linked to MOHA.
A road safety expert has been made available under the ongoing Provincial and



- 6 -
County Roads Project to assist the Association in the collection and analysis
of traffic accident data and in the preparation of a program for the reduction
of accidents, which will be implemented under the proposed project.
D. Institutions
2.05      The organizational and functional responsibilities of national and
local authorities for the various classes of the road network are divided
among several institutions (Table 2.5). MOC (Chart 1) exercises its responsi-
bility for expressways through a public corporation, KHC (Chart 2), and for
the national roads through its own BPR (Chart 3). MOHA (Chart 4) is responsi-
ble, through the provinces, for the provincial roads and, through the
counties, for the county roads.
2.06      MOHA was not directly involved in highway management until
recently. A Road Development Section (Chart 5) was set up in September 1979
to be responsible for preparing and monitoring provincial and county road
maintenance and the development of the county road network. To handle the
implementation of the ongoing Provincial and County Roads Project and the
increased road improvement and maintenance programs that are associated with
it, certain organizational changes as well as staff increases are being made
at central, provincial and county levels (Charts 6 and 7).
E. Planning and Financing
2.07      Transport planning, including road planning, is mostly done in the
context of the 5-year plan with the latest Fifth Plan covering the period
1982-86. Planning of the national road system, including expressways, is done
by the Planning Division of the BPR. MOHA has little capacity at present for
planning and under the ongoing Provincial and County Roads Project this will
be built up using the screening and selection methodologies prepared by
consultants financed under the Fourth Highway Project (Ln. 1640-K0) and by
training selected MOHA staff in road development planning and transport eco-
nomics. This development needs to be accompanied by the establishment of a
system for coordinating investment planning by MOC and MOHA for the various
levels of the road system.
2.08      Local funding comes from various public sources.  For the national
roads, the general budget is the sole source of funds for development and
maintenance; user charges on vehicle purchase and operation collected through
fees and taxes, accrue to the general budget. By contrast, KHC is financially
independent, getting its revenues from tolls, and is not required to pay all
the capital costs of its roads. The revenues from tolls amounted to
W 60 billion ih 1981, and two thirds were from the Seoul-Busan Expressway.
Nearly 80% was collected from buses and trucks which represented 70% of the
traffic. About 50% of the toll revenues were spent on maintenance. The level
of tolls is subject to review by the Economic Planning Board (EPB) and
approval by Government. The local governments also have a separate financing
system; a block grant of 13.27% of national revenues is allocated annually to
M3HA by EPB, which for 1983 is estimated at W 791.4 billion compared to
W 719,0 billion received in 1982. MOHA then allocates funds to local
government for the provincial and county road improvement programs. In



-7-
addition, the provinces raise revenues through local taxes and receive
subsidies from MOC mainly for the maintenance of national gravel roads. The
varied funding treatment of the agencies makes coordination of planning
difficult since two of the agencies, KHC and MOHA, are free from direct budget
management controls while BPR is not. The EPB, through its Budget Bureau,
exercises a budgetary control on transport investments proposed by each
ministry, except those of KHC and MOHA, and has the authority to cut or defer
projects if required. The weaknesses in intramodal planning for the highway
sector are being dealt with under the proposed project (para. 3.01).
F. Design and Construction
2.09      MOC, through BPR, has the responsibility for design and construction
of national roads including new expressways and those provincial roads whose
construction is to be funded by MOC or external sources. Consultants are
employed for the design of major road works and their work is handled under a
study groups system comprising seconded BPR staff. MOHA has only recently
become involved in major road design work in connection with the county road
program and employs consultants for design under the same system of study
groups used by MOC. Both MOC and MOHA employ mainly domestic consultants for
supervision of construction. Korea has a strong well-developed engineering
consulting industry, with some 30 firms which are fully competent in all
aspects of engineering design but so far have developed a limited capacity in
areas of transport economics, and preparation and implementation of road main-
tenance programs, although this capacity is growing. The participation of
foreign firms in design and for the supervision of construction is limited to
overall management and assistance with special problems. The domestic
engineering consulting industry will continue to have a substantial
involvement in consultant services to be provided under the proposed project.
2.10      Competitive bidding is the established method for awarding contracts
and international competitive bidding (ICB) is used for contracts financed by
external sources and for specialized construction work. This policy, combined
with the large volume of construction works in Korea during the past ten
years, has resulted in the development of a large, efficient and experienced
contracting industry (para. 1.07). Because of the strong domestic contracting
industry, foreign contractors have not been successful in obtaining work in
Korea.
G. Maintenance
2.11      KHC is maintaining the expressway network to a high standard.  It
has an effective maintenance organization, well-trained and experienced staff,
a large number of maintenance equipment units and adequate funding from tolls.
2.12      MOC's organization to maintain the national road network was estab-
lished and strengthened during previous highway projects through the provision
of technical assistance and road maintenance equipment and is now satisfac-
tory. However, there is a need to introduce more modern management procedures
for the maintenance of the paved road network to ensure more cost-effective
maintenance. Asphaltic concrete overlays are now used extensively and in many
cases where a less costly resealing would be adequate. The use of modern



-8-
techniques to ascertain the residual life of the pavement by deflection beams
and the condition of the pavement by bumptometers would help in deciding
whether overlays or reseals are needed. Technical assistance and maintenance
equipment would be provided under the proposed project to introduce a paved
road maintenance management system. The preparation and introduction of this
new system during 1984 is included in the Action Plan for implementation under
the proposed project (paras. 5.14, 5.15, 5.16 and Annex 2).
2.13      MOHA maintenance organizations at central, provincial and county
levels are weak; no proper planning of work is done and the maintenance is
unsatisfactory due to lack of funds, trained staff, equipment and materials.
As a consequence, the condition of the provincial and county roads is
generally poor. Little regravelling work has been done and what little has
been done is unsatisfactory. Likewise, the paved sections of these roads
require heavy patching and resurfacing. To address these problems, the
Government, with Bank assistance, has had consultants (BCEOM, France) prepare
a five-year 1983-87 maintenance program for the provincial and county road
networks under the Fourth Highway Project (Loan 1640-K0). This program is now
being implemented under the ongoing Provincial and County Roads Project
(Loan 2228-KO). The MOHA central, provincial and county organizations dealing
with roads are being strengthened under this project through the provision of
technical assistance, training and road maintenance equipment; no additional
program is proposed under this new project.
H.  Past Highway Projects
2.14      Results of the three highway projects that have been completed are
generally very satisfactory. A Project Performance Audit Report (PPAR) on the
First Highway Project (Loan 769-KO), including the Transport Technical Assist-
ance Credit (S4-KO) and on the Second Highway Project (Ln. 956-KO) was issued
on June 25, 1980. The PPAR found that the physical components were completed
ahead of schedule, with only slight cost increases, but with quality defects
on some roads resulting from rapid execution needing correction after comple-
tion. The re-estimated economic rates of return (ERR) for the construction
components exceeded appraisal estimates; 34% against 28% for the First Highway
Project; and 30% against 26% for the Second Highway Project. The maintenance
component included in the second project showed an audit return of 38% versus
the appraisal estimate of 53%; this reduction was mainly due to delays in
implementation and the consequent partial effectiveness of the program. The
PPAR stressed the substantial contributions of the Bank supervision missions
to the establishment of the BPR. A Project Completion Report (PCR) on the
Third Highway Project (Ln. 1203-KO) was issued on April 30, 1982. The PCR
found that civil works were completed on schedule with a cost increase of
slightly more than 1%. The re-estimated ERRs for the project roads ranging
from 15% to 53% exceeded the appraisal estimates of 12% to 35% due mainly to
the rapid increases in actual traffic volumes. The project provided assis-
tance in the future development of the national and provincial road network
through a study which screened and ranked, in order of economic priority, the
roads in the national and provincial road system. A major policy achievement
was the formulation of Government policy on tolls through a Toll Road Study
carried out under the project. Following increased budget allocations, the
progress of the Fourth Highway Project (Loan 1640-KO) has improved dramati-



-9-
cally with all the road improvement and paving works completed in June 1983;
some equipment procurement and staff training will continue until project
completion in June 1984. The progress of the ongoing Provincial and County
Roads Project (Loan 2228-KO) is generally on schedule.
III. ISSUES RELATED TO EFFICIENCY IN THE HIGHWAY SECTOR
A. Highway Investment Planning
3.01      Intramodal Planning.  There is a need first to bring consistency to
the road planning done by the various agencies under MOC and the planning done
by provinces, counties, cities and "special cities"/1 under MOHA and by Seoul
City. As on initial step, a study for integrating national, provincial and
county road programs has been started under the ongoing Provincial and County
Roads Project (Loan 2228-KO) which will define a system of technical criteria
and institutional procedures to be applied in the future. Under the Action
Plan, the Government would, by end-1984, establish the system identified in
the above study, under which (a) all investments in the highway sector would
be planned on an integrated basis; (b) evaluation criteria for highway
investment proposals would be adopted; and (c) funds appropriated for each
road agency would closely support the priorities given in the integrated road
investment plan (paras. 5.14, 5.15, 5.16 and Annex 2).
3.02      Intetmodal Planning.  Under the Action Plan, the Government would by
mid-1986 establish procedures for comparing investment alternatives between
modes; to prepare for this, the Government would develop a program for
upgrading the skills of EPB staff in planning and economic evaluation by
strengthening the procedures and staff skills in the EPB (paras. 5.14, 5,15,
5.16 and Annex 2).
B. Regulation and Pricing
3.03      In 1982, there was in Korea a total of 1,685 private commercial
trucking companies, 1,659 with area licences and 26 with route licences /2
operating some 63,000 trucks. Some 735 bus companies operated almost 33,000
buses, about 55% in urban areas, and some 1,900 companies operated about
53,100 taxis while another 24,400 were operated by owner-drivers. Commercial
road transport is restricted through a licensing and tariff system, the main
problem of which is that it tends to suppress effective competition in com-
mercial road transport and fails to serve adequately the needs of the users.
Table 3.1 gives details of the commercial licensing of road transport
companies. Less restrictive regulations were introduced recently but reform
has not yet gone far enough. This is evidenced by the low growth of the
common carrier fleet, which grew from 15,100 trucks in 1967 to only 63,000 in
1982, while the private fleet grew from about 5,500 to almost 200,000 and is
/1   Busan, Daegu, and Incheon.
/2   An "area" license authorizes service within a limited area, generally a
province, and a "route" license authorizes service along a given route
between points A and B.



- 10 -
now three times larger (Tables 3.2 and 3.3). A similar evolution is also
noticeable for buses which are operated more and more by other private enter-
prises, schools, and farmers' cooperatives (despite subsidies offered by MOT
in remote rural areas to open new bus services). The licensing of commercial
operators seems to have worked to their advantage as they could share the
market among themselves, being protected from newcomers. However, as the
commercial services offered do not meet the transport users' needs, private
users have started to operate their own trucks which are less efficient
because they are generally smaller and very often under-used. Furthermore,
the resulting shift in demand has caused the operating pattern of the trucking
industry to feature a high proportion of empty backhauls and small average
size trucks, with consequent higher consumption of fuel than needed.
3.04      The economic regulations governing road transport can be summarized
as follows: (a) licenses for all bus operations and "route" trucking are
issued only to enterprises having a minimum of 30 vehicles in cities and in
rural counties; (b) quotas are imposed on the total number of vehicles in each
province as well as service areas or routes; and (c) rates and fares are regu-
lated for freight and passenger traffic./3
3&05      Among the most distorting regulations are probably those requiring a
fleet of 30 vehicles minimum in urban and rural areas for both "route" truck-
ing and all busing operations. These regulations make it difficult for new-
comers to provide the competition needed to generate efficiency. The FFYP
calls for further consolidation of passenger transport operating companies, up
to 300 buses per company. This, however, would only make more difficult the
entry of new companies. Unless freedom of entry is introduced, the reliance
of shippers on commercial services is bound to continue to diminish while the
private, less efficient fleet will keep growing. Other regulations prevent
operators from adjusting bus size to actual demand, resulting in the under-
utilization of full-size buses, especially in rural areas; this rigidity is
also reflected in the very small number of minibuses seen on the roads.
Regulations also do not provide for the use of dual-purpose vehicles for both
passengers and goods, a class of vehicle usefully employed in many countries.
3.06      With a view to identifying specific measures required to improve the
situation, the Government has included in the Action Plan two studies (paras.
5.14, 5.15, 5.16 and Annex 2). One study would start by July 1, 1984 and be
completed by March 31, 1985 and would assess the economic impact of current
regulations in the trucking industry on the cost of transport services and on
energy use and would identify and propose the removal of unnecessary regu-
lations. The other study would start by February 1, 1985 and be completed by
October 31, 1985 and would identify the potential for improving efficiency in
road transport through the use of road and intermodal freight terminals.
/3   The minimum vehicle requirement for enterprises to obtain "area" licenses
for trucking and taxis in counties was reduced from 10 to 5 subsequent to
agreement under the Second Highway Project; this requirement can be
waived when deemed necessary and was removed for pick-up vans and for
taxis and "area" trucks operated by owner-operators.



- 11 -
During negotiations, agreement was reached with Government on terms of refer-
ence, funding and expertise needed for the studies. MOF and EPB strongly
support such studies but some doubts remain with the regulatory agency, MOT,
about its commitment to the study on the economic impact of regulations in the
trucking industry mainly because of its past reluctance to deal with this
particular issue. Therefore the hiring of consultants satisfactory to the
Bank for the transport regulations study would be a condition of effectiveness
for the proposed loan. It was also agreed during negotiations that, not later
than April 30, 1985 for the study on the impact of regulation of the trucking
industry and not later than November 30, 1985 for the study on freight ter-
minals, the Government would furnish to the Bank for its review and comment
the findings and recommendations of the studies and not later than July 30,
1985, for the regulation study and February 28, 1986 for the freight terminal
study, the Government would exchange views with the Bank on the findings and
recommendations of the studies and, thereafter, implement such recommendations
as agreed between the Government and the Bank in accordance with satisfactory
timetables.
3.07      The pricing of road transport services and setting of road user
charges is normally based on one or more of the following objectives: (a) to
cover the operators' costs in providing the services; (b) to ensure that the
costs of using the existing roads are paid for by the road users; (c) to pro-
vide revenue for expanding the road system; and (d) to ensure that the costs
of road transport do not distort the demand for road use in relation to the
use of competing transport modes, such as railways or coastal shipping.
3.08      Although, in the aggregate, road user charges have been closely in
line with road expenditures (para. 4.16), the current system only partly
fulfills these objectives. The system of cross-subsidization which enables
operators to support loss-making services out of the surpluses earned on
profitable ones, does not allow operators to recover expenditures sustained in
high cost operations, nor to expand their low cost operations. The costs of
road use is generally met in the case of cars, but not in the case of heavy
vehicles (trucks and buses) which are virtually untaxed. The Special Excise
Tax on diesel oil (exclusive of VAT) is only 23 Won a liter (compared to 283
Won on a liter of gasoline) and many of the annual licensing fees do not apply
to heavy vehicles./4 Therefore, the use of roads for transporting goods is
stimulated at the expense of rail and coastal shipping.
3.09      The road user charges should be reviewed and adjusted to introduce a
more neutral taxation system that promotes fair competition by appropriately
charging for the cost of road infrastructure. A study will be carried out
under the Action Plan to determine actual road costs, who pays for them, and
how the contribution of each road user should be apportioned to better reflect
the damage inflicted on the road by the users (paras. 5.14, 5.15, 5.16 and
14   Trucks and buses pay tolls for the use of expressways proportionally to
the vehicle weight and not to axle load which is the main factor damaging
road pavements. This system encourages freight vehicles to avoid the
faster and safer expressways and to use the untolled national roads which
are also therefore overloaded and damaged.



- 12 -
Annex 2). The study would begin by May 1, 1984 and would be completed by
December 31, 1984./5 Terms of reference and expertise needed for the study
have been agreed. In view of the importance of this study and the need to
have it implemented in 1984, the hiring of consultants satisfactory to the
Bank will be a condition of effectiveness for the proposed loan. It was also
agreed at negotiations that, not later than January 31, 1985, the Government
would furnish to the Bank for its review and comments, the findings and
recommendations of the road user charges study and, not later than April 30,
1985, exchange views with the Bank on the findings and recommendations of the
study and thereafter implement such recommendations as agreed between the
Government and the Bank in accordance with a satisfactory timetable.
D. Energy Conservation
3.10      Energy is a key factor in development in Korea and massive petroleum
imports are a major cause of Korea's balance of payment deficits. Actions
under the structural adjustment loans (SALs), are seeking to limit demand
through appropriate pricing policies, and also under the SALs, specific
conservation measures have been taken with respect to the industrial and
building sectors. While some efforts have been made to conserve energy in the
transport sector, largely through measures which have kept down the growth of
the private automobile fleet, the potential for saving, which is substantial,
is far from being fully realized.
3.11      The-proportion of energy used in the transport sector is consider-
ably smaller in Korea than in most other countries of similar income levels.
The sector nevertheless accounts for 18-20% of national petroleum consump-
tion. Consumption in the sector is expected to grow as disposal income
increases, due to the prospect of a very large increase in the number of
automotive vehicles, particularly passenger cars, which in 1982 number about
305,000 as compared to 263,000 trucks, 66,000 buses, and 410,000 motorcycles.
The continuing, and probably accelerating, growth of the vehicle fleet means
that the sector's energy consumption is bound to increase rapidly. This
prospect underlines the importance and timeliness of energy conservation for
the sector. Road transport accounts for two-thirds of the total energy use in
transport, and broadly speaking, fuel accounts for 15-30% of the total econo-
mic costs of operating an automotive vehicle, with the lower figure being
representative for most types of heavier vehicles.
3.12      The response of road transport users to higher energy prices depends
on what is technically feasible and on incentives for which government policy
is particularly relevant. Road users, acting on their own, will change their
driving habits but many potential sources of economy require actions by
government, local transport or highway authorities, either by changing regul-
/5   During negotiations for SAL II, it was also agreed that the Road User
Charges Study would be carried out during 1984 under the proposed project
since the Tax Bureau had indicated that it would like to review the
outcome of the Study before deciding on revisions, if needed, to motor
fuel excise taxes.



- 13 -
ations, altering taxes and duties, controlling congestion, or investing in
infrastructure. Measures that ought to be considered include economical
driving and operating methods; reducing traffic congestion by pricing; inten-
sifying fleet use by raising the load factor of trucks through relaxing the
taxation and licensing systems; producing energy-efficient vehicles through
improved design and fleet renewal; and infrastructure improvement.
3.13      An improvement in the energy efficiency of road transport of some
30% over the next five years is technically and economically feasible in Korea
by the use of more energy-efficient vehicles, changes in driving and main-
tenance methods and in the management of road freight vehicles. Potential
savings range from US$150 to 200 million a year.
3.14      At least six different ministries (viz. MOT, MOC, MOHA, MOCI, MOST
and MOER) are involved in improving the energy efficiency of the transport
sector. MOER is responsible for defining general policies and strategies,
MOST is responsible for the development of advanced technologies for automo-
tive and other applications, and each individual ministry is responsible for
actions within its sphere of authority. While there is a coordinating commit-
tee composed of the various ministers, major industries and energy producers,
it is not clear how active a role the committee plays.  However, it is clear
that effective leadership and coordination with respect to conservation of
energy is lacking at present in the sector.
3.15      The Government recognizes the need for better coordination and
planning in the energy sector and by March 31, 1984, MOER will start effec-
tively to coordinate, manage and monitor actions for conservation of energy
use in the transport sector. In this connection, MOER would:
(a) require the agencies with responsibility in the sector to submit
plans which would establish energy conservation policies and goals
for the period 1984-86. Such plans would cover inter alia;
(i)  the promotion of energy efficiency in the bus and truck
manufacturing industry;
(ii) a technological assessment of the potential in Korea for
installing appropriate fuel conservation devices and adopting
appropriate techniques for trucks and locomotives;
(iii) driver training and public information programs for motor
vehicle and railroad operators; and
(iv) the establishment of criteria and guidelines for the analysis
of proposed investments by agencies in the transport sector to
assess their impact on energy demand.
(b) In order to assist in the preparation of (a)(i) through (a)(iv)
above, conduct studies, workshops and seminars with the assistance
of experts as necessary.
(c) Monitor achievement of targets through periodic reviews.



- 14 -
(d)  With assistance from other appropriate agencies and experts, to
develop and maintain a program to train sufficient staff in
government agencies concerned with transport in the techniques of
energy conservation analysis as applied to the transport sector. A
plan for such training would be prepared by July 1984, and the
training program would commence by March 1985.
3.16      The Government would implement the actions described in paras. 3.01,
3.02, 3.06, 3.09 and 3.15 above in accordance with the Action Plan and related
time schedules (paras. 5.14, 5.15, 5.16 and Annex 2). The indices for moni-
toring progress on the Action Plan are given in Annex 3, page 4.
IV. HIGHWAY SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PLAN (1982-86)
A. Background
4.01      The present transport system of Korea has evolved largely through
the implementation of four transport plans from 1962-81. Annex 1 gives the
physical achievements of the transport plans, including highways, assesses
performance and describes the Bank's involvement.
4.02      The Fifth Five-Year Economic and Social Development Plan (FFYP)
forecasts a GNP growth rate of 7.6% p.a. over the period 1982-86. In contrast
to past transport policy that almost exclusively emphasized expanding capacity
during periods of strong economic growth, the Government is now pursuing a
policy calling for significant adjustments in the sector, by (a) selectively
increasing capacity by modernizing equipment and optimizing investments; (b)
enhancing efficiency by improving intermodal traffic allocation and conserving
energy; and (c) strengthening maintenance activities.
B. Objectives
4.03      Similarly, the highway sector development plan prepared as part of
the FFYP emphasizes that the protection of existing road facilities through
adequate maintenance is now as important as building and improving new
roads. It then gives policy directives for road transport which emphasize the
need to:
(a)  expand and widen expressways which are near some major urban areas;
(b)  continue improving and paving national and major provincial roads
and strengthen maintenance;
(c)  increase and modernize the vehicle fleet and develop safety
measures;
(d)  lmprove the efficiency of road transport operators by expanding
terminal facilities and encouraging larger-scale transport firms;
d



- 15 -
(e) expand and improve the transportation network in remote areas to
reach all villages with 100 or more households.
The policy directives are considered appropriate with the exception of that of
encouraging large-scale transport firms; this matter has been discussed in
para. 3.05.
C. Description
Overall Scope and Cost of the Plan
4.04      In the highway sector, passenger transport is expected to grow at
6.4% p.a. from 74 to 93 billion passenger-km from 1982 to 1986, with an
average trip distance of about 8 km (Table 4.1). Freighc transport is
expected to grow faster at 7.5% p.a. from 5.7 to 8.1 billion ton-km over the
same period, with an average distance of 47 km (Table 4.2). Those official
forecasts appear reasonable, and are much lower than earlier faster growth
rates. However, the forecasts apply only to common carriers, buses and
trucks. If the private transport owned by industries, groups and individuals
had been included, the forecasts would have been higher since the private
fleet is growing faster than common carriers as noted earlier (para. 3.03).
4.05      Further, the increase in motorization, particularly of cars, as
anticipated in EPB's forecasts will add to the demand for road facilities.
The registered fleet is expected to double by 1986, of which over 50% would be
cars. Whether these targets can be achieved depends to some extent on
Government's policy for lowering taxes on vehicles and fuel.
4.06      The FFYP's overall investment for road transport, comprising public
and private programs, amounts to W 3,720 billion (Table 4.3). The plans
include expenditures for road works on the national network only, and for new
vehicles, terminals and warehouses. Total capital and recurrent expenditures
planned for the national roads, including expressways, would amount to W 1,285
billion at 1980 prices, or about US$2.1 billion and would be 25% higher than
the W 1,030 billion spent in 1977-81 during the Fourth Plan period (Tables 4.4
and 4.5). The actual expenditures during the first four plans are given in
Table 4.6. As a whole, the FFYP national road investment program appears very
reasonable given the forecasted traffic increases of 40% and 37% in freight
ton-km and passenger-km, respectively, over the period.
4.07      The maintenance budget for national roads has been increased and
represents 15% of total expenditures on those roads, compared to 11%, 6% and
2% spent, respectively during the Fourth, Third and Second Plans. This
additional provision of funds for maintenance is in line with Government's
recognition of the importance of maintenance. Nevertheless, 57% of all
maintenance expenditures in 1981 by MDC were spent by KHC on its network of
1,245 km, while 43% was spent on the 12,000 km national road network
(Table 4.7). This imbalance can be explained partly by the higher traffic,
higher standard and higher level of services provided on the KHC expressways,
but also reflects the freedom that KHC has to dispose of funds collected



- 16 -
through tolls.  The problem of coordinating the level of expenditures with the
actual needs of the various road networks is discussed in para. 3.01.
4.08      The Transportation Sector Plan does not include the road improve-
ments and paving being done by MOHA under the Provincial and County Roads Pro-
ject (Loan 2228-KO) funded by the Bank, and the construction and improvement
programs proposed by other local governments including massive road invest-
ments programmed in the Special Cities of Seoul, Busan, Daegu and Incheon.
According to MOHA, this latter program under the FFYP amounts to W 1,220 bil-
lion at 1980 prices or US$2.0 billion, and is about equal to the national
highways program for the same period. This is a large increase over the
expenditures of W 835 billion in 1980 prices in the Fourth Plan (nearly
US$1.4 billion) for road construction by the Special Cities, mainly in Seoul
City. Road expenditures of W 1,040 billion are proposed by other local
governments including provinces, counties and cities and represent a very
substantial increase from the W 330 billion (at current prices or W 385
billion at 1980 prices) spent in the Fourth Plan.
Road Construction Program
4.09      Tables 4.8(a) and (b) give the proposed expenditures on the Highway
Investment Plan in constant 1983 and current prices respectively. The
proposed capital expenditures and the physical targets for completed road and
bridgeworks are shown in Tables 4.9(a) and (b). MOC is proposing to complete
about 183 km of new expressways, pave 1,693 km of national and 112 km of
provincial roads, widen some 165.5 km of national roads to 4 lanes, improve
about 51 km of national roads and construct 9.4 km of bridges over the plan
period. MOHA is proposing to improve and pave some 1,270 km of provincial and
1,925 km of county roads over the plan period. New expressways included  in
the program are the 175 km Daegu-Gwangju expressway which is scheduled for
completion in mid-1984 (discussed further in para. 4.18) and an 8.2 km
extension of the Seoul-Busan expressway to alleviate very heavy congestion
near Seoul. KHC's program comprises about 229.1 km of expressway widening
including:
Widening from 4 lanes to 6 lanes                   km
Seoul-Incheon:                                   23.4
Seoul-Suweon:                                    26.5
Widening from 2 lanes to 4 lanes
Masan-Naese:                                       8.5
Daejon-Gwangju:                                  170.7
Total                                      229.1
With the possible exception of the Jeonju-Gwangju section of the Daejon-
Gwangju expressway widening project which needs further study (para. 4.19),
the proposed expressway widening investments are justified on economic
grounds.



- 17 -
Maintenance Program
4.10      The recurrent expenditures proposed for the routine and periodic
maintenance of the road network over the plan period are shown in Tables
4.8(a) and (b). The amounts proposed are considered adequate for effective
maintenance and they reflect KHC's existing maintenance program for express-
ways and MOC's for the national road system. The need to improve MOC's paved
road maintenance system was described in para. 2.12. The maintenance program
includes the preparation by MOC, with technical assistance from consultants,
of a modern paved road maintenance management system which, with the use of
modern techniques and equipment, would enable MOC to more effectively and
economically plan and implement the resealing or overlay of the paved national
roads. The preparation and introduction of this new system during 1984 is
included in the Action Plan (Annex 2). The proposed recurrent expenditures
for the maintenance of provincial and county roads are based on the comprehen-
sive maintenance program being implemented by MOHA. Agreement was confirmed
with the Government during negotiations that the road system would be
maintained in a satisfactory manner and, to this end, that the amounts
proposed to be allocated in the budget by KHC, MOC and MOHA for road
maintenance expenditures would generally be in line with the recurrent
expenditures shown in the highway investment program (Tables 4.8(a) and (b).
It was also agreed with Government during negotiations that the Government
would, with respect to MOC, by July 30 of each year and with respect to MOHA,
by November 15-of each year, furnish to the Bank for its review and comment
the proposed amounts to be made available for road maintenance to MOC and MOHA
for the following fiscal year.
D. Assessment
Institutional Capacity
4.11      MOC, with the assistance of consultants, has prepared and
implemented similar road development and improvement plans during past five-
year development plans and in June 1983, completed improvement and paving of
1,221 kms of national and provincial roads under the Fourth Highway Project
(Loan 1640-KO). In view of its past performance and present state of pre-
paredness, MOC should have no difficulty in meeting the physical completion
targets set.
4.12      Even though it became actively involved in highway work only in late
1979, MOHA's performance since then has been impressive. MOHA, with assis-
tance of consultants, is implementing the first phase of the county road
development program for the improvement of 1,006 km of roads under the Provin-
cial and County Roads Project (Ln. 2228-KO) and progress is good to date.
Also under this project, through the comprehensive maintenance program, MOHA
central, provincial and county organizations dealing with roads would be
reorganized and strengthened through the recruitment and training of staff.
Furthermore, during 1981 and 1982, MOHA completed the improvement and paving
of about 600 km of provincial and county roads with local financing. The
reorganized and strengthened MOHA is expected to be able to achieve its
program for the five-year period.



- 18 -
4.13      KHC's program of widening some 229 km of existing expressways over
the program period will present no difficulty with regard to the staff and
facilities needed to organize the preparation and implementation of this work,
but it will be difficult for them to finance the total program; this is
discussed further in para. 4.15.
Financial Aspects
4.14      The highway investment program under the FFYP is to be funded from
domestic and foreign sources. Foreign financing is provided essentially by
the Asian Development Bank and the World Bank. The financing requirements to
meet the capital expenditures of the actual highway investment plan (excluding
city roads) amounts to W 2,020 billion at 1983 prices (equivalent to
US$2.6 billion) for the 1982-86 period. In addition, recurrent expenditures
concerning the highway sector are expected to amount to W 900 billion. While
the current expenditures are traditionally financed from domestic funds
(either from central or local government budgets) and have always been made
available and even substantially increased to meet requirements for main-
taining the expanding network, capital expenditures have been supported by
foreign funds. For the Fifth Five-Year Plan's overall capital expenditures,
the government's domestic resource mobilization will amount to W 1,640 billion
equivalent or US$2.1 billion, with a foreign participation of W 380 billion or
$480 million equivalent representing 19% of the total financing needs. For
the remaining years under the FFYP, which will be covered under the proposed
loan (i.e., 1984-86), the domestic financing requirement will amount to W 930
billion with a foreign participation of W 360 billion equivalent or US$445
million representing about 27% of the capital cost financing. This proportion
is sound and reflects Korea's ability to cover most of the expenditures from
its own resources. About 70% of the funding needs for the domestic share is
covered by fuel tax revenues which have been increasing steadily mainly due to
the increase of gasoline prices. Although the tax rate has recently been
reduced, it is expected that the income from road user revenues will be
maintained at high levels through increases in consumption and that no
shortfall of funds will arise.
4.15      KHC's original plan for expressway widening under the FYYP was 173
km, but this was substantially expanded to 229 km. The present program would
require W 250 billion, of which KHC is expected to cover W 106 billion from
its own income. The gap of W 144 billion would require a government subsidy,
an increase in toll rates or a combination of both. Due to current government
budgetary constraints, it is unlikely that a subsidy would be granted. There
is also some uncertainty as to the economic justification of some of the pro-
posed work (para. 4.19). Some elements of KHC's program may, therefore, be
delayed.
4.16      Road user charges have been closely in line with road expend-
itures. Between 1977 and 1980, revenues reached W 1,306 billion versus
expenditures of W 1,369 billion (Table 4.10). However, there is a strong
imbalance of contribution among users; commercial vehicles making most damage
to the network are those contributing least. This problem is being addressed
under the proposed project (para. 3.09). Taxation is particularly high on
private cars, the main taxes being on acquisition (40-50% of the ex-factory



- 19 -
price) and usage (annually about 25-40% of "on the road'" value). These
amounted to about W 1,200,000 or US$1,500 and W 1,100,000 or US$1,400 respec-
tively in 1983 for a small car. Taxes on heavy vehicles are more moderate,
amounting to about 10% of total operating costs for trucks and buses used by
common carriers, but are more substantial for those used by private owners.
There is no axle-load tax. In addition, taxes on gasoline add up to around
150% of the ex-refinery price, while diesel fuel is taxed at only 20% (Table
4.11).
Economic Aspects
4.17      The highway investment program (Tables 4.8(a) and (b) and 4.9(a) and
(b)) prepared by KHC, BPR and MOHA under the FFYP period 1982-86 has been
reviewed in consultation with the agencies concerned. With the exception of
the two expressway investments (one ongoing and the other proposed for 1984
through 1986) which are discussed further below (paras. 4.18 and 4.19), the
overall investment program adequately reflects Government development objec-
tives as outlined in the FFYP, the economic priorities in the sector, the
increased emphasis on improvement of county roads and the maintenance of the
road network. Parts of the program have already been implemented satisfac-
torily under the Fourth Highway Project (Loan 1640-KO) during 1982 and 1983
and are being implemented under the Provincial and County Roads Project (Loan
2228-KO) and under an ongoing Asian Development Bank financed project,
approved in November 1982.
4.18      A two-lane expressway, the East-West 175 km Olympic highway between
Daegu and Gwangju, was added at the end of the Fourth Plan to improve regional
communication and construction started in late 1981 with completion due in
mid-1984. The road crosses a remote, mountainous and sparsely populated area
that is bypassed by an excellent two-lane expressway via Masan. A feasibility
study by a local consultant indicated that optimal opening year was 1991, but
unquantified benefits in addition to vehicle operating costs and time savings
would justify opening five years earlier. There is considerable doubt about
the additional development benefits that could be generated in this area by an
expressway costing US$1.7 million per km (US$ 300 million total) compared to
the improvement of the existing road at one-fourth this cost. However, given
the large sunk costs, the most beneficial course of action at this stage would
be completion of construction on the present schedule.
4.19      The widening from 2 to 4 lanes of the 91 km section Jeonju-Gwangju
expressway has been included in the program after the adoption of the FFYP. A
very rough economic analysis was prepared for this section which overestimates
benefits in the earlier years of operation starting in 1986, and no first year
benefit/cost ratio was calculated. Based on traffic projections which would
exceed 9,000 vpd only in 1988 and which do not take into account the ongoing
parallel double-tracking of the railway line between Iri and Gwangju, this
investment also appears premature and the cost of 100 billion Won or US$135
million could have yielded higher returns in other high priority projects. It
was agreed with the Bank that a detailed feasibility study would be carried
out by KHC to define the most appropriate timing of this investment. The
study, which started in October 1983, is expected to be completed in six
months and it was agreed with Government during negotiations that the findings



- 20 -
of the feasibility study would be discussed with the Bank prior to commence-
ment of construction.
V. BANK PARTICIPATION
A. Objectives
5.01      The Government's basic strategy in the transport sector has been to
increase the system's capacity fast enough to support economic growth and
avoid bottlenecks. The investment strategy is aimed at establishing a reason-
ably balanced system and limiting uneconomic allocation of traffic among the
various modes. Moreover, to ensure that scarce transportation means appro-
priately meet development priorities, the Government has maintained fairly
tight regulations in the sector. Strict licensing of operators in road
transport and shipping, and administered pricing for all transport activities
were introduced and are still enforced today. Korea discouraged motorization
through a policy of high taxation of domestic cars and high prices for gaso-
line. To complement the large investments made to develop a basic transport
infrastructure, the Government made a considerable effort to improve the
efficiency of institutions responsible to plan, construct, maintain and
operate the new facilities and services.
5.02      Despite rapid and substantial progress in the Korean transport
sector, many needs remain to be met. The new and more demanding economic
environment resulting from the worldwide recession and increased fuel costs
requires the country to take a more prudent approach than before in developing
its basic transport infrastructure so as to optimize the use of scarce invest-
ment capital in a very capital-intensive sector. The increasingly complex
transport patterns, higher traffic densities, and the growing need to conserve
energy and to maintain an expanded system call also for greater efforts than
in the past to maximize efficiency of service. In particular, it will be
crucial in the years ahead to improve transport planning mechanisms, relax
regulation and pricing policies, and streamline transport agencies to make the
sector's development more rational, its operations more efficient and its
energy savings substantial.
5.03      The main justification for the proposed project is to help Govern-
ment achieve the goals outlined in its FFYP by dealing directly with policy
and institutional issues in the transport sector (Chapter III) and more speci-
fically to make considerable headway in resolving issues related to investment
planning, regulation and pricing and energy conservation in the highway
sector.
5.04      The project would also help Government improve the road network to
meet the increasing traffic demand, improve maintenance of paved national
roads, and reduce the present high rate of road traffic accidents.
B. Description
5.05      The proposed Bank Loan of US$230 million would support a three-year
time-slice of the highway investment program for the years 1984 through



- 21 -
1986. The total capital expenditures on ongoing and new commitments for this
period in constant 1983 prices is estimated at about US$1,605 million or
US$1,440 million excluding taxes and duties, with a foreign exchange component
of about US$805 million. The following general apportionment of the Bank loan
has been agreed although funds could be shifted from one category to another
depending on che pattern of implementation:
Bank Loan
US$ m         %
MOC
Paving of national and provincial roads and               120.0         52
maintenance equipment
MOHA
Paving of provincial and county roads                     100.0         43
MOHA/MOC/MOT
Road Safety Program                                         2.0           1
MOER/MOT/MCI-
Workshops, seminars, training
Studies & experts for energy
conservation in transport                                 2.0          1
OTHER
1.  Study on Impact of Transport                 }
Regulation                                 }
2.  Study on freight terminals                   }
3.  Study on road user charges                   }
4.  Preparation of road projects -               }
feasibility & engineering                  }         6.0           3
5.  Technical Assistance to BPR for              }
maintenance management                     }
6.  Supervision of construction                  }
7.  Detailed engineering for investments         }
in Seoul-Busan corridor and                }
Gyeonggi regional transport study          }
Total                                              230.0         100
5.06      Highway Construction.  The improvement of the Korean network is
still a major objective since only 30% of the country's national, provincial
and country roads are paved which is a relatively small proportion compared to
countries with similar or less GNP per capita (Malaysia with GNP per capita
US$1,792 has some 86% of its peninsular network paved). During the period



- 22 -
from December 1977 to November 1981, a comprehensive study was carried out by
MOC through consultants (BCEOM, France and 8 domestic consulting firms)
financed under the Third Highway Project (Loan 1203-KO). The roads in the
national and provincial networks were screened to identify feasible road
improvements and technical and economic feasibility studies were done to
establish the economic ranking of the roads proposed for improvement. The
study has provided the basis for MOC's road improvement program over the
period 1984 through 1986 and the expenditures proposed by MOC/BPR for these
years would improve about 1,200 kim of national roads and 51 km of provincial
roads (Tables 4.9(a) and (b)). Of this total some 400 km would be improved
under the ADB financed Fifth Highway Project and it is expected that the
improvement of about 362 km would be financed under the proposed project with
the balance of the improvement works for about 440 km being done with local
funds. Table 5.1 shows the list of 362 km of roads for which Bank financing
is expected to be made available and gives details of the classification,
projected traffic, estimated costs and the results of the economic
evaluation. Detailed designs with cost estimates, tender documents and
updated economic evaluation were also done under the study. The design
standards for the expressways, national, provincial and county roads are shown
in Table 5.2 and are satisfactory.
5.07      As a first step in dealing with the rapid deterioration of the
county road network, MOHA, with financing under the Fourth Highway Project
(Loan 1640-KO), had consultants undertake a similar three-phased study on the
county roads. Phase 1 consisted also of a preliminary screening of the 12,500
county road network based mainly on socio-economic criteria in order to
prepare a long-term improvement plan. Phase II further refined the analysis
of about 3,000 km of high priority roads identified in Phase I and identified
about 2,000 km of county roads for improvement in a first five-year program.
(In January 1981, MOHA also started the "1981 Local Road Paving Project"
financed by local funds, which has since improved some 600 km of road, about
150 km of county roads and 450 km of provincial roads.) Phase III of the
study prepared the detailed design tender documents and updated economic eval-
uations for 1,006 km of county roads; the improvement of these roads was
included in the Provincial and County Roads Project approved December 30, 1982
and the improvement work is now well under way. Detailed design, tender docu-
ments and the economic evaluation of a further 1,000 km of road identified in
the study is being prepared by consultants financed under Loan 2228-KO and
should be ready by end-1984. The design standards (Table 5.2) for the road
subprojects approved for financing under the proposed project could be changed
only after consultation and agreement with the Bank; this was agreed with
Government during negotiations.
5.08      Road Safety.  The road safety component will be identified in a
study being carried out under Loan 2228-KO: the result of this study should
be known by early 1984 and the implementation of the road safety program would
start by June 30, 1984.
5.09      Economic Evaluation.  The components of MOC's Program that lend
themselves to straight-forward economic analysis, i.e., new construction,
rehabilitation and paving, make up 52% of the Program while those of MOHA's
Program account for another 43%. For MOC's 362 km of roads, all preparation



- 23 -
studies have been completed since June 1983; cost estimates are based on
detailed engineering and benefits, depending on the specific subproject,
consist of savings in vehicle operating costs, maintenance cost savings, and
diverted or generated traffic benefits whenever applicable. Time savings were
not included in the base case but have been calculated as optional informa-
tion. The vehicle operating cost savings were based on the terrain in which a
particular subproject is located, the vehicle composition and traffic growth
as established by a countrywide system of traffic counting stations supple-
mented by specific counts as needed. Economic rates of return are very high,
ranging from 23 to 119%, and reflect the high priority of roads selected
(Table 5.1). For MOHA's roads, the methodology to evaluate benefits will be
the same as for MOC's roads. The minimum economic return for subprojects to
be included in the Program is established at 12%. The broad geographic
distribution of subprojects ensures that the benefits of road improvements
would contribute to the balanced development objective of the Government.
5.10       The road maintenance components constitute a small fraction of the
program but will help MOC to improve the effectiveness of road maintenance.
The economic assessment of the other components to be financed under the
proposed program and which account for 5%, is more complex and, by necessity,
of a qualitative rather than a quantitative nature. Improved highway invest-
ment planning would reduce costs and assure complementarity of road invest-
ments with other modes; improved energy conservation would reduce import costs
for fuel; and the three studies on: (i) the impact of transport regulations;
(ii) the freight terminals; and (iii) road user charges would be instrumental
in focussing Government transport policy toward the objective of increasing
the efficiency of road transport. Some tangible progress is expected by the
gradual liberalization of the trucking industry to stimulate more competition,
by better management of freight transport through consolidation of loads at
terminals and by fairer apportioning of the taxes to maintain and develop the
road network.
5.11       The other technical assistance elements proposed under the project
would help either in the implementation of the project (supervision) or in the
preparation of future investments (studies). The quality control improvement
of road works and the multimodal approach in project design are both well
worth the continuing support of Bank financing in these areas.
5.12       Estimated Costs.  Contracts for the 362 km of roads shown in Table
5.1 would be awarded in early 1984. Table 5.1 also gives the total estimated
cost at W 147.5 billion at end 1983 prices or W 317 million per km (or
US$400,000 equivalent per km) for paving and W 751 million per km (or
US$950,000 equivalent per km) for widening. Costs, including 10% physical
contingencies and price contingencies which are the same for foreign and local
costs (1984:7.5%; 1985:7% and 6% thereafter), total W 180 billion or US$230
million equivalent. Taxes and duties amount to about W18 billion, US$23 mil-
lion, or 10%. The costs are calculated on the basis of quantities resulting
from the detailed design and the unit prices derived from the recently
completed (June 1983) Fourth Highway Project. The foreign component of the
cost estimate is estimated at about US$115 million or about 50% of the total
estimated contract amount.



- 24 -
5.13      A total of 1,160 man-months of consultants time are estimated to be
needed to provide the services outlined in para. 5.03; some 880 man-months
would be provided by domestic consultants and the balance of 280 man-months
provided by foreign consultants (para. 2.09). The average man-month cost of
domestic consultant staff is about US$2,600 including travel and allowances;
average man-month cost of expatriate consultant staff for all services is
estimated at US$12,000 including salary and overhead, international travel and
local allowances. Other costs include costs of vehicles, including fuel and
maintenance, local office facilities, utilities and local support staff.
C. General Sector Conditions - Action Plan
5.14      It has been agreed with the Government that the various actions
described in Chapter III above with respect to highway investment planning,
energy conservation and transport regulation and pricing would form the basis
of an Action Plan. Such a Plan is attached to a letter to the Bank from the
Government which outlines Government's policy in the transport sector. Final
agreement on the Action Plan and a related time schedule was confirmed at
negotiations. A copy of the ministerial letter and Action Plan are given in
Annex 2.
5.15      Implementation of the Action Plan would be a sector condition of the
proposed project. Performance would be judged on the basis of progress of the
overall Action Plan through quarterly reviews of progress and a comprehensive
review in November 1984; indices for monitoring progress on the Action Plan
are given in Annex 3, page 4. Subproject approval and disbursements could be
stopped if the Bank judged that performance was inadequate.
5.16      Given the critical importance of the effective implementation of the
Action Plan to the overall project and particularly the actions related to the
studies, it would be a condition of effectiveness for the proposed loan that
contracts satisfactory to the Bank be signed with consultants for the proposed
studies on the economic impact of regulations in the trucking industry and on
road user charges to be carried out under the Action Plan.
D. Conditions for Subprojects
5.17      Before committing funds for a road improvement or paving subproject,
the Bank would require the following:
(a) completion of detailed engineering, including cost estimates in
foreign and local currencies, contract drawings, specifications and
bid documents acceptable to the Bank;
(b) a feasibility study, acceptable to the Bank, which would show an
economic rate of return for each proposed road subproject of at
least 12%;
(c) an implementation schedule and estimated disbursement schedule
satisfactory to the Bank; and



- 25 -
(d) procurement by international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance
with Bank guidelines.
E. Procurement
5.18      The road paving and improvement works, estimated to cost about
US$440 million, including contingencies, would be carried out through con-
tracts awarded on the basis of ICB by prequalified firms in accordance with
the Bank Guidelines for Procurement and with assistance from the consultants.
Bidders will be allowed to bid for separate or groups of contracts depending
on the value of works for which they are prequalified. Equipment estimated to
cost about US$12.0 million, including contingencies, will be procured through
contracts awarded after international competitive bidding, also in accordance
with Bank Guidelines for Procurement; foreign bids will be evaluated on the
c.i.f. (point of entry) cost, and local bids on the ex-factory cost, with a
margin of preference of 15%, or the import duties and taxes, whichever is
lower, allowed to domestic manufacturers. All bidding packages for civil
works and equipment would be subject to the Bank's prior review of procutement
documentation.
F. Implementation
5.19      Several ministries or agencies would implement the various compo-
nents of the project. In MOC, BPR would be responsible for carrying out the
construction,-improvement or paving of national and those provincial roads
financed by direct allocations from MDF. The Bureau of Planning in BPR would
be responsible for all studies on these roads as well as the feasibility
studies on the multi-modal projects and would continue to be responsible for
the integrated planning for all roads initiated under the Provincial and
County Roads Project. MOHA would be responsible for carrying out the paving
of county and those provincial roads financed directly by MOHA funds and all
the feasibility and engineering studies related to these subprojects. Based
on past experience, no problems are anticipated with the acquisition of land
for the right-of-way for the road improvement subproject. MOHA would also
implement the Road Safety program through its affiliated agency the Road
Traffic Safety Association. All the road maintenance and other equipment
would be procured by the Office of Supply Republic of Korea (OSROK) the
central government procurement agency. The project is expected to be
completed by December 31, 1987.
5.20      It was agreed at appraisal that EPB would have overall responsibi-
lity for ensuring that the Action Plan related to the sector issues (Annex 2)
is carried out. Agreement on EPB's responsibility for implementing the Action
Plan and on its reporting was confirmed with Government at negotiations.
5.21      As in past projects, domestic and foreign consultants will assist
the executing agencies, MOC and MOHA in preparing and supervising the contruc-
tion of the road subprojects. Domestic and foreign consultants will also
assist in the studies on various transport sector issues (paras. 3.06 and
3.09). The mix of local and foreign consultants will depend largely on the
capabilities available to the local consultants for the various services to be
provided and on the amount of the foreign expertise needed. Agreement was



- 26 -
reached at negotiations on the terms of reference and related expertise needed
for the services and that all consultants would be employed according to Bank
guidelines.
G. Disbursements
5.22      Disbursements from the loan would be made against the following
categories of expenditures:
(a)  50% of the total cost of road improvement;
(b)  100% of the foreign expenditures for directly imported road main-
tenance equipment or 100% of the local expenditures (ex-factory
price) excluding identifiable taxes and duties, of locally manu-
factured equipment;
(c) 100% of the costs of foreign and local consulting services; and
(d) 100% of the costs of the overseas training of staff.
A schedule of estimated disbursements is given in Table 5.3. Comparison with
a country profile is not very meaningful for a highway sector project since
the loan funds would be disbursed against an expenditure program over the
three year period 1984, 1985 and 1986 and therefore disbursements are expected
to be completed by end-1987 as reflected in the schedule of estimated dis-
bursements.
5.23      Loan disbursement will be made on the basis of unit-priced contracts
for civil works and equipment. Interim certification of civil works completed
and costed at unit rates in the contracts will be done by MOC and MOHA at
central and provincial levels and the supervisory consultants. Extra works or
variation orders to the contracts which would have the effect of increasing
the contract amounts by more than 20% would be approved by the Bank before
being issued; this was agreed with the Government during negotiations. Loan
disbursements for training overseas will be made against the actual costs of
travel, subsistence and tuition or training fees.
H. Auditing
5.24      The disbursement procedures will facilitate the auditing and
accounting of the loan funds. The technical assistance team under the ongoing
Provincial and County Road Project will introduce cost control systems and
auditing and accounting procedures at MOHA central and local levels for all
expenditures made for force account work on routine and periodic maintenance
to be done by MOHA forces and financed from local funds.
5.25      MOC, MOHA, MOT, MOER and MOCI would maintain separate accounts for
the project and have these accounts audited by independent auditors acceptable
to the Bank. During negotiations, agreement was reached with Government that
the audited accounts of MOC, MOHA, MOT,MOER and MOCI, prepared by an indepen-
dent auditor, will be sent to the Bank for review within six months of the
close of each fiscal year.



- 27 -
I. Progress Reporting and Monitoring
5.26      Agreement was reached with Government during negotiations on the
progress reporting requirements for the project including the Action Plan.
The reports would be submitted to the Bank each quarter commencing June 30,
1984 and would form the basis for reviews of progress including a compre-
hensive review in November 1984. Tables 4.8(a) and (b) and 4.9(a) and (b)
give the targets in financial and physical terms for the Highway Investment
Program and progress will be reported against these targets. Annex 3 gives
the progress reporting requirements including the indices for monitoring the
implementation of the Action Plan. Agreement was also reached with Government
during negotiations on the preparation and submission by Government of a
Proiect Completion Report not later than six months after the Loan closing
date.
J. Environmental and Urban Aspects
5.27      The road improvement works will not cause any significant environ-
mental problem. Government policy is to follow the existing road alignments
to the extent technically and economically possible, to minimize the acquisi-
tion of land, particularly agricultural land. Road safety would be enhanced
by the implementation of the recommendations of the road safety study and by
improved alignment and the reduction of existing hazardous dust and mud by
bituminous paving. Since the roads are mainly in the rural areas, the urban
aspect of the project is not significant.
K. Assessment of Risk
5.28      The main objective of the proposed project is to make headway in
resolving policy and institutional issues in the highway subsector
(para. 5.03). An Action Plan incorporating the various actions on these
issues and a related time schedule would be agreed at negotiations
(para. 5.15). The actions described in the Action Plan are generally in line
with Government liberalization policy and with the objectives outlined in the
FFYP and are fully supported by MOF and EPB; MOER has also agreed to the
proposed actions on energy conservation. Some doubts remain as to MOT's
commitment to the study on the economic impact of transport regulations mainly
because of its past reluctance to deal with this particular issue. To ensure
that this study and the Road User Charge Study commence in 1984, it would be a
condition of effectiveness for the proposed project that contractual arrange-
ments satisfactory to the Bank would be established with consultants for the
provision of services for the two studies. The risk of delays in the imple-
mentation of the Action Plan would be reduced by the condition described above
and by the quarterly reviews of progress.
5.29      During the present period of budgetary constraints there is the
possibility that a shortage of revenues may require a reduction in the expend-
itures proposed in the highway investment program. If this occurs the highway
sector approach allows considerable flexibility in choosing subprojects for
exclusion from the plan. Since the feasibility studies will determine the
priority ranking in economic terms of the roads proposed to be improved, it



- 28 -
will be possible to reduce the program by deleting those roads with lower
priority. Thus, in the event of budgetary constraints, the Highway Investment
Plan can be revised to reflect high priority needs.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During loan negotiations agreements were reached with Government on
an Action Plan (Annex 2) and on the time schedules for implementation of the
Action Plan (para. 5.14), which would include:
(a) the preparation and introduction by MOC of the new paved road main-
tenance management system (para. 2.12);
(b) the establishment of a system under which all investments in the
highway subsector are planned on an integrated and sound economic
basis with funds appropriated for each road agency closely sup-
porting the priorities of the integrated road investment plan (para.
3.01);
(c) the strengthening of procedures under which road investment plans
are reviewed to ensure their coordination with those for other modes
(para. 3.02);
(d) the implementation of two studies: (i) to assess the economic impact
of current trucking industry regulations on the cost of transport
services and on energy use and to identify and propose the removal
of unnecessary regulations; and (ii) to identify the potential for
improving efficiency in road transport through the use of road and
intermodal freight terminals (para. 3.06);
(e) the implementation of a study on road user charges to identify how
best to apportion the cost of roads among the users (para. 3.09);
and
(f) the implementation of actions related to conservation of energy in
the transport sector (paras. 3.15 and 3.16).
6.02      Agreements were also reached with Government at negotiations on the
following additional matters:
(a) Government would ensure that the dimensions and axle loads of
vehicles using the road network will not exceed those allowed under
the regulation (para. 2.03);
(b) the terms of reference, and expertise needed for the studies
described in paras. 5.05 and 6.01(d) and (e) above and that the
qualifications, experience and conditions of employment of all
consultants and experts to be employed according to Bank Guidelines
(paras. 3.06, 3.09 and 5.21);



- 29 -
(c) Government would furnish to the Bank for its review and comments,
the findings and recommendations of the studies in respect of impact
of trucking regulation, road and intermodal freight terminals and
road user charges not later than April 30, 1985, November 30, 1985
and January 31, 1985, respectively, and exchange views on the
finuings and recommendations of these studies not later than July30,
1985, February 28, 1985, and April 30, 1985 respectively, and,
thereafter, implement such recommendations as agreed between the
Government and the Bank in accordance with satisfactory timetables
(paras. 3.06 and 3.09);
(d)  that the road system would be satisfactorily maintained and that the
allocation for maintenance expenditures by KHC, BPR and MORA to be
in line with the recurrent expenditures proposed in the Highway
Investment Program and that Government would with respect to H4OC, by
July 30 of each year and with respect to M.OHA, by November 15 of
each year, furnish to the Bank for its review and comment the pro-
posed amounts to be made available to MOC and MOHA for road mainte-
nance for the following fiscal year (Tables 4.8(a) and (b) and
para. 4.10);
(e) the findings of a feasibility study on the Jeonju-Gwangju expressway
widening project to be discussed with the Bank before construction
work starts (para. 4.19);
(f) the design standards for the road subprojects approved for financing
under the proposed project could be changed only after consultation
with, and agreement by, the Bank (para. 5.07);
(g) the conditions for Bank financing of subprojects (para. 5.17(a),
(b), and (c));
(h) the EPB to be responsible for overseeing implementation of the
Action Plan (para. 5.20);
(i) extra works or variation orders to approved contracts for road sub-
projects which would have the effect of increasing the contract
amounts by more than 20% to be sent to the Bank for approval before
being issued (para. 5.23);
(j) Government to send to the Bank each year for review within six
months of the close of the fiscal year the audit of project accounts
of the MOC, MOHA, MOT, MOER and MOCI prepared by an independent
auditor (para. 5.25);
(k) quarterly progress reporting and monitoring requirements for the
proposed project including the Action Plan and a comprehensive
review in late 1984 (paras. 5.15 and 5.26); and
(1) a Project Completion Report on the proposed project to be prepared
and submitted by Government to the Bank not later than six months
after loan closing date (para. 5.26).



- 30 -
6.03      Conditions of effectiveness for the proposed loan would be:
(a)  the implementation of a plan to introduce and monitor the operation
of unscheduled transport services (mini-buses) in selected remote
rural areas (para. 2.03); and
(b)  the establishment of contractual arrangements, satisfactory to the
Bank, with consultants for the proposed studies on (i) the economic
impact of regulations in the trucking industry and (ii) road user
charges (para. 5.16).
6.04      With the above agreements and conditions, the proposed project is
suitable for a Bank loan of US$230 million for a period of 15 years with a
grace period of 3 years at standard variable rates.



KOREA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Growth Trend of Domestic Passenger Traffic (1961-82)
(Units:  1,000 Passengers  million pass-km)
1961               1966        1962-66           1971         1967-71          1976         1972-76           1981         1977-81           1982
Traffic    %       Traffic    %       % In-      Traffic    %       X in-      T      7raffic     X % in-     Traffic    7        % in-      Traffic    x
volume  share      volume  share   crease        volume  share    crease       volume  share    crease        volume  share    crease        volume  share
Passenger
Railways
Rail intercity   88,291   13.0    138,299    8.3          9.4     128,159    4.1       (1.5)    148,562    2.8         3.0      268,364    2.9       13.1      282,022    2.9
Seoul suburban       N.A.   -            N.A.   -        -            N.A.   -          -        100,107    1.9       -        172,765    1.9       10.7      161,548    1.6
Subtotal       88,291   13.0    138,299    8.3        9.4      128,159    4.1       (1.5)    248,669    4.7       14.2      441,129    4.8       12.2      443,570    4.5
Subway                    -    -             -    -        -               -    -         -         33,914    0.6        -         88,326    1.0       21.1       89,298    0.9
Highways
Intercity            N.A.   -        277,078   16.7      -        339,886   10.7        4.2      651,624   12.2       13.9     910,657    9.9         7.0     978,402   10.0
Urban                N.A.   -    1,234,480   74.6        -      2,684,343   85.0       16.8   4,399,359   82.4        10.4   1,772,473   84.2        12.0   8,280,850   84.5
Subtotal      586,864   86.4  1,511,558   91.3    20.8   3,024,229   95.7           14.9   5,050,983   94.6       10.8   8_,63,130   94.1        11.4   q,259,252   94.5
Maritime              3,743    0.6       5,909    0.4       9.6        6,371    0.2       1.5        5,994    0.1       (1.2)       9,230    0.1        9.0        9,602    0.1
Aviation                 62    -           192    -        25.4        1,105    -        44.8          795    -         (6.8)       1,555    -         14.4        1,844    -
Total         678,960  100.0  1,655,958  100.0    19.5   3,159,864  100.0           13.8   5,340,355  100.0       11.1   9,223,370  100.0        11,5   9,803,566  100.0
Pass-km
Railways
Rail intercity    5,372   53.0         8,665   42.5    10.0         8,750   27.1        0.2       12,441   21.2        7.3       16,552   18.2        5.8       15,838   16.5
Seoul suburban       N.A.   -            N.A.   -        -            N.A.   -          -          1,864    3.2        -          4,976    5.4       21.7        5,196    5.5
Subtotal        5,372   53.0        8,665   42.5    10.0         8,750   27.1        0.2       14,305   24.4      10.3       21,528   23.6        8,5       21,034   22.0
Subway                    -    -             -    -        -               -    -         -            388    0.7        -          1,258    1.4       26.5        1,309    1.4
Highways
Intercity            N.A.   -            N.A.   -        -         11,936   37.0        -         25,030   42.7       16.0       35,559   39.0        7.3       38,211   39.9
Urban                N.A.   -            N.A.   -        -         10,981   34.1        -         18,369   31.3       10.8       31,756   34.9       11.6       33,899   35.4
Subtotal       4,618   45.5       11,464   56.2    19.9        22,917   71.1       14.9      43,399   74.0       13.6       67,315   73.9        9.2       72,110   75.3
Maritime                136    1.3         196    1.0       7.6          256    0.8       5.5          249    0.4       (0.6)         480    0.5       14.0          610    0.6
Aviation                 18    0.2          55    0.3    25.0            314    1.0      41.7          276    0.5       (2.6)         557    0.6       15.1          654    0.7
Total          10,144  100.0       20,380  100.0    15.0        32, 237  100.0       9.6      58,617  100.0       12.7       91,138  100.0        9.2       95, 717  100.0
Sources:  (1) Fifth Five-Year Economic and Social Development Plan, Transportation Sector Plan - (1982-86), December 1981, Transportation Sector Sector Planning
Task Force, MOT, Korea, pp. 2-3.
(2) Statistical Yearbook of_Transportation - 1981, MOT, Korea, pp. 16-17, pp. 60-63, pp. 110-113.
(3) Statistical_Yearbook of Transportation - 1973, MOT, Korea, pp. 76-77.
4) Statistical Yearbook of Transportation -  982, MOT, Korea, pp. 8-9.
5) Missiu,,  uULC           - 



KOREA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Growth Trend of Domestic Freight Traffic (1961-82)
(Units: 1,000 tons; million tons-km)
1961              1966        1962-66         1971         1967-,71        1976        1972-76         1981         1977-81         1982
Traffic     %    Traffic    %        % in-   Traffic    %         % in-   Traffic    %         % in-   Traffic      %      % in-   Traffic    %
volume  share   volume  share   crease   volume  share   crease   volume  share   crease   volume  share   crease   volume  share
Tonnage
Railways                15,373   47.9   24,064   46.9         9.4     31,955   25.1        5.8    43,629   17.8        6.4    48,761    12.1        2.2     47,437    11.0
Highways
Commercial              N.A.   -           N.A.   -         -       73,934   58.0       -       93,751   38.2        4.9    104,256   26.0        2.1    108,576   25.2
Private & gov't.         N.A.   -          N.A.   -         -       10,320    8.1       -        94,439   38.4      55.7   226,547   56.4        19.1   247,575   57.6
Subtotal          15,299   47.6   24,528   47.8          9.9    84,254   66.1       28.0   188 190   76.6       17.4   330,803   82.4        11.9  356,151   82.8
Maritime                 1,442    4.5    2,686    5.3        13.2      11,263    8.8    33.2       13,829     5.6      4.2      22,206     5.5      9.9     26,454      6.2
Aviation                     -    -             -    -        -             7    -        49.1           5    -       (5.7)         18    -        28.5          30    -
Total             32,114  100.0   51,278  100.0          9.8   127,479  100.0       20.0   245,653  100.0         5.2   401,788  100.0       10.3   430,072  100.0
Tons-km
Railways                 3,486   88.2    5,450   81.6         9.3       7,841   48.9       7.5      9,728   44.6       4.4      10,815   37.5       2.2     10,892   36.9
Highways
Commercial               N.A.   -          N.A.   -         -        3,302   20.6       -         4,374   20.0       5.8      4,868   16.9        2.2      5,097    17.2
Private & gov't.         N.A.   -          N.A.   -         -           237     1.5     -         2,172   10.0    55.7        5,217    18.1      19.2      5,674    19.2
Subtotal             323    8.2         558    8.4      11.6      3,539   22.1    44.7        6J54    30.0      13.1      10,085   35.0       9.1    10,771   36.4
Maritime                   141    3.6        672   10.0    36.7         4,653   29.0    50.2        5,533   25.4        3.5      7,927   27.5       7.5      7,881    26.7
Aviation                     -    -             -    -        -             2    -         -             2    -       (2.5)          7    -        26.5          11    -
Total              3,950  100.0    6,680  100.0    11.1          16,035  100.0      19.1    21,809  100.0         6.4     28,834  100.0       5.8      29,555  100.0
Sources:   (1) Fifth Five-Year Economic and Social Development Plan, Transportation Sector Plan - (1982-86), December 1981, Transportation Sector
Planning Task Force, MOT, Korea, pp. 2-3.
(2) Statistical Yearbook of Transportation - 1981, MOT, Korea, pp. 111, 113, 155, 157.
(3) Statistical Yearbook of Transportation - 1973, MOT, Korea, pp. 76-77, 101.
(4) Statistical Yearbook of Transportation - 1982, MOT, Korea, pp. 10-11, 159, 161.
(5) Mission to Korea.
0r
m



KOREA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Public Roads Network (1962-82) /a
(Unit: km)
National roads /b              Provincial roads                Gun roads               Special city roads                City roads                       Total
Grand
Paved   Gravel   Total    Paved   Gravel   Total   Paved   Gravel   Total    Paved   Gravel   Total    Paved   Gravel   Total                     Paved   Gravel       total
First FYP
1962          857    4,886   5,743           73   10,470  10,543          -         -    n.a./c        -         -         -       345   10,539  10,884       1,275   25,894   27,169
1963          865    4,947   5,810           54   11,244  11,298          -         -    n.a.           8        55       63       515   10,329  10,845       1,443   26,573   28,n16
1964          963    4,936   5,899           54   11,343  11,397          -         -    n.a.         27         36       63       S15   10,270  1(,785    1,558    26,S87   28,145
1965        1,042    4,857   5,899           71   12,267  12,338          -         -    n.a.         27        36        63       486    9,359   9,843       1,627   26,517   28,145
1966        1,349    6,837   8,186           31   10,364  10,395          -         -    n.a.        345     1,517   1,862         208    13,824  14,n33      1,934   32,542   34,476
Second FYP
1967        1,442    6,744   8,186           52   10,600  10,652          -         -    n.a.        353    1,464   1,817          244   13,900  14,144       2,092   32,708   34,799
1968        1,540    6,626   8,166           74   10,597  10,671          -         -    n.a.        303    1,247   1,650          354   32,294  14,535       2,200   32,750   34,949
1969        2,110    6,461   8,571          134   10,703  10,837          -         -    n.a.        452    2,293   2,744          427   14,590  15,016       2,970   34,199   37,169
1970        2,461    6,197   8,658          202   10,692  10,894          -         -    n.a.        724    4,751   5,476          477   14,739  15,216       3,864   36,681   40,244
1971        2,943    5,843   8,786          254   10,524  10,774          -         -    n.a.      1,934    3,728   5,662          658   29,494  15,413       5,789   34,846   40,635
Third FYP                                                                                                                                                                                                    (
1972        3,319    5,610   8,929         283   10,517  10,800           -         -    n.a.      2,464    4,022   6,487          703   15,949  16,652       6,769   36,099   42,867
1973        3,868    5,419   9,287          503   10,389  10,892          -         -    n.a.      2,633    3,904   6,537          816   16,049  16,865    7,870   35,761   43,581
1974        4,070    5,217   9,287          639   10,250  10,889          -         -    n.a.    2,911    3,698   6,609          1,019   16,372  17,392    8,640   35,538   44,179
1975        4,748    4,612   9,360          719   10,092  10,811          -         -    n.a.      3,377     3,389   6,767       1,155   16,812  17,967    10,0oo    34,906   44,905
1976        4,876    4,486   9,360         811   10,057  10,868           -         -    n.a.      3,880    3,419   7,291        1,347   16,648  17,995    10,912   34,602   45,514
Fourth FYP
1977        5,434    4,008   9,442         922    9,933  10,855         384   12,125  12,509       4,051     3,405   7,456       1,306     4,n95   5,401   12,097   33,567   45,664
1978        6,200    3,257   9,457         998    9,821  10,819         442   12,061  12,503    4,537        3,220   7,657       1,468     4,n51    5,519    13,544   32,411    45,455
1979        6,224    3,233   9,457       1,169    9,819  10,988         466   12,022  12,488    4,823    3,042   7,865           1,595     3,941   5,536    14,278    32,056   46,333
1980        6,772    2,685   9,457       1,385    9,636  11,021         564   11,948  12,512       5,035    2,903   7,939        1,844    4,179    6,023   15,5Q9   31,352   46,95n
1981/d      8,019    5,473  13,492    1,103    8,910  10,013            532   11,325  11,377    5,854    3,549   9,403           1,672     4,379   6,051   17,179    33,158   50,337
Fifth FYP
1982        8,643    4,833  13,476    1,285    8,720  10,005            597   10,848  11,445    6,186    3,296   9,482    2,571            6,956   9,527    19,283   34,653   53,936
(64.1%)  (35.9%)  (100%)  (12.8%)  (87.2%)  (100%)  (5.2%)  (94.8%)  (100%)  (65.2%)  (34.8%)  (OO%)  (27.0%)  (73.0%/l) (100%)  (35.8%)  (64.2%)   (100%)
/a  In addition there are village access roads of which 52,444 km had been constructed and improved tinder the Seamatil Movemelot at the end of 1980.
/b  Includes roads under the jurisdiction of KIIC, totalling 1,245 km in 1981.
/c  Length not available (n.a.) before 1977 as city roads were tabulated jointly with gun roads.  Length of guin roads in 1962 helieved to have heen about 10,n00  km.
,'d Road networks were reclassified during the early part of 1981.
Sources:  1.  Statistical Yearbook of Transportation - 1973, MOT, Korea, pp. 112-113.
2. Statistical Yearbook of Transportatton - 1981, MOT, Korea, pp. 166-167.
3.  Statistical Yearbook of Transportation - 1982, MOT, Korea, pp. 170-171.
4.  MOC and mission to Korea.
a'
a



34 -                           Table 2.2
KOREA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Registered Motor Vehicles (1962-82)
Years          Cars/a   Trucks/b    Buses/c   Motorcycles   Others/d    Total
First FYP
1962            8,733      13,093       6,747        1,846         395       30,814
1963            9,569      13,929       8,132        2,029         569       34,228
1964           11,409      14,951       8,617        2,158         678       37,813
1965           13,001      16,015       9,316        2,385         794       41,511
1966           17,502      19,432      10,888        1,322       1,016       50,160
Second FYP
1967           23,235      22,955      11,499        1,722       1,286       60,697
1968           33,112      31,582      12,786        2,188       1,283       80,951
1969           50,299      40,134      14,237        2,531       1,468      108,669
1970           60,677      48,901      15,831        2,865       1,097      129,371
1971           67,582      53,405      17,411        4,068       1,871      144,337
Third FYP
1972           70,244      55,116      17,550        4,297       2,727      149,934
1973           78,334      64,584      18,871        5,407       3,518      170,714
1974           76,462      76,833      20,060        6,039       4,150      183,544
1975           84,212      82,862      21,818        6,594       5,035      200,521
1976           96,099      93,885      23,643        7,342       5,351      226,320
Fourth FYP
1977          125,613    118,150       26,710        7,440       4,839      282,752
1978          184,886    161,886       30,597       12,020       7,167      696,556
1979          241,422    206,822       37,697      181,976       8,437      676,354
1980          249,102    226,940       42,463      216,498       9,224      744,227
1981          267,605    243,828       50,595      276,335       9,726      848,089
Fifth FYP
1982          305,811    263,939       66,326      410,286      10,920   1,057,282
Average Annual Growth (Z p.a.)
1962-67            21.6        11.9        11.3          -          26.6         14.5
1967-72            24.8        19.1         8.8         20.1        16.2         19.8
1972-77            12.3        16.5         8.8         11.6        12.2         13.5
1977-82            19.5        17.4        20.0        223.0        17.7         30.2
Fleet Composition (x)
1962               28.3        42.5        21.9          6.0         1.3          100
1967               38.3        37.8        18.9          2.9         2.1          100
1972               46.8        36.8        11.7          2.9         1.8          100
1977               44.4        41.8         9.5          2.6         1.7          100
1982               28.9        25.0         6.3         38.8         1.1          100
/a  Includes taxis and Government vehicles.
/b  Includes public carriers as well as private and government-owned trucks.
/c  Includes microbuses.
/d  Public service and special vehicles.
Sources:  (1)  Statistical Yearbook of Transportation - 1973, MOT, Korea,
pp. 102-105.
(2)  Statistical Yearbook of Transportation - 1982, MOT, Korea,
pp. 164-167.
(3)  Mission to Korea.



- 35 -
Table 2.3
KOREA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Korean Motor Vehicle Production (1962-81)
Year            Cars         Buses       Trucks      Motorcycles        Total
Actual
First FYP
1962              991           42          884               -          1,917
1963            1,430          233          143               -          1,806
1964              179          405          108             343          1,035
1965              166        1,251          965             507          2,889
1966            3,398        1,482          559           1,461          6,900
Second FYP
1967            5,033          941        1,512           4,635         12,121
1968           11,421        1,632        5,212          17,374         35,639
1969           19,727        1,884        9,626          13,735         44,972
1970           13,636        3,690       13,032          16,242         46,600
1971           11,870        3,059        8,072          12,317         35,318
Third FYP
1972            9,952        2,581       6,115            9,012         27,660
1973           12,751        3,494        9,979          13,851         40,075
1974            9,069        3,945       17,276          11,495         41,785
1975           18,570        3,808       14,913          11,665         49,016
1976           26,701        3,468       19,219          16,798         66,186
Fourth FYP
1977          43,981         5,453      35,263           32,629        117,326
1978           86,823        7,279      63,446           70,654        228,202
1979          113,564       12,307      76,661          100,496        303,028
1980           57,225       12,053       51,660         110,773        231,711
1981           68,760       13,358       52,166         123,521        257,805
Average Annual Growth Rate (%)
1972-76          34.6         16.1         42.0            29.3           33.5
1977-81          20.8         30.9         30.0            49.0           31.6
Source:  (1) Statistical Yearbook of Transportation-1973, MOT, Korea, p. 115
(2) Statistical Yearbook of Transportation-1982, MOT, Korea, p. 173
(3) Mission to Korea.



_ 36-
Table 2.4
KOREA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Motor Vehicle Fuel Consumption (1962-82) Ia
('000 Kiloliters)
Year                                       Gasoline              Diesel
First FYP
1962                                            108                  307
1963                                             97                  358
1964                                            102                  386
1965                                            223                  507
1966                                            336                  558
Second FYP
1967                                            481                  765
1968                                            573                1,251
1969                                            748                1,507
1970                                            865                1,775
1971                                            992               2,099
Third FYP
1972                                            976               2,338
1973                                          1,040                2,838
1974                                            698               2,918
1975                                            664               3,328
1976                                            838               4,103
Fourth FYP /b
1977                                            642                1,687
1978                                            962               2,065
1979                                          1,160               2,426
1980 /c                                         915                2,592
1981                                            771               2,861
Fifth FYP
1982                                            551               2,814
Average Annual Growth (% p.a.)
1962-67                                          34.8                 20.0
1967-72                                          15.2                 25.4
1972-77                                           2.5                 15.3
1977-81                                          -4.7                 14.1
/a Gasoline consumption is totally for vehicles, but diesel consumption
includes 20-30% of other consumption.
/b Gasoline and diesel consumptions correspond only to motor vehicle
consumption.
/c Figures from computer data.
Source: Ministry of Commerce and Industry and mission to Korea.



- 37 -                              Table 2X5
KOREA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Road Authorities and Agencies
Toll      National       Provincial         City/county
highways      roads          roads /a         (gun) roads
Planning                 MOC          MOC            9 provincial      City/county
construction      construction
bureaus (PCB)    divisions
/b                (CCD)
Construction
Design &               MOC/Korea   MOC through   PCB lb              CCD
supervision           Highway      its 5
Corp.       regional
(KHC)       construction
offices
(RCOs)
Financing                MOC/KHC /c  MOC             Provinces with   City/county
Ministry of       with provin-
Home Affairs      cial grants
(MOHA) grants;
also from MOC
budget for spe-
cial projects
Maintenance
Execution Authority/
Agency
Paved               KHC          NHMO /d        PCB               CCD
Unpaved             -            PCB /d         PCB               CCD
Financing           KHC          MOC            Provinces with   City/county
MOHA grants       with provin-
cial grants
/a The special cities of Seoul and Busan (city construction bureaus) have func-
tions similar to provincial authorities (provincial construction bureaus).
/b MOC has so far handled the planning, design and supervision of construction
or major improvement of a number of provincial roads, particularly those for
which external financing is involved.
/c KHC was established in January 1969, but has not so far financed any con-
struction.
/d MOC has responsibility for maintenance of all national roads; it directly
maintains paved national roads through its 19 national highway maintenance
offices (NHMOs) under its five regional construction offices (RCOs); it
delegates maintenance of the unpaved national roads to the provinces (PCBs)
with financial grants from MOC's budget, and assistance provided by its
TCMOs.
Source: Ministry of Construction.
October 1982



- 38 -
Table 3.1
KOREA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Commercial Licensing of Road Transport Companies (1974-82)
Taxis
Number of            Number of          Owners-
Year              companies            vehicles           drivers           Total taxis
1974                  669               28,906               652               29,558
1976                  711               29,104               856               29,960
1977                  722               29,830             4,773               34,603
1980                1,517               53,588            15,958               69,546
1981                1,881               51,951            19,163               71,114
1982                1,932               53,153           24,435                77,588
Trucks
Area license            Route license                Total
Number of   Trucks       Number of   Trucks    Number of   Trucks
Year            companies   ('000)        companies   ('000)    companies   ('000)
1974                839        39.2           30          1.9         869        41.1
1976                889        37.0           32          1.6         921        38.6
1977             1,029         40.6           32          1.6       1,061        42.2
1980             1,245         56.9           30          1.9       1,275        58.8
1981             1,415         57.3           29          1.9       1,444        59.2
1982             1,659         61.4           26          1.4       1,685        62.8
Buses
Intracity        Intercity /a          Charter             Total
Number  Buses    Number  Buses    Number  Buses    Number  Buses
Year         of co.  ('000)   of co.  ('000)   of co.  ('000)   of co.  ('000)
1974            n.a.    n.a.       n.a.   n.a.        80      1.0        341    16.5
1976            199      9.5       144    8.7         93      1.3        436    19.5
1977            204    10.2        150    9.5        108      1.9        462    21.6
1980            336    15.4        161   11.2        153      2.8        650    29.4
1981            359    16.9        177   11.2        171      3.1        707    31.2
1982            376    18.3        177   11.4        182      3.3        735    33.0
/a  Includes companies operating services on the expressways (12, 11 and 10 in
1974, 1977 and 1980).
Sources:  (1) Statistical Yearbook of Transportation - 1982, MOT, Korea,
pp. 162-163, 168.
(2) MOT and mission to Korea.



- 39 -
Table 3.2
KOREA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Trucks by Categories of Ownership (1967-82)
('000 vehicles)
Years             Government         Private/a       Commercial/b       Total
Second FYP
1967                   2.2               5.6            15.1             22.9
1968                   2./               7.6            21.3             31.6
1969                   2.8              11.0            26.3             40.1
1970                   3.0              15.2            30.7             48.9
1971                   3.3              18.5            31.6             53.4
Third FYP
1972                   3.6             21.5             30.0             55.1
1973                   4.9              26.8            32.9             64.6
1974                   4.9             45.3             36.6             76.8
1975                   5.0              39.9            38.0             82.9
1976                   5.9             49.4             38.6             93.9
Fourth FYP
1977                   7.3             69.5             41.4            118.2
1978                   7.6             105.4            48.9            161.9
1979                   8.3            146.2             52.3            206.8
1980                   8.9             165.4            52.6            226.9
1981                   9.2            180.6             54.0            243.8
Fifth FYP
1982                   9.1            199.2             55.6            263.9
Fleet Composition (x)
1967                     9.6              24.5            65.9              100
1972                     6.5              39.0            54.5              100
1977                     6.2              58.8            35.0              100
1982                     3.4              75.5            21.1              100
/a  For carrying own goods.
/b  Common carriers.
Source: (1) Statistical Yearbook of Transportation-1976, MOT, Korea, p. 123.
(2) Statistical Yearbook of Transportation-1982, MOT, Korea, p. 166.
(3) Mission to Korea.



Table 3.3
- 40 -
KOREA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Cars by Categories of Ownership (1967-82)
('000 vehicles)
Years             Government         Private        Commercial         Total
(mostly taxis)
Second FYP
1967                  2.2               9.9            11.1            23.2
1968                  2.8              14.4            15.9            33.1
1969                  3.1              23.7            23.5             50.3
1970                  3.6              28.7            28.4             60.7
1971                  4.0              34.0            29.6             67.6
Third FYP
1972                  4.5              36.4            29.3            70.2
1973                  5.0              43.4            29.9             78.3
1974                  4.9              44.6            27.0            76.5
1975                  5.0              50.1            29.1            84.2
1976                  5.2              61.6            29.3            96.1
Fourth FYP
1977                  5.7              85.1            34.8           125.6
1978                  6.1             128.8            50.0            184.9
1979                  6.8             172.9            61.7           241.4
1980                  7.8             178.5            62.8           249.1
1981                  7.9             193.5            66.2           267.6
Fifth FYP
1982                  7.8             225.6            72.4           305.8
Fleet Composition (%)
1967                     9.5             42.7            47.8              100
1972                     6.4             51.9            41.7              100
1977                     4.5             67.8            27.7              100
1982                     2.6             73.8            23.8              100
Cars per 1,000 Population
Population           Private            Total
(million)            ('000)            ('000)
1967                    30.1               0.33              0.77
1972                    33.5               1.09              2.10
1977                    36.4               2.34              3.45
1982                    39.3               5.74              7.78
Source:  (1) Handbook of Korean Economy-1980, EPB, Korea, p.395.
(2) Statistical Yearbook of Transportation-1976, MOT, Korea, p. 125.
(3) Statistical Yearbook of Transportation-1982, MOT, Korea, p. 164.
(4) Mission to Korea.



SOREA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
F_rcast ir               Paseenger Tra-sport (1980-86)
__ 19801                     191                          1982                          1983         _                1984 ____ _ 11905                                             161982-86   19A6-00
z                                                                    z~~                                  ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ S  Aver..ge    MultI-
Sectors                         Share  Growth                Share  Growth                 Share  Growth                  Share  Growth                 Share  Growth                  Share  Growth                  Share  Growth   .ro.th   plier
Passenger ('000)
Total              8,544,916  100.0    5.4   9,108,880  10.0-          6.6   9 864,917  LO.0    8.3   10.73303  1                nn,n  8.8   11,634,03  n100.   8.4  12,600,273  (00.0         83  11,631,597  10nn.0         .2      8.40       1.60
Railways            430.773     5.0      1.7     470,754    5.2    9.3         521,873     5.3   11.3        585,856      5.5   11.8        6501,931    5.6    11.1        721,065    5.7      1.8       793,702    5.8    10.1       11.01       1.04
SDbhwys              65,076    0.8   (2.1)/a  102,200    1.1   37.0            11,515     1.2   11.1        181,405    1.7   99.0          363,0n5     1.1    1n0.6      805,055      6.4    1?1.4      962,14n    7.1   Iq.4        56.59     14.78
Highways          8,039,006    94.1      5.6   8,525,291    93.6    6.n   9.216,447    93.4    8.1    9,954,056   92.7    8.0   10,607,368   91.2                6.6   1,0n6n,434    07.0       4.3  11,863,642    07.0       7.3      6.93       1.48
0.1      0.7       11,441    7.1 I     8.7     4l.87      1.33
Mariti-e               8,580     0.1    8.2         9,006     5.l    5.0         9,329    0.1    3.16            ,772    11.1    4.7         In,253    n.1        4,0       10,8?6     -       11.6         0,672    -       11.6    10.4n        1.0n
A1iatio0               1,481    -    (18.3)         1,629    -       10.0        1,753    -        7.6          1,041     _      10.7         2,146     -        101.6       7,395
Poss-km (W1s.)
Total                 87,626  100.0    2.6                   100.0    7.3       101,92L   100.0    8.4   I(S,78   100.I    0.7               170,537  1o0.0n      R     .     0 3  10'.1          0.6      141,37S   100.R    8.05                 1.61
R.il.ays             21,640   24.7       1.2       23,401   24.9    8.1         25,654   25.2    0.6          20,177   25.5    9.8           31,004   25.7    In0.         31,988    3S.9       0.5        36,090   26.1    8.9        9.59       1.71
Sobhoys                 926      1.1    2.4         1,362     1.4   47.1         1,517     1.5    4.4           2,227     2.n   46.8          4,084     3.4    83.4          8,162    6.2      90.0         0,745     6.9   10.4    48.32       10.52
Highway6             64,131    73.1      3.3       68,247   72.6    6.4         73,669   72.3    7.9           74,210    71.5    7.0         84,172   69.0        6.3       07,391   66R.        3.8       93,115   6S.0    6.5        6.41       1.4S
M-rfti-e                 401    0.5    3.9            426   (1.5    6.2            443    0.4      4.0            464    0.4      0.7            489    0.4       8.4          516    0.4        0.5          549    n.4      6.4      5.20       1.17
Aviation                 528    0.6  (17.0)           587    0.6   11.2            638    0.6      8.7            710    0.6   11.3              788    0.7    1l.n            876    0.7       11.2          976    0.7   11.4    1070           1.RS
/ F ffig4r00 to hrakets ( )         ndtcate negatilve grooth.
Soorce:  "Draft" for proparatioo of 5th Five Social sod_foomlo root (Troos ort Se. nor).  AogoPr 1081,  7OT, Kore,a, p. 17.
Septe-bor 1982



KORFA
HIGhWAY SECTOR PROJECT
forec.ast for So7mestc Freight rransport tl9R1n-R6)
1980                        1981                        1982                _         q19R1             _9Rb _                     __           19.3S _5_    19R6                                19R7-R6  1QR6-RO
X  X  %  2  7  7              7.            Average   Muati-
Sectors                        Share  Growth                Sbare  Grovth               Share  Gro-th                 Share  Crowth                 Share  Growth                 Share  Crowth                 Share  frowth   nrowth   aSter
Tons ('000)
Total              172 .776.8  100.0  (18.4)  182,279.4  100.0    S.S   194_856.0  100.0    6.9   _708,691.3  00.0    7.1    223_717.4  ]00.0    7.2   _24nn4g.7  100.n    7.3    257,912.A  Ino.0    7.4                       7.1R       1.49
Railways          49,008.0   28.4   (3.7)   51,225.0   28.1    4.95          3,690.0   27.9    4.R       56, 161.0   26.9    4.6       SR9,16.0   26.3    4.9       619433.n   ?S.8    S.1        6.3186.0   7S.4    5.6        5.no      1.33
Highways         104,526.0   60.3  (26.1)  110,826.0   60.8    6.n   119,573.0   61.4    7.9    129,391.0   62.n    R.7    39,995.n   62.6   8R.                  151,495.0   63.1    R.2    163,R70.0   63.S    9.2           R.14      1.37
Maritime          19,230.0   11.1    -         20,215.0   11.1    S.1    21,589.0   11.1    6.R          23,124.n   11.1    7.1        24,790.n   11.1    7.7       26,601.0   11.1    7.3        ?R,937.0   11.1    7.3        7.14      1.4R
Aviation               12.8    -      (7.9)        13.4    -        4.7         14.3    -       6.7            1 .3    -      7.n          16.4    -        7.2          17.7    -       7.0            9,.n    -      7.3      7.21       1.4R
Tons-km (nin.)
Total              23,186.1  100.0   (5.3)   24,322.3  100.0    4.9    25,853.8  10n.n    6.n             27,407.2  100n    6.         29,242.7  Inn.0    6.9       11,1_71,5  lnn.f    6.7       11,354.0  n0.0    6.0        6.S2       1.44
Railways          10,798.0   46.6   (2.6)   11,267.0   46.3    4.3    11,756.n   45.5    4.3             17,379.0   44.9    4.0        12,q3R.0   44.3    4.9       13,6nl.n   413.6    9.1       14,1S7.0   43.1    9.S        4.97      1.11
H8ighways          4,920.0   21.2  (36.4)    5,235.0   21.6    6.4          5,790.01   22.3    9.0        6,246.0   22.A    9.4         6,RlI.n   21.1    9.7        7,461.n   73.9    9.4           ,153.n   24.4    9.1      9.26      1.66
MOriti-e            7,463.0   32.2   (0.7)    7,815.0   32.1    4.7          9,312.n   32.2    6.4        R,R76.0   32.1    6.R         9,4S0.0   32.4    6.R       I,loIn.n   92.9    6.9        In0RI6.n   12.9    7.n        6.75       1.49
Aviation                S.1    -       2.0          5.3    -        3.9          5.8    -       9.4           6.2    -        4.9           6.7    -        9.1           7.5    -      11.9            A.0    -       6.7      8.5R      1.57
/a  Figures In brackets ( ) indlcte negative growth.
Source:  "Draft' for preparatioc of 5th Fi-e Soci.al ad Ecoocalc elan (Transport Sector).  August 1981, HOT, Knrea, p. 18.
Septe-ber 1982



Table 4.3
- 43 -
KOREA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Comparison of Investment Plans (1977-81 and 1982-86)
(Billion won)
The Fourth Plan (1977-81) /a /c                      The Fifth Plan (1982-86) /b
Investment requirements                            Investment requlirements
Foreign                   Composi-                  Foreign                 Composi-
Domestic    capital                   tion ratio   Domestic    capital                  tion ratio
Transport investment                 capital   (USs mln)       Total           (M)       capital   (US$ mln)    Total            (5)
Railway                                289.9        231.7        402.1         14.5        894.3        715.6      1,330.8       13.4
(719.0)      (574.6)      (997.2)
Highway                              1,141.0        174.9      1,225.6         44.0     3,568.9         245.8      3,718.8       37.4
(2,829.7)      (433.8)   (3,039.9)
Road /d                              373.1        174.9        457.8        16.4      1,175.0         220.8     1,3n9.7        13.2
(925.3)      (451.2)   (1,135.3)
Vehicles /e                          741.2          -          741.2        26.6      2,307.6           -       2,307.6        23.2
(1,838.2)        (-)      (1,838.2)
Others                                26.6          -           26.6         I.0         86.3          25.0        101.5        1.0
(66.0)         -          (66.0)
Ports and ships                        557.4        902.3        994.1         35.7      1,693.2      1,576.9      2,655.1       26.7
(1,382.4)   (2,237.7)   (2,465.4)
Ships                                358.8        773.6        733.3        26.3      1,228.6      1,365.2       2,061.4       20.7
(889.8)   (1,918.5)   (1,818.6)
Ports and facilities                 200.6        128.7        260.8          9.4       464.5         211.7        593.7        6.0
(497.5)      (319.2)      (646.8)
Aviation                                51.4          15.5        58.9          2.1        175.4        687.0        594.5        6.n
(127.5)       (38.4)      (146.1)
Subway                                  54.1         97.0         101.0         3.6     1,324.5         509.8      1,635.0       16.5
(134.2)      (240.6)      (250.5)
Waterway                                 1.9          -             1.9         0.1          5.0          -            5.0        -
(4.7)         -           (4.7)
Total                          2,nss.7       1,421.4      2,783.6       100.0      7,661.3      3,735.1      9,939.7      100.0
(5,197.5)   (3,525.1)   (6:903.4)
Total capital expendituire          14,18.0    10,0ooo.0    19,028.0                   59,(00.0    23,673.4    72,10O.O
(35,186.2)  (24,800.0)  (47,189.4)
Total transport investment
as % of total capital
expenditure                           14.8         14.2         14.6                      13.0         15.8         13.8
la The Fourth Plan figtures are in 1975 constant valtue.
/b  The Fifth Plan figures are in 1980 constant value.
/c The figuires in parentheses indicate the 1980 constant value.
/d Including construction, repair and loan repayment of national roads only.
/e  Including new vehicles additional to the fleet and replacements for scrapped vehicles.
Note:  GNP deflator:  1975 = 100, 1980 = 247.9.
Sources:  (1)  The Fourth Five-Year Economic Development Plan (1977-81), EPF, Korea, 1976, pp. 140-141, pp. 152-153.
(2)  The Fifth Economic and Social Develpoment Five-Year Plan - Transport Part for Implementation (1982-86), MOT,
Korea, October 1981, p. 51.
(3) Transport Part of the Investment Plan, EPB, Korea, October 12, 1981, pp. 17, 26, 8.



- 4/ -                             Table 4.4
KOREA
HIG1v7AY SECTOR PROJECT
F iftlt Five-Year Plan: Expenditures for Roads (1982-86)
(In 1980 prices)
Total
t1982   1983   1984   1985   1986               US$      Qty.
(W billion) -                 ---   W bln.  mln. la   (km)
Central Government
Financing
Construction &
Improvement
Expressways (KHC) /b        38.5   52.3   17.4   37.8   45.4    291.4    477.7    360
National Highways           99.5  101,3  165A  133.3  153.4    552.9    906.4           -
Paving                    93.4   96.4  153.4   94,4  109.9    447.5    733.6  2,421
Widening                   6.1    4.9   12,0   38,9   43.5    105.4    172,8    173
Bridges (length in m)        3.9    3.7    6.8    8.4    6.2        29,0     47.5  7,591
Provincial roads paving    2,9    2.9    2.6    9.4    8,0          25.8     42.3      82
Subtotal             144,8  160.2  192,2  188.9  213.0    899,1  1,473.9           -
Others
National highway
maintenance               28,6   31.6   37.1   43.5   50.1    190.9    313.0          -
Overhead & studies          10.5   10.7   12.3   14.4    7.6        55.5     91.0       -
Loan amortization           26.4   33.1   33.3   34c7   36,7    164.2    269.1          -
Subtotal              65.5   75,4   82.7   92.6   94.4    410.6    673,1           -
Total                210,3  235.6  274.9  281.5  307.4  1,309.7  2,147.0           -
Local government financing
(including maintenance) /c   91.7   91.8   91.8   91.8   91.8    458.9    752,3  2,452
GRAND TOTAL          302.0  327,4  366.7  373.3  399.2  1,768.6  2,899.3           -
/a Exchange rate 1980: US$1 = W 610.
/b  Excluding maintenance expenditures of KHC.
/c Includes provinces and counties but excludes cities and special cities estimated at
W 1,665 billion.
Sources:  MOC and 4OHA.
September 1982



- 45-                             Table 4.5
KOREA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Fourth Five-Year Plan: Expenditures for Roads (1977-81)/a
(Won billion)
Total
1977   1978   1979   1980   1981  1977-81          x
National & Express Highways
Administration                 9.8   12.2   16.6   24.8   35.8        99.2       5.2
Construction                  80.9   70.0  105.0  117.4  180.1    553.4         28.8
Maintenance                   21.0   25.7   43.4   55.5   76.6    222.2/b   11.6
Subtotal                 111.7  107.9  165.0  197.7  292.5    874.8         45.6
Others
Provincial,_Gun (County)
& City Roads
Administration               0.7    0.8    1.9    2.8    2.8         9.0       0.5
Construction                44.9   32.9   51.5   92.1   56.5    277.9         14.5
Maintenance                  2.6    3.1    6.1   14.6   15.5        41.9       2.2
Subtotal                  48.2   36.8   59.5  109.5   74.8    328.8         17.2
Special Cities
Administration               -       1.8    2.7   32.9   21.3       58.6       3.0
Construction                67.7  115.1  132.4  159.7  131.0    606.0         31.5
Maintenance                  1.9    3.4    3.0    4.7   36.6        49.6       2.6
Subtotal                  69.6  120.3  138.1  197.3  188.9    714.2         37.2
Total, Current Prices  229.5  265.0  362.6  504.5  556.2  1,917.8    100.0
Total, 1975 Prices /c  167.6  160.5  184.1  203.5  191.0    906.7
Total, 1980 Prices /c  415.6  397.9  456.3  504.5  473.5  2,247.8
/a  Including MOC, KHC and Government.
/b  Maintenance of KHC network amounted to W 124 billion or 56%.
77  GNP deflator:  1975 = 100, 1977 = 136.9, 1978 = 165.1, 1979 = 197.0, 1980
247.9, 1981 = 291.2.
Source: MOC and mission to Korea.



Table 4.6
- 46 -
KOREA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Expenditures on Roads (1962-81) /a
(million won)
Total           Total         Total              Total
First Plan    Second Plan   Third Plan          Fourth Plan
1962-66   X   1967-71   %   1972-76   %         1977-81      7
Government Expenditures
on National Highways/b
Administration                    74     1       946    1    5,887    2       99,241      8.2
Construction                  3,811    53   89,022   72  179,424   66    553,388    46.0
Maintenance/c                    193     3    1,448    1   11,479    4    222,087    18.5
Subtotal                    4,078    57   91,416   74  196,790   72    874,716    72.7
Expenditures on Provincial
Gun (County), and City
Roads /d /e
Administration                     -     -         -    -         -    -       8,979      0.7
Construction                  2,174    31   26,286   21   65,150   24    277,984    23.1
Maintenance If                   851    12    5,737    5   11,516    4        41,930      3.5
Subtotal                    3,025    43   32,023   26   76,666   28    328,893/g  27.3
Total                     7,103   100  123,439  100  273,456  100  1,203,609   100.0
/a  At current prices.
lb  Includes roads under the jurisdiction of KHC.
/c  Does not include funds contributed by provinces for the maintenance of national
highways.
/d  Seoul City excepted in First to Third Plans, and Special Cities (Seoul, Busan, Daegu
and Incheon) excepted in the Fourth Plan.
/e  Includes Government grants.
/f  Maintenance includes expenditures on gravelled national highways, estimated at up to
70% of the total except the value of voluntary labor provided for all by farmers until
1971.
/g  Investments under the Fourth Plan for the Special Cities amount to an additional
W 714.2 billion and would represent 37%, if taken into account, of total road
expenditures.
Source: MOC, MOHA and mission to Korea.



_ 47 -                            Table 4.7
KOREA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Expenditures on Roads (1981)
(million Won)
Local
government
MOC /a      KHC /b          /c         Total      %
Expressways
Administration                    -       4,178            -         4,178
Construction                20,000       19,889            -        39,889
Maintenance                       -      37,551            -        37,551
Total                  20,000       61,618            -        81,618   14.7
National Highways
Administration              30,691/d          -          898        31,589
Construction               100,527            -       39,687       140,214
Maintenance                 32,596            -        6,431        39,027
Total                 163,814            -       47,016      210,830   37.9
Special City Roads /e
Administration                    -           -       21,299        21,299
Construction                     -            -      131,036       131,036
Maintenance                       -           -       36,605        36,605
Total                       -            -      188,940       188,940   34.0
Provincial Roads
Administration                    -           -        1,713         1,713
Construction                 2,719            -       26,686        29,405
Maintenance                       -           -        6,835         6,835
Total                   2,719            -       35,234        37,953    6.8
City Roads
Administration                    -           -          651           651
Construction                      -           -       14,206        14,206
Maintenance                       -           -        5,706         5,706
Total                       -            _       20,563        20,563    3.7
Gun Roads
Administration                    -           -          409           409
Construction                      -           -       12,935        12,935
Maintenance                       -            -       2,976         2,976
Total                       -                    16,320       16,320    2.9
Total
Administration              30,691        4,178       24,970        59,839
Construction               123,246       19,889      224,550       367,685
Maintenance                  32,596      37,551       58,553       128,700
Total                 186,533       61,618      308,073      556,224  100.0
/a  MOC.
7b  KHC.
7T  Nine provincial governments and four special cities.
Id  Reimbursement cost W 24,190 million for previous loan is included.
/e  Seoul, Busan, Daegu and Incheon special cities.
Source: MOC, MOHA, KHC and mission to Korea.



- 46 -                                                  Table 4,(a )
KOREA
'[I^.HWAY P,,C7h.IROJEkC7
<- ihy 128-t7 :II 2"I "    87I 7072 I-
ctutal Hi gAte y [noes isent pta 0 Expenditures for 1982-St
(1983 prices)
1982 /a      193         1984       1985          1986             192-86
_____________--- -(Wo  mili-on) -         -----      -      Woo nin        Ss9o5 u
-ure-u of PuF ic t6Rfds (BPR)
EOpresss.o scoostroct lo                      39,486    54,989      93,282         9,299        9,938     2i6,994        265,794
Ntional rd.
P-iog                                      124,791    132,683     63,593      1147.468      122,219      S52,774      7 13,252
Upgrading                                    4,764      8,246     10,95         13,970        6.160       44,392       55,963
Widening no 4 lanes                          4,932      7.81      15,691       47,324        50,602      12,936        158,224
croulocial cpds t  ating                       3,n28      3,891      2.993       1[,963         9,342       37,217        38,312
BHcdge conatcortint                            7,179      6,268      7,94S         9,750        7,231       38,373       49,248
7y1nlnnance equlpmenr                          I,I107     2,76)      7,992         3.325        3,824       13,213        16,714
Sthoto-l                                184,85    215,961           6      202,099      214,336   1,tl11,597   1,297,5C7
_ootl_e  a loteoxo_e                      17,1)9    13,352       221274      25,065       28,424       1380,74      13, 157
Onclodlc esolosroance                    11791       9,S88     12.843       1.S777        19 056       68355)       67 799
llnpaved                                     2.349      3,292      4,193          4580        4,734       18,648       23,676
Cenrcal ,sdnioixtcost ion                      515      1,752      2,115         ,2,99        2,187        8.568        10,802
Sobtosai                                 30,814    30t1084    41,125        u7,)21       54,401       2(3,945      260,414
looban Expand Itocat
Stoolox                                           763      1,185     3,631         4,122        4,682       14,583        16,36)
l*flgr bridges                                     96       223         24)          270          206         1,130        1,431)
K-pay-ent of lo-n                             26,296     35,211    38,730         40,327       42,692      1932058      233,519
So),,bto I                              27, 157    36  19    42 ,606        44,71 9      47,670       198 ,771     253,314
Ton,l                                   242,826   282,664   27S_077        294,359      316,4()7   1,414,313    1,811,2 3
Korea Highby Cc.po..    ioo (KHC)
l4pftal
Eapoessen wId-etng                             2,738      17,173    55,I44       69,7)6        68,762      213,983      267,843
Ulgroding                                       I,171)    7.938      6,491        11,624        14,225      45,437        56,961
Aucll-acy iaclitiex                              493      ,l460      2,577         2,7)7        2.957       12,237        12,884
bqulpvent                                      1,478      2,332      2,494         2,669        2,856       11,829        15,075
iluoloto I                                9,879    28,903      69,018       85,7686      88,793      2822,379      354,738
RI.i.....                                     30teoance  37,220    301,30)    12,427  34,696   37,124      164,772      211,361
Peclcdl, mna--an-c,                           14,291     13,164     14,6S7        14,424       12,79S       69,331       89,216
FacllItIe.                                       177        293         913          33)          359        1,476         1,877
od,oloilscotrion                               4,834      4,805      5,320         5,693        6,091       26,743       34,292
SbLo66 di49,S22    48,S67                                      52,716       SS,148       56, 369     263,22        336,i746
-aheacc  and  -tIdles                             IH8       247        44)           952        i,411        3 236        4,[tH1
W 18h bridges                                     162       1311       32)           32)          32)        1267          1,519
Kepa y-ent of  l       ao  6 non, etc.        29,981      6,15n      4,298         4,464        4,639       49,486       67,211
untal                                       630     6,482       5,063        5,741        6,375       53,991        72,905
Total                                    89,731     83,952    126J 7 97    146,675       151,537      59r 692      764,389
lilnGttp of Hone AfixIcs (10HA)
Pr-oLocil rad  - paviog                      107,210     80,002      3,600        35,802       35,800      u62,427      347,143
C... ly Icds - psoing                         12.800    67,400    94,807         11)2,0I I    12,200       379,377      476,41 1
I_L_teoaoreeqpip=ent                                -    13,120     1,30               -            -       24,400        30,500
Cloy mde - pav-ing                            45,200](   52,SO5    57,500        62)522        67,500      285,0no      364,286
SpaSal city  -od. - pac                      li62l0I    162,277    162,2 7o      168,7002     172,000      820,000   1,053,571
Subtotal                               325,200    37u,300    3273          368 , 3on    1377,500   1,771,100   2 ,271 911
S.totsl (exclude city cads.)            1 22,2020   160S00   109 ,800      137,800      138,000      666,10I       854,054
drooloiul cads                                12,6217    II,9711    27,200       24,800        25,100       98,627      125,520
Covono rod.                                    ,3300      5,600     73,800       31,200        31,200       84,107       11I6,071
Cilty   ads                                    9,527     17,37n     11, 30        12,200        3,202       56.500        72 ,321
ipaciol city cads                             61 ,30    140,000   112,5          5 7 7200     180,700      652 ,200     826 ,196
C . . . .     -stdt-es                        3, 131     4 ,411I    S,20             -            -       12,S52        Ib.179
Subtotal                                9Il,8)    i76,201    159,803       2L25,910     250_200      903,900   1,146,267
Sobotol (nnt I o    clny   tds.         21,of)lt    2 ,,902    36,775      56,030       56,300       195,200      242,750
62? ,_ 70    19675 220    24211_ 752
Tolult                                 416,802    549,2D0   487,100        594,270      627,722    2,67570n    3,410,178
Tot-l (EOsluds City Ho adu              141,7(20   186,400    45 ,80       19,93,800     194,300      861,300   1,101,804
lW -loolT,   l      n .ogcnpbc  tlou tio    (941                         15 1                           -        I,425   !      ,7T81
zdxtcp O tTrt-attport (ff0r)
isatI tanot to cabd 6t-aonrpoO ldosir _f 
terninals, etc.                                     -    14,380     Ih,35O        15,087        B,690       545 00       68,125
Ras  safesy                                           _        75)7       752                                   1 500        1,875
So-dles onnr-c--r issues nod -ultinodoI
projule                                             -     1,527       1,532            -            -        3,2000        3,750
3>t10                                         -    16 637')    18,670       15 080         8,690       599000       13,750
G089D '71,70719, 4 57   932,446   91 1,1q2    1,050,294    1,03 j334   4,7157 o p                                ,f.9,353
(1RAND T3TAL (t.o- lode CLY Ru3ds)    473,557   569,b4t   570),699         64 9,89j4    6 7,934   2,934,730 2        7S2,979
2u  ocltosI e-xpeodltre.
Not: 1   II)  These fig,orea vary slightly from I   Se h lgo-s o .htn io lEhe  IF,tbh Ftve-Ye-r cLan  chlth presentlh   la brIOg
retfted,  Tcatoove flgoreso aebandtonth_ -pondi--ra. prop-sed btyo bhe   -                a. genc fes   aoJu,lIy 3t7
1 983.
12f  tnt-anag late for 1982 e-nis-ned US2  -Woo 700 -d fc  1983 the.o..h 1986s t US2I - Wn 800.



_ 49 -                                                 Table 4.8(b)
KOREA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Atttl Highoay Investment PLan:  Expendit-rei for 1982-86
(C,orreo  prices)
1982 /a     1983       1984        1985        1986             1982-86
              (oe----------     illion)           W .............. .  oo N1n  US'000
Borneo of Poblic Roads (BPR)
epressoays costroon sloe39,486    54,989    96,7B0                            10,346       11,774     213,375      273,770
Ntnor 1l ros_d
pa-nlg                                   1246791   132,683    62,865       119,572      150,747     590,658      760,607
Upgrading                                  4,764     8,246    11,361        15,543       7,298       47,212       59,866
Widening to 4 leers                        4,500     7,819    16,279        52,654       59,951     141,273      177,708
ProvincIal roads paving                      3,028      3,891     3,105       12,198       11,068      33,290       42,153
BHld ge coss.roct ion                        7,179     6,268      8,243       10,848        8,567      41,105       52,663
ttlnnrnonoe eqoqiptn                         1,107     2,065      3,000        3,699       4,531       14,402       18,201
SubtIul                               184.855   215,961   201,633      224,860      253,936   1,081,245   1,384,568
Rescurrent
Nanlonel roads
Pived
Routine -intenne                         7,159    15,352    22,902        27,88H      33,676      116,976      149,284
periodic satnteronre                    11,091     9,88B    13,325        17,554      22,577       74,434       95,023
.npaned                                    2,049     3,092      4,350        5,096       5,609       20,196       25,611
General adeonlenronlon                       515     1,752      2,091        2,335       2,591        9,284       11,697
Sobt.o.                                20,814    30,084    42,668       52,873       64,453      220,890      2B1,615
Other E.pendiCores
Studies                                        763      1,385     3,767        4,596        5,547      16,046       20,197
KbiBh bridges                                   96        223       254          300          351       1,224        1,547
Repayment of Ilon                           26,298    35,011    40,1B2        44,869      50,580      196,940      250,871
Sobtotal                               27,157    36,619    44,203       49,755       56,478      214,212     272,615
Tonal                                 232,826   282,664   288,504      327,488      374,867   1,516,347   1,938,798
Korea Highoay Corportlion (KHC)
xpressE- y tidrning                          2,738    17,173    57,534        77,612      81,466      236,523      296,143
Upgrading                                    5,170     7,938      8,810       11,798       16,655      55,571       64,137
A.ncillry faciliti-e                           493      1,460     2,674        3,568       3,495        1,189       14,075
E.Oqiponn                                    1,478     2,332      2,588        2,970       3,384       12,751       16,202
Sobtoul                                 9,879    26,903    71,606       95,448      105,198      306,034      390,557
Rt current
RoItls mnn, etincre                         30,220    30,305    53,643        3B,604      43,983      176,755      226,340
PeriodIc iinteotasce                        14,29197   13,1643    15,307      16,049       15,159      73,869       94 ,8B
FacIlItIes                         ~~~~      ~~~~      ~~~~177  295  324  373     425       1,592        2.021
&ddlnistrntnio                               4,834      4,805     5,520        9,334        7,216      28,709       36,750
Sobnotol                               49,522    48,567    54,694       61,360       66.782      280,925     359,999
OtHer Onpednlouee
nseasoro  asd noodles                          188        247       457        1,059        1,672       3,622        4,562
Oi,h bcidre                                   162        135       337          362          385       1,376        1,749
Hepap-enn of loan 4 con, ec,.               29,980     6,105      4,459        4,967       3,496       51,007       69,112
Sobtolal                              30,330      6,482     5,253        6,388        7,553       56,005      75,423
ota-1                                  89,731    83,952   131,553      163,196      179,534      642,964     825,979
8lobnerp of Ross Affairs (HOHA)
Reploal
ProvIncIal rAids  - p(MlHA                 107,200    80,000      3,735       39,832      42,414      273,181      362,619
Cocoty roaids - paring                      12,800    67,400    98,459       113,486     121,082      413,229      318,822
nelnte-It ncy   eqdipoI ot                       -    13,100    11,724             -            -      24,824       31,030
City ro ds-pavIng                           45,000    52,500    59,656       69,539       79,971      306,666      391,369
SpecIal cnoy rosds - paVnln                160,000   160,000   166,000       186,921     203,778      876,699   1,124,446
Sobtonl                              325,000   373,000   339,574       409,780      447,245   1,894,599   2,426,286
Sobonol (seclude cIty roads)          120,000   160,500   113,918       153,320     163,496      711,234     910,471
It current
Pronlonlol roads                            12,600    15,900    20,958        27,593      29,737      136,788      135,735
Coonny roads                                 5.300     5,600    11,205       34,714       36,964       93,783      118,176
City roads                                   9,500    10,300    11,724        13,574      15,639       60,737       77,617
SpecIal niny ro ds                          61,300   140,000   116,719       175,461     214,086      707,565     895,403
Ot he rs
Conoiltann-' studies                         3,100     4,400      5,188            -           -       12,688       16,413
S.bnotal                              91,800   176,200   165,794       251,342      296,426     981,561   1,243,344
Sabtoal (exclode cioy roads)           21,000    25,900    37,350       62,307       66,701      213,259     270,324
Totl                                 416,800   549,200   505,368       661,122      743,671   2,876,160   3,669,630
Total (Boclude Ciy Roids)            141,000   I86,400   151,269      215,627      230,197      924,493   1,180,795
Nitiool G-ographin Institu  (NGI)                   -          -     1,478            -            -       1,478        1,848
bilnlstry of TransporO (liOT)
Haslsnonce en road transpore indootny -
-etsrialn,  ert.                                 -    14,380    16,963        16,778      10,296       58,417      73,021
Road safeny                        -       7~~ ~~~~~                ~~          ~ ~~~~~~~~50  778  -- 158  1,910
Stndlei  on sicnnr isens and -1ltlnodl7
projects                                         -      1,500     1,556            -           -        3,056        3,820
Total                                       -    16,630    19,297       16,778       10,296       63,001      78,751
GRA0D TOTAL                          739,357   932,446   946,200   1,168,384   1,308,368   5,099,950   6,515,006
GRA0D TOTAL (Etolode Cily RnLds)    463,557   569,646   592,101        723,089      794,894   3,148,283   4,026,171
75 Antoal ope-dilone.
Eo.s.:  (1)  These tlgeee neep oG186nl  Or- - tIe fIgures shcs, to the fIfth POre-foar Plan ahihoP prese.tly is bein6
revised.  The above figores ore board or tIc expenditures proposed by the sarloon agencies on of July 30,
1983.
(2) Price Onflellos maclasted 0t 7.52 for 19d4, 7% for 1985 and 6Y for 1986.
(3)  E.r,snge roes for 1982 eSeiD ed 0S61 = Woo 700 and for 1983 nhrsegh 1986 s- USS1 5     Won 800.



KOREA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Summary of Highway Investment Plan:  Capital Expenditures for 1982-86 (Excludes City Roads)
(1983 prices)
1982 /a              1983                 1984                 1985                1986                   Total
Won mln   US$'000  Won mln   US$'000  Won mln   US$'000  Won mln   US$'000  Won mln   USS'000   Won mln              US$'000
Bureau of Public Roads (BPR)               184,855   264,079  215,961   269,951  194,346   242,933  202,099   252,624  215,336   267,920  1,011,597    1,297,507
Korea Highway Corporation (KHC)              9,879    14,113   28,903    36,129   69,018    86,273   85,786   107,233   88,793   110,991    282,379               354,739
Ministry of Home Affairs (MOHA)            120,000   171,429  160,500   200,625  109,800   137,250  137,800   172,250  138,000   172,500    666,100               854,054
National Geographic Instituite (NGI)             -          -         -          -    1,425      1,781         -          -         -          -       1,425        1,781
Ministry of Transport (MOT)                      -          -   16,630    20,788   18,600    23,250   15,080    18,850    8,690    10,863             59,000       73,751
Total                            314,734   449,621  421,994   527,493  393,189   491,487  440,765   550,957  450,819   562,274  2,020,501   2,581,832
Estimated Volume of Physical Work (km)
Bureau of Public Roads (BPR)
National expressways                                    -                   -               175.20                    -                8.20                    183.40
National highways
Paving                                             -               547.00               165.20              420.00               561.00                 1,693.00
Upgrading                                          -                 9.00                16.00               18.00                 8.00                    51.00
Widening to 4 lanes                            11.50                10.00                10.00               48.00                86.00                   165.50
Provincial roads                                 30.50                31.00                    -               24.00                27.00                   112.50
Bridge construction                               1.39                 1.29                 1.26                3.71                 1.73                     9.39
Korea Highway Corporation (KHC)
Expressway widening                                     -                2.50                19.00               62.00                75.10                    158.60
Ministry of Home Affairs (MOHA)
Provincial roads paving                           508.00               330.00               144.00              143.00               143.00                 1,268.00
County roads paving                                78.00               330.00              496.00               510.00               511.00                 1,925.00
Total                                        629.39            1,260.79             1,026.66             1,228.71             1,421.03                 5,566.39
/a Actual expenditure.
Notes:  (1)  These figures vary slightly from the figures shown in the Fifth Five-Year Plan which presently is being revised.  The above figures are based  H
on the expenditures proposed by the various agencies as of July 30, 1983.
(2)  Exchange rate for 1982 estimated US$1 = Won 700 and for 1983 through 1986 at US$1 = Won 800.



KOREA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Summary of Highway Investment Plan:  Capital Expenditures for 1982-86 (Excludes City Roads)
(Current prices)
1982 /a               1983                1984                 1985                  1986                   Total
Won mln   US$'000  Won mln   US$'000  Won mln   US$'000  Won mln   US$'000  Won mln   US$'000   Won mln                US$'000
Bureau of Public Roads (BPR)               184,855   264,079  215,961   269,951  201,634   252,042  224,860   281,075  253,936   317,420  1,081,246    1,384,567
Korea Highway Corporation (KHC)               9,879    14,113   28,903    36,129   71,606    89,508   95,448   119,310  105,198   131,498    311,034                390,558
Ministry of Home Affairs (MOHA)             120,000   171,429  160,500   200,625  113,918   142,397  153,320   191,650  163,497   204,371    711,235                910,472
National Geographic Institute (NGI)               -          -         -          -    1,478       1,848         -          -         -          -       1,478         1,848
Ministry of Transport (MOT)                       -          -   16,630    20,788   19,298    24,122   16,778    20,973   10,296    12,869              63,002       78,752
Total                             314,734   449,621  421,994   527,493  407,934   509,917  490,406   613,008  532,927   666,158  2,167,995    2,766,197
Estimated Volume of Physical Work (km)
Bureau of Public Roads (BPR)
National expressways                                                          -              175.20                     -                 8.20                   183.40
National highways
Paving                                              -               547.00               165.00               420.00               561.00                  1,693.00
Upgrading                                           -                 9.00                16.00                18.00                 8.00                     51.00
Widening to 4 lanes                             11.50                10.00                10.00                48.00                86.00                    165.50
Provincial roads                                  30.50                31.00                    -                24.00                27.00                    112.50
Bridge construction                                1.39                 1.29                 1.26                 3.71                  1.73                     9.39
Korea Highway Corporation (KHC)
Expressway widening                                     -                 2.50                19.00                62.00                75.10                    158.60
Ministry of Home Affairs (MOHA)
Provincial roads paving                            508.00               330.00               144.00               143.00               143.00                  1,268.00
County roads paving                                 78.00               330.00               496.00               510.00               511.00                  1,925.00
Total                                         629.39             1,260.79             1,026.46             1,228.71             1,421.03                 5,566.39
/a  Actual expenditure.
Notes:  (1)  These figures vary slightly from the figures shown in the Fifth Five-Year Plan which presently is being revised.  The above figures are based
on the expenditures proposed by the various agencies as of July 30, 1983.                                                                                         3
(2)  Price inflation estimated at 7.5% for 1984, 7% for 1985 and 6% for 1986.                                                                                          5
(3)  Exchange rate for 1982 estimated US$1 = Won 700 and for 1983 through 1986 at US$1 = Won 800.                                                                      in



KOREA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Road User Charges (1972-81)
(W million)
Third FYP                          ___                                 Fourth FYP
Revenue                     1972      1973      1974      1975      1976      1972-76      1977          1978           1979          1980           1981          1977-81
National Taxes
Fuel taxes               27,717   36,582   83,717   95,016  114,874   357,906   133,082             120,536        210,606        362,714       356,124       1,183,062
Gasoline tax            (19,593) (25,821) (57,236) (60,026) (72,185) (234,861)  (94,149)/a (104,209)/a  (184,352)/a  (310,394)/a  (290,122)/a   (983,226)/a
Diesel tax               (8,124) (10,761) (26,481) (34,990) (42,689) (123,045)  (38,933)/a  (16,327)/a   (26,254)/a   (52,320)/a   (66,002)/a   (199,936)/a
Transport tax            16,000   18,801   13,484   16,868   21,262    86,415           15,054 /h          -              -             -              -               -
Commodity tax /c          3,535    6,613    7,499   11,764   16,642    46,053            9,330 /b   28,279          35,798         20,600         19,184        128,245
Sn btotal              47,252   61,996  104,700  123,648  152,778   490,374   157 466             148,815        246,404       383 314        375,308       1,311,307
Local 'Taxes
Vehicle tax               7,191    7,866   12,016   12,353   14,137          53,563     17,900       26,518         51,416         60,866        61,014         217,714
(incl. surcharge)
License fee /d             1,661    1,804    1,784    2,092    2,388          9,729      3,949         7,735         7,845          8,340          8,665         36,534
Acquisition tax /d             -    1,622    2,643    3,708    4,636         12,609      6,143        15,388        21,110         19,393         19,005         81,039
Subtotal                8852   11, 292   16,443   18,153   21  161         75 901    27,992        49 641         80,137         88 599        88 684         335287
Tolls                        4,995    6,276    6,887   10,189   14,531    42,878          17,915        25,608        39,242         45,411         59,585         187,761
Total                  61,099   79,564  128,030  151,990  188,470   609,153   203,373             224,064        366,017        517,324       523,577       1,834,355
Overall expenditures
on roads /e              68,300      68,000    83,800   149,400  145,900   515,400   229,470        265,040        362,571        504,560       561,453       1,923,054
/a  Special excise tax exclujding Value Added Tax (VAT).
/b  These taxes were incorporated in the newly adopted Value Added Tax from July 1, 1977 when the Korean Tax system was changed.
/c Estimated 10% of total commodity tax.
/7d  Revenues were combined prior to 1973.  Both license fee and acquisition tax figures are estimates of the portion of the revenuLes from these taxes
attribuitable to road vehicles.
/e  Economic Statistics Yearbook 1982, The Bank of Korea, Korea, pp. 86-87.
Sourcesi  MOC, MOF and MOHA.
September 1982



KOREA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Pump Price of Major Petroleum Products in Korea (1980-83)
(Won/liter)
Ex-refinery price                          Wholesale price                       Retail price
Ex-refinery                       Tax rate                         Margin rate                           Margin rate
price      Tax /a    Price       (M)        Margin    Price         (%)          Margin    Price          (M)
Premium gasoline    1980  NOV    321.28         499.62    820.90    60.9           23.15    844.05        2.7           35.95    880.00        4.1
1981  APR       -           -        944.04      -            -          -          -             -       1,010.00       -
1982  MAR    391.64       609.05  1,000.69    60.9           22.52  1,023.21        2.2          36.79  1,060.00         3.5
1983  FEB    377.59       453.11    830.70    54.5           22.52    853.22        2.6           36.78    890.00        4.1
1983  MAY    377.59       453.11    830.70    54.55          22.52    853.22        2.6           36.78    890.00        4.1
Regular gasoline    1980  NOV    249.91          380.43    630.34    60.4          17.23    657.57        2.6           22.43    680.00         3.3
1981  APR    261.00       399.34    660.34    60.5            -          -          -             -         700.00       -
1982  MAR    272.78       427.19    699.97    61.0           17.41    717.38        2.4          22.62    740.00         3.1
1983  FEB    281.80       338.16    619.96    54.5           17.41    637.37        2.7          22.63    660.00         3.4
1983  MAY    281.80       338.16    619.96    54.5           17.41    637.37        2.7           22.63    660.00        3.4
Kerosene              1980  NOV    180.12         22.84    202.96    11.3           9.30    212.26        4.4           13.74    226.00        6.1
1981  APR       -           -        242.92      -            -          -          -              -        268.00       -
1982  MAR    237.34        29.62    266.96    11.1           10.10    277.06        3.6           14.94    292.00        5.1
1983  FEB    247.24         -          -         -            -          -          -              -        297.00       -
1983  MAY    241.79       24.18      265.97      9.1         10.10    276.07        3.7           14.93    291.00        5.1
Diesel                1980  NOV    160.30         33.54    193.84    17.3           8.90    202.03        4.4           12.97    215.00         6.0
1981  APR    197.00        34.97    231.97    15.1            -          -          -              -        255.00       -
1982  MAR    211.25        43.68    254.93    17.1            8.94    263.87        3.4           14.13    278.00        5.1
1983  FEB    216.60         -          -         -            -          -          -              -        283.00       -
1983  MAY    211.60       42.10      253.70    16.6           9.17    262.87        3.5           14.13                  5.1
/a  Including excise tax, V.A.T., and transportation cost.
Sources:  (1) A Study on the Improvement of Energy Price Structure in Korea, Dec. 1982, EPB, Korea, pp. 66-67.
(2) MOER and mission to Korea.



54                                                    Table 5.1
KOREA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Selected National and Provincial Roads: Traffic, Estimated Costs and Rate of Return
Actual/a                        Forecast                         Estimated
Sections                     Length       1982       1987       1992      1997       2002       2006       cost         IRR
(km)                                                                       (Won mln)     (%)
Paving
National Roads
Daecheon-Dawha              8.3      1,291       2,300      3,620     5,700      8,970    12,900        6,560      119.0
Onyang-Pyeongtaeg          14.2     1,035        1,750      2,760     4,340      6,835     9,830        4,440       48.0
Seognam-Onyang             28.8       706        1,300     2,070      3,260      5,130     7,370        6,830       46.0
Icheon-Yeoju               15.9      1,098       1,250      1,980     3,120      4,910     7,060        4,270       45.5
Eumseong-Saenggeug         15.5        719       1,600      2,590     4,070      6,410     9,210        4,660       43.5
Cheonan-Byeongcheon        14.6       881        1,000     1,550      2,440      3,840     5,530        3,610      36.5
Siryangri-Yesan /b         15.6     1,163        1,400     2,160      3,390      5,340     7,680        4,791       35.0
Sinnam-Yanggu              25.2       443          750     1,210      1,900      2,990     4,300        9,350      33.0
Goryeong-Seongju           35.1       481          850      1,380     2,170      3,420     4,910       11,510       30.5
Cheongsong-Yeongyang       31.3       705        1,000     1,550      2,440      3,840     5,530        9,490      30.0
Subtotal             204.5                                                                        65,511
Provincial Roads
Geuncheon-Gyeongsan        20.4     1,201        2,000     3,110      4,890      7,690    11,060        5,380       50.0
Yaehwa-Suweon              24.3     1,131        1,250      1,980     3,120      4,910     7,060        8,130       38.5
Subtotal              44.7                                                                        13,510
Total                249.2                                                                        79,021
Widening and Paving
Donong-Dabnaeri              20.3     5,334        9,800    15,520    24,430    38,450    55,280         16,6P0       53.5
Daegu-Hayang /c              16.0     5,858        8,800    13,790    21,710    34,180    49,140         10,800       43.5
Onyang-Cheonan               11.3     7,778       14,200    22,410    35,280    55,540    79,850          7,990       37.5
Cheong ju-Doan               21.2     3,829        7,700    12,070    19,000    29,900    42,990         16,290      35.0
Total                 68.8                                                                        51,680
Upgrading
Tongri-Samcheong             43.7        550         400        640     1,000      1,580     2,270       16,840       23.0
GRAND TOTAL          361.7                                                                       147,541
/a  MOC counts.
/b The figures of AADT and IRR are of Haemi-Yesan section.
7W The figures of AADT and IRR are of Daegu-Yeongcheon section.
Source: Consultant BCEOM; Final Report, 1981, Volume One; and MOC.
August 1983



- 55 -                         Table 5.2
Page 1 of 3
KOREA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Highway Design Standards
A. Expressway Standards
Design Speeds and Traffic Volume
(km/hr)
Design traffic volume (veh./day)
Topography          More than 30,000         30,000-10,000         Less than 10,000
Flat                      120-100                 100-80                 80-60
Mountainous               100-80                  80-60                  60-50
Typical Geometric Design Standards
Design speed (km/hr)
120        100          80          60
Radius of curvatures
Desirable minimum (m)                      710         460         280         150
Absolute minimum (m)                       570         320         230         120
Yaximum grade (%)                              2           3           4           5
Length of vertical curve desirable
minimum
Crest (m)                               11,000       6,000       3,000       1,400
Sag (m)                                  4,000       3,000       2,000       1,000
Minimum sight distance (m)                   210         160         110          75
Bridge design loading                      DB-24       DB-24       DB-24       DB-24
Source: KHC



- 56 -                                  Table 5.2
Page 2 of 3
B.  Two-Lane National and Provincial Road Standards
A.  Construction (including paving, mainly on new alignment):  National Roads
Terrain
Geometric Design Standards               Unit  Flat  Rolling  Hilly  Mountainous /a
Design speed                             km/h   120    100        70           50
Minimum radius of curvature                m    630    390       170           80
Maximum gradient                           %       4       5       7             8
Roadway Features (all areas)
Width of pavement                          m    7.20
Width of shoulders                         m    3.00-1.75
Width of right-of-way                      m       30 minimum /b
Structural Design Features (all areas)
Axle load (pavement)                      lbs   18,000 /c
Bridge loading                             -    DB-18, equivalent to AASHO H20-S-16
Bridge widths (for new bridges
over 100 m long) /d                      m    10.70 (curb to curb)
Vertical clearance (over roads)            m      4.80
B.  Paving (mainly on existing alignment, with limited improvement):  National and
Provincial Roads
Terrain
Rolling           Moun-
Flat       to hilly        tainous /a
Geometric Design Standards           Unit   Nat.  Prov.   Nat.  Prov.   Nat.  Prov.
Design speed                         km/h    80    60        60    50       40    30
Minimum radius of curvature:
Desirable                            m    300   140       175    95       80    35
Minimum                             m    230   120        120    80       50    30
Maximum gradient                       %       6     6        7     7        9      9
Desirable                            7      4      4        5     5        7      7
Traffic levels aadt (estimated
10 years after completion of paving)
Under 1,200  1,200-2,200  Over 2,200
Roadway Features (all areas)             Unit      Type A        Type B       Type C
Width of pavement                          m        6.20          6.70         7.20
Width of shoulders                         m    0.55-0.90    1.40-0.65   1.90-1.15
Width of right-of-way /e                   m         25            25            25
Structural Design Features (all areas)
Axle load (pavement)                      lbs    18,000 /c
Bridge loading                             -      DB-18, equivalent to AASHO H20-S16
Bridge widths (for new bridges) /f
Rural areas                              m       8.50 (curb to curb)
Urban areas                              m      10.00 (curb to curb)
Vertical clearance (over roads)            m       4.80
/a  Design speeds and widths may be reduced and gradients increased on sections with
exceptionally difficult terrain, as appropriate in each case.
/b  Right-of-way width increased to 42 m where designed to accommodate ultimate con-
struction of 4-lane divided highway.
/c  Pavement designed for the projected number of repetitions of "equivalent
18,000 lbs axle loads."
/d  Depending on traffic volume.
/e  Right-of-way width reduced to 20 m where necessary to minimize demolition of
property in urban areas.
/f  Existing bridges retained unless significantly substandard in strength, size or
alignment.
Source: MOC



C. County (Gun) Road Design Standards
Road type:          Gl                G2                P1                  P2                  P3
Terrain type:      F/H      M       F/H      M        F/H     M           F/H      M         F/H       M
Width (m)
Roadway                            5.0    5.0        6.5    6.5      6.5   6.0-6.5       7.5   7.0-7.5      7.7   7.0-7.5
Pavement                             -       -         -      -      5.0        5.0      6.0        6.0     6.2         6.0
Shoulder                             -       -         -      -    0.75  0.5-0.75    0.75  0.5-0.75    0.75  0.5-0.75
Right-of-way                     >10.0  >10.0    >15.0  >15.0    15.0         >15.0    20.0      >20.0    25.0       >25.0
Design Speed (km/h)                   40      30        40     30       40         30       50         30       60         30
Horizontal Alignment
Normal crossfall                   4       4         4      4      2.5        2.5      2.5        2.5     2.5         2.5
Maximum superelevation             8       8         8      8        7          7        7          7        7          7
Curve Radius
Absolute minimum                50      25       50      25       50         25       80         25     125          25
Normal minimum                  60      30       60      30       60         30      100         30     140          30
At minimum superelevation    200    120         200    150       200        150      300        150     350         150
Without superelevation         350    200       400    250       400        250      500       250      600         250
Vertical Alignment
Maximum Gradient (%)
Normal                           -      10/a       -      8        -          8        -          7        -          7
Absolute                         -      12/a       -     10/a      -         10        -          9        -          9
Curve Radius (m)
Crest                          700    300       700    500       700        500   1,000        700   1,500         900
Sag                            500    250       500    300       500        300     800        300   1,000         500
/a Paving will be considered for slopes above 8%.
Source:  MOHA                                                                                                                     m



- 58 -                              Table 5.3
KOREA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Cumulative Disbursement Schedule
Estimated cumulative
IBRD fiscal year                                  disbursement
and quarter                              US$ million             %
1983/84
March 31, 1984                                      -                -
June 30, 1984                                     20.0              9.0
1984/85
September 30, 1984                                  -
December 31, 1984                                 50.0             22.0
March 31, 1985                                      -                -
June 30, 1985                                    100.0             43.0
1985/86
September 30, 1985                                  -
December 31, 1985                                120.0             52.0
March 31, 1986                                      -                -
June 30, 1986                                    150.0             65.0
1986/87
September 30, 1986                                  -
December 31, 1986                                180.0             78.0
March 31, 1987                                      -                -
June 30, 1987                                    200.0             87.0
1987/88
September 30, 1987                                 -
December 31, 1987                               230.0             100.0
March 31, 1988                                      -
June 30, 1988
Source: Bank staff.
January 1984



ANNEX 1
- 59 -                            Page 1 of 4
KOREA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Past Five-Year Transport Development Plans and
Bank's Involvement (1962-81)
1.        The First Plan  (1962-66) devoted about half of transport invest-
ments to modernize and strengthen rail system capacity. Some 275 km of
industrial track were built (Tonghae Puku line); the conversion from steam to
diesel traction was started with large imports of locomotives and diesel rail
cars; the fleet was modernized with large imports of passenger and freight
cars while a large number were locally made. The Second Plan (1967-71), in
contrast to the First, devoted about 60% of transport investments on highway
improvement. Some 655 km of expressways were built (Seoul-Busan, Ulsan-
Onyang, Seoul-Incheon and Daejon-Chonju) and the motor vehicles fleet
increased by nearly 100,000 units. In the railway sector, 180 km of new
tracks were constructed (Kyonggon line), and 50 km doubled-tracked (Honam
line); the fleet continued to expand with very large imports of diesel loco-
motives, passenger and freight cars, while more were built locally and rehabi-
litated. In the maritime sector, 800,000 GT of ocean-going ships and 130,000
GT of coastal ships were added, while Busan port stevedoring facilities were
expanded and Incheon and Ulsan ports were developed to accommodate foreign
trade and to establish industrial coastal zones.
2.        The Third Plan (1972-76) gave priority to the highway and maritime
sectors which receive 47% and 28%, respectively, of transport investments.
Some 490 km of two-lane high-speed highways were built (Chonju-Busan, Wonju-
Gangreung), a national road maintenance organization was established and the
motor vehicles fleet expanded further by 210,000 units. In the maritime
sector, expansion of Busan and Mukho ports was started, while Incheon port was
developed further with the help of the Asian Development Bank (ADB); the fleet
was increased by some 1.3 million GT. In the railway sector, the line capa-
city increase continued through electrification of 320 km of heavy traffic
industrial lines (Chungang, Taebaek and Yongdong), and about 100 km of the
Seoul Metropolitan System (SMESRS); about 90 km of new tracks were laid
including 9.5 km of the first subway line in Seoul. In the aviation sector,
the international airports of Seoul Kimpo, Busan-Kimhae and Cheju were
expanded while ten jet liners were imported.
3.        The Fourth Plan (1977-81) directed investments at the consolidation
of the basic transport infrastructure developed over the previous decade by
completing missing links, while also starting to promote better efficiency in
the operation of the transport system. The emphasis was placed on expendi-
tures for maintenance and renovations rather than on investments for new
facilities, with the major exception being a large-scale subway construction
program designed to alleviate urban transport congestion in Seoul City. The
basic highway network was completed by widening to 4 lanes the Masan-Busan
expressway and constructing the Daegu-Masan 85 km two-lane expressway. A
large-scale paving program for national roads was also started to bring the
paved portion to 68%, a target that was not reached partly due to
reclassification. In the railway sector, some 160 km of double tracking were



ANNEX 1
- 60 -                                 Page 2 of 4
completed (Chungbuk and Gyeongbu lines) while large numbers of electric cars,
diesel locomotives, passenger and freight cars and workshops were added. In
the maritime sector, the first Busan container port and Mukho coal port were
completed; and a second expansion of the Busan container area was started.
Incheon expansion, started in 1974, was completed in 1978 with the assistance
of ADB, through the addition of 20 deep-water berths, including 5 container
berths and 4 breakwaters.
4.        The past achievements under development plans in the transport
sector are very impressive and evidenced by large networks and fleet expan-
sions as well as modernization. However, funds expended under the national
plans reflect only part of total investments in the transport sector. Local
government investments, including those of provinces, counties, cities and
special cities, are not included in the plans unless they are funded at least
in part by the central budget. Omitting to take them into account would
considerably distort the assessment of the real magnitude of Korea's progress.
In particular, the four Special Cities (Seoul, Busan, Daegu and Incheon) road
investment programs were not shown in the Fourth Transport Plan although with
over W 700 billion at current prices (nearly US$1 billion), 80% of which was
in Seoul City, they represented 37% of the country's overall road invest-
ment. In comparison, W 880 billion or 46% were spent on national and express
highways and W 328 billion or 14% on provincial, county and city roads.
Performance Assessment
5.        Broadly, the basic objectives of the transport development plans
were met as the network expanded fast enough to accommodate economic growth.
The general approach that gave priority to large investments to increase
system capacity was the most appropriate. The traffic grew so fast that
halfway measures, such as rehabilitation and improvement of the deficient
network of the 1960s, would have been insufficient and short-sighted.
6.        The highway development policy was geared to develop a network of
roads to serve the short and medium distance traffic for which they have an
economic advantage over the railways. The Road Plan developed in 1968, in
consultation with the Bank, proposed a very ambitious program consisting of:
(a) the development through 1986 of a network of about 4,000 km of trunk
highways to form a grid of longitudinal and transversal axes linking the four
major gate ports of Incheon, Busan, Mogpo and Mukho toward inland centers, and
(b) the construction over a 10-year period of a 1,600 km two-lane expres.7way
network designed on separate alignments from the old roads, that could be
expanded when traffic volumes would require it. The program was 75% completed
and was determinant in localizing industries around Seoul and in most provin-
cial capitals, speeding the urbanization process as the population migrated
more easily from rural areas. The voluntary delay in improving the secondary
and tertiary networks was justified in view of the highway requirements of the
industrialization policy.
7.        Similarly, the railway investment policy was directed at strengthen-
ing its transport capacity for bulk freight and long distance passenger
traffic where the railways have a comparative advantage. Investment in
modernization, double tracking and electrification of the most heavily used
freight line (14 million tons p.a.) enabled the railway to perform more
efficiently and to cope with demand. In particular, it helped increase



ANNEX 1
- 61 -                            Page 3 of 4
express train traffic from 1 billion passenger-km in 1971 to 9 million in
1981, to make large profits. However, to keep freight or recover local pas-
senger traffic that would be better handled by road transport, the railway
attempted to compete by investing in improvements that were economically not
so justified and had to apply a fares policy for ordinary trains that could
not cover operating costs. Also the Government forced the railways to invest
in infrastructure for other than strictly economic reasons such as double-
tracking of the Chung-Buk line.
8.        Past investments, geared to the development of ports, including
those of Busan, Incheon and Ulsan, were necessary to cope with the large
increase of ocean-going freight and to attract heavy industries to coastal
areas. Also, the Busan containerization program was effective in reducing
handling costs and expediting flows of cargo, although custom clearances still
impose lengthy transit delays. However, efforts were too restricted to the
major ports. A national port development policy remains to be introduced to
shape the future role, number and localization of lesser ports, particularly
to support coastal shipping which has scope for much expansion, given the
geography and political situation which make Korea a de facto island. Pro-
gress in the shipbuilding industry has been very instrumental in modernizing
the domestic fleet, which has proven to be a source of foreign exchange
earnings. An expansion of air transport was also timely in serving the many
foreign and local businessmen who were the artisans of Korea's fantastic
exports expansion that increased from 1962 to 1978 at an average of 27% p.a.
The Bank's Involvement
9.        The Bank has played an active role in advising and assisting the
Korean authorities in pursuing their transport objectives. Since 1962, the
Bank Group has assisted the KNR through seven railway projects amounting to
US$434 million. The first five projects have been satisfactorily completed
and a sixth is almost fully disbursed. Bank-supported investments have con-
centrated on improved capacity and service for long distance passenger and
bulk cargo transport. The Bank has also maintained an active dialogue on the
railway's financial situation, investment plans, level and structure of
tariffs. After some deterioration in the 1970s, Government agreed to imple-
ment a financial recovery plan for KNR as part of the Seventh (ongoing)
Railway Project. Discussions of a revised plan, following the severe downturn
of the economy in the early 1980s, are continuing. Meanwhile, a Coal and
Cement Distribution Project which was recently appraised would strengthen the
capacity of the railways, ports and inland terminals to cope with the expected
increase in transport of these commodities, resulting partly from large coal
imports substituting for oil.
10.       Since 1969, the Bank has financed five highway projects and a pre-
investment credit totalling US$465 million which have had a major impact in
assisting Government with the improvement and expansion of the national and
provincial road networks and with institution-building in the MOC. Signifi-
cant policy changes, relating to the highway sector, which were effected
through the highway projects, include the adoption of more appropriate road
standards, revisions of regulations governing vehicle weights and dimensions,
and a modified government policy on toll roads. The MOC's organization to
maintain the national road network was established and strengthened through
the provision of technical assistance and road maintenance equipment. Korean



ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 4
- 62 -
consulting firms have benefitted through their association with foreign
consultants on the design of road projects.
11.       Substantial assistance has also been extended for port develop-
ment. In part related to Korea's export drive, ports are seriously congested,
particularly at Busan, the biggest port. Containerization was introduced in
Busan with the assistance of the Bank under two port projects totalling US$147
million; the Saudi F'und for Development participated with the Bank in the
financing of the first Busan Port Project. A third port project designed as a
subsector loan is now being considered to further improve container handling
capacity at Busan and for supporting other maritime plans.



ANNEX 2
- 63 -                            Page i of 6
KOREA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Transport Policy Letter and Action Plan
February 20, 1984
Mr. A. W. Clausen
President
The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
Washington D.C. U.S.A.
I am writing in connection with the proposed loan for the Highway
Sector Project to inform the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development of our development policies in the transport sector and the
actions the Government has already taken or proposes to take to increase
further the efficiency of the road transport system. The current goal is to
respond more effectively to the transport demand growth by intensifying the
utilization of the existing transport network and by providing selective
expansion of the network to avoid bottlenecks. Central to these objectives
would be allowing more flexibility in the transport regulatory and pricing
system to promote better response of transport operators to the needs of
users. The selective liberalization of the transport system would promote the
national economy by reducing transport costs and conserving fuel, and would
contribute to improving the balance of payments.
Our Fifth Five-year Economic and Social Development Plan (1982-86)
has as important objectives the promotion of national development by giving
priority to economic stability, production efficiency and balanced regional
development. In this context, the transport sector development goals are to:
(a) selectively increase transport capacity by modernizing equipment and
optimizing investments in the sector;
(b) enhance transport efficiency by improving intermodal traffic allo-
cation and conserving energy; and
(c) strengthen maintenance activities.
The proposed Project will assist the Government in meeting the
objectives mentioned above in the highway sector through implementation of a
program of actions which is proposed in detail in the attachment to this
letter. This program is directed at solving issues in the areas of: (1) road
investment planning; (2) energy efficiency in transport; and (3) regulation
and pricing in road transport. The program of actions will be executed under
the responsibility of the Economic Planning Board.
With best regards,
Sincerely yours,
Kim Hung Ki
Vice Minister
Economic Planning Board
Republic of Korea



-64--               ANNEX 2
- -aWge 2of 6
PROPOSED GOVERNMENT ACTION PLAN UNDER THE
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
1.        The Government of the Republic of Korea (GOK) has requested the
International Bank i-or Reconstruction and Development for assistance in
financing of highway improvement covering national, provincial and county
roads under a highway sector loan.
2.        The GOK understands that the basis for the highway sector loan would
be the investment program covering capital and recurrent expenditures as
presently planned for the years 1983 through 1986 by the agencies concerned
and that the loan would assist in expenditures during the years 1984, 1985 and
1986.
3.        In support: of the proposed project, the GOK proposes the following
program of actions whose main objective would be to increase efficiency in the
transport sector anc[ would be specifically directed at solving issues in three
major areas:
(a) Road investment planning;
(b) Energy efficiency in transport; and
(c) Regulation and pricing in road transport.
4.        The GOK believes that such objective is appropriate given that the
economic growth forecast in the Fifth Five-Year Economic and Social
Development Plan (FFYP) is more modest than in past plans and that the
budgetary limitations would require an even more careful assessment and
selection of future investments in the transport sector.
A. Road Investment Planning
5.        Although some success has been achieved in planning, overall
planning of the transportation system still requires improved interagency
coordination, wider application of modern planning and economic appraisal
techniques, and a g^-eater capacity to undertake appropriate longer term pre-
investment studies. Unless such improvements are made, transport investments
may result in costly duplication of capital investment and an imbalance in the
allocation of funds for maintenance. Accordingly, investments in roads need
to be coordinated closely among the agencies responsible for the various parts
of the road system, namely the Ministry of Construction (MOC) and the Ministry
of Home Affairs (MOIIA), and with proposed investments in the other modes.



- 65 -                    ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 6
(a) Highway Planning. Under the program of actions, the GOK would first
establish a system/i under which all investments in the highway
sector are planned on an integrated and sound economic basis and
second, make its best efforts to ensure that funds appropriated for
each road agency support closely the priorities indicated in the
integrated Highway Investment Plan./2
Specific Actions:
(i)    The planning system, project evaluation criteria, and inte-
grated highway investment plan being prepared under Loan 2228-
KO would be adopted by end-1984 after Government review and
consultation with the Bank. Under the planning system, a well-
integrated highway investment plan would be prepared by 1986,
as part of the transport sector plan to be included in the
Sixth Five-Year Economic and Social Development Plan 1987-1991;
(ii)    Establish, by end-1984, a system for reviewing annually
investment proposals and related budget plans for all express-
way, national, provincial and county road construction or
improvement - whether financed directly from the budget, as for
the Bureau of Public Roads (BPR), or otherwise as in the case
of MOHA and the Korea Highway Corporation (KHC) - so that they
reflect the integrated plan and economic priorities established
by Government;
(iii)    Carry out, starting in 1984, a study of the existing arrange-
ments for channelling revenues to the different agencies
responsible for maintaining and improving the road network, for
the purpose of developing appropriate recommendations for
securing a better balance between the economically justified
needs of each agency and the road user charges which are
allocated to them. (This study will be part of the road user
charges study referred to below C(10)(c)).
(iv)    The Government would make its best efforts to ensure that from
1986 onward the annual appropriation of funds for maintenance
would reflect the amounts proposed in the Highway Investment
Program prepared under the system defined in (a) above.
/1   The system will be identified in the Integrated Road Investment Planning
Study being done under Loan 2228-KO.
/2   This would include investments in road construction and improvement by
MOC (BPR and KHC) and MOHA.



- 66 -              ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 6
(v)    MOC would prepare a maintenance management system during 1984,
to be implemented during 1985, to ensure a more cost effective
maint:enance of the paved road network by relating the level of
maintenance to the traffic volume on the paved roads.
(b) Highway Planning in Relation to Other Modes. Under the program of
actions, t:he GOK would strengthen the existing system under which
highway investment plans are reviewed to ensure the coordination of
highway investments with investments in other modes of transport.
Specific Actions:
(i)    Strengthen the Economic Planning Board's (EPB) capability to
review, evaluate and coordinate major transport investment
proposals; to facilitate this, the Government would establish
by mid-1986 procedures for comparing investment alternatives
between modes.
(ii)    In order to carry out (i) above, GOK would identify by mid-1984
the shortfall of staff skilled in planning and economic evalua-
tion and prepare, by end 1984, a program for upgrading the
capability of existing staff.
B. Energy Efficiency in Transport
6.        Energy is a key factor in development for Korea and the large
petroleum imports are a major cause of Korea's balance of payments deficit.
About 20% of petroleum consumption is in the transport sector. While efforts
have been directed 1:o modify energy consumption patterns so as to conserve
energy in the sector, the potential for savings is far from being realized.
With proper steps taken under a coordinated program, substantial savings of
energy are possible. There is need to focus institutional responsibility,
increase energy efficiency of automotive components (engines, transmissions,
etc.) manufactured in Korea to suit the operating conditions and to improve
operations of road, rail and maritime transport services.
7.        Under the program of actions proposed below, the GOK would develop
further and expand the effectiveness of the present program to increase energy
efficiency in the transport sector.
Specific Actions:
(a) By March 31, 1984, the Ministry of Energy and Resources (MOER) will
start effectively to coordinate, manage and monitor actions for
conservation of energy use in the transport sector. MOER would:
(i)    require the agencies with responsibility in the sector to
submit a plan which would establish its energy conservation
policy and goal for the period 1984-86. Such plans would
cover, inter alia,



-67                     ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 6
a. the promotion of energy efficiency in the bus and truck
manufacturing industry;
b. a technological assessment of the potential in Korea for
installing appropriate fuel conversation devices and
adopting appropriate techniques for trucks and locomotives;
c. driver training and public information programs for motor
vehicle and railroad operators; and
d. the establishment of criteria and guidelines for the
analysis of proposed investments by agencies in the
transport sector to assess their impact on energy demand.
(ii)    In order to prepare and carry out these actions, studies and
seminars will be conducted with the assistance of experts as
may be necessary.
(iii)    Monitor achievement of targets through periodic reviews.
(b) MOER, with assistance from other appropriate agencies and experts,
would be responsible to develop and maintain a program to train
sufficient staff in government agencies concerned with transport in
the techniques of energy conservation analysis as applied to the
transport sector. A plan for such training would be prepared by
July 1984, and the training program commenced by March 1985.
C. Regulation and Pricing in Road Transport
8.        Korea transport services by common carriers are closely controlled
by Government through regulations which:
(a)  limit entry into the industry and restrict provision of services,
and
(b)  set the prices that may be charged.
9.        The present system tends to limit competition in commercial road
transport as the market is shared by existing operators who are not challenged
by new-comers. As a result, the still unregulated fleet of trucks owned by
private industry has expanded dramatically, but at a substantial economic cost
as the private fleet is normally not well used as it cannot get the return
loads that are restricted to commercial carriers. The problem raised by the
present system of regulation and pricing (including a taxation differential
which does not charge the heavier vehicles according to the damage they cause
to the roads) results in a lower efficiency than what could be achieved
through more competition and more appropriate pricing. Further, the consoli-
dation of freight to be transported in large trucks on long distance is not
organized systematically due to the lack of road and intermodal freight
terminals.



- 68 -                            ANNEX 2
Page 6 of 6
Specific Actions
10.       To review the situation with a view to finding appropriate solutions
to meet the transport demand effectively at least cost, the Government will
carry out three studies based on terms of reference to be agreed between the
Government and the Bank. A Steering Committee will be established for the
studies with representatives of concerned agencies under the chairmanship of
EPB.  The following studies will be included in the project:
(a)  Trucking Industry Regulations.  To assess the impact of current road
transport regulations on the cost of transport services and energy
use, and propose removal of unnecessary regulations to open up
competition on a selective basis. This study will be carried out by
a team of consultants which will include experts experienced in
regulatcry practices. It will be started by July 1, 1984, and
completed by March 31, 1985, under the supervision of the Land
Transport Bureau of the Ministry of Transport.
(b)  Freight Terminals and Related Services.  To identify the potential
for improving efficiency in transport through the use of road and
intermocal freight terminals. This study will be carried out by a
team of consultants which will include experts experienced in
trucking industries in foreign countries. It will be started by
February' 1, 1985, and completed by October 31, 1985, under the
supervision of the Transport Coordination Bureau of the Ministry of
Transport.
(c)  Road Usebr Charges.  To study and identify the most appropriate
method cif apportioning the costs of highways among the users and
channelling revenues to concerned agencies. This study will be
carried out by a team of consultants experienced in road user cost
assessment. It will be started by May 1, 1984, and completed by
December 31, 1984, under the supervision of MOC (BPR) with the
support of the Economic Planning Board.
Kim Fung Ki
Vice Minister
Economic Planning Board
Republic of Korea
February 20, 1984



- 69 -                         ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 4
KOREA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Progress Reporting Requirements
1.        Two types of progress reports would be submitted regularly:
(i) Program Progress Reports and (ii) Sub-Project Progress Reports. Both EPB
and MOT types of reports will be prepared by MOF in collaboration with the
MOC, MOHA and MOT for information regarding the program or action to be imple-
mented by them.
Program Progress Reports
2.        Program Reports would be submitted semi-annually, commencing in
1984. These reports would indicate progress in implementing each major compo-
nent of the Program and would contain the following information:
Component                          Information Required
A.  Road Paving/Improvement                 For each class of road: /1
(i) physical progress to date of report
and during reporting period;
(ii) comparison of physical progress with
the implementation schedule;
(iii) reasons for deviations from schedule
and proposals for corrective action
where appropriate;
(iv) projections of likely progress in
following reporting period;
(v) expenditure to date of report and
during reporting period;
(vi) comparison of actual expenditure with
program and reasons for any devia-
tions, with particular attention to
trends in unit costs; and
/a   Expressway, National, Provincial and Country Roads.



- 70 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 4
(vii) projections of likely expenditure in
following reporting period.
B.  Road Maintenance                    (i) list of routine and periodic mainte-
nance work performed during the
reporting period;
(ii) comparison of actual work with
program schedule and reasons for
deviations from schedule including
proposals for corrective action;
(iii) work targets and projections of
likely expenditure for the following
reporting period.
C. Sub-Project Progress Reports
3.        This report would be submitted at quarterly intervals, not later
than one calendar month after the end of the period. The first report should
cover the quarter ended June 30, 1984. This report should contain the
following information on each sub-project being financed by the Bank:
Component                             Information Required
Road Construction/Improvement           (i) The physical progress accomplished to
date of report and during the
reporting period;
(ii) actual or expected deviations from
the sub-project Implementation
Schedule; /2
(iii) actual and expected difficulties or
delays and their effect on implemen-
tation and the actual steps taken or
planned to overcome the difficulties
and avoid delays;
(iv) expected changes in the completion
dates of the sub-projects;
(v) matters which may affect the cost of
the sub-projects;
(vi) original estimated cost;
/2   Implementation Schedule for each sub-project would be submitted with the
application for Bank to accept that sub-project for financing.



ANNEX 3
-71 -                       Page 3 of 4
(vii) revised cost, if appropriate; and
(viii) actual expenditure;
(ix) projected expenditure;
(x) actual withdrawals and projected
withdrawals from Loan Account for
this sub-project.
D.  Technical Assistance and
Consultant Services                (i) Progress during reporting period in
procuring these services; and
(ii) brief report describing and
evaluating work performed by tech-
nical assistance experts and consul-
tants during the reporting period.
E.  Action Plan (Annex 2)               (i) Quarterly progress reports on imple-
mentation of the Action Plan would be
prepared and submitted by the EPB,
the first one covering the quarter
ended June 30, 1984.



- 72 -                                                             ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 4
KOREA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
PROGRESS REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
Monitoring   Indices for Action Plan
Timing                 Time difference        Reason for   Actions
-----------------------  -----------------------  difference    to be    Responsible
Project component                                                 Estimated       Actual          Lag         Lead         (if any)      taken       agency
A. Coordinating Committee
Establish interagency (MOHA,MOC,MOT,MOEH,MCI,
EPB) Coordinating Committee, chaired by EPB                                    11/14/83                                                              EPB
B. Integrated Road Investment Planning (IRIP) /_1
a. Highway Planning
i.  Acopt the IRIP system, plans and prolect
evaluation criteria                                     By end-1984                                                                     EPB/MOC/MOHA
ii. Establisn a function to annually review
road investment proposals                               By end-1984                                                                           EPB
iii.Prepare a management system for cost effective
maintenance of paved road network                       During 1984                                                                           MOC
iv. Implement maintenance management system                 During 1985                                                                            MOC
v. Use IHIP system to prepare roads program for
inclusion in 6-FYDP                                     By start 1986                                                                        EPB/MOC
vi. Ensure annual appropriations for maintenance
reflects IRIP proposals f-or each agency                From 1986                                                                      EPB/MOC/MOHA
b. Highway Pianning in Relation to Other Modes
i.  Identify shortfall of staff skilled in planning    By mid-1984                                                                                 EPB
ii. Carry out a program for upgrading staff
capabilities                                            By end-1984                                                                           EPB
iii.Strengthen system for coordinating investment
alternatives between moaes                              By mid-1986                                                                            ENB
C. Energy Efficiency in Transport
a. Start transport energy conservation actions                  By 3/31/1984                                                                 MOER,(MCI/MOT)
i.  Require the agencies to submit plans                    Annually                                                                             "
ii. Periodic reviews                                        Quarterly
iii.Studies and seminars                                    Semi-annually
b. Prepare a plan for continued training of
sufficient staff in conservation techniques                 7/31/19B4                                                                             MOER
c. Comnence energy conservation training program
in transport sector                                         By March 1985                                                                         MOER
D. Regulation and Pricing in Road Transport
a. Trucking Industry Regulations Study                          7/1/84-3/31/85                                                                   LTB of MOT
b. Freight terminals and Related Services Study                2/1/65-10/31/85                                                                   TCO  of MOT
c. Road User Charges Study                                      5/1/84-12/31/84                                                                     MOC/EPB
d. Exchange views on study findings and set                     By 3 months
implementation schedules                                    after each                                                                       EPB/HOC/MOT
study submission
/_1: The IRIP system is io be defined in an ongoing study financed under Loan 2228 and directed by an MOC chaired committee.
12/15/83



- 73 -                           ANNEX 4
KOREA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. General Reports
A.1. "The Fifth Five-Year Social and Economic Development Plan (1982-86)"
dated December 1981, by Economic Planning Board.
A.2. "The Second Comprehensive National Physical Development Plan, 1982-
1991", May 1982, Government of The Republic of Korea.
B. General Reports and Studies on the Sector or Subsector
B.1.  "Transportation Sector Plan (1982-86)", dated December 1981, by
Transportation Affairs Planning Group, MOT.
B.2.  "KOREA - Transport Statistic" (1982), prepared by AEPTI, IBRD.
B.3.  "KOREA - Transport Sector Issues Survey", Green Cover, April 21, 1983
prepared by AEPT1, IBRD.
C. General Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
C.1.  "Study of National and Provincial Road Networks", dated November
28,     1981, by BCEOM (France).
C.2.  "Gun Road Development Study", dated December 1981, by BCEOM (France) and
Saman (Korea).
C.3.  "Provincial and Gun road Maintenance Study", dated December 1981, by
BCEOM (France) and Saman (Korea).



KOREA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Ministry of Construction: Organization
Minister
V\ce-Minister
Controller of
Planning &
Management
1~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~F
Krea    ------             ,      _                                 I         4           1 4    C;;; KorI Bureau of atreau of B                                                      |      Nat  I                  National
Highway        Korea                    ~~~~~~~National             Bra  tBruatueuatueuatnatonlNtna
Corporation                  Housing                    Physical                    Urban                    Public Roads                 Ind-stria  Water                                      Construction                Geography                        _
(KHC)           I        Corporation                 Planning                    Panning                      (BPR)                     Location                   Resources              tResearch Institute              Institute
Training
Korea Industrial Site                                                                                                                         Central                                  Center
& Water Resources                                         Bureau at                   Bureau of                                              Equipment
Development                                           Manaement                     Housing                                              Management
Corporationr                                                                                                                                Office
territorial
Construction &
Managem-ent
Office (9) (TCMOs)
Source Ministry af Construction                                                                                                                                                                                        World Bank-25514



KOREA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Korea Highway Corporation: Organization
President
Executive Vice
President
Vice President
I'  ,-   I  .,   I     .    .        1                      l                       1-                    1       '            -~~~~I  II    -  
PnAccounting           Business               E mergency            Maintenance          Renovation &           Construction
Plannig &  Geeral Afairs  anagemnt            Accuntingusines                                 Planning             DepartmentLadapg 
Coordination Office      Department            Department             Department            Department                 Office             D                     Department            Department
an  n                             Ma.nagemen_t |                                                                                                         . ng
I  Laboratory     Suweon         l         ~~~~~Daejeon                 Daegu                   Gwangi                      Field
I    .                Regional Officeg          Regional Office           Rogional Office           Regional Office-        Construction Office
}  ield Main-   |     | Field Main-   |          | Field Main-                  Field Main- |
tenance Office  |          tenance Office  |     |tenance Office  |             tenance Office
(6)                          (5)                       (  4)                      (41
Toll Office              Totl Office                Toll Office              Toll Office
|   16)       l              161        l               16)        |     |       (5)
Source: Ministry of Construction
World Bank -19016



KOREA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Bureau of Public Roads: Organization
Bureau of Public Roads (BPR)
Director General
.................... ...........  .........
Planning                Adrninistration            Construction              Maintenance
Division                   Division                  Dvsion                    Division
Territorial Construction &
Management Offices (9) 
Director ITCMO'S)                                                                                                    -
National                                    F- Rivers and              r
Genera                    Highway                                           VWaterways                  Testing
Division      I                                                                                       Laboratory 
L  Dlvision  j                                                       |iisio  Division            LJ
National Highway
Maint. Offices (19)
(NH MO's)
Source: Ministry of Construction
World Bank - 19015



KOREA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Ministry of Home Affairs: Organization
Minister
Public
lnfOrmatiar
Officer
General~                   Ofie
Office of                                                               Assistant Minister                               National Police             Civil Defnse
Pianning &                                                                   for Locol                                     Headquarters              Hecd          |
Management                                                                  Administration                                    e          _durr
Officer in
Chorge of
Soemaul Affairs
Planning &                                        Social                Soemoul                    Fiac                     eatetiCivil Detense
Natuonae               Department 4Bureau
Budget               AmnsrteGuidance                                   Planninrg                  Division                (6 Divisions)              (3 Divisions)
Director                            Division                Di          Dvision
General  Local                flegional              Soemaxi                       tax                                            fire Prevention~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FrePreenio
Gene  I                              Regional               Saemoul                      Tax                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Department 2  Bra
Souice~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Giac                                                          Amir israio Hom  Atloirs
ai                                                                                                                                                 (6 Divisions)              (3 Divisions)
Division                DlirEctor                 Division                Division               Division                   Division
Legal                              ~~~~~~~~~~~                           ~          ~~Road  Specia ITaxation
,~~Jtalrs ~~Guidance                   Development                Areos                     System                 Dprmn 
Director         ~~~~D,vion               Section                Division                   Division(6Dvso)
PResemat,en        Re~~gistration(4Dias
Dixisiox           ~~~~Division
Note The Road Deveiopmenl Secrion s to oe upgroded too S oad Management Division - see Chartn
source ministry ot name Affairs                                                                                                                                               WrdBn-51
June 1982                                                                                                                                                                     WiaBn-5t



KOREA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
MOHA Organization for Road Management
Minister
Vice Minister
General Affairs                                        Office of Planning
Division                                            and Management
l___________________________________________________l________________________   (Planning   and   budgeting   coordination)
Bureau of                                              Bureau of
Local Finance                                       Local Administrat.
Texation                 Tax. Admin.                 Land Register                  Finance                Road Management
Division                   DivisionDi
R oad                       Road                       Roamd
Development                 Maintenance                Mainag emet
Section                    Section                     Section
(4 engineers)              (4 engineers)            (5 admin./clericals)
. Studies and engineering    . Overall planning and control . Budgetting
for major improvement      on provincial and gun roads  . Accounting
project (provincial and    maintenance.                . External cooperation
gun roads).              . Guidance and control on     . Road maps and
. Guidance for studies       equipment special accounts.   inventories
and engineering made
by local government.
. Overall guidance and
supervision for provincial
1 Proposed                                                        and gun road development
works.
. Road research on construction                                                                                  U,
Source: Ministry of Home Affairs                                  techniques and supervision
June 1982                                                         methods.                                                           World Bank-24250



KOREA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Road Organization at Provincial Level
-'-~~~~~~~~~~~--1~~oero
|  Vice Governor 
Planning and
r-____           ~~ManagementII
r-->-    1                 ~~~~~~~~Office                    DieIto
I   Engineering                                                       Di                         Torism andsport
Review                                                        Construction                  Transport               Bureaua
i   Committee    I                                                     Bureau                       Bureau
rsport                Account
ivsion              Diiin
Management                                                                                                 Fieldl OfficeI
Admin.              Construct.             Mainte.              Equipment             Management             Maintenance            Equipmen                Branch
|    Section  l  l    Section              Section                Section                Section               Division              Division
* Property mang.     . Planning            . Planning             * Internal inspec.    . Budget and           1) Paved Road Sec.    1) Operation Sec.      . FA works
. Construction        * Programming         . Programming         . Register              accounts                . Maintenance of      . Accounting cost   . Supervision
material pro-       . Studies and         . Studies               private              . Personnel                paved roads           analyses            of CT works
curement and         design               . Control of            ownership of         . Procurement                                  . Equipment         . Equipment
supply              * Control of            maint.                heavy equip.         . Property            2) Gravel Road Sec.        renewal             operation
. Toll roads           construct.            works                  and inspection        management              . Maintenance                             . Cost account
. Traffic survey       works.              , Road                 . Tariffs and         * Others                    of gravel roads    2) Maintenance Sec.
* Gen. affairs                                registers             rates for                                                           . Equipment
own equipment                                                         maintenance
3) Supply Sec.
. Spare parts
supply
. Equipment inspection
Source: Ministry of Home Affairs
June 1982                                                                                                                                                    World Bank-24251



KOREA
HIGHVVAY SECTOR PROJECT'
A Typical County (Gun): Organization
County Chief  
L      Vice Co-tin    Chief    |
nancral                Agricultre and              M.Itilod.Strilai                FiShtoy                  Construction        Civl  Defense
Affi                       F-ttairy          |          LAttPromotino               Division                   Division                     Division
Public                                                                            Industrial                                               Fishing                   M
Sanmoul  Information       Admiation  tion              Tax Affairs               AdministrodionGAffaid                                     r
Officer  Militar                                                                                                     A ff.ir 4
LocalS  Md                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ca tn al
Planning and                                                          Eva~~~~~~~-  n. ndluation      rns-CilWrk
Inspection    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~Ln  Rgit,                                                                                    q Staff of Construction Division
Civil Engineering    5
Ad,esinistrativc     1
B.ildings            2
Clnri.al             4
So-rce  Ministry of Home Affairs                                                                                                                                     TTL1
J.n. 1982 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TOA                                                                                                     2World Banks-24252



CnIRIA                                         DEMOCRATIC   PEOPLE'S  REPUBLIC  OF  KOREA                                 / ~       ,4
'DbEm. PEOPLE'S                                                                                                          -SsA
REP OP KOREA                                                       7" /             g B,"a   -wannn
CF K.ERR             APN                                                                                                                                                                       B
-                                                                        Cu-nes         K""''"G'R
lb. 'e a bee baRand by                'nRb~~5 
bat at The eaR bas,n and Re
h1l,.teab-taens Esean-s.
en Easmant nise neat aFe                                                                                                                    tassan                     t'-gsn 4
at an ts.ntsn n an                                                                                                                                      D     K-'>    i
eedn,semsai at abbabiarhine ci   manIa  b'pa B~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~se91
--a't~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~'                                                  Oat5 1
j--0- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~I                               '    ~      y          Bs~
Y-9~~~~~~t
I  Sl5Q5tn                            -ci'                   --,       ~~~~REPUBLIC   OF   KOREA
( ~    ~          4ssaaeaHIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
EXPRESSVVAY
I~~~~"I Ft  a  a                                                          - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ EXPRrSSWAYIPLANNEDI
- ~~~~~  anRnnnnf~~~~~~~~~~~ ~NATIONAL RODASIPAVEDI
4'~~~~~ nllants4,  ~   ~             ~-   --   -NATIONAL BROASIUINPAVED)
PROVINCIAL ROARSIPAVERI
aJ-3-5-5-l-5-4- PBOVINCIAL BOADSIUNPAVEOI
- I                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROECET ROARS                     (Fln PesIBn 769 KO
-C         CONTTLUCTION  AND                    J Sinad PBsjsl RIRKO
IMPROVEMETS  ThuAPle         103K
~~~~~~~~~an ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROVINCIAL AND COUJNTY  OROND  -  Laaen 2228SKO640
NJ  -                              'fi                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATION IPILOT PROVIRCEBS
'"--RAIL-WAYS
INTERNATIONAL Al RPORTS
It                          B'~~~~~~~IRST CLASS POBTS
SECOND CLASS PORTS
~ INDUSTERIAL PORTS
PROVINCIAL BOUNSIARIES
j y~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 46569 
I in%"  -                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NBLESa



