Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3736-KO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$230.0 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
FOR A HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
March 1, 1984
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Won (W)
US$1           =  W 800 (as of January 1, 1984)
US$1.25        = W 1,000
US$1 million  =  W 800 million
US$1.250       =  W 1 million
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I meter (M)                 =  3.2808 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)       2    =  0.62 mile (mi)
I square kilometer (km )   =  0.3861 square miles (sq mi)
I hectare (ha) = 0.01 km2  =  2.4711 acres (ac)
I kilogram (kg)             =  2.2046 pounds (lbs)
1 metric ton (m ton)        =  2,204.6226 pounds (lbs)
1.1023 short tons (sh tons or 2,000 lbs)
0.9842 long tons (Ig ton or 2,240. lbs)
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ADB   -  Asian Development Bank
BPR   -  Bureau of Public Roads
EPB   -  Economic Planning Board
ERR   -  Economic Rate of Return
FFYP  -  Fifth Five-Year Economic and Social
Development Plan
GNP   -  Gross National Product
KHC   -  Korea Highway Corporation
KMPA  -  Korea Maritime and Port Administration
KNR   -  Korean National Railroad
MOC   -  Ministry of Construction
MOCI  -  Ministry of Commerce and Industry
MOER  -  Ministry of Energy and Resources
MOF   -  Ministry of Finance
MOHA  -  Ministry of Home Affairs
MOST  -  Ministry of Science and Technology
MOT   -  Ministry of Transport



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KOREA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:        Republic of Korea
Amount:          $230.0 million equivalent, including the capitalized front-end
fee.
Terms:           Repayable in 15 years with 3 years of grace, at the standard
variable rate.
Project
Description;  The basic objective of the project is to assist the Borrower
to increase economic efficiency in Korea's highway sector
through improvements in investment planning, transport
regulation and pricing, and energy conservation. The loan
funds would help finance a three-year time-slice of the
highway investment program for the years 1984 through 1986 to
meet the increasing traffic demand by improving and paving
roads, improving highway maintenance, and reducing the traffic
accident rate.
To achieve these objectives, an Action Plan will be carried
out as follows: (a) highway investment planning - to
establish a system under which all highway construction and
maintenance investments are planned and funded on an
integrated and sound economic basis; (b) energy conservation -
to expand and improve the effectiveness of a Government
program to increase energy efficiency in the transport sector;
(c) transport regulation and pricing - (i) to study the impact
of the present regulatory system on the cost of transport
services with a view to the identification and removal of
unnecessary regulations; (ii) to study and identify the most
appropriate method of apportioning highway costs among users;
and (iii) to study the use of freight terminals to improve
road transport efficiency.
The proposed loan entails risk of delays in implementation of
the Action Plan which would be reduced by quarterly reviews of
progress. There are also some risks as to the carrying out of
two studies under the Action Plan and the adequacy of budget
support for the highway investment program. The risks
regarding the studies will be reduced by the requirement that
as a condition of loan effectiveness contractual arrangements
satisfactory to the Bank be established with consultants for
the conduct of the studies on transport regulation and pric-
ing.    The risk resulting from any reduction in the highway
investment program for budgetary reasons will be diminished by
choosing high priority subprojects for financing under the
project.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Prog,ram                                                 Local   Foreign  Total /a
Cost:                                                        - ($ million) ----
Highway Investment Program
(1984-1986)                                   800      805        1,605
Total Program Cost                         80G      805        1,605
FinarLcing Plan:
World Bank Loans:
Provincial and Country Roads Project
(Ln. 2228-KO)                           -        115          115
Highway Sector Project                                 230          230
Asian Development Bank:
Fifth Highway Project:                        -        100 /b       100
Korean Government                               800      360        1,160
Total                                      800      805        1,605
Bank FY         1984        1985      1986    1987
Estimated
Disbursements:   Annual                          50.0       70.0      60.0    50.0
Cumulative                    50.0       120.0    180.0   230.0
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 4728-KO
Map: No. 16730R1
/a   Capital expenditures proposed for years 1984 through 1986 in constant 1983
prices. Total cost net of tax, estimated at about 10%, is $1,440 million.
/b   Includes an amount of $20 million of commercial bank co-financing.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA
FOR A HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Korea, for the equivalent of $230.0 million to help finance
a Highway Sector Project. The loan is for a term of 15 years including 3
years of grace at the standard variable interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The latest Economic Report entitled "Korea:  Adjusting to a New
World Environment" was distributed under cover of Sec M82-514 dated June 1,
1982. The following summary is based on this Report together with updating
information obtained during Bank missions in July and November/December
1983. The Country Data Sheets are attached as Annex 1.
Past Performance
3.        Twenty years ago, Korea was one of the poorest developing countries,
heavily dependent on agriculture, with a weak balance of payments position
financed almost entirely through foreign grants. But the ability to sustain a
growth rate of 8% p.a. from 1960 onwards had raised Korea's per capita income
from $80 in 1960 to $1,700 in 1982 (both in current prices), with more than
80% of the population above the poverty line, and enabled her to join the
ranks of the semi-industrial nations. During this period, the share of the
manufacturing sector in GNP rose from 14% to 29% while the share of
agriculture fell from 39% to 17%. Merchandise exports, principally
manufactured goods, accounted for almost 41% of GNP as against a mere 4% two
decades earlier and the balance of payments position had been considerably
strengthened.
4.        Rapid industrial growth also brought about a marked shift in the
structure of employment. In the early sixties well over half the labor force
had been employed in agriculture. By 1982, employment in this sector had
fallen to a third, while manufacturing absorbed over 22% of the employed.
Heavy migration from the rural areas to the cities combined with deliberate
Government policies to improve the agricultural terms of trade and a steady
increase in agricultural value added helped to ensure growth in per capita
rural incomes more or less in line with the rest of the economy through the
first half of the 70s. There was some deterioration in the income levels of
the rural households between 1978-81 but this appears to have now been
reversed.



Adjustment to Oil Crises and Domestic Shocks, 1974-82
5.        Foreign borrowing, an increase in public sector savings, and export
diversification resulting from an ambitious industrial policy enabled the
country to negotiate the first oil crisis without faltering, and thereafter,
to grow by 10% p.a. until 1978. However, the very success of the Korean
planners in stimulating the economy generated serious inflationary pres-
sures. Real wages rose at an average annual rate of 18% between 1975-78, well
in excess of the growth in productivity, and by 1978 the Consumer Price Index
(CPI) was increasing at over 18% p.a., compared to a rate of 10% in 1977. In
addition, the large volume of subsidized credit which was made available to
the heavy and chemical industries by the financial system under the Govern-
ment's direction, brought about an excessive expansion of capacity in
subsectors faced with weak demand while the traditional light industries were
freque!ntly starved of funds. This trend was in line with the Government's
view of Korea's changing comparative advantage, but it created structural
imbalances in the manufacturing sector and in conjunction with exchange rate
rigidity and a rising price leveal, dampened export growth in the latter part
of the 1970s.
6.        The Government announced, in April 1979, a far reaching program of
stabilization-cum-restructuring to contain price pressures and revive exports,
but it was overtaken by a series of unexpected shocks. The oil price adjust-
ment by OPEC raised Korea's petroleum import bill from about $2.3 billion in
1978 to $6.2 billion in 1980 with the price-induced increase equal to nearly
6% of GNP in 1980.  In October 1979, President Park Chung Hee, the chief
architect of Korea's "economic miracle" since the mid-sixties, was assassina-
ted. This was followed by a period of the severest political uncertainty and
social unrest in twenty years (with the situation returning to normal only
after a new Administration under President Chun Doo Hwan was installed in
September 1980). On top of these developments, unfavorable weather reduced
agricu:Ltural output by about 22% in 1980, or over 4% of GNP, and a 20% decline
in investment led to a worsening of deflationary pressures which could not be
offset by the 10% growth of export volume. As a result, GNP fell by 6.2% in
1980, tnemployment increased to 5.2% from 3.2% in 1978 and the higher costs of
fuel, r-aw materials and foodstuffs pushed up consumer prices by 29%.
7.        To stabilize the economy and promote external adjustment, the
Government attempted, with some success, to restrain wages. It also adopted a
system of managed float, as a consequence of which the effective exchange rate
was cut by 30% in 1980. Improved competitiveness and weak domestic demand
allowed export volume to increase by 10% in 1980 and a further 17% in 1981.
This very sizeable expansion in itrade brought about a narrowing of the current
account deficit from $5.3 billion in 1980 (9.4% of GNP) to $4.6 billion (7.4%
of GNP) in 1981. Meanwhile a 0.3% cut in real wages following on the heels of
a 5.0% drop in the previous year, together with some levelling off of import
prices, led to an easing of inflationary pressures. These favorable devel-
opments continued through 1982, a year which saw inflation declining to 7.3%
and the payments deficit to 3.9% of GNP, largely because of movements in the
terms of trade favoring Korea, modest success on t:he wages front and rather
more conservative fiscal and monetary policies.



8.        While these changes in key macroeconomic indicators offered hearten-
ing evidence of progress with adjustment, growth in 1982 (5.3%) was appreci-
ably below expectations, as consumer and investment demand increased only
moderately, and the 6% rise in exports came largely from a surge in sales of
ships. Hence, in the first half of 1983 the Government moved to stimulate
domestic economic activity by concentrating a larger proportion of the total
budgeted public expenditure in the earlier part of the year. This served to
stimulate construction activities in the public sector, but the expectations
generated by the Government's counter cyclical action together with the pros-
pects of a revival in international demand, also triggered a boom in the
private housing and real estate markets, and in the industries supplying
inputs for construction activities. The recovery in export demand for elec-
tronics, machinery and transport subsectors from about the middle of 1983
helped to sustain the tempo of economic activity through the last two quarters
with the result that GNP grew by over 9%.
Medium-Term Prospects
9.        When the Fifth Five-Year Plan (1982-86) was prepared two years ago,
a growth rate of 7.6% p.a. was projected with export volume increasing by 11%
annually and the current account deficit declining gradually to $3.6 billion
by 1986. But with the balance of payments performance running well ahead of
the Fifth Plan targets and planners more sanguine regarding the economy's
growth prospects, the Government recently completed a revision of the Plan.
Many of the objectives enunciated in the earlier version of the Plan which
have been pursued with considerable success have been retained, such as:
(a) price stability, (b) a lowering of trade barriers, (c) financial liberali-
zation, (d) energy conservation and diversification by type and source,
(e) increased spending on social programs and (f) strengthening of the new
export industries. But the revised Plan underscores the need for Korea to
contain external borrowing thereby minimizing the expansion of its large
external debt. Technology absorption from abroad and the creation of domestic
research capability, seen as the key to future export dynamism, also receives
more attention. In addition, the quest for efficiency in the management and
allo- cation of resources, especially in the public sector, has been
sharpened. The austere public expenditure program calling for a balanced
budget (general account) by 1984 and the equally stringent monetary policy
which has been in force over the past year, should facilitate a progressive
reduction in the size of the current account deficit, with domestic savings
being encouraged by generous real interest rates for depositors (4-5% in 1983)
and price stability (2% inflation in 1983). Technology transfer is being
accelerated by integrat- ing and expanding the efforts to induce direct
foreign investment, increase funding for research and venture capital for high
technology firms, by improving the quality of researchers in scientific insti-
tutes and encouraging the large corporations to raise expenditures on R&D.
Lastly, a reform of public enterprise management, now being reviewed, should
contribute significantly to the cause of efficiency.
10.       During the 1970s, Korea's growth rate was extremely high - averaging
9.6% p.a. Such a performance might not be easily repeated in the current
decade given the trends in the initernational system and the very size of
Korea's economy and trade. But an increase in the GNP averaging 7-8% annually



- 4 -
could well be achieved, if the appropriate policies are followed, through a
9-10% expansion in exports combined with judicious enlargement of domestic
demand.
External Resource Balance
II.       While total debt is high in absolute amounts and equal to 57% of GNP
in 1983, the total debt service ratio (including interest on short-term debt)
was still a moderate 21%.  These ratios in fact exaggerate the debt burden
somewhat as they include loans used for the purpose of financing the rapidly
rising exports of capital goods (most prominently ships) without showing the
balancing effect on net foreign debts of rising foreign exchange claims on the
rest of the world. The high share of short-term maturities in total debt
(35%) is the most unfavorable aspect of the debt situation, but under the
Stand-By Agreement with the IMF, special attention is being given to its
reduction over the next 12 months. The gross borrowing program envisaged by
the Government (about $6 billion p.a. through 1986) though fairly large in
absolute amo"lnts, is realistic in terms of availability, and prudent in terms
of Korea's debt service capacity provided that the export projections are
realized and the borrowing rates decline. With such a level of borrowing,
Korea's external debt as a ratio to GNP would decline to below 45% in 1986,
while the debt service ratio would fall to 17%. Atlthough this is lower than
the debt service ratios projectebd for many other newly industrializing
countries, the magnitude of Korea's outstanding debt and the lowered tolerance
of bankers towards risk, suggest that it would be desirable for the current
account deficit to be kept belowr 2% of GNP for 1986, which appears feasible.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
12.       As of September 30, 1983, Korea had received 68 Bank loans (includ-
ing one Third Window Loan) and 8 IDA Credits, totalling $4,437 million in
loans and $106.8 million in credits (taking into account cancellations and the
refinancing of one IDA Credit in a subsequent Bank loan).  As of that date,
$1,214.8 million remained undisbursed on effective loans, mostly from
commitments in the past two years. Annex II contains a list of outstanding
Bank loans, IDA Credits, and IFC Investments as of September 1983. Progress
on project implementation is generally satisfactory, and implementation delays
have been addressed which had occurred in several projects - mainly irriga-
tion, highways and population - due primarily to shortfalls in Government
budgetary contributions resulting from cost overruns during a period of high
domestic inflation. The issue has been reviewed with the Government which has
taken measures to increase local funding of Bank-financed projects. However,
as the Government's budgetary situation continues to be tight, the status and
plans for counterpart contributions will remain an integral part of country
implementation reviews held jointly with the Government. Nevertheless,
despite the recent delays, Korea"s disbursement rate remains the highest among
major Bank borrowers in East Asia.
13.       The current pipeline of projects in the lending program for Korea
reflects an evolution in the Bank's strategy from lending for discrete



projects concerned with micro-institutional issues increasingly to making sec-
tor loans which are aimed at addressing broad-based policy and institutional
issues. This transformation in the Bank's lending approach, made possible by
the relatively sophisticated Korean institutions, is working well. Sector
loans have already been made for Education and Industrial Finance and are
under preparation for the Agriculture and Urban sectors. The Bank has also
made two Structural Adjustment Loans (SALs), which complement this approach by
concentrating on issues that have macro and multi-sectoral impact.
14.       Bank lending for the industrial sector is aimed at helping improve
Korea's trade and industrial incentives policies, at improving the performance
of the financial system and at devieloping the technological capabilities of
Korean enterprises. So far trade and incentives issues have been addressed
through the SAL. Issues pertaining to the strengthening of the financial
system are being addressed under the Bank's lending for industrial finance.
For example, the Industrial Finance project approved by the Board in June 1983
supports the Government's ongoing program of financial sector reform. The
Bank's technology enhancement objectives are being pursued through two proj-
ects approved in 1982, one for the Korea Technology Development Corporation
(KTDC) which finances research, development and engineering and the other for
the machinery industries which is designed to provide financial and technical
assistance to raise the productivity of small and medium machinery firms.
Future lending planned for industry in Korea would include continued support
for the financial sector reform, for KTDC, and for the small and medium-
industry subsector which is expected to play an important role in the growth
of the skill-intensive industries which are crucial to the next stage of
development of Korean industry.
15.       Future Bank lending for agriculture is expected to be limited
reflecting the completion of major infrastructure works. A planned sector
loan would address a number of policy and institutional issues related to
Korean agriculture which are now being defined in a sector survey. This would
complement public finance issues related to farm subsidies and the restructur-
ing of agro-industries being handled under the second SAL. Loan funds are
tentatively planned to be directed to credit institutions to support long-term
lending to farmers and other private entrepreneurs in the sector.
16.       The Bank has played a major role in assisting the Government to
modernize and expand the transport system through lending for the railroad,
highway construction and improvement, and port expansion. The Highway Sector
Project as well as future operations would address sectoral and subsectoral
issues such as improving the integration of investment planning, energy con-
servation and transport efficiency related to regulation and road user
charges. Those transport issues which involve macroeconomic policies affect-
ing other sectors of the economy, such as relative fuel prices, are being
handled within the context of the second SAL.
17.       The Bank Group has been involved in helping to meet the requirements
for skilled technical manpower, a precondition of up-market industrial diver-
sification. The Bank's first sector loan for education, approved in 1980, was
aimed at improving engineering and management education and technician train-
ing. Under preparation is a proposed second sector loan which would support



- 6 -
measures designed to improve qualitative aspects of secondary and higher level
science and technology education.
18.       The Bank's recent lending in the urban sector involves support for
two regional development projects, two low-income housing projects and two
water supply projects. The Band is assisting Korea to increase the availabil-
ity of basic services such as housing, water supply, and transportation in the
cities and to improve the functioning and efficiency of urban areas. New
projects in urban transport, local government finance and water supply are
under preparation. Continuation of the policy improvement and institution-
building efforts initiated under ongoing projects is planned by moving
gradually to a sector approach, first in housing.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Background
19.       Throughout much of the past 20 years, the transport system has been
strained by the demands of rapid growth and it has required massive public
sector investments. The Government has been allocating regularly, since the
beginning of the Second Plan in 1967, about one quarter of its total capital
expenditure to expand and modernize the transport infrastructure. Investments
have been concentrated on the Seoul-Busan axis where most industrial develop-
ment is taking place and on other corridors serving the northeastern and
southeastern parts of Korea.
20.       Substantial changes in the modal distribution of traffic occurred in
the 1961 to 1982 period. Freight traffic moving by rail, although showing
growth in absolute terms, fell from 88A of total ton-km to 37%, while the road
and coastal shipping shares increased from 8% to 36% and from 4% to 27%,
respectively. For passenger traffic, the rail share of total passenger-km
fell from 53% to 22% over the same period, while the road share increased from
45% to 75%. These changes reflect both the economnic advantages of the various
modes and the different growth rates experienced between industries served, as
rail and coastal shipping increasingly were concentrated on long distances and
bulk commodities while road transport handled the short distances and more
general cargo. In addition, rapjidly expanding personal consumption generated
large increases in personal travel, further fueled by changes in consumption
patterns. Road transport has been the main beneficiary of these increases.
21.       The Government of Korea's (GOK) basic objective in the past has been
to increase the capacity of the system in line with projected traffic growth
and to avoid major bottlenecks. This objective has been largely achieved.
The present system is reasonably balanced and there is little uneconomic
allocation of traffic among the various modes.  Investments in transportation
have been linked to broader concerns in Korea's spatial and economic plann-
ing. For example, considerable efforts have been made to develop new indus-
trial complexes in coastal areas, to take advantage of Korea's natural poten-
tial in harbors and to exploit low-cost coastal shipping while avoiding exces-
sive congestion on road and rail. Similarly, in its efforts to ensure that



-7-
appropriate development priorities were reflected in the allocation of scarce
transportation means among the competing claims, the Government has maintained
fairly tight regulations in the sector, with a restrictive licensing system
and administered pricing for all transport activities. These tight regula-
tions have not enhanced efficiency in transport. Korea's vehicle fleet has
been kept small due to a policy of high taxation for cars and high prices for
gasoline.
22.       Large investments in transportation infrastructure have been com-
plemented by a considerable effort: to improve the efficiency of the transpor-
tation system, through the establishment and strengthening of institutions to
plan, construct, maintain and operate the facilities and services. In the
public sector, institutions such as the Korean National Railroad (KNR), the
Bureau of Public Roads (BPR) in the Ministry of Construction (MOC), the Korea
Highway Corporation (KHC), and the Korea Maritime and Port Administration
(KMPA) have been established or strengthened in many instances with increasing
financial and managerial responsibility as semi-autonomous public corpora-
tions.  In the private sector, a highly efficient contractor system has
evolved with some 500 firms capable of handling a broad range of public works;
this reflects both the insistence on competitive bidding in the award of
contracts as a matter of policy, and the large volume of construction that has
been carried out in Korea during the past 20 years. Korean contractors have
successfully expanded their construction activities overseas.
B. Transport Objectives and Issues in the 1980s
23.       The Government's main goals for the transport sector as stated
in the Fifth Five-Year Economic and Social Development.Plan (FFYP) are to:
(a) selectively increase transport capacity by modernizing equipment and opti-
mizing investments in the sector; (b) enhance transport efficiency by improv-
ing intermodal traffic allocatiorn and conserving energy; and (c) strengthen
maintenance activities.
24.       These FFYP goals are appropriate and timely.  Recovery from the
recession of 1979/81 is now in progress, but the growth rate of the economy in
the medium-term is likely to be iaore modest than during the 1970s. The impact
of these developments on the transportation sector is two-fold. On one side,
the timing of investments needed to sustain further improvements in transport
capacity and quality of service will be influenced by growth-induced traffic
expansion. On the other side, the capacity of the public sector to finance
the necessary upgrading and expansion of infrastructure and facilities in
transportation may be sharply constrained by budgetary limitations.
25.       A Bank transport sector mission reviewed the transport investments
proposed in the FFYP and identified the policy and institutional issues imped-
ing efficiency in the sector.  The mission concluded (in the Transport Sector
Issues Survey Report No. 4423-KO dated December 27, 1983) that, although most
of the transport investments proposed under the Plan pursue development prior-
ities which are appropriate, considerably more could be done to increase the
productivity of existing facilities and equipment. It was clear to the
mission that the increasingly complex traffic patterns and higher traffic



densities, the growing requiremients for maintenance of the expanded system,
and the need to conserve energy, will call for even greater efforts to maxi-
mize efficiency in the use of scarce investment capital in this capital inten-
sive sector. The mission identified three main areas requiring specific
attention in the more demanding economic environment: (a) planning, (b) regu-
lation and pricing, and (c) energy conservation. The Report's recommendations
in each of these areas, as they apply to highways, form the basis for the
development of an Action Plan with the Government which would be supported by
the proposed loan,
26.       Despite considerable efforts, spatial planning of the transportation
system is still hindered by generally inadequate interagency coordination, by
comparatively limited expertise in planning and economic appraisal techniques,
and by the limited capacity to undertake appropriate longer-term preinvestment
studies. The Government met with little success when a Transport Planning
Office in the Ministry of Transport (MOT) was set up in 1970, and tried again
in 1975 to improve transport coordination through a Transport Coordination
Committee (TCC) with representation from the various ministries most directly
concerned. The TCC, however, has not been able to carry out its responsi-
bilities for the coordination of transport sector investment very satisfactor-
ily. More effective mechanisms need to be worked out.
27.       Internal mechanisms, procedures and criteria need to be established
to ensure that investments and action programs proposed by the various respon-
sible agencies in each mode are internally fully consistent. Furthermore, all
modal plans should be reviewed and integrated to enable the most cost-effec-
tive transport solutions to be selected, drawing on the complementarity of
each mDde based on its comparative advantages or relative efficiency. A
system for effective coordination could probably best be organized by the
Economic Planning Board (EPB) because of its general planning responsibilities
and level. In particular the EPFB's project evaluation functions would need to
be striengthened in order to systematize the comparison of investment alterna-
tives between modes. At the same time, the objective of ensuring effective
integrated planning can be advanced by having project studies focus on
multimodal solutions as the means to satisfy transport demand for specific
commod:ities or in specific geographic areas. This approach is now being
followed with the multimodal transport studies in the Seoul-Busan Corridor,
and the Gyeonggi (Seoul) Region. A similar approach would also be useful for
transport needs of the Southeastern Industrial Belt. The institution of
multidisciplinary study groups, guided by steering committees representing the
agencies concerned, will demonstrate in practice the coordination concept and
contribute to the development of suitable institutional mechanisms for overall
transport coordination. To do this, more staff skills need to be upgraded
through apprcpriate training. Tlhere is also a need to recruit experienced
planners, transport economists, intermodal and program analysts, and transport
operations specialists from post graduate students and the domestic research
institutes. The planning issues in the highway sector, which will be
addressed under the proposed project are discussed below,



- 9 -
C. Highway Sector
28.       The Network.  The public road network totals about 87,000 km
comprising 13,400 km of national roads, 9,700 km of provincial roads, 11,500
km of county roads and 52,400 km of village access roads. The national high-
ways include 1,245 km of toll expressways. Road density at 0.9 km/sq km is
generally sufficient to serve transport needs, particularly as about 70% of
the total land area is mountainous, but most of the network still needs
improvement. Despite heavy investments in road improvements since 1967, only
64% of the national roads, 13% of the provincial roads, and 5% of the county
roads are paved and a high level of investment will continue to be required to
ensure an adequate level of service for growing traffic volumes.
29.       Traffic.  Road transport has grown rapidly over the last 15 years,
not only in absolute terms but also in relation to other modes, particularly
railways. Road freight traffic in ton-km grew twice as fast as all freight
traffic, averaging 45% p.a. in 1967-71 and 13% p.a. in 1972-76 and 9% p.a. in
1977-81. The share of freight traffic by road is expected to continue increa-
sing in the long-term although probably more gradually. Passenger traffic on
highways also grew rapidly, at 15% p.a. in passenger-km in 1967-71, 14.1% in
1972-76 and 9.1% in 1977-81. In 1981 it amounted to nearly three quarters of
the total with the remainder going by rail, a complete reversal of the
situation in 1961.
30.       While the growth of road traffic has been rapid, government policy
has been to regulate and to restrain growth. As a result, the motor vehicle
fleet in Korea is still very small when compared to other countries at similar
levels of per capita income. However, the proportion of trucks is high and
therefore control of vehicle dimensions and axle-loads, which is now satisfac-
tory on expressways, should continue to be extended to the rest of the network
(Section 4.05 of the Loan Agreement). Commercial vehicle licensing policies
were somewhat relaxed following agreements under the Second Highway Project
(Loan 956-KO). Further improvements are to be tested under the ongoing
Provincial and County Roads Project (Ln. 2228-KO) with the introduction of
unscheduled passenger transport services (mini-buses) in selected remote rural
areas, where such services are now largely lacking due partly to the restric-
tive licensing system. The introduction of the services has been delayed.
However, a plan for these services has now been agreed with the Government and
implementation of this plan would be a condition of loan effectiveness
(Section 6.01 (b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
31.       Road Safety.  A serious road accident problem exists in Korea.  For
reasons not fully understood, road fatalities were about 65 persons per 10,000
vehicles in use in 1982 - among the highest of a group of 34 countries for
which comparable statistics are available. Research on road safety and its
promotion are the responsibility of a Road Traffic Safety Association, linked
to the Ministry of Home Affairs (MORA). A road safety expert has been made
available under Loan 2228-KO to assist the Association in the collection and
analysis of traffic accident data and in the preparation of a program for the
reduction of accidents, which will be implemented under the proposed project
(Section 3.09 of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 10 -
32.       Institutions.  The organizational and functional responsibilities of
national and local authorities for the various classes of the road network are
divided among several institutions. MOC exercises its responsibility for
expressways through a public corporation, KHC, and for the national roads
through its own BPR. MOHA is responsible, through the provinces, for the pro-
vincial roads and, through the counties, for the county roads. MORA was not
direclly involved in highway management until recently. A Road Development
Section was set up in September 1979 to be responsible for preparing and
monitoring provincial and county road maintenance and the development of the
county road network.  To handle the implementation of the ongoing Provincial
and County Roads Project and the increased road improvement and maintenance
programs that are associated with it, certain organizational changes as well
as staff increases are being made at central, provincial and county levels.
33.       Planning and Financinj.  Transport planning, Lncluding planning for
roads, is mostly done in the context of the FFYP, the latest covering the
period 1982-86.  Planning of the national road system, including expressways,
is done by the Planning Division of the BPR.  MOI1A has little capacity at
present for planning and under Loan 2228-KO this will be built up using the
screening and selection methodologies prepared by consultants financed under
the Fcurth Highway Project (Ln. 1640-KO) and by training selected MOHA staff
in road development planning and transport economics. This development needs
to be accompanied by the establishment of a system for coordinating investment
planning by MOC and MOHA for the various levels of the road system.
34.       Local funding comes from various public sources.  For the national
roads, the general budget is the sole source of funds for development and
maintenance; user charges on vehicle purchase and operation (fuel and tires),
collected through fees and taxes, accrue to the general budget. By contrast,
KHC is financially independent, getting its revenues from tolls, and is not
required to pay all the capital costs of its roads. The level of tolls is
subject to review by the Economic Planning Board (EPB) and approval by Govern-
ment. The local governments also have a separate financing system; a block
grant of 13.27% of r.ational revenues is allocated annually to MOHA by the
Ministry of Finance (MOF), which for 1983 is estimated at W 791.4 billion com-
pared to W 719.0 billion received in 1982. MOHA then allocates funds to local
governnaents for the provincial and county road improvement programs. In
addition, the provinces raise revenues through local taxes and receive sub-
sidies from MOC mainly for the maintenance of national gravel roads. The
varied funding treatment of the agencies makes coordination of planning diffi-
cult since two of the agencies, KHC and MORA, are free from direct budget man-
agement controls while BPR is not. EPB, through its Budget Bureau, exercises
a budgebtary control on transport investments proposed by each ministry, except
those of KHC and MOHA, and has thae authority to c-at or defer projects if
required. The weaknesses in intramodal planning for the highway sector are
being dealt with under the proposed project (para. 40).
35.       Design and Construction.  MOC, through BPR, has the responsibility
for design and construction of national roads including new expressways and
those provincial roads whose construccion is to be funded by MOC.  Consultants
are employed for the design of major road works and their work is handled
under a system of study groups comprising seconded BPR staff.  MDHA has only



- 11 -
recently become involved in major road design work in connection with the
county road program and employs consultants for design under the same system
of study groups used by MOC. Both MOC and MOHA employ mainly domestic consul-
tants for supervision of construction. Korea has a strong well-developed
engineering consulting industry, with some 30 firms which are fully competent
in all aspects of engineering des;Lgn but so far have developed a limited
capacity in areas of transport economics and preparation and implementation of
road maintenance programs, although this capacity is growing. The participa-
tion of foreign firms in design and for the supervision of construction is
limited to overall management and assistance with special problems. The
domestic engineering consulting industry will continue to have substantial
involvement in consultant services to be provided under the proposed proj-
ect. The policy of competitive bidding for civil works, combined with the
large volume of such works in Korea during the past ten years, has resulted in
the development of a large, efficient and experienced contracting industry.
Therefore foreign contractors have not been successful in obtaining work in
Korea.
36.       Maintenance.  KHC is maintaining the expressway network to a high
standard. It has an effective maintenance organization, well-trained and
experienced staff, a large number of maintenance equipment units and adequate
funding from tolls.
37.       MOC's organization to maintain the national road network was estab-
lished and strengthened during previous Bank-financed highway projects through
the provision of technical assistance and road maintenance equipment.
Although this is satisfactory, there is a need to introduce more modern man-
agement procedures for the maintenance of the paved road network to ensure
more cost-effective maintenance. Asphaltic concrete overlays are now used
extensively and in many cases where a less costly resealing would be ade-
quate. The use of modern techniques to ascertain the residual life of the
pavement by deflection beams and the condition of the pavement by bumptometers
would help in deciding whether overlays or reseals are needed. Technical
assistance and maintenance equipment would be provided under the proposed
project to introduce a new paved road maintenance management system during
1984.
38.       MOHA maintenance organizations at central, provincial and county
levels are weak; no proper planning of work is done and the maintenance is
unsatisfactory due to lack of funds, trained staff, equipment and materials.
As a consequence, the condition of the provincial and county roads is gener-
ally poor. Little regravelling work has been done and what little has been
done is unsatisfactory. Likewise, the paved sections of these roads require
heavy patching and resurfacing. To address these problems, the Government,
with Bank assistance under the Fourth Highway Project (Loan 1640-KO), has had
consultants (BCEOM, France) prepare a five-year 1983-87 maintenance program
for the provincial and county road networks. This program is now being imple-
mented under the ongoing Provincial and County Roads Project (Loan 2228-KO).
MORA central, provincial and county organizations dealing with roads are being
strengthened through the provision of technical assistance, training and road
maintenance equipment.



- 12 -
39.       Bank financing for five highway projects has totalled $459.0 mil-
lion. Results of the three highway projects that have been completed are gen-
erally very satisfactory. A Project Performance Audit Report (PPAR) on the
First Highway Project (Ln. 769--KO), including the Transport Technical Assist-
ance Credit (S4-KO) and on the Second Highway Project (Ln. 956-KO) was issued
on June 25, 1980. The re-estimated economic rates of return (ERR) for the
construction components exceeded appraisal estimates; 34% against 28% for the
First Highway Project; and 30% against 26% for the Second Highway Project. A
Project Completion Report (PCR) on the Third Highway Project (Ln. 1203-KO) was
issued on April 30, 1982. The PCR found that civil works were completed on
schedule with a cost increase of slightly more than 1%. The re-estimated ERRs
for the project roads ranging from 15% to 53% exceeded the appraisal estimates
of 12% to 35% due mainly to the rapid increases in actual traffic volumes. A
major policy achievement was the formulation of Government policy on tolls
through a Toll Road Study carried out under the project. Following increased
budget allocations, the progress of the Fourth Highway Project (Loan 1640-KO
of December 22, 1978) has improved dramatically with all the road improvement
and paving works completed in June 1983; some equipment procurement and staff
training will continue until project completion in June 1984. The progress of
the ongoing Provincial and County Roads Project (Loan 2228-KO of December 30,
1982) is generally on schedule.
D. Issues Related to Efficiency in the Highway Sector
1. Highway Investment Planning
40.       Intramodal Planning.  There is a need first to bring consistency to
the road planning done by the various agencies under,1DC and the planning done
by provinces, counties, cities and "special cities" - under MOHA and by Seoul
City. As an initial step, a study for integrating national, provincial and
county road programs has been started under the ongoing Provincial and County
Roads Project (Ln. 2228-KO) which will define a system of evaluation criteria
and institutional procedures to be applied in the future. Under the Action
Plan the Government would, by erLd-1984, establish the system identified in the
above study, under which (a) all investments in the highway sector would be
planned on an integrated basis; (b) evaluation criteria for highway investment
proposals would be adopted; and (c) funds appropriated for each road agency
would closely support the priorities given in the integrated road investment
plan.
41.       Intermodal Planning.  Under the Action Plan, the Government would by
mid-1986 establish procedures for comparing investment alternatives between
modes; to prepare for this, the Government would develop a program for
upgrading the skills of EPB staff in planning and economic evaluation.
1/   Busan, Daegu, and Incheon.



- 13 -
2. Regulation and Pricing
42.       In 1982, there was in Korea a total of 1,685 commerci l trucking
companies, 1,659 with area licences and 26 with route licences2 operating
some 63,000 trucks. Some 735 bus companies operated almost 33,000 buses,
about 55% in urban areas, and some 1,900 companies operated about 53,100 taxis
while another 24,400 were operated by owner-drivers. Commercial road trans-
port is restricted through a licensing and tariff system, the main problem of
which is that it tends to suppress effective competition in commercial road
transport and fails to serve adequately the needs of the users. Less restric-
tive regulations were introduced recently but reform has not yet gone far
enough. This is evidenced by the low growth of the common carrier fleet,
which grew from 15,100 trucks in 1967 to only 63,000 in 1982 while the private
fleet grew from about 5,500 to 2003000 and is now three times larger, A simi-
lar evolution is also noticeable for buses which are operated more and more by
private enterprises, schools, and farmers' cooperatives (despite subsidies
offered by MOT in selected remote rural areas to open new bus services). The
licensing of commercial operators seems to have worked to their advantage as
they could share the market among themselves, being protected from newcom-
ers. However, as the commercial services offered do not meet the transport
users' needs, private users increasingly operate their own trucks and buses
which are less efficient because they are generally smaller and very often
under-used. Furthermore, the resulting shift in demand has caused the operat-
ing pattern of the trucking industry to feature a high proportion of empty
backhauls and small average size trucks, with consequent higher consumption of
fuel than needed.
43.       The economic regulations governing road transport can be summarized
as follows: (a) licenses for all bus operations and "route" trucking are
issued only to enterprises having a minimum of 30 vehicles in cities and in
rural counties; (b) quotas are imposed on the total number of vehicles in each
province as well as service areas or rouws; and (c) rates and fares are regu-
lated for freight and passenger traffic.-
44.       Among the most distorting regulations are those requiring a fleet of
30 vehicles minimum in urban and rural areas for both "route" trucking and all
busing operations. These regulations make it difficult for newcomers to enter
the industry and provide the competition needed to generate efficiency. The
FFYP calls for further consolidation of passenger transport operating compa-
nies, up to 300 buses per company. This, however, would only make more
2/   An "area" license authorizes service within a limited area, generally a
province, and a "route" license authorizes service along a given route
between points A and B.
3/   The minimum vehicle requirement for enterprises to obtain "area" licenses
for trucking and taxis in counties was reduced from 10 to 5 subsequent to
agreement under the Second Highway Project; this requirement can be
waived when deemed necessary and was removed for pick-up vans and for
taxis and "area" trucks operated by owner-operators.



- 14 -
difficult the entry of new companies.   Unless freedom of entry is introduced,
the reliance of shippers on commercial services is bound to continue to
diminish while the private, less efficient fleet will keep growing. Other
regulations prevent operators from adjusting bus size to actual demand,
resulting in the underutilization of full-size buses, especially in rural
areas; this rigidity is also reflected in the very small number of minibuses
seen on the roads. Regulations also prohibit the use of dual-purpose vehicles
for both passengers and goods, a class of vehicle usefully employed in many
countries.
45.       With a view to identifying specific measures required to improve the
situation, the Government has included in the Action Plan two studies. One
study would start by July 1, 1984 and be completed by March 31, 1985, and
would assess the economic impact of current regulations in the trucking indus-
try on the cost of transport services and on energy use and would identify and
propose the removal of unnecessary regulations. The other study would start
by February 1, 1985 and be completed by October 31, 1985, and would identify
the potential for improving efficiency in road transport through the use of
road and intermodal freight terminals. Terms of reference, funding, staffing
and the mix of domestic and expatriate expertise needed for the studies have
been agreed. The hiring of consultants satisfactory to the Bank for the study
on the economic impact of road transport regulations would be a condition of
effectiveness for the proposed loan (Section 6.01(a) of the draft Loan
Agreement). Further, the Governiment would submit to the Bank the findings and
recommendations of the study on the impact of the trucking regulations and the
study on freight terminals not later than April 30, 1985 and November 30, 1985
respectively, and not later than July 30, 1985 for the regulation study and
February 28, 1986 for the freight terminal study, exchange views with the Bank
on the findings and recommendatiLons of the studies and, thereafter, implement
such recommendations as agreed between the Government and the Bank in accord-
ance with satisfactory timetables (Section 3.03 of the draft Loan Agreement).
46.       The pricing of road transport services and setting of road user
charges is normally based on oae or more of the following objectives: (a) to
cover the operators' costs in providing the services; (b) to ensure that the
costs of using the existing roads are paid for by the road users; (c) to pro-
vide revenue for expanding the road system; and (d) to ensure that the costs
of roadl transport do not distort the demand for road use in relation to the
use of competing transport modes, such as railways or coastal shipping.
47.       Although, in the aggregate, road user charges have been closely in
line with road expenditures (para. 67), the current system only partly
fulfills the above objectives. The system of cross-subsidization which
enables operators to support loss-making services out of the surpluses earned
on profitable ones, does not allow operators to recover expenditures sustained
in high cost operations, nor to expand their low cost operations. The costs
of road use is generally met in the case of cars, but not in the case of heavy
vehicles (trucks and buses) which are virtually untaxed.  The Special Excise
Tax on diesel oil (exclusive of VAT) is only 23 Won a liter (compared to
283 Won on a liter of gasoline) and many of the annual licensing fees do not
apply vo heavy vehicles.  Therefore the use of roads for transporting goods is
stimulated at the expense of rail and coastal shipping.



- 15 -
48.       The road user charges should be reviewed and adjusted to introduce a
more neutral taxation system that promotes fair competition by appropriately
charging for the cost of road infrastructure. A study will be undertaken
under the Action Plan to determine actual road costs, who pays for them, and
how the contribution of each road user should be apportioned to better reflect
the damage inflicted on the road by the users. The study would begin by May
1, 1984 and would be completed by December 31, 1984. Terms of reference, and
the expertise needed for the study have been agreed. In view of the import-
ance of this study and the need to have it implemented in 1984, the hiring of
consultants satisfactory to the Bank would be a condition of effectiveness for
the proposed loan (Section 6.01(a) of the draft Loan Agreement). The
Government would submit to the Bank the findings and recommendations of the
study on road user charges not later than January 31, 1985 and not later than
April 30, 1985, exchange views with the Bank on the findings and recommenda-
tions of the study and thereafter implement such recommendations as agreed
between the Government and the Bank in accordance with a satisfactory time-
table (Section 3.03 of the draft Loan Agreement).
4. Energy Conservation
49.       Energy is a key factor in development in Korea and massive petroleum
imports are a major cause of Korea's balance of payments deficit. Actions
under the structural adjustment loans (SALs) are seeking to limit demand
through appropriate pricing policies, and also under the SALs, specific con-
servation measures have been taken with respect to the industrial and building
sectors. While some efforts have been made to conserve energy in the trans-
port sector, largely through measures which have kept down the growth of the
private automobile fleet, the potential for saving, which is substantial, is
far from being fully realized.
50.       The proportion of energy used in the transport sector is consider-
ably smaller in Korea than in most other countries of similar income levels.
The sector nevertheless accounts for 18-20% of national petroleum consump-
tion. Consumption in the sector is expected to grow as disposable income
increases, due to the prospect of a very large increase in the number of auto-
motive vehicles, particularly passenger cars, which in 1982 numbered about
305,000 compared to 263,000 trucks, 66,000 buses, and 410,000 motorcycles.
The continuing, and probably accelerating, growth of the vehicle fleet means
that the sector's energy consumption is bound to increase rapidly. Road
transport accounts for two-thirds of the total energy use in transport, and
broadly speaking, fuel accounts for 15-30% of the total economic costs of
operating an automotive vehicle, with the lower figure being representative
for most types of heavier vehicles.
51.       An improvement in the energy efficiency of road transport of some
30% over the next five years is technically and economically feasible in Korea
by the use of more energy-efficient vehicles, changes in driving and main-
tenance methods and in the management of road freight vehicles. Potential
savings range from $150 to 200 million a year.
52.       At least six different ministries viz. MOT, MOC, MOHA, Ministry of
Commerce and Industry (MOCI), Ministry of Science and Technology (MOST) and



- 16 -
Ministry of Energy and Resources (MOER) are involved in improving the energy
efficiency of the transport slector. MOER is responsible for defining general
policies and strategies, MOST is responsible for the development of advanced
technologies for automotive and other applications, and each individual
ministry is responsible for actions within its sphere of authority. However,
it is clear that effective leadership and coordination with respect to
conservation of energy is lacking at present in the sector.
53.       The Government recognizes the need for better coordination and plan-
ning in the energy sector and has decided that by March 31, 1984, MOER will
start effectively to coordinate, manage and monitor actions for conservation
of energy use in the transport sector.  In this connection, MOER would:
(a)  require the agencies with responsibility in the sector to submit
plans which would establish energy conservation policies and goals
for the period 1984-86. Such plans would cover inter alia:
(i) the promotion of energy efficiency in the bus and truck
manufacturing industry;
(ii) a technological assessment of the potential in Korea for
installing appropriate fuel conservation devices and adopting
appropriate techniques for trucks and locomotives;
(iii) driver training and public information programs for motor
vehicle and railroad operators; and
(iv)  the establishment of criteria and guidelines for the analysis
of proposed investments by agencies in the transport sector to
assess their impact on energy demand.
(b)  In order to assist inl the preparation of (a)(i) through (a)(iv)
above, conduct studies, workshops and seminars with the assistance
of experts as necessary.
(c)  Monitor achievement of targets througlh periodic reviews.
(d)  With assistance from other appropriate agencies and experts, develop
and maintain a program to train sufficient staff in government agen-
cies concerned with transport in the techniques of energy conserva-
tion analysis as applied to the transport sector. A plan for such
training would be prepared by July 1984, and the training program
would commence by March 1985.
54.       The Government would implement the actions described above in
accorcdance with the Action Plan and related time schedules (Preamble, Section
3.01(a) and schedule 2 of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 17 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
A. Highway Sector Development Plan (1982-86)
55.       The highway sector development plan to be supported by the proposed
project, forms part of the Fifth Five-Year Economic and Social Development
Plan (1982-1986) and is described below. The Government of the Republic of
Korea requested Bank Group assistance in the financing of its road investment
program for the latter part of the Fifth Five-Year Plan Period. The proposed
sector project follows five previous projects through which the Bank provided
support for Korean road development. The major objective of the Highway
Sector Project would be to increase economic efficiency .n the highway sector
in Korea. Preappraisal missions visited Korea in April/May 1983 and appraisal
missions visited Korea in May and July 1983. A Staff Appraisal Report No.
4728-KO, dated March 1, 1984, is being distributed separately. Supplementary
data are provided in Annex III. Negotiations were held in Washington from
December 12-15, 1983. The Korean delegation was led by Mr. Kim Jue-Whan,
Director of the Bureau of Public Roads, Ministry of Construction.
56.       Objectives.  The policy directives for the highway sector included
in the plan are: (a) expand and widen expressways which are near some major
urban areas; (b) continue improving and paving national and major provincial
roads and strengthen maintenance; (c) increase and modernize the vehicle fleet
and develop safety measures; (d) improve the efficiency of road transport
operators by expanding terminal facilities and encouraging larger-scale trans-
port firms; and (e) expand and improve the transportation network in remote
areas to reach all villages with 100 or more households. The policy direc-
tives are considered appropriate with the exception of that of encouraging
larger-scale transport firms; this matter has been discussed in paras. 44 and
45.
57.       Overall Scope and Cost of the Plan.  In the highway sector,
passenger transport is expected to grow at 6.4% p.a. from 74 to 93 billion
passenger-km from 1982 to 1986, with an average trip distance of about 8 km.
Freight transport is expected to grow faster at 7.5% p.a. from 5.7 to 8.1 bil-
lion ton-km over th same period, with an average distance of 47 km. Those
official forecasts appear reasonable, and are much lower than earlier faster
growth rates. However, the forecasts apply only to common carriers, buses and
trucks. If the private transport owned by industries, groups and individuals
had been included, the forecasts would have been higher since the private
fleet is growing faster than common carriers as noted earlier (para. 42).
Further, the increase in motorization, particularly of cars, as anticipated in
EPB's forecasts will add to the demand for road facilities. The registered
fleet is expected to double by 1986, of which over 50% would be cars. Whether
these targets can be achieved depends to some extent on Government's policy
for lowering taxes on vehicles and fuel.
58.       The FFYP's overall investment for road transport, comprising public
and private programs, amounts to W 3,720 billion. The plans include expendi-
tures for road works on the national network only, and for new vehicles,
terminals and warehouses. Total capital and recurrent expenditures planned
for the national roads, including expressways, would amount to W 1,285 billion



- 18 -
at 1980 prices, or about $2.1 billion and would be 25% higher than the
W 1,,030 billion spent in 1977-81 during the Fourth Plan period. As a whole,
the FFYP national road investment program appears very reasonable given the
forecasted traffic increases of 40% and 37% in freight ton-km and passenger-
km, respectively, over the period.
59.       The maintenance budget for national roads has been increased and
represents 15% of total expenditures on those roads, compared to 11%, 6% and
2% spent, respectively during the Fourth, Third and Second Plans. This addi-
tional provision of funds for maintenance is in line with Government's recog-
nition of the importance of maintenance. Nevertheless, 57% of all maintenance
expenditures in 1981 by MOC were spent by KHC on its network of 1,245 km,
while 43% was spent on the 12,000 km national road netwo -,  This imbalance
can be explained partly by the higher traffic, higher st-rldard and higher
level of services provided on the KHC expressways, bu. also reflects the free-
dom that KHC has to dispose of funds collected through tolls. The problem of
coordinating the level of expenditures with the actual needs of the various
road networks is discussed in para. 40.
60.       Road Construction Program.  '-OC is proposing to complete about 183
km of new expressways, pave 1,693 km of national and 112 km of provincial
roads, widen some 165.5 km of national roads to 4 lanes, improve about 51 km
of national roads and construct 9.4 km of bridges over the plan period. MOHA
is proposing to improve and pave some 1,270 km of provincial and 1,925 km of
county roads over the plan period. New expressways included in the program
are the 175 km Daegu-Gwangju expressway which is scheduled for completion in
mid-1984 (discussed further in para. 69) and an 8.2 km extension of the Seoul-
Busan expressway to alleviate very heavy congestion near Seoul. KHC's program
comprises about 229.1 km of expressway widening. With the possible exception
of the Jeonju-Gwangju section of the Daejon-Gwangju expressway widening proj-
ect which needs further study (para. 70), the proposed expressway widening
investments are justified on economic grounds.
61.       Maintenance Program.  The amounts proposed for recurrent expendi-
tures are considered adequate for effective maintenance and they reflect KHC's.
existing maintenance program for expressways and MCO's for the national road
system. The need to improve MOC's paved road maintenance system was described
in para. 37. The maintenance program includes the preparation by MOC, with
technical assistance from consultants, of a modern paved road maintenance man-
agement system which, with the use of modern techniques and equipment, would
enable MOC to more effectively and economically plan and implement the reseal-
ing or overlay of the paved national roads. The preparation and introduction
of this new system during 1984 is included in the Action Plan. The proposed
recurrent expenditures for the maintenance of provincial and county roads are
based on the comprehensive maintenance program being implemented by MOHA. The
road system would be maintained in a satisfactory manner and, to this end, the
amounts proposed to be allocated in the budget by KHC, MOC and MOHA for ioad
maintenance expenditures would generally be in line with the recurrent expen-
ditures shown in the highway investment program. Further, with respect to
MOC, by July 30 of each year and with respect to MOHA, by November 15 of each
year, Government would furnish ito the Bank for its review and comment the pro-
posed amounts to be made available for road maintenance to MOC and MOHA for



- 19 -
the following fiscal year (Sections 4.03(a) and 4.04 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
62.        Institutional Capacity.  IJC, with the assistance of consultants,
has prepared and implemented similar road development and improvement plans
during past five-year development plans and in June 1983, completed improve-
ment and paving of 1,221 kms of national and provincial roads under the Fourth
Highway Project (Loan 1640-KO). In view of its past performance and present
state of preparedness, N)C should have no difficulty in meeting the physical
completion targets set.
63.        Even though it became actively involved in highway work only in late
1979, MOHA's performance since then has been impressive. MOHA, with assis-
tance of consultants, is implementing the first phase of the county road
development program for the improvement of 1,006 km of roads under the Provin-
cial and County Roads Project (Ln. 2228-KO) and progress is good to date.
Also under this project, through the comprehensive maintenance program, MOHA
central, provincial and county organizations dealing with roads would be
reorganized and strengthened through the recruitment and training of staff.
Furthermore, during 1981 and 1982, MHA completed the improvement and paving
of about 600 km of provincial and county roads with local financing. The
reorganized and strengthened MORA is expected to be able to achieve its
program for the five-year period.
64.        KHC's program of widening some 229 km of existing expressways over
the program period will present no difficulty with regard to the staff and
facilities needed to organize the preparation and implementation of this work,
but it will be difficult for them to finance the total program; this is
discussed further in para. 66.
65.        Financial Aspects.  The highway investment program under the FFYP is
to be funded from domestic and foreign sources. Foreign financing is provided
essentially by the Asian Development Bank and the World Bank. The financing
requirements to meet the capital expenditures of the actual highway investment
plan (excluding city roads) amounts to W 2,020 billion at 1983 prices (equiva-
lent to $2.6 billion) for the 1982-86 period. In addition, recurrent expen-
ditures concerning the highway sector are expected to amount to W 900 billion.
While the current expenditures are traditionally financed from domestic funds
(either from central or local government budgets) and have always been made
available and even substantially increased to meet requirements for main-
taining the expanding network, capital expenditures have been supported by
foreign funds. For the FFYP's overall capital expenditures, the Government's
domestic resource mobilization wi:Ll amount to W 1,640 billion equivalent or
$2.1 billion, with a foreign participation of W 380 billion or $480 million
equivalent representing 19% of the total financing needs. For the remaining
years under the FFYP which will be covered under the proposed loan (i.e.,
1984-86) the domestic financing requirement will amount to W 930 billion with
a foreign participation of W 360 billion equivalent or $445 million represent-
ing about 27% of the capital cost financing. This proportion is sound and
reflects Korea's ability to cover most of the expenditures from its own
resources. About 70% of the funding needs for the domestic share is covered
by fuel tax revenues which have been increasing steadily mainly due to the



- 20 -
increase of gasoline prices. Although the tax rate has recently been reduced,
it is expected that the income from road user revenues will be maintained at
high levels through increases in consumption and that no shortfall of funds
will arise.
66.       KHC's original plan for expressway widening under the FFYP was
173 nkm, but this was substantially expanded to 229 km. The present program
would require W 250 billion, of which KHC is expected to cover W 106 billion
from its own income. The gap of W 144 billion would require a government sub-
sidy, an increase in toll rates or a combination of both. Due to current
government budgetary restraints, it is unlikely that a subsidy would be
granted. There is also some uncertainty as to the economic justification of
some of the proposed work (para. 68). Some elements of KHC's program may,
therefore, be delayed.
67.       Road user charges have been closely in line with road expendi-
tures. Between 1977 and 1980, revenues reached W 1,306 billion versus expen-
ditures of W 1,369 billion. However, there is a strong imbalance of contribu-
tion among users; commercial vehicles making most damage to the network are
those contributing least. This problem is being addressed under the proposed
project. Taxation is particularly high on private cars, the main taxes being
on acquisition (40-50% of the ex-factory price) and usage (annually about
25-40% of "on the road" value). These amounted to about W 1,200,000 or $1,500
in 1983 and W 1,100,000 or $1,400 respectively for a small car. Taxes on
heavy vehicles are more moderate, amounting to about 10% of total operating
costs for trucks and buses used by common carriers, but are more substantial
for those used by private owners. There is no axle-load tax. In addition,
taxes on gasoline add up to around 150% of the ex-refinery price, while diesel
fuel is taxed at only 20%.
68.       Economic Aspects.  The highway investment program prepared by KHC,
BPR and MOHA under the FFYP period 1982-86 has been reviewed in consultation
with the agencies concerned.  With the exception of the two expressway invest-
ments (one ongoing and the other proposed for 1984 through 1986) which are
discussed further below, the overall investment program adequately reflects
Government development objectives as outlined in the FFYP, the economic prior-
ities in the highway sector, the increased emphasis on improvement of county
roads and the maintenance of the road network. Parts of the program have
already been implemented satisfactorily under the Fourth Highway Project (Loan
1640-XK0) during 1982 and 1983 and are being implemented under the Provincial
and County Roads Project (Loan 2228-KO) and under an ongoing Asian Development
Bank financed project, approved in November 1982.
69.       A two-lane expressway, the East-West 175 km Olympic highway between
Daegu and Gwangju, was added at the end of the Fourth Plan to improve regional
communication and construction started in late 1981 with completion due in
mid-1984.  The road crosses a remote, mountainous and sparsely populated area
that is bypassed by an excellent two-lane expressway via Masan. A feasibility
study by a local consultant indicated that optimal opening year was 1991, but
unquantified benefits in addition to vehicle operating costs and time savings
would justify opening five years earlier. There is considerable doubt about
the additional development benefits that could be generated in this area by an



- 21 -
expressway costing $1.7 million per km ($300 million total) compared to the
improvement of the existing road at one-fourth this cost. However, given the
large sunk costs, the most beneficial course of action at this stage would be
completion of construction on the current schedule.
70.       The widening from 2 to 4 lanes of the 91 km section Jeonju-Gwangju
expressway has been included in the program after the adoption of the FFYP. A
very rough economic analysis was prepared for this section which overestimates
benefits in the earlier years of operation starting in 1986, and no first year
benefit/cost ratio was calculated. Based on traffic projections which would
exceed 9,000 vpd only in 1988 and which do not take into account the ongoing
parallel double-tracking of the railway line between Iri and Gwangju, this
investment also appears premature and the cost of 100 billion Won or $135
million could have yielded higher returns in other high priority projects. It
was agreed with the Bank that a detailed feasibility study would be carried
out by KHC to define the most appropriate timing of this investment. The
study, which started in October 1983, is expected to be completed in six
months and the findings of the feasibility study would be discussed with the
Bank prior to commencement of construction (Section 3.12 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
B. Bank Participation
71.       Description.  The proposed Bank Loan of $230 million would support a
three-year time-slice of the highway investment program for the years 1984
through 1986. The total capital expenditures on ongoing and new commitments
for this period in constant 1983 prices is estimated at about $1,605 million
or $1,440 million excluding taxes and duties, with a foreign exchange compo-
nent of about $805 million. A total of 1,160 man-months of consultants are
estimated to be needed; 960 man-months of domestic consultants and the balance
of 200 man-months of foreign consultants. The average man-month cost of
domestic consultants is estimated at $2,600 including travel and allowances;
the average man-month cost of foreign consultants is estimated at $12,000
including salary and overhead, international travel and local allowances. The
following general a--portionment of the Bank loan would be agreed with
Government, althougn funds could be shifted, with the agreement of Government
and the Bank, from one category to another depending on the pattern of
implementation.



- 22 -
Bank Loan
$ Million        %
BPR
Paving of national and provincial roads
and maintenance equipment                                 120.0          52
MOHA
Pairing of provincial and county roads                      100.0          43
MOHA/!MOC!MOT
Road Safety Program                                           2.0           1
MOER/MOT/MCI
Workshops, seminars, training
Studies & experts for energy
conservation in transport                                   2.0           1
OTHER
1. Study on Impact of Transport
Regulation
2. Study on Freight terminal
3.  Study on Road user charges
4. Preparation of road projects -
feasibility & engineering                              6.0           3
5. Technical Assistance to 13PR for
maintenance management
6.  Supervision of construction
7. Detailed engineering for investments
in Seoul-Busan corridor and
Gyonggi regional transport study         -
Total                                                  230.0          100
72.       Highway Construction.  The improvement of the Korean network is
still a major objective since only 30% of the country's national, provincial
and country roads are paved. 'his is a relatively small proportion compared
to countries with similar or less GNP per capita (Malaysia with GNP per capita
$1,792 has some 86% of its peninsular network paved). During the period from
December 1977 to November 1981, a comprehensive study was carried out by MOC
through consultants (BCEOM, France and 8 domestic consulting firms) financed
under the Third Highway Project (Loan 1203-KO). The roads in the national and
provincial networks were screened to identify feasible road improvements and
technical and economic feasibility studies were done to establish the economic
ranking of the roads proposed for improvement. The study has provided the
basis for MOC's road improvement program over the period 1984 through 1986 and
the expenditures proposed by MOC/BPR for these years would improve about
1,200 km of national roads and 51 km of provincial roads. Of this total some
400 km would be improved under the ADB financed Fifth Highway Project and it
is expected that the improvement of about 362 km would be financed under the
proposed project with the balance of the improvement works for about 440 km



- 23 -
being done with local funds. Detailed designs with cost estimates, tender
documents and updated economic evaluation were also done under the study.
73.       As a first step in dealing with the rapid deterioration of the
county road network, MOHA, under the Fourth Highway Project (Loan 1640-KO),
had consultants undertake a similar three-phased study on the county roads.
Phase 1 consisted also of a preliminary screening of the 12,500 km county road
network based mainly on socio-economic criteria in order to prepare a long-
term improvement plan. Phase II further refined the analysis of about
3,000 km of high priority roads identified in Phase I and identified about
2,000 km of county roads for improvement in a first five-year program.
Phase III of the study prepared the detailed design, tender documents and
updated economic evaluations for 1,006 km of county roads; the improvement of
these roads was included in the Provincial and County Roads Project
(Loan 2228-KO) approved December 30, 1982 and the improvement work is now well
under way. Detailed design, tender documents and the economic evaluation of a
further 1,000 km of road identified in the study is being prepared by
consultants financed under Loan 2228-KO and should be ready by end-1984.
74.       Road Safety.  The road safety component will be identified in a
study being carried out under Loan 2228-KO; the result of this study should be
known by early 1984 and the implementation of the road safety program would
start by June 30, 1984 (Section 3.09 of the draft Loan Agreement).
75.       Economic Evaluation.  The components of MOC's Program that lend
themselves to straight-forward economic analysis, i.e., new construction,
rehabilitation and paving, make up 52% of the Program while those of MOHA's
Program account for another 43%. For MOC's 362 km of roads, all preparation
studies have been completed since June 1983; cost estimates are based on
detailed engineering and benefits, depending on the specific subproject,
consist of savings in vehicle operating costs, maintenance cost savings, and
diverted or generated traffic benefits whenever applicable. Time savings were
not included in the base case but have been calculated as optional informa-
tion. The vehicle operating cost savings were based on the terrain in which a
particular subproject is located, the vehicle composition and traffic growth
as established by a countrywide system of traffic counting stations supplemen-
ted by specific counts as needed. Economic rates of return are very high,
ranging from 23 to 119%, and reflect the high priority of roads selected. For
MOHA's roads, the methodology to evaluate benefits will be the same as for
MOC's roads. The minimum economic return for subprojects to be included in
the Program is established at 12%. The broad geographic distribution of
subprojects ensures that the benefits of road improvements would contribute to
the balanced development objective of the Government.
76.       Estimated Costs.  Contracts for the 362 km of roads would be awarded
in early 1984. The total estimated costs are W 147.5 billion at end 1983
prices or W 317 million per km (or $400,000 equivalent per km) for paving and
W 751 million per km (or $950,000 equivalent per km) for widening. Costs,
including 10% physical contingencies and price contingencies which are the
same for foreign and local costs (1984: 7.5%; 1985: 7% and 6% thereafter),
total W 180 billion or $230 million equivalent. Taxes and duties amount to
about W 18 billion, $23 million, or 10%. The costs are calculated on the



- 24 -
basis of quantities resulting from the detailed design and the unit prices
der:Lved from the recently completed (June 1983) Fourth Highway Project. The
foreign component of the cost estimate is estimated at about $115 million or
about 50% of the total estimated contract amount.
77.       General Sector Conditions - Action Plan.  It has been agreed with
the Government that the various actions with respect to highway investment
planning, energy conservation and transport regulation and pricing would form
the basis of an appropriate Action Plan. Such a plan is attached to a letter
from the Government which outlines its policy in the transport sector.  The
Action Plan and a time schedule for its implementation has been agreed (Pre-
amble, Section 3.01(a) and Sclhedule 2 of the draft Loan Agreement). A copy of
the ministerial letter and Action Plan are attached as Annex IV. Performance
would be judged on the basis of progress of the overall Action Plan through
quarterly reviews of progress and a comprehensive review in November 1984
(Sections 3.05 and 3.07(d) of the draft Loan Agreement). Subproject approval
and disbursements could be stopped if the Bank judged that performance was
inadequate (Section 3.01(d) of the draft Loan Agreement).
78.       Conditions for Subprojects.  Before committing funds for a road
improvement or paving subproject, the Bank would require the following:
(a) completion of detailed engineering, including cost estimates in
foreign and local currencies, contract drawings, specifications and
bid documents acceptable to the Bank;
(b) a feasibility study, acceptable to the Bank, which would show an
economic rate of return for each proposed road subproject of at
least 12%;
(c) an implementation schedule and estimated disbursement schedule
satisfactory to the Bank; and
(d) procurement be by international competitive bidding in accordance
with Bank guidelines.
79.       Procurement.  Road contracts, estimated to cost $440 million, would
be awarded to contractors on tthe basis of international competitive bidding to
prequalified contractors in accordance with Bank guidelines. Similarly, all
equipment to be financed by Bank funds, estimated to cost about $12.0 million,
would be procured in accordance with Bank guidelines. Foreign bids will be
evaluated on the c.i.f. (point of entry) cost, and local bids on the
ex-faztory cost, with a margin of preference of 15%, or the import duties and
taxes, whichever is lower, allowed to domestic manufacturers. All bidding
packages for civil works and equipment would be subject to the Bank's prior
review of procurement documentation.
80.       Implementation.  Several ministries or agencies would implement the
various components of the project.  In MOC, the BPR would be responsible for
carrying out the construction, improvement or paving of national and those
provincial roads financed by MOC.  The Bureau of Planning in the BPR would be
responsible for all studies on these roads as well as the feasibility studies



- 25 -
on the multi-modal projects and the Integrated Planning Study initiated under
the Provincial and County Roads Project. MOHA would be responsible for
carrying out the paving of county and those provincial roads financed directly
by MOHA funds and all the feasibility and engineering studies related to these
subprojects. Based on past experience, no problems are anticipated with the
acquisition of land for the right-of-way of the road improvements under the
proposed project. MOHA would also implement the Road Safety Program through
its affiliated agency, the Road Traffic Safety Association, and would oversee
the computerization of vehicle and driver licensing. All the road maintenance
and other equipment would be procured by the Office of Supply, Republic of
Korea (OSROK), the central government procurement agency. The project is
expected to be completed by December 31, 1987.
81.       EPB would have overall responsibility for ensuring that the Action
Plan related to the sector issues is carried out (Section 3.04 of the draft
Loan Agreement).
82.       As in past projects, domestic and foreign consultants will assist
the executing agencies, MOC and MOHA, in preparing and supervising the con-
struction of the road subprojects.   Domestic and foreign consultants will
also assist MOT and MOC in preparing the studies on various transport sector
issues. All consultants would be selected according to Bank guidelines
(Section 3.02 of the draft Loan Agreement).
83.       Disbursements.  Disbursements from the loan would be made against
the following categories of expenditures:
(a)  50% of the total cost of road improvements;
(b)  100% of the foreign expenditures for directly imported road main-
tenance equipment or 100% of the local expenditures (ex-factory
price) excluding identifiable taxes and duties, of locally manu-
factured equipment;
(c)  100% of the costs of foreign and local consulting services; and
(d)  100% of the costs of the overseas training of staff.
84.       Loan disbursement will be made against unit-priced contracts for
civil works and equipment. Extra works or variation orders to the contracts
which would have the effect of increasing the contract amounts by more than
20% would be approved by the Bank before being issued (Schedule 4, Part C,
para. 3 of the draft Loan Agreement).  Loan disbursements for training
overseas will be made against the actual costs of travel, subsistence and
tuition or training fees.
85.       Auditing, Progress Reporting and Monitoring.  The technical assist-
ance team under the ongoing Provincial and County Road Project will introduce
cost control systems and auditing and accounting procedures at MOHA central
and local levels for all expenditures made for force account work on routine
and periodic maintenance to be done by MOHA forces. MOC, MOHA, MOT, MOER and
MOCI would maintain separate accounts for the project and have these accounts



- 26 -
audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. The auditor's report
wouLd be submitted to the Bank within six months of the close of each finan-
ciaL year (Section 4.02 of the draft Loan Agreement).
86.       Progress reporting requirements for the project including the Action
Plan have been agreed and the first report would be submitted by June 30, 1984
(Section 3.07(d) of the draft Loan Agreement). Further, a Project Completion
Report would be prepared and submitted to the Bank not later than six months
after the Loan Closing Date (Section 3.07(e) of the draft Loan Agreement).
87.       Environmental and Urban Aspects.  The road improvement works will
not cause any significant environmental problem. Government policy is to
follow the existing road aligniments to the extent technically and economically
possible, to minimize the acq-uisition of land, particularly agricultural
land.  Road safety would be enihanced by the implemclvation of the recommend-
ations of the road safety study and by improved alignment and the reduction of
existing hazardous dust and mud by bituminous paving.
88.       Assessment of Risk.  The Action Plan on the policy and institutional
issues in the highway sector is in line with overall government policy as
outlined in the FFYP and is supported by MDF, EPB and MOER. Its implementa-
tion will be expedited by the conditions of effectiveness described above.
The risk of delays in the implementation of the Action Plan would be reduced
by these conditions and by quarterly reviews of progress. Budgetary con-
straints may require reductions in the amounts proposed in the Highway
InveStment Plan. The highway sector approach allows flexibility in the selec-
tion of subprojects and therefore lower priority road projects can be deleted
from the program and the plan revised to reflect highest priority needs.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
89.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Korea and the Bank,
and the Report of the Committeie provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii)
of the Articles of Agreement oiE the Bank are being distributed separately to
the Executive Directors. Special Conditions of the project are listed in
Section III of Annex III.  Addiitional conditions of effectiveness include:
(i) implementation of a plan for unscheduled passenger transport services in
selected remote rural areas; and (ii) hiring of consultants for the study on
the economic impact of road transport regulations and for the study on road
user charges (Section 6.01 of the draft Loan Agreement).
90.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.



- 27 -
PART VI -- RECOMMENDATIONS
91.        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
by: Ernest Stern
Attachments
March 1, 1984
Washington, D.C.



-  28  -                                           PAGE 1
KOREA, REPUBLIC OF      - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
KOREA, REPUBL IC OF                    REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                       (MOST RECENT ESTIMATF) lb
___         lb  RECENT            MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE TNCCIME
1960'-b     1970/  ESTDIATE/          ASIA & PACIFIC        LAT. AMERICA & CARIB
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM)
TOTAL                                 98.5        98.5         98.5
AGRICULTURAL                          21.4        23.2        22.4
GNP PERt CAPITA (0S$)                   180.0       420.0      1700.0              1028.6                    2088.2
ENERGY CONSUM4PTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       208.0       723.0      1563.0               792.8                    1407.6
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPrLATION,MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)  25012.0       32241.0     38880.0
URBAN POPULATION (2 OF TOTAL)         27.7        40.7        55.9                32.9                      65.9
POPtLATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILL)                              52.2
SI'ATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                               73.8
YEAR STATIONARY POP. REACHED                                2095
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. K.M.                       254.0       327.4       387.9               260.7                      35.6
PER SQ. KM. AGRI. LAND            1168.8      1387.3      1702.2              1696.5                      93.2
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (2)
0-14 YRS                           42.9        42.1        33.7                39.4                      40.1
15-64 YRS                           53.7        54.6        62.3                57.2                      55.8
65 AND ABOVE                         3.3         3.3         4.0                 3.3                       4.1
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                2.1         2.5          1.7                2.3                       2.3
URBAN                                4.7         6.4         4.6                 3.9                       3.7
CR1DE: BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)         42.7        30.3        24.0                31.3                      31.5
CRUD0: DKATH RATE (PER THOUS)         13.4         9.1          6.9                9.6                       8.1
GROSES REPRODUCTION RATE               2.7         2.1         1.4                 2.0                       2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUS)             ..       671.0       686.0/c
USERS (X OF MARRIED WOMEN)            ..        32.0        55.0                46.6
POOD ANE NUrRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71=100)                         89.0        99.0       124.0               125.2                     113.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (Y OF REQUIREMENTS)        97.0       107.0       128.0               114.2                     111.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            57.0        63.0        82.0                57.9                      67.9
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE           7.0         8.0        14.0/d              14.1                      34.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE            8.6         4.0         2.0                 7.6                       5.3
HEtALTH
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)         54.4        60.3         66.1               60.2                      64.6
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER THOUS)         78.3        50.1        33.1                68.1                      62.6
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (%POP)
TOTAL                               12.1        58.0        71.0                37.1                      64.8
URBAN                               18.6        84.0        85.0                54.8                      77.8
RLURL                                9.5        38.0         54.9               26.4                      44.3
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(I OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..        25.0        64.0/e              41.4                      54.6
URBAN                                 ..        59.0        80.0o7              47.5                      69.8
RURAL                                 ..          ..        50.o7-              33.4                      29.8
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           3540.0       2240.0      1690.0              7771.9                    1776.0
POP. PER HiURSING PERSON            3250.0/f,h  1790.0/h     380.0              2462.6                    1012.2
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             2510.0      1950.0       640.O./g           1047.2                     477.0
URBAN                             1290.0/f    1100.0       750.O/g             651.1                     667.5
RURA.                                 ..          ..           ..             2591.9                    1921.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..        14.9           *-               27.0                      27.2
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAI                               5.6         5.0         4.5
URBAN                                5.4          ..
RURALI                               5.6          ..
AVERAGE: NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAI                                2.5         2.3         2.0/e
URBAN                                2.8         2.7         2.17;.
RURAL                                2.4         2.2         2.o0T.
ACCESS TO ELECT. (7 OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               28.4        49.9
URBAN                               67.3        92.4           ..                 .
RtRAL                               12.4        29.9        64.9/d
--- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - -- - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -._-- -_ _-- -_ - - - -- - --_-_ __- -_-_ _- _ _-_-_- _ _ _-



-  29  -                                                 PAGE 2
KOREA, REPUBLIC OF      - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
KOREA. REPUBLIC OF                     REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) Ia
YOST                       (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
RECENT            MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCCME
196G1/      1970/   ESTIMAT8-/b        ASIA & PACIFIC       LAT. AMERICA & CARIB
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:   TOTAL                    94.0       103.0        107.0              101.2                     105.0
MALE                    99.0        104.0       108.0               106.0                     106.3
FEtlALF                 89.0        103.0       105.0                97.5                     103.6
SECONDARY: TOTAL                    27.0        42.0        85.0                44.9                      40.0
MALE                     38.0        50.0        89.0                50.0                      38.6
FEMALE                  14.0         32.0        80.0                44.6                      41.2
VOCATIONAL (% OF SECONDARY)           14.2        14.3         18.6               18.5                      34.0
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             58.0        57.0        46.0                32.7                      30.7
SECONDARY                           34.0        37.0         39.0               23.4                      16.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (%)               70.6        87.6         93.0/i             72.9                      79.5
CONSDUtPT tON
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP            0.5         1.9          6.2                9.7                      45.6
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP          31.2       124.4       392.7               113.7                     228.2
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP              0.3        13.0        164.4               50.1                     108.3
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION              68.1       136.3        172.8               54.0                      64.1
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA        4.1         5.2          1.7                3.4                       2.9
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)           8307.0     11285.0      15064.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    26.1        32.7         32.5               33.6                      24.8
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               66.0        50.0         34.0               50.9                      31.3
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   9.0        17.0        29.0                19.2                      23.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               33.2        35.0         38.7               38.6                      31.3
MALE                                49.5        46.8         51.9               50.7                      49.8
FEMALE                              17.2        23.0        25.4                26.6                      14.8
ECONOMIC DEPEIDENCY RATIO             1.4         L.3          1.0                1.1                       1.4
INCOtE DISTRIBtlTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5Y OF HOUSEHOLDS               ,        17.1         16.1/g             22.2
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS             ..        44.5        45.37g              48.0
LOWEST 20X OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..         7.1          5.7Tgh              6.4
LOWEST 40% OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..        17.7         16.9/g             15.5
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..       320.0/i            194.5                     289.8
RURAL                                 ..          ..       270.07T             155.0                     184.5
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..        370.0/i            178.0                     519.8
RURAL                                 ..          ..       310.0/i             164.8                     372.1
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (%)
URBAN                                 ..          ..         18.0/i             24.4
RURAL                                 . ..                  110/it              41.1
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N 0 T I S
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries amorg the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted, "Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and data for "Most Recent Estimate" between 1979 and 1981.
/c  1975; /d 1977; Ie 1975; /f 1962; /gL 1976; /h Registered, not all practicing in the country; /i 1978.
May 1983



ANNEX I
-  30k  -                                                                             tate 3
DhFINITIOhNS_h _SOCIAL INDICATORS
Notes:  A chooghshe dat  are dra-   fr- to-re  generablly jodged the   otatol  tah ie  ndrlble,  it obocid al to bo tote.d thatchey nay  -at be    antoal
coepe ablebecooe of  he tack at nndardi-ed detfittoina  and coneptace   y dIfrn                   lntisi   o tenIg the data.  The dat   r,  oehteo,cattt
desoine o-det  It -.gnitode, ihedlo-t  trad           M o  cfe-t-itee certin  -oJ.r diffteooc-  N- -tneccncioa_
ThM.   eecogop   r  (ttesm  oocte  droo ..p at the onbJe-                     ce    and (2) a edostey groay alto  --eobt htghe.aae-aga  .oose .-n  the  oo-r  gro...p at the
sojecccoe   (soptfo  'tgb  tcoe'lit  ooct    ro    cr  "triddietaom   Notch Atetoa aed Ipiddle 9lath  iteboa-  bacoote If ac-rate aoi'ctst
aIfIt-o.thae eee    rcaototeatoe    r  popotehlott -aighcd orith-etio  meant fo  eacbh indico co  acd acoc  only atm   mao Ityo  the eccItoj Jin
grocp to  dote taI ca  inichoe   fns  b   oneog   fonnrt ostth  lcd bar.e  deymada on the  -citbititop of onto and h, act ant.tote, coo to  moth
eneri td ho retorindaerae  ofon  indicator to another.  :bseaora-                  ooroly c-efot in coerantod  rh  casf one to,di-at-  at a tIne  -n   theco_try end
ARIA (:hb-oad oe.kn.t                                                                                   orotaiorPerfps bi-ta- Pfpylti-o  dicided by cnbor PI rear tic ac
IernL - Tort-cI ac  ore a cnp,tisiP  toed area ad iloo.d  -a-ar; 196t,                                 5F11'faoHFq_Thcaf ied     Iro  a ordioat ochont as  -ct-raiy tene.
ant .1  1980 das.Pptsioptlrso    ssc   Pcpokac coo dhntdnd by ocobsa  ci p tchirt
daio Ecrt-h thene o  agicatt P oc--nned se-poracir  tprsan  y                                   oeadyot  goct   uss  as-tt-or   ....e      pras ro  name  and
19:10  ad 198C d.l..                                                             .~~~~~~~~~~~urbn,an eceol da,icided byI choir 'eipetc ase   fhipetbd
the P1E. CAPITA (USt) - thy yet ca pita  aiae  at         -reo     okecI perce                            - cetoie.l  Io public and pli-ac  geneat ard ape-aineid bapical and
c     bycstdh   -ae   sesin  eho,d asW. anid hcck Aaria  7S9-t  batt'Ihat I1UItohicocntna    fat aisrsscb  Ihanb                                          t  tettornid  tct fed
1960, 1970  and 1981 data.                                                                             by at _eas   coy picysec        E--Ioict tobmn-  p-ordilog peti-iptity ca.nd tat
are, 000 -ectdad.  bRat.  hoopitats,   --acr, icciade bhatabhad
ENERGY CftNShttTidN_ PERo  alTfA - aIton1 app.Iareas     .. onuptc- of Pccnneca ,etct o  eraI                           _   not p-raosly stffed by a ph yloton  that byb  a ed loot
ycinsrp enery (cool andfigoite, petoteca, ncscat tas and hdra-, noetet                    aaoio-arc  torte,dnidift,,ast.t)  hcoPofferliniII         ent a--aoodoP..nd ae
ad -tah-1na  etea-icity) In Iearon  ofPcat  qiat                   e  ephia                           pr.. idl c i.inchd rana  of  edic- tcI -isits.-  FPor a.et.in icat-  poryosec
I9he,  tP7, ad i98h data.                                                                              urban h-opioo c            WtoeIt  prc"iroi"1/9lonra  hasp1ital , and cara
hooisao,tuct o  crathop teaoad  ndtcal and nateroityc..nsees.
rhOft.Atthh Oc  VtTALn bTAClTittC                                                                         .prale   otpti   r  t-c udod -oip and. nr too.
Toa   aaita,Pid-Yeor (tihoosoado) - Is of Joip i; 1960, 1970, aed i981                     udalnosprtcyta ni-etocbeoidisca    cedahre
daca.                                                                                                frcOnict   ti,dtd bythochrfbes
Irbar    PL.c P               Ieito   preen  total  - tact. aIf arboc to totat    cattt
dllerent11 def1iritt-n  of orban area  say of faccc...p-ritin   of data                               NGtic
b_hI        h 16, 197t, nod t98i data.                                                   Inr  Pt ht-  i ItooElhoid   oso  ythccatt-ccI,  rbn,ad e-arl
PopoI.isni   Pr-j-tc...                                                                                -     ontl   not- fatop ofi iodicact  ohc sham tua                                ht
Papaacta  in  ear  hlh- Curran  popatonion pr-jec-sc-ar  bond at1980                           n   c I t   ntoorls A'l     hc  d         oIe   a   rny  -ci ce itrLaded it
pua  ryIpanson by age An  seI oIhm    astc d litrtItip                                          ho tonoetod taI.,       lmclpcpos
rae,PI(aro   p-aeo    a  sealtiy race  _nepts_  f1  h",c                                    Iurt  acbt er.to''es-tta,abr  ahd rural  laceat  oc Ia
leato- ons-ing tile  -p-chanPy as birth iorre-ing  ioh on- y'5  een  persona per   o ...                                     alt    har, ndteorat occpied  c....a brat
saahgdeci,  i 1~leetliliy aecedio,g to inco... _eust and yos  taity                         Icrst   tcrct   preto   altg)-tst   ro,nd ruralI
p  rig peeoeI ee        -hIa   eacrery to11I then assgndPn  of ttcnn nIne                       Cnonenti-oa  dun Ilingsi1 ale   at . ercicy ic licing Icartar   as Pette-ag
o,:hhocnsofaaratnysodfes t ip  enIsad  Icr p-jac sic: p.ccpen..nttt,atr o.aa  dc  ig   n  aiaty
Stahcayppsic -toasohoe 'Ipapatsine  there to on grons
soce  th  bIeN aei  ecio   h  a  s   as  sdaase1eyltfo
sccsootsoeeen       ls  sohae   oyotnfci  trat                                                &ac    orlaelcc
dIl.e  tosetpaeen   ae   fcl  netceondd-tc  roes, ae:rttrocoi-ca,ntardsst-  oatrt,nteodfal
Peit   I the popotac,ia  in the pear 200t, and thel rate af deettor cc                           ye1ar  c   adjuo-ad fot differn-      enI    sc  yr5h  -   each eacy   irn1Po
f_rttthtp _asaaesptoceaa_           _on 'Ioris   ti  onoraI                                                                         drtocetneenyecn   I                      co
hear  -toi-nor  p.,.tati.n  is reached- The ybae ate-  anoniccry                                       0,I tar  sea  .puoil  are    oo  alcoa one of iai  scoo  ate
pptao tine alit bero-cted.                                                                  borrysht-toa,ctanfeae- ep rlsoh oce;  --da- or
Par on Ia  -hd-y-ar papatnio   arauae   itna lil-               t ~   h-rtorso  oi                     po-ldes g-or-a, cc        Pna, o  teaher  rI-to   tn-          r fan  fo
t60 ctlth, 1970,  pe,98   at.yptlu'ca-lty oh 12 :0 17 year  of a get rotten yadndoc  Pocc  art
ac1y; 1960, i97f and i980 dat..                                                                         -1- 1- cnolcaecotectoretnfecoarfoaa-oai-sicug
ceeclja rica lAm herciaura 9pret      htea(-iyeasI   akn-ag   fit-                                      taic iye Inrto     Oosii,o   es   egaontraaat  oeed
ha yert,sd rfie   6   et   n                     nPeecnnamo  oI aId-yea                              ne tlycra  doaae In f ancardarytoeecic
p.patoti.bn  1609, 197f,  ned :981 dt.PIyttatrrtc14oe,adscedr       oatouet  eettdt
pear poycleoIIn foe L9ht-6t, 196f-7t, and 1970-81.                                                   -oapndcog  _enel.
popata i-r  foe t9Nt0ht, t 960-70, and t97ft-8f.                                                     a P  -e-anls of e I             .adult  pytic ac  gry Id   y-ar  cod .o-r.
o,dn hinch cars (los  ohI..ardf - ocoo  tIne holh, 10-  tt-asAt of aid-
year population; 1960, 1970, cod t98  daha                                                       tt-OfOPhtOO
trade  laht tote (per thansad) - Mean   dsorha per thccoard of old-yer-asnae  Corn( trsrhct-nd Ien                                            o) -   IPseger coca  -pnyri-  -nI-
196th 0a th, i97l   - ad 1991li,rt8ete   os   hncitepccs   ntflahtcs
tee sroateepraacsio peIod if sbepelocaprao  altI.P-a'eci fil                               had oOr-     cr   prAaosn   ncarc        ll  ypy   o f e-ci-e  fPot radio
feet it ty'rats  conly ft i-y-aaoroeotdiog in 196hl, th9  , ad                                       b-ndtasa        gnea  pybhiIc yet c-anodof  poyco ice t nidotan
pragan                                                                                            TItctaat.toaeyp'~nf                            Tt'cieoferacse
yeastyl Plar-iog -U-doc   t          Peo Ieo  naretd o....   -P yeccegr cP, sora                        era  'lo    eecocdyytno                       ncoe    old          TI  ccOt
nane  l e ah-te--tg age (15-t4 roa-    h   o   it-coc    cicnt                                   .:co  orccoIo   PI   r,a         tee
scgcecarntIssteaIdcfugoetcttrhor   e-.dieltadoecotioneg.                                           tci__ to-' Itro-nh- cua.ttca-cdcnsnn.nroo                                n Ifeu
cccfneat -sn:   a a   -eortded.  4g~,-rgt    -rdnceti-ofraehnc--y io                                 rciteo
h    -toco -olno   -ctege penAce  peter            196h1; h-h5, t97t, ao  1991
data.a                                                                                            Ladle ethIc: -ti"I.  a-    ~-(1-il) E-iIy-1Ii-ldg  l
day.   -Inatbte n-pli-t coope o   aescpoac  n,lpr    et-aca5feo   l  age.lIiclc   nncoocacts   r   o
erprn, ned chognicsnck    NoIll               te  e-Inde onloat feed, needo,                         -cparate; i9bt, 1971 and I981 dn-.
fuacttia ned h  Pon  pcoe-io1, and lo-c  ia dI_srntusan_i_ntetpeco(    fr belabrto    ao pa-ontge of tota  lahot force
teq,il-esee  oe   at -teared by FAD based on physiotastoac neds fo   notj&ic,0e(ctei      ah r fo.'cn I to -aring, forso-ore  hanoing nod
an, hounetct  teent  196-hi                        P-fanl9h   aa,                          and~ ,7 -tcrcir   uerallu o19ann81Phtltoc   ac                                            9r
Pe rrtnccpl o    roet  grnomedrt-  rteIn   i-dn  cc pnr- `aylsa1911  co  b   coca
ne   upyoffo    e  op        esyt  of- food to 20eon   as- If ec                              r ci-alc' hcedyecen)-  cl, rol,.no, toan-aekcyahc   o
pusgrti,o   hc   f       asct   aata    eei.ma                                               91  1911, adtitt1 dot.  Th-ne ar  hbard        liapacs t,elptatca
otnednda amtoaarh"o.,        of 75 gros  of  _et  rost  an  l  groa                            tttchgg'eorc                   eftn"P poptai-, and tong ene tred.A
-  olanceatecnceirosaaaoeeage  faenhenocta,crcrnsedtyekfornhe                                    Peces"toaocuacn  lrooraiintactncrenn~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hl  f
-hic, 9nelf food in-ay; 1961-kb, 1971 and flIt dots.                                               tool   lae'dcf)atoh c    or  oputarlo-  -cer te and 65 and nos  to
yet oPtt rns    oc"Il       rey. ra.. ia and,pate.e-renantei  ccpptY c  food                           ohs sctttahoe P  tcreo.
derio,d  IrI. anrtaad c,,l-en   cgroa. ,bc day; 1961-h5, 1297  and 1911
'a' Poal-yas,ohtdceotoshi.agn  g-p;PoI_at _ deottc clg                                               yeoe  tcnrtacc,crn    frcc   ad  PocssA0 rrc
conrols lsa   entd  dan  IfeI saIcs ; 1961, t9lC and  988  dat.                              tcnool
healTh                                                                                               POIttRTl 1oct1 Gbaum
lIen tleesacc at trth tyears)- unaage nobor  f rear  of tafo                                   "I'llegTh   Poinocaast "Io are onrpappcelcn    eror   f pocn    nt,   ad
at tilte;  961, 191adt8tdr.scldheocareocdIthcc id                                                                                              I Icemai-
yea  ofage pschsn   Ice  nirthe;  960, 1971 dod ilfi dntn.                                         Ibooefre             rantclI   lnacn   se   nn   htch aniei
-bacba  of  -tapt  (naIl  -rn,ad caat   ith    eoc abtertnaa-fe                                      a ff.edacte
-nsar-pyly (lactadla  treatd sue are s                 -ero -utratd nu                              slae   ea ieeoeolcn   notIt   ar   hn)-rc    o   ca 
_cttrreleaneretaeafterropcecpnctttn.    tocPersonal  c                                                            tfslhsrou-sly.  trb-ol-leita delcrd  ftnosh               -aea
franahoacooybnrcendcrndanttngnithlrras1-      actnI   cesh ofcea -nt-ma1                          drcedjtt-cttathlhtnteec-arnftocosehaII _Ipaatc                t-ara
occes- to  lotha I-ooa1     pcosa  poyatpins    mat, onha:I.   and                
rural'-Ncrheeofpn-y1efIItII,nrt, sc...tal(..r.edcy .a.rena
dl,pn-tl an,ereeaaso  theita -ep-i-e parch  lore   F-cac       yaa
soy trlad   shecattcetn  and d i,ponat, silh  cc ai,lt.u acIrae' o                                                                   cno cd bn-laI Dana lnicnsnr
hana  --minad  a o-a  tee by -anne-b-re  sya-ce  or :hr Ioa  I pie,crct  Matmlt ac"d P-cjcmii-s heyattrr,.t
petie:l aco niislar ieo-aIattoo-                                                                                                                          nap 1969



ANNEX I
Population:  39,331 (mid-1982, thousands)                                                                                          Page 4 of 5
GNP Per Capita:  US$1,679 (1982)                                        - 31-
KOREA - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Amount
(million US$ at                         Annual growth rates (%) at constant prLces
current prices)                                 Actual                                    Projected
Indicator                                      1982 /a               1978       1979       1980        1981       1982                  1988
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product                       68,418               11.3         7.1       -3.5        7.1         5.3                  7.5
Agriculture                                11,185               -4.0         6.7      -22.0       22.0         3.8                  4.0
Industry                                   26,747               20.8        8.4       -0.1         5.3        6.1                   8.5
Services                                   30,486               11.0        6.0        -2.4        3.6        4.8                   8.0
Consumption                                  51,487                11.0        7.4       -1.0        3.7         3.6                   6.7
Gross investment                             17,514               35.9        17.5      -24.4        5.0         0.1                   7.5
Exports of GNFS                              26,575                17.5       -3.6        9.9       17.2         4.6                   9.5
Imports of GNFS                              27,215               29.1         8.6       -7.7        8.5       -0.1                   8.E
Gross national savings                       14,531               14.1         3.7      -17.7        3.0        18.2                  9.4
PRICES
GDP deflator (1975 = 100)                                        164.6       197.4      246.7      286.2      309.1                 464.1
Exchange rate (US$1 =)                                           484.0      484.0       607.6      681.0      731.1
Export price index (1975 = 100)                                  135.4       161.8      170.3      174.5      167.1                 238.7
Import price index (1975 = 100)                                  105.8       129.2      163.9      171.7      158.4                 233.3
Terms of trade index (1975 = 100)                                128.0       125.2      103.9      101.6      105.5                 102.3
Share of GDP at market prices (%)                         Average annual increase (%)
(at current prices)                                    (at constant prices)
1960     1970     1975     1980     1985    1990       1960-70   1970-75   1975-80   1980-85    1985-90
Gross domestic product              100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0               8.6        9.8        8.2        7.0         7.5
Agriculture                        36.7     26.9    24.5      16.5     15.9     12.4         4.3         4.9       -1.2        7.3        4.0
Industry                           20.1    29.5    33.8    41.3    44.4    49.2             17.4        15.3       13.5        8.5        8.4
Services                           43.2    43.6    41.7    42.3    39.7    38.3              8.1         7.7        7.6        6.7        7.7
Consumption                        85.3    83.0    80.1       76.4    65.7    58.1           6.7         7.8        7.1        5.7        7.0
Gross investment                   11.0    26.9    29.0    30.2    33.2    33.8             23.6        11.2       14.6        6.0        7.5
Exports of GNFS                     3.4    14.3    27.6    35.7    43.7    49.6             29.3       25.4        16.1        9.8        9.5
Imports of GNFS                    12.8    24.1    36.3    42.7    42.6    43.9             20.2        15.8       17.0        6.8        8.9
Gross national savings              8.0     19.5    20.6    21.7        -        -          17.2        14.6        9.0       12.7        9.2
As % of GDP                        Labor Force in 1980              Millions      (%)
1960       1970       1975        1980
PUBLIC FINANCE                                                                                  Agriculture                      4.7        32.2
Current revenues                            18.5       17.8       17.9        19.9           Industry                          3.9       27.1
Current expenditures                        14.3       13.1       15.4        15.6           Services                          5.1       35.5
Current surplus                              4.2        4.7        2.5         4.3           Unemployed                        0.7        5.2
Capital expenditure                          3.4        6.4        6.4         5.9
Foreign financing                            ...        1.0         1.3        1.0                Total Labor Force           14.5      100.0
1960-70           1970-75            1975-80            19_0-85            1985-90
OTHER INDICATORS
Annual GNP growth rate (%)                                     8.7               9.0                7.9                7.0                7.6
Annual GNP per capita growth rate (%)                          5.9               6.9                5.2                5.5                6.1
Annual energy consumption growth rate (%)                     14.2               9.6                8.7                5.7                6.0
ICOR                                                           1.9               2.7                5.4                4.2                4.2
Marginal savings rate                                          0.3               0.3                0.3                0.3                0.3
Import elasticity                                              2.2               1.6                2.0                1.2                 1.2
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
Februarv 1984



ANNEX I
- 32 -                                              Page 5 of 5
Population: 39,331 (mid-1982, thousands)
GNP Per Capita: US$1,679 (1982)
KOREA - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(tmillion US$ at current prices)
Indicator                                                                Actual                                Projected
1970    1975    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982                1988
BAL.ANCE OF PAYMENTS
Lxports of goods and services                1,379   5,909  17,124  19,523  22,587  27,552  28,500              70,972
Of which: merchandise f.o.b.                 882   5,028  12,678  14,694  17,220  20,938  20,961              52,145
Imports of goods and services                2,180   7,992  18,651  24,115  28,360  32,476  31,500              74,003
Of which: merchandise f.o.b.               1,804   6,671  14,436  19,266  21,604  24,337  23,361              58,616
Net transfers                                  178      225      467     439      449      506      473            500
Current account balance                       -623  -1,858  -1,060  -4,153  -5,325  -4,418  -2,546              -2,531
(% of GNP)                                   (-7.2)  (-9.2)  (-2.2)  (-7.1)  (-9.3)  (-7.4)  (-3.9)              (-1.6)
Direct investment                               66       53       61       17      -5       59      100            250
MLT loans (net)                                242   1,252   2,216   2,945   2,096   4,267   2,051               2,294
ufficial                                     147     486      663      852      689   1,337      880             635
Private                                       95      765   1,552   2,093   1,408   2,929   1,171              1,659
Other capital (incl. errors & omissions)   372          929    -510   2,090   3,770        367      484          1,643
Change in reserves                             -57    -376    -707    -898    -536    -275         -98          -1,657
International reserves (gross)                 606   2,012   5,405   6,303   6,839   7,114   7,212              14,387
Reserves as months imports                     3.3      3.0     3.5      3.1      2.9      2.6      2.7            2.3
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
Gross disbursements
Official grants                                -       -        -        -        -        -      50
Concessional loans                           123     123      184      193      138      159     148
DAC                                        122     108      167      173      121      158     148
OPEC                                         -       -       13       20       17        1       -
IDA                                          1      14        3        -        -       -        -
Other                                        -        1       -        -        -       -        -
Non-concessional loans                       317   1,511   3,729   4,448   3,655   4,779   3,937
Official export credits                     18     151      219      341      606     844      532
IBRD                                         7     187      321      426      254     306      438
Other multilateral                           5      87       89       91       90      104     116
Private                                   287   1,083   3,101   3,591   2,705   3,525   2,851
Medium- and Long-Term Debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed            1,797   5,540  11,937  14,553  16,274  19,964  22,006
Official                                  613   2,657   5,016   5,667   6,498   7,702   8,572
Private                                 1,185   2,883   6,921   8,886   9,776  12,263  13,433
undisbursed                                 902   1,679   6,294   5,337   7,072   5,996   5,324
Debt Service on MLT Loans
Total service payments                       268     667   1,825   2,578   2,762   3,597   4,199
Interest                                  70      283      657      890   1,310   1,777   2,164
Payments as % exports                       19.4    11.3    10.7    13.2    12.2    13.0    14.5
Short-Term Debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed               ...   2,409   3,575   6,279  10,047  13,658  14,100
[nterest payments                            ...     ...      236      377      907   1,810   1,528
[nterest as % exports                        ...     ...      1.4      1.9      4.0     6.7      5.3
Average Interest Rate on New Loans (%)
Official                                     4.5     7.9      7.4      7.6      7.5      8.4     8.0
P'rivate                                     7.1     9.3      9.7    11.4    14.0    13.6    13.7
Average Maturity of New Loans (years)
Official                                    28.0    19.3    19.6    16.8    19.6    15.3    15.5
Private                                     10.9     5.7    10.9    10.7    11.2    13.1         8.1
As % of debt outstanding
at end of most recent
year (1982)
Matutity structure of debt outstanding
Maturities due within  5 years                             61
Maturities due within 10 years                            103
,nterest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                              9
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
Februarv 19B4



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2 pages
KoREA
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA /a
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of September 30, 1983) /b
Loan or                                                                                      Amount ($ million)
Credit        Calendar                                                                      (less cancellations)
Number          Year       Borrower                 Purpose                          Bank    TW    IDA   Undisbursed
Thirty-eight loans and eight credits fully disbursed                                2,028.98  40.00 106.81
1319          1976    ADC                     Irrigation                               29.0                       2.59
1364          1977    ADC                     Irrigation                               95.0                      16.84
1401          1977    Republic of Korea       Ports II                                 67.0                       8.87
1474          1977    Republic of Korea       Vocational Training                      23.0                       0.32
1503          1978    ADC                     Agriculture/Irrigation                   36.0                      16.74
1530          1978    Republic of Korea       Rural Infrastructure II                  95.0                       7.04
1640          1978    Republic of Korea       Highways IV                             143.0                       2.68
1666          1979    Republic of Korea       Chungju Multipurpose                    125.0                      36.19
1676          1979    Republic of Korea       Electronics Technology                   29.0                       9.02
1758          1979    Republic of Korea       Second Gwangju Regional                  65.0                      35.90
1774          1979    Republic of Korea       Population I                             30.0                      25.86
1788          1979    Korea Electric Co.    Power                                     115.0                      19.64
1800          1980    Republic of Korea       Education V                             100.0                      29.75
1829          1980    CNB I                   Dev. Finance Co.                         30.0                       0.53
1836          1980    Republic of Korea       Railway VII                              94.0                       6.78
1851          1980    AFDC                    Agriculture II                           50.0                      12.98
1932          1981    KLTCB VIII              Div. Finance Co.                         90.0                      20.02
1933          1981    KDB IV                  Div. Finance Co.                        100.0                       4.53
1974          1981    Republic of Korea       Third Agriculture Credit                 50.0                      12.34
1980          1981    Republic of Korea       Nat. Urban Land & Housing                90.0                      72.82
2004          1981    SMIB IV                 Dev. Finance Co.                         60.0                      34.64
2072          1982    Republic of Korea       Water Supply                             90.0                      67.05
2111          1982    Republic of Korea       Agricultural Marketing                   50.0                      38.27
2112          1982    KTDC                    Technology Development                   50.0                      37.25
2144          1982    CNB                     DFC                                      30.0                      28.35
2215          1982    Republic of Korea       Machinery Industry                       70.0                      69.08
2216          1982    Republic of Korea       Nat. Urban Land and Housing             100.0                      97.40
2228          1982    Republic of Korea       Provincial and County Roads             125.0                     124.64
2267          1983    Republic of Korea       Coal and Cement Distribution            122.0                     121.70
2309          1983    Republic of Korea       Industrial Finance                      255.0                     255.00
Total                                                                 4,436.98  40.00 106.81  1,214.82
of which has been repaid                                              516.45   1.42   5.09
Total now outs  nding                                                 3,920.53  38.58 101.72
Amount sold                     8.83
of which has been repaid    8.83                                         -       -      -
Total now held by Bank and IDA
(prior to exchange adjustment)                                      3,920.53  38.58 101.72
Total undisbursed                                                     1 214.82    -       -    1,214.82
/a   The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on all Bank/IDA-financed
projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on
April 30 and October 31.
/b Loan Jio. 2350 (Second Water Supply Project - Nagdong) for $78.5 Million and Loan No. 2354 (Second Structural
Adjustment Loan) for $300 million are not reflected in totals below. Including these two loans, the total
outstanding and undisbursed amounts in $ million are $4,299.03 and $1,593.32 respectively.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2 pages
B. Statement of IFC Investments (as of September 30, 1983)
Fiscal                                                           Amount ($ million)
Year       Obligor                 Types of Business            Loan  Equity  Total
1968    KDFC                        Development Financing          -      0.7    0.7
1969    Honam Silk Co.              Textiles                       1.4    0.3    1.7
1970    Atlas Paper                 Pulp and paper                 4.5    0.5    5.0/a
1971    Korea Investment
Finance Corp.            Capital Market Development   -        0.7    0.7
1974    KDFC                        Development Financing           -     0.4    0.4
1974    Korea Investment
Finance Corp.            Capital Market Development   -        0.3    0.3
1975    Gold Star & Co., Ltd.    Electronic Products             16.0    1.3   17.3
1975    Korea Securities
Finance Corp.            Capital Market Development  5.0    0.6    5.6
1975    Tong Yang Nylon
Company, Ltd.            Synthetic Fibers               F 9    2.1    9.0
1975    Hae Un Dae Develop-
ment Company, Ltd.       Tourism                        2.8    0.7    3.5
1976    Korea Investment
Finance Corp.            Capital Market Development   -        0.4    0.4
1976    Chonju Paper Mfg. Co.    Paper                            5.0    0.5    5.5
1976    Korea Zinc. Co., Ltd.    Zinc                            15.0    4.0   19.0
1976    KDFC                        Development Financing        17.8      -    17.8
1976    Gold Star & Co., Ltd.    Electronic Products             10.0    0.4   10.4
1977    Gold Star & Co., Ltd.    Electronic Products               -      0.2    0.2
1977    KDFC                       Development Financing           -      0.3    0.3
1977    Korea Securities
Finance Corp.            Capital Market                  -     0.5    0.5
1977    Korea Development
Leasing Corp.            Capital Market                15.0    0.4   15.4
1978    KDFC                        Development Financing          -      1.1    1.1
1979    Gold Star & Co., Ltd.    Electronic Products               -      1.7    1.7
1979    KIFC                        Capital Market                 -      0.6    0.6
1979    Korea Development
Leasing Corp.                                            -     0.2    0.2
1979    Gold Star & Co., Ltd.    Electronic Products               -      1.5    1.5
1980    Gold Star & Co., Ltd.    Electronic Products               -      1.8    1.8
1980    Korea Investment
Finance Corp.            Capital Market                  -     0.6    0.6
1980/   Korea Securities
82/84    Finance Corp.                                            -      2.3    2.3
1980    KDFC                       Development Financing           -      2.2    2.2
1981   Taihan Bulk Terminal         Grain Port Terminal           7.0    2.5    9.5
Co., Ltd.
1982   KIFC                         Capital Market                 -      0.6    0.6
1982   K-TAC (Korea Technology
Advancement Corp.)        Research & Development          -     0.6    0.6
1983    KDIC                       Money & Capital Mkt.            -      0.9    0.9
Total gross commitment                                  106.4   30.9  137.3
lesF cancellations, terminations,
rep%yment and sales                                   87.1    4.6   91.7
Total commitments now held by IFC                        19.3   26.3   45.6
TOTAL undisbursed                                          -        -      -
/a Cancelled at the request of the Company.



ANNEX III
- 35 -                           Page 1 of 2
KOREA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by the country to prepare             :    MOC studies from
the project                                          Nov. 1977 to Nov.
1981. MOHA studies
from Sept. 1979 to
Feb. 1981 and
July 1983 to
July 1984.
(b)  Project preparation agencies                          EPB, MOC, MOHA
(c)  Date of first presentation to the Bank                February 1983
(d)  Date of departure of appraisal mission                April 1983
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations                    December 1983
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness                         May 1984
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Action
Prior to November 30, 1984 or other agreed date, the Bank would
undertake a comprehensive review of the Government's progress in implementing
the Action Program as set forth in the Transport Policy Letter.
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) Conditions of effectiveness are:
(i) implementation of a plan for unscheduled passenger transport
services in selected remote rural areas (para. 30); and
(ii) Government to establish contractual arrangements, satisfactory
to the Bank, with consultants for the proposed studies on (a)
the impact of regulations in the trucking industry and (b) road
user charges (paras. 45 and 48).
(b) The Korean Government would:
(i) implement the Action Plan (para. 77);



ANNEX III
- 36 -                             Page 2 of 2
(ii) prepare quarterly reviews of progress for the proposed project
including the Action Plan, and a comprehensive review in late
1984 (para. 77); and
(iii) ensure that EPB oversees implementation of the Action Plan
(para. 81).



ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 6
- 37 -
KOREA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Transport Policy Letter and Action Plan
February 20, 1984
Mr. A.W. Clausen
President
The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
Washington D.C. U.S.A.
I am writing in connection with the proposed loan for the Highway
Sector Project to inform the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development of our development policies in the transport sector and the
actions the Government has already taken or proposes to take to increase
further the efficiency of the road transport system. The current goal is to
respond more effectively to the transport demand growth by intensifying the
utilization of the existing transport network and by providing selective
expansion of the network to avoid bottlenecks. Central to these objectives
would be allowing more flexibility in the transport regulatory and pricing
system to promote better response of transport operators to the needs of
users. The selective liberalization of the transport system would promote the
national economy by reducing transport costs and conserving fuel, and would
contribute to improving the balance of payments.
Our Fifth Five-year Economic and Social Development Plan (1982-86)
has as important objectives the promotion of national development by giving
priority to economic stability, production efficiency and balanced regional
development. In this context, the transport sector development goals are to:
(a) selectively increase transport capacity by modernizing equipment and
optimizing investments in the sector;
(b)  enhance t-ansport efficiency by improving intermodal traffic allo-
cation and conserving energy; and
(c) strengthen maintenance activities.
The proposed Project will assist the Government in meeting the
objectives mentioned above in the highway sector through implementation of a
program of actions which is proposed in detail in the attachment to this
letter. This program is directed at solving issues in the areas of (i) road
investment planning; (ii) energy efficiency in transport; and (iii) regulation
and pricing in road transport. The program of actions will be executed under
the responsibility of the Economic Planning Board.
With best regards,
Sincerely yours,
Kim Hung Ki
Vice Minister
Economic Planning Board
Republic of Korea



ANNEX IV
38 -                   ~~~~~Page 2 of 6
- 38 -                                       
PROPOSED GOVERNMENT ACTION PLAN UNDER THE
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
1.        The Government of the Republic of Korea (GOK) has requested the
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for assistance in
financing of highway improvement covering national, provincial and county
roads under a highway sector loan.
2.        The GOK understands that the basis for the highway sector loan would
be the investment program covering capital and recurrent expenditures as
presently planned for the years 1983 through 1986 by the agencies concerned
and that the loan would assist in expenditures during the years 1984, 1985 and
1986.
3.        In support of the proposed project, the GOK proposes the following
program of actions whose main objective would be to increase efficiency in the
transport sector and would be specifically directed at solving issues in three
major areas:
(a) Road investment planning
(b) Energy efficiency in transport; and
(c) Regulation and pricing in road transport.
4.        The GOK believes that such objective is appropriate given that the
economLic growth forecast in the Fifth Five-Year Economic and Social
Develcpment Plan (FFYP) is more modest than in past plans and that the
budgetary limitations would require an even more careful assessment and
selection of future investments in the transport sector.
A. Road Investment Planning
5.        Although some success has been achieved in planning, overall
planning of the transportation system still requires improved interagency
coordination, wider application of modern planning and economic appraisal
techniques, and a greater capacity to undertake appropriate longer term pre-
investment studies. Unless such improvements are made, transport investments
may result in costly d tplication of capital investment and an imbalance in the
allocation of funds for maintenance. Accordingly, investments in roads need
to be coordinated closely among the agencies responsible for the various parts
of the road system, namely the Ministry of Construction (MOC) and the Ministry
of Home Affairs (MOHA), and with proposed investments in the other modes.
(a)  Highway Planning.  Under the program of actions, the GOK would first
establish a system 1- ander which all investments in the highway
1/   The system will be identified in the Integrated Road Investment Planning
Study being done under Loan 2228-KO.



ANNEX IV
- 39 -                           Page 3 of 6
sector are planned on an integrated and sound economic basis and
second, make its best efforts to ensure that funds appropriated for
each road agency support closely the priorities indicated in the
integrated Highway Investment Plan.2/
Specific Actions:
(i)  The planning system, project evaluation criteria, and
integrated road investment plan being prepared under Loan 2228-
KO would be adopted by end-1984 after Government review and
consultation with the Bank.  Under the planning system, a well-
integrated road investment plan would be prepared by 1986, as
part of the transport sector plan to be included in the Sixth
Five-Year Economic and Social Development Plan 1987-1991;
(ii) Establish, by end-1984, a system for reviewing annually
investment proposals and related budget plans for all
expressway, national, provincial and county road construction
or improvement - whether financed directly from the budget, as
for the Bureau of Public Roads (BPR), or otherwise as in the
case of MOHA and the Korea Highway Corporation (KHC) - so that
they reflect the integrated plan and economic priorities
established by Government;
(iii) Carry out, starting in 1984, a study of the existing arrange-
ments for channelling revenues to the different agencies
responsible for maintaining and improving the road network, for
the purpose of developing appropriate recommendations for
securing a better balance between the economically justified
needs of each agency and the road user charges which are
allocated to them. (this study will be part of the road user
charges study referred to below - C(10)(c)).
(iv) The Government would make its best efforts to ensure that from
1986 onward the annual appropriation of funds for maintenance
would reflect the amounts proposed in the Highway Investment
Program prepared under the system defined in (a) above.
(v)  MOC would prepare a maintenance management system during 1984,
to be implemented during 1985, to ensure a more cost effective
maintenance of the paved road network by relating the level of
maintenance to the traffic volume on the paved roads.
(b) Highway Planning in Relation to Other Modes. Under the program of
actions, the GOK would strengthen the existing system under which
highway investment plans are reviewed to ensure the coordination of
highway investments with investments in other modes of transport.
2/   This would include investments in road construction and improvement by
MOC (BPR and KHC) and MOHA.



ANNEX IV
Page 4 of 6
- 40 -
Specific Actions:
(i)  Strengthen the Economic Planning Board's (EPB) capability to
review, evaluate and coordinate major transport investment
proposals; to facilitate this, the Government would establish
by mid-1986 procedures for comparing investment alternatives
between modes.
(ii)  In order to carry out (i) above, GOK would identify by mid-1984
the shortfaHl of staff skilled in planning and economic
evaluation and prepare, by end 1984, a program for upgrading
the capability of existing staff.
B. Energy Efficiency in TrarLsport
6.        Energy is a key factor in develoment for Korea and the large
petroleum imports are a major cause of Korea's balance of payments deficit.
About 20% of petroleum consumption is in the transport sector. While efforts
have been directed to modify energy consumption patterns so as to conserve
energy in the sector, the potential for savings is far from being realized.
With proper steps taken under a coordinated program, substantial savings of
energy are possible. There is need to focus institutional responsibility,
increase energy efficiency of automotive components (engines, transmissions,
etc.) manufactured in Korea to suait the operating conditions and to improve
operations of road, rail and maritime transport services.
7.        Under the program of actions proposed below, the GOK would develop
further and expand the effectiveness of the present program to increase energy
efficiency in the transport sector.
Special Actions:
(a) By March 31, 1984, the Ministry of Energy and Resources (MOER) will
start effectively to coordinate, manage and monitor actions for
conservation of energy use in the transport sector. MOER would:
(i)  require the agencies with responsibility in the sector to
submit a plan which would establish its energy conservation
policy and goal for the period 1984--86. Such plans would
cover, inter alia,
a. the promotion of energy efficiency in the bus and truck
manufacturing industry;
b. a technological assessment of the potential in Korea for
installing appropriate fuel conversation devices and
adopting appropriate techniques of trucks and locomotives;
c. driver training and public information programs for motor
vehicle and railroad operators; and



ANNEX IV
Page 5 of 6
- 41 -
d.  the establishment of criteria and guidelines for the
analysis of proposed investments by agencies in the
transport sector to assess their impact on energy demand.
(ii) In order to prepare and carry out these actions, studies and
seminars will be conducted with the assistance of experts as
may be necessary.
(iii)  Monitor achievement of targets through periodic reviews.
(b) MOER, with assistance from other appropriate agencies and experts,
would be responsible to develop and maintain a program to train
sufficient staff in government agencies concerned with transport in
the techniques of energy conservation analysis as applied to the
transport sector. A plan for such training would be prepared by
July 1984, and the training program commenced by March 1985.
C. Regulation and Pricing in Road Transport
8.        Korea transport services by common carriers are closely controlled
by Government through regulations which:
(a) limit entry into the industry and restrict provision of services,
and
(b) set the prices that may be charged.
9.        The present system tends to limit competition in commercial road
transport as the market is shared by existing operators who are not challenged
by new-comers. As a result, the still unregulated fleet of trucks owned by
private industry has expanded dramatically, but at a substantial economic cost
as the private fleet is normally not well used as it cannot get the return
loads that are restricted to commercial carriers. The problem raised by the
present system of regulation and pricing (including a taxation differential
which does not charge the heavier vehicles according to the damage they cause
to the roads) resu ts in a lower efficiency than what could be achieved
through more competition and more appropriate pricing. Further, the
consolidation of freight to be transported in large trucks on long distance is
not organized systematically due to the lack of road and intermodal freight
terminals.
Specific Actions
10.       To review the situation with a view to finding appropriate solutions
to meet the transport demand effectively at least cost, the Government will
carry out three studies based on terms of reference to be agreed between the
Government and the Bank. A Steering Committee will be established for the
studies with representatives of concerned agencies under the chairmanship of
EPB. The studies will be included in the project:



- 42 -                          ANNEX IV
Page 6 of 6
(a)  Trucking Industry Regulations.  To assess the impact of current road
transport regulations on the cost of transport services and energy
use, and propose removal of unnecessary regulations to open up
competition on a selective basis. This study will be carried out by
a team of consultants which will include experts experienced in
regulatory practices. It will be started by July 1, 1984, and
completed by March 31, 1985, under the supervision of the Land
Transport Bureau of the Ministry of Transport.
(b)  Freight Terminals and Related Services.  To identify the potential
for improving efficiency in transport through the use of road and
intermodal freight terminals. This study will be carried out by a
team of consultants which will include experts experienced in
trucking industries in foreign countries. It will be started by
February 1, 1985, and completed by October 31, 1985, under the
supervision of the Transport Coordination Bureau of the Ministry of
Transport.
(c)  Road User Charges.  To study and identify the most appropriate
method of apportioning the costs of highways among the users and
channelling revenues to concerned agencies, This study will be
carried out by a team of consultants experienced in road user cost
assessment. It will be started by May 1, 1984, and completed by
December 31, 1984, under the supervision of MOC (BPR) with the
support of the Economic Planning Board.
Kim Hung Ki
Vice Minister
Economic Planning Board
Republic of Korea
February 20, 1984



CNHlhA                                    DEMOCRATIC  PEOPLE'S  REPUBLIC  OF  KOREA                              '
REM PEOPLE'S                                                 5   A                    - \      R
Y'.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~B
TR,REPER ROF RhOREA                       R              iRNRR                         www Yn7               Y S       d
,R OE    aRO,SRERKR&EA,B
REd  ER   ' R A E                                                        S  a   $DSE    -{Em J A N
MoE R-E,ET'IREEEE  PREREEL ~ ~ ~        ~         ~          ~         ~         ~         ~        ~        ~         R
.     /s-l                                                                                   OK'hcb,wr  RE              RaR P0m                       ERRORamt>  _35"  
TT-9~~~~~T
,Vi ) EASESE -                                                          I:R8, mR Nmi7lis/4i~M          4,0 =4,r] RE 4PUBLIC   OF   KiREA
RRREORR4R -'4REEKE          ~                       o~a44 ~                  HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
SE41                    (5Dir'8>-RRo'ES--D-via9F-  M.v "E" -2|Ft47tqwngm          =       EXPRESWFAY
EXPREE57AYPLANNED)
2\;WaNtm$ ' REgI O-NATIONAL ROADNIPAVEDI
ARRRR4.    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~ ~ ~         --     --NATIONASS RNARSIONPAVANI
PROVINCIAL ROADSIPAVEDi
  - - - -- PROVINCIAL ROADSNINPAVED)
PROJECT HONDO                                EEmtRPERRRt 7S9 NO
TCONSTRUCTION AND IMPROVEMENTS  TEi,d P.J-E 56 1203 KO
34^_ PROVINIAL AND COUNTY ROADS - LOS 222B KO
MAINTENANCE ORGOANRIZATION IPILOT PROVINCESI
RAILWAYS
I INTERNATIONAL AIRPORTS
FIRST CLANS PORTS
S NECRND CLASS PORTS
-1    INDUSTRIAL PORTS
PROVINCIAL BOUNNARIEN
-Q                                                                  -   -     INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
4sHtmIm                                                                            N       20       40      NO jN            100
4,R E  / :,              jl/KILOMETERS                                                            20       4?E
I                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MILES 
N     10    20    00    4N        5N
NS"  7R                               101                                    i"                                B.,22






