Document of
The World Bank
Repo.rt No: 19255 BR
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 44.0 MILLION
TO
THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR
AN ANIMAL AND PLANT HEALTH PROTECTION PROJECT
May 6, 1999
Brazil Country Management Unit
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Sector Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



CUIRRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective April 15, 1999)
Currency Unit  =   Real (R$)
R$ 1  =   US$ 0.61
US$1   =   R$ 1.65
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS                -   Country Assistance Strategy
CEDA               -   Comite Estadual de Defesa Agropecuaria
(State Agricultural Health Committee)
CNP                -   Comit, Nacional do Projeto
(National Project Committee)
IERR               -   Internal Economic Rate of Return
FAO                -   Food and Agricultural Organization of the United Nations
FMD                -   Foot and Mouth Disease
GATT               -   General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade
GDP                -   Gross Domestic Product
GOB                -   Government of Brazil
LVU                -   Livestock Veterinary Unit
MAA                -   Ministerio da Agricultura e do Abastecimento
(Ministry of Agriculture and Supply)
MERCOSUL           -   Southern Cone Common Market
MIS                -   Monitoring and Information System
MOP                -   Manual Operativo do Projeto
(Project Operational Manual)
NCD                -   Newcastle Disease
OIE                -   Organization International des Epizooties
PCU                -   Unidade de CoordinaVdo do Projeto
(Project Coordination Unit)
POA                -   Plan Operativo Annual
(Annual Operating Plan)
RPAP               -   Rural Poverty Alleviation Project
SDA                -   Secretaria de Defesa Agropecuaria
(Secretariat of Agricultural Health Protection))
SOE                -   Statement of Expenditure
STU                -   State Technical Unit
WTO                 -   World Trade Organization
Vice President:                     Mr. Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director:                   Mr. Gobind T. Nankani
Acting Sector Director:             Mr. John Redwood
Task Team Leader:                  Mr. Luis 0. Coirolo



Brazil
Animal and Plant Health Protection Project
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Project Financing Data ..............................................................................1
A. Project Development Objective   .............................................................................                                                              2
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators  .............................                                       .........................                2
B. Strategic Context.
2
1.  Sector-related CAS  goal supported by the project  ..............................................................................2
2. Main sector issues and Govermnent strategy ..............................................................................2
3.  Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices  .......................                                    ................................3
C.  Project Description  Summary   .............................................................................                                                              4
1. Project components  .............................................................................                                                                          4
2.  Key policy  and institutional reforms supported  by the project  ....................................                              ..........................4
3.  Target population and benefits  .............................................................................5
4.  Institutional and implementation  arrangements  .............................................................................                                             5
D.  Project Rationale   .............................................................................                                                                         6
1. Project alternatives considered  and reasons for rejection   .............................................................. ......6
2.  Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies  ............                                                ....................           7
3.  Lessons learned and reflected  in proposed project design   .................................................. .................7
4.  Indications of borrower commitment and ownership   ..........................................................................8
5.  Value added of Bank  support   .............................................................................8
E. Summary Project Analysis . .............................................................................                                                                   8
1. Economic Assessment  .............................................................................8
2. Financial Assessment .............................................................................9
3. Technical Assessment .............................................................................                                                                        10
4. Institutional Assessment .............................................................................                                                                    10
5. Social Assessment .............................................................................                                                                           11
6.  Environmental Assessment  .............................................................................                                                                  11
7.  Participatory  Approach   .............................................................................                                                                  11
F.  Sustainability  and  Risks  ..................................                                  ...........................................                              12
1.  Sustainability   .......................................................................... . .                                                                         12
2.  Critical risks  .............................................................................                                                                            12
G.  Main  Loan  Conditions  ...............................                                     ..............................................                               12
1. Effectiveness conditions  .............................................................................                                                                   12
2.  Other  .............................................................................                                                                                     12
H.  Readiness for Implementation   .............................................................................                                                             13
I.  Compliance with  Bank  Policies  .............................................................................                                                           13



Annexes
Annex 1.:     Project Design Summary
Annex 2:      Detailed Project Description
Annex 3:      Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4:      Economic Analysis
Annex 5:      Financial Summary
Annex 6:      Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A.       Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table B.      Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table C.      Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Annex 7:      Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 8:      Documents in Project File
Annex 9:      Statement of Loans and Credits
Table A:      Status of Bank Group Operations in Brazil
Table B:       Statement of IFC's Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
Annex 10:     Country at a Glance



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
Brazil Country Management Unit
Project Appraisal Document
Brazil
Animal and Plant Health Protection Project
Date: May 6, 1999                                  Task Teamn   Luis Coirolo (Task Team Leader)
Raimundo Caminha, Edward Bresnyan
Country Director: Gobind T. Nankani                Acting Sector Director: John Redwood
Project ID: 55388  Sector: Agriculture             Program Objective Category: Agriculture
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan       Program of Targeted Intervention:   []Yes  [X] No
Project Financing Data                  [X] Loan    [  Credit        [] Guarantee    [  Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 44.0
Proposed terms:                            [ ]  Multicurrency       [X] Single currency, US Dollars
Grace period (years): 5 years      [ ]  Standard Variable    []  Fixed     [XI    LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 15 years
Commitment fee: 0.75% on undisbursed balances, beginning 60 days after signing
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                                                                 Local        Foreign          Total
Federal Government (20%)                                                17.6           0.00           17.6
State Government  (15%)                                                 13.2           0.00           13.2
Farmer Associations (15%)                                               13.2           0.00           13.2
IBRD (50%/O)                                                           23.80          20.20         44.00
Total               67.80           20.20         88.00
Borrower: Federative Republic of Brazil
Responsible agencies: Ministry of Agriculture and Supply (MAA) and Participating States
Estimated disbursements                                         2000    2001   2002      2003        2004
(Bank FY/US$M):
Annual           9.5    12.5   10.2        8.1        3.7
Cumulative           9.5    22.0   32.2      40.3       44.0
Retroactive financing of up to US$4.4 million for eligible expenditures incurred after June 1, 1998 (appraisal date) but not
earlier than 12 months before loan signing.
Expected Effectiveness Date: August 31, 1999                      Expected Closing Date: December 31, 2003



Project Appraisal Document                                                                       page 2
Country: Brazil                                                    Project Title: Animal and Plant Health Protection
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project Development Objectives and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
The objective of the Project is to increase the Borrower's competitiveness and productivity in its agricultural and
livestock sectors by: (a) eliminating or significantly controlling the incidence of animal and plant diseases which
constitute trade barriers; (b) strengthening the Borrower's sanitary and phytosanitary monitoring and surveillance
systems; (c) reorienting the public sector role to a regulatory, certification and inspection function and strengthening
its coordinating and facilitating functions in animal and plant health protection; and (d) increasing the private sector
participation in the design and delivery of animal and plant health protection services. Key performance indicators
include: (a) reduction in disease and plague outbreaks, (b) increased Foot and Mouth Disease (FMD) vaccination
coverage, (c) systematic reports from at least 80% of the Project States detailing disease eradication and control
activities and results, and (d) number of subprojects implemented by eligible farmer associations, participating State
agencies and the Secretariat for Agricultural Health Protection (SDA).
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: 16582-BR                              Date of latest CAS discussion: June 2, 1998
CAS objective(s) supported by the Project: The Project is consistent with the Bank's CAS for Brazil, which
identifies (a) private sector competitiveness and productivity and (b) state modernization via decentralized state
services as significant components of the strategy to encourage sustainable development in an increasingly globalized
trade environment. The Project will promote increased competitiveness and enhanced productivity by mobilizing
farmers to promote systematic interventions in agricultural sanitary and phytosanitary practices in a total of 14 States,
which will lower mortality and morbidity rates in livestock and reduce losses in the fruit sector due to pests and
plagues. The Project supports state modernization by aiding the Secretariat of Agricultural Health Protection (SDA)
to transfer day-to-day execution of agricultural health protection to the state and local levels, while maintaining a
primarily coordinating role at the Federal level.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The Brazilian Agriculture Sector represents 11% of GDP (or nearly 40% when agroindustry is included), 30% of
exports, and 25% of total employment. Brazilian agriculture faces two important challenges in the current economic
environment, namely (a) the need to improve productivity to be able to take advantage of export opportunities given
greater international competition within the World Trade Organization (WTO) and the Southern Cone Common
Market (MERCOSUL) and (b) non-tariff barriers, among these international sanitary and phytosanitary measures,
which at present substantially limit Brazil's participation in global agricultural markets. Trade agreements under the
WTO and MERCOSUL -- to which Brazil is a signatory -- will effectively eliminate all trade barriers except those
relating to sanitary and phytosanitary standards. In particular, the WTO 1994 agreement affords signatory countries
the right to apply sanitary and phytosanitary measures to protect their citizens and respective agricultural production,
as long as these measures are not designed to block international trade. Brazil's participation in agricultural export
markets is therefore a function of its ability to verify (a) eradication of FMD and Hog Cholera in cattle and swine,
respectively; (b) control of Newcastle disease in poultry; and (c) plague eradication in products such as apple, mango,
melon and papaya.
The Goveranent considers the current agricultural disease protection system -- with its centralized federal control and
focus on disease rather than on health -- as inadequate to serve Brazil's needs as it increasingly competes in the global
marketplace. A previous Bank-financed project (Ln 2864-BR) successfully experimented with public/private
partnerships in the delivery of agricultural health protection services. Toward this end, a protocol was signed between
the Ministry of Agriculture and Supply (MAA) and State Governments in August 1996, to unify Brazil's animal and
plant health protection system. Decentralization of activities within this unified system was furthered through a
protocol between the MAA and the Ministry of Federal Administration and State Reform, signed in July 1997, which
began the process of establishing a national system to coordinate and oversee agricultural health in Brazil.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                         page 3
Country: Brazil                                                     Project Title: Animal and Plant Health Protection
Brazil -- with the largest cattle herd worldwide -- attained beef production in 1997 of 5,820 million tons (up 13%
from 1994). Beef exports are currently only 5% of total production, yet the potential for export expansion is large.
Brazil possesses the third largest swine herd worldwide, ranks third in total poultry production (behind the U.S. and
China) and maintains the lowest total cost of poultry production globally (US$0.85 per kg). Wholesale market prices
for Brazilian beef compare favorably with U.S. and European prices. Pork wholesale prices compare somewhat less
favorably, while poultry wholesale prices are the lowest worldwide. In the plant sector, the Northeast and Southeast
regions are major exporters of mango and papaya (24,000 metric tons and 5,700 tons, respectively, in 1996).
Southern Brazil has significantly increased its apple production (575,000 tons in 1997). The irrigated regions of the
Northeast -- particularly Rio Grande do Norte and Pemambuco -- also boast a substantial melon production.
Favorable climate allows Brazil to produce fruit virtually year round, providing the opportunity to serve key export
markets exclusively when other major producers are in "off-season".
Substantial private sector investment -- in partnership with Federal and State agencies -- reduced occurrence of FMD
from 2,093 outbreaks in 1994 to 167 outbreaks in 1997. FMD vaccination coverage reached 84% of the national herd
in 1996; eleven states (including the Federal District) have virtually 100% FMD vaccination coverage. In May 1998,
the Office International des Epizooties (OIE) formally recognized the States of Rio Grande do Sul and Santa Catarina
as FMD-free (with vaccination). In 1994, Brazil declared these same states to be free of Hog Cholera (without
vaccination). Vertical integration (e.g., contract farms and forward contracts) has significantly decreased Hog
Cholera and Newcastle Disease outbreaks in swine and poultry, respectively. The melon-growing region of Rio
Grande do Norte exemplifies the substantive role that private farmer associations can play in health protection
activities. Frutinorte, an association of melon growers, organized local farmers to eradicate the melon fly from the
region, which was achieved in 1989 and later officially recognized by the Govermment.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices
The Government's strategy for strengthening agricultural health protection in the 21st century is built on the
following three tenets:
a) Expanded public/ private partnerships in agricultural health protection
b) Continued decentralization of agricultural health protection service delivery to states, municipalities and
farmer associations
c) Fortification, maintenance and expansion of existing agricultural disease-free zones
Public and private sector roles in agricultural health protection are evolving such that greater private participation is
taking place in areas once considered solely the domain of the public sector. Ongoing reforms at the Federal level
seek to decentralize operational health protection activities to the State and local levels to improve service delivery
and increase efficiency of the agricultural health protection system. Private farmers and farmer associations -- given
their agility in responding to agricultural health issues with minimal bureaucratic constraints -- are willing and able to
accept these responsibilities. The economic benefits of expanded export markets through greater health protection in
Brazil serve to motivate the private sector to take increasing responsibility for securing effective health protection. In
addition to those health protection costs already borne by private farmers (e.g., vaccination, indemnization), these
farmers are prepared to contribute operationally and financially to activities with high public content such as those
envisioned under the Project. The success of the previous project (Ln 2864-BR) demonstrated the capacity of private
farmers to take on these roles and the efficiency of financial partnership with the public sector. The proposed
decentralization in the design of the Project limits the Federal and State role to a coordinating and facilitating
function, exercising those activities required by law or through international agreements (e.g., certification,
regulation, inspection).



Project Appraisal Document                                                                       page 4
Country: Brazil                                                    Project Title: Animal and Plant Health Protection
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost breakdown):
Total project cost is US$88.0 million. The Project will be implemented over four years starting in FY 2000. The
Project would finance subprojects in animal and plant health (Component A); technical assistance, training and
consultancies (Component B); and Project administration, supervision, monitoring and evaluation (Component C).
Under Component A, subprojects implemented by eligible farmer associations - fnanced up to a maximum cost
of US$350,000 per subproject -- would, inter alia, (a) promote systematic FMD vaccination campaigns, (b) establish
and/or improve sanitary and phytosanitary transit control posts, (c) finance agricultural health education campaigns
for farmers and (d) improve monitoring and surveillance systems for tracking animal and plant health. These
subprojects would not finance the private costs of vaccination, indemnization or other activities which already are
borne (and would continue to be borne) by private farmers. Subprojects implemented by State agencies would
finance activities such as (a) Project promotion and dissemination, (b) intrastate and interstate transit control of
agricultural products, (b) epidemiological monitoring and surveys, (c) acquisition of laboratory equipment, (d)
training for State technical personnel and (e) supervision of State-level health protection campaigns. Subprojects
implemented by the Ministry of Agriculture (MAA) would finance activities which are the unique responsibility of
the MAA, as required by law or through existing international agreements, such as (a) agricultural surveillance of
airports, maritime ports and international borders, (b) federal inspection, certification, regulation and accreditation
within the Project area and (c) epidemiological monitoring in Federal reference laboratories. All subprojects would be
required to meet technical, financial, economic and environmental criteria -- as specified in the Project Operational
Manual. Bank fmancing will be 50% of total project costs, with farmer associations contributing 15% (either in cash
or in-kind), State government, 15% and Federal government, 20%.
COMPONENT                              CATEGORY    Indicative Costs    %
(US$M)        Total
A. Animal and Plant Health                                                          79.2         90.0
a.1 Subprojects implemented by eligible farmer            Physical (Civil         57.2
associations to support collective actions to eradicate  Works, Goods,
FMD and Hog Cholera, control Newcastle Disease,      Materials and
Micoplasmosis and Salmonelosis in livestock and       Services)
eradicate plagues affecting fruit exports of apple, mango,
melon and papaya
a.2  Subprojects implemented by State agencies to
strengthen intrastate and interstate transit control of                       13.2
animals and plants, train technical personnel and farmers
in agricultural health and improve the agricultural
monitoring and surveillance system
a.3  Subprojects implemented by the Ministry of                                    8.8
Agriculture (MAA) for capacity building of SDA
technical personnel; purchases of laboratory equipment
and materials; vehicles, computer hardware and software
B. Technical Assistance, Training and Consultancies         Institution-             4.4          5.0
(specialized training courses, studies related to sanitary  Building
legislation and feasibility studies to assess export potential in
specific geographic zones or for certain agricultural products)
C. Administration, Monitoring and Evaluation for Project     Project                  4.4         5.0
promotion and dissemination, supervision, consultant services  Management
for the Project Coordination Unit, Project and impact
evaluation
Total         88.0        100.0



Project Appraisal Document                                                                            page 5
Country: Brazil                                                       Project Title: Animal and Plant Health Protection
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The Project seeks to enhance sanitary and phytosanitary enforcement mechanisms in order to increase exports of
Brazilian agricultural production. GOB recognizes the potential of the agricultural sector to make substantial gains in
export markets, provided that quality of production can be assured through increased attention to health protection
activities and the confirmation of these activities through a sound monitoring and surveillance system. The Project
supports the ongoing institutional reform of agricultural health protection services by (a) decentralizing these
activities to the State and local levels and (bj stimulating participatory processes that draw substantially on private
sector input. Local farmer associations have already taken up a substantial role in health protection services through
public/ private partnerships. The Project will seek to deepen the level of private sector participation in the design and
delivery of agricultural health protection services.
3. Target population and Benefits:
Project activities will take place in 14 states: Parana, Rio Grande do Sul, Santa Catarina (Southern Region); Espirito
Santo, Minas Gerais, Rio de Janeiro, Sao Paulo (Southeast region); Goias (including Federal District), Mato Grosso,
Mato Grosso do Sul, (Center-West region); Bahia, Pemambuco, Piaui, Rio Grande do Norte (Northeast region).
These states currently account for the bulk of Brazil's agricultural exports and also are the areas with the greatest
potential for agricultural export expansion. Over two-thirds of Brazil's cattle and swine herds are located in these
states. Furthermore, these states correspond to the livestock circuits (circuitos pecudrios) by which animal health
protection activities are programmed in Brazil. By targeting these 14 states, the Project would also ensure the
maintenance and expansion of the FMD-free (with vaccination) region of Rio Grande do Sul and Santa Catarina.
Farmers will benefit from higher incomes generated from increased productivity, reduced production costs and
production losses from diseases. Improved product quality will lead to greater international competitiveness. The
activities undertaken by farmer associations will benefit the small producer (e.g. herds of less than ten cattle or thirty
swine), since they will receive both vaccination and related veterinary services at reduced costs fr6m local farmer
associations as a way of eliminating or reducing the risk of disease outbreak for all farmers in their respective region.
Consumers will benefit from access to agricultural produce certified free of diseases. Equally, all participants in the
agroindustrial marketing and distribution system will benefit from an efficient agricultural health protection system
that lends credibility to the sale of Brazilian produce domestically and internationally. State and local governments
gain from the Project through stronger, better equipped and trained institutions capable of effectively facilitating
decentralized approaches to animal and plant health.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementing Agency: Secretariat of Agricultural Health Protection (SDA), Ministry of Agriculture and Supply
(MAA)
Implementation Period: Four years
Executing Agencies:
*   Farmer associations would identify and prepare subproject proposals which address their common priority
concerns in animal and plant health protection.
*   State agencies would identify and prepare subproject proposals which would improve their agricultural health
protection monitoring and surveillance capacity.
*   Farmer associations submit subproject proposals to their respective State Technical Units (STUs) which will (a)
appraise subproject proposals, following criteria in the Project Operational Manual (MOP), (b) confirm the
capacity of the farmer association to complete the subproject and contribute the necessary 15% of total subproject
cost and (c) recommend the approval of funds to finance subprojects. Final approval for subprojects will be given
by the State Agricultural Health Committee (CEDA).
*   The National Project Committee (CNP) will advise the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) in Project resource
allocation decisions and overall approval of the Project POA. Private farmer associations, NGOs, universities
and other representatives from civil society will comprise majority participation of the CNP.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                    page 6
Country: Brazil                                                  Project Title: Animal and Plant Health Protection
*  The PCU, housed in the SDA/ MAA will administer the Project. The PCU will (a) prepare and consolidate the
Project POA from respective participating states' POAs, (b) prepare the annual Project budget in consultation
with the CNP, (c) transfer budgetary resources to STUs, (d) promote technical assistance, training and research
studies for the participating states and the general interest of the Project, and (e) monitor and supervise overall
Project implementation.
*  Project Coordination: The STU will coordinate state-level Project activities. The STU will supervise the quality
of subproject implementation and disseminate project information via public campaigns. The STU will also be
responsible for periodic reporting (as agreed with the PCU and the Bank) related to the achievement of Project
performance indicators (see Annex 2).
*  Project Oversight: The PCU will delegate project implementation to the STUs. The CNP will oversee and
approve the POAs for the Project and the respective resource allocations per State, based on evaluation by the
PCU. The PCU will be responsible for overall project impact evaluation and dissemination of the lessons
leamed.
*  Subproject Cycle: The subproject cycle would begin with the mobilization of existing and/or the formation of
new farmer associations to take part in Project activities. An information campaign would then stimulate Project
awareness, an understanding of Project objectives and the ways in which farmer associations could participate.
Subsequently, these farmer associations would prepare and submit subproject proposals which reflect their
respective priorities in animal and plant health protection. Preparation of subprojects would follow a standard
format as given in the MOP. Following submission, each subproject proposal would be appraised by the STU
and evaluated on technical, environmental, economic and financial criteria, as specified in the MOP. For those
subprojects appraised by the STU and approved by CEDA, funds would be released to the farmer association
responsible for subproject implementation. Supervision of subproject implementation would be the responsibility
of the STU. The STU would also prepare a subproject implementation completion report for each completed
subproject, the information from which would be added to the Project Monitoring and Information System.
*  Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements: A Project Special Account will be established
with a commercial financial institution and will be maintained and audited annually, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles, by independent auditors agreed with the Bank. Certified copies of the audited
accounts and of the auditor's reports would be provided to the Bank within six months of the end of each
financial year. The audit reports would convey the auditor's opinion and comments as necessary on the
methodology employed in terms of the project's legal agreements and standards of record keeping and internal
controls. With respect to withdrawals on the basis of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs), such audits would
contain a separate opinion as to whether the SOEs support the related withdrawals.
*  Monitoring and Evaluation: A Project Monitoring and Information System (MIS) will be established to
consolidate subproject experiences and track overall Project performance.  The PCU will have overall
responsibility for the MIS and will work with participating STUs in establishing standard formats and designs for
Project data collection and subsequent submission to the PCU. The STU, together with farmer associations, will
monitor Project activities on-the-ground, reporting to the PCU on aquarterly basis. The PCU will input these
quarterly reports to the MIS and generate and distribute semiannual reports measuring progress against
performance indicators derived from the Project Implementation Plan. On an annual basis, the PCU would
prepare a detailed Project Implementation Report. The Project is expected to require close Bank supervision,
which will be provided mainly by the Bank's Recife office, with a minimum of two supervision missions per year
over the Project implementation period.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Status Quo: Under the alternative of continuing "business as usual", the SDA would maintain its traditional role as
the central operator in both the design and execution of all activities related to agricultural health protection. This was



Project Appraisal Document                                                                         page 7
Country: Brazil                                                     Project Title: Animal and Plant Health Protection
rejected on the grounds that it not only is contrary to the reforms underway at the Federal level -- which seek to
decentralize many of central government's long-held responsibilities -- but it also ignores the successful lessons of
decentralized, pai Licipatory approaches to livestock health protection that were achieved under the reformulated
Livestock Disease Control Project (Ln 2864-BR).
Greater Private Sector Financial Participation: The private sector -- including both producers and consumers -- stands
to benefit significantly from the interventions and activities supported by the Project. Therefore, one alternative
would be to alter the cofinancing matrix so that the private sector contributes more than the expected 15% of total
project cost. This was rejected for three reasons, namely: (a) the public goods nature of agricultural health protection
justifies substantial participation on the part of the Federal and State governments, (b) although the private incentive
is great for addressing agricultural health protection, issues of moral hazard would preempt any wholesale delegation
of compliance with accepted standards to the private sector, except in those areas where vertical integration and
specific disease characteristics already stimulate much greater private responsibility in health protection activities (e.g.
poultry industry) and (c) the 15% private sector contribution is in addition to the already substantial health protection
costs borne entirely by the private sector (e.g., US$130 million annually for FMD vaccinations).
Separate Component for the Agricultural Monitoring and Surveillance System: A final alternative would consist of
the isolation of agricultural monitoring and surveillance activities, separate from the subprojects taken up by the
farmer associations, State agencies and the MAA. Such independence was rejected by the Project team because of the
integrated nature of health monitoring and surveillance and agricultural health protection. The overall process of
agricultural health implies the interdependence of these two activities, with each generating feedback to the other.
Separation of these activities would therefore undermine the very nature of proactive health protection in the
agricultural sector.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing and
planned):
Latest Supervision (Form 590) Ratings
(Bank Financed Projects only)
Sector Issue                    Project
Implementation Progress       Development
Bank-financed                                                         (IP)                Objective (DO)
Agricultural Research and    Agricultural Technology                   S                        S
Technology                   Development
Ln 4169-BR (ongoing)
Livestock Health Protection   Livestock Disease Control                S                        S
Ln 2864-BR (completed)
Other Development Agencies
Increase the technological   IDB-financed PROMOAGRO
level ofBrazilian agriculture   (Ln 671/OC-BR and
and agroindustry in the south-  Ln 878 SF/BR, ongoing)
Central region
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the proposed project design:
The Project models the experience of decentralized approaches to agricultural health protection already underway in
other countries. The United States has a long tradition of strong private sector participation and local action in all
areas of agricultural health protection. Since 1972, the USDA Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service has
provided compelling evidence that public/ private partnerships can effectively and sustainably address agricultural
health protection issues. In Argentina (1992) and Uruguay (1994), decentralized approaches to livestock disease
eradication were instrumental in these countries achieving FMD-free status from the OIE. Furthermore, the collective



Project Appraisal Document                                                                       page 8
Country: Brazil                                                   Project Title: Animal and Plant Health Protection
experience of nine States under Rural Poverty Alleviation Projects (RPAPs) in Northeast Brazil, from 1993 to the
present, provides additional evidence that local action through community associations are an effective means of
service delivery. Finally, the experience of the previous Livestock Disease Control Project (Ln 2864-BR) yielded the
following inputs toward Project design:
*  Regardless of the degree of decentralization, the public sector plays a role in providing leadership, policy
guidance and direction in Project implementation; defning standards and norms; promoting stakeholder
participation.
*  Project organizational structure and lines of responsibility and communication must be simple, clear and rational,
and should stress decentralized operations, simplified processes, and lean staffing.
*  A Project Operational Manual with comprehensive and flexible rules and norms for project operation is a
determining factor in spreading the idea and practice of decentralization and facilitating project implementation.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Brazil's resolve to increase its relative stance in the international trade arena is confirmed by its participation in and
ratification of several multi- and bilateral trade organizations and agreements which collectively subject agricultural
trade among signatory countries to sanitary and phytosanitary inspection (e.g. WTO, MERCOSUL, OIE, Pan-
American Foot and Mouth Disease Organization, International Commission for Plant Protection of FAO). The
significant reduction in both morbidity and mortality rates of cattle and swine in Brazil is an independent testimony to
the country's commitment to raise its level of agricultural health protection. The Government prepared and presented
the Carta Consulta -- the basis for Project identification -- in record time and voiced its intent to expedite the approval
of the Project, at a time when GOB is undertaking a countrywide portfolio review of international assistance
programs. Bank missions to those states which will participate in the Project confirmed the willingness and capacity
of both state and local, public and private entities to undertake and complete agricultural health protection activities as
programmed under the Project.
5. Value added of Bank support:
The Bank brings substantial value-added in (a) agricultural disease control and prevention projects and (b)
decentralized project approaches. First, the Bank supported a successful livestock disease control project (Ln 2864-
BR) -- begun in 1987, reformulated in 1993 and completed in 1997 --that forged public/ private partnerships of the
type envisioned in this Project. Second, the Bank has a long history of supporting decentralized operations in Brazil.
At present, the RPAP is active in eight Northeast states. Previously, the Northeast Rural Development Program --
also begun in 1987, reformulated in 1993 toward a local, demand-driven program and completed in 1995/6 --
effectively reached 2.1 million households with essential infrastructure and productive investments. In 1997, the first
market-based, decentralized approach to land reform was introduced as a pilot project in five Northeast States (Bahia,
Ceara, Maranhao, Minas Gerais, Pernambuco). These experiences confirm that the Bank is well-placed to leverage
technical and operational capacity and financial resources, using a decentralized model with beneficiary participation,
to substantively contribute to improved agricultural health protection through the Project.
E: Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic Assessment (see Annex 4):
[X] Cost-Benefit Analysis; NPV = US$259.6 million; IERR = 35%: [XI Cost Effectiveness Analysis
The impact of the Project would be three-fold:
1. eliminate disease-related losses in both animals and plants through interventions aimed at eradicating FMD and
Hog Cholera in cattle and swine, respectively; controlling the occurrence of NCD, Mycoplasmosis and
Salmonelosis in poultry production; eradicating C. pomonela affecting apple production; protecting the plague-
free area of melon production in Rio Grande do Norte; and controlling the incidence of plagues affecting mango
and papaya production in Pernambuco and Bahia,



Project Appraisal Document                                                                      page 9
Country: Brazil                                                   Project Title: Animal and Plant Health Protection
2. eliminate the expenses associated with disease control by establishing and expanding disease-free zones and
3. increase Braz4i's access to international agricultural markets through improvements in its agricultural monitoring
and surveillance system.
An Internal Economic Rate of Return (IERR) for the Project is estimated at 35% and a benefit-cost ratio of 2.9. The
Net Present Value of incremental costs incurred under the Project is US$139.2 million. Incremental costs include
those investment and recurrent costs associated with Project implementation, provision for replacement resulting from
depreciation and Operation and Maintenance Costs. The Net Present Value of incremental benefits totals US$398.8
million. Incremental benefits considered in the analysis are (a) increased cattle production due to successful FMD
eradication, (b) foregone FMD vaccinations, (c) increased swine production due to Hog Cholera eradication, (d)
foregone phytosanitary costs due to plague eradication in apple, mango, melon and payapa and (e) incremental
exports attributable to improvements in the monitoring and surveillance system. Furthermore, only the portion of
incremental benefits which can conservatively be attributed to the Project is considered in estimating the IERR and
NPV.
Under the Project, both Rio Grande do Sul and Santa Catarina would continue with zero outbreak occurrence and gain
FMD-free without vaccination status by the year 2002, thereby eliminating an annual vaccination outlay of US$17.5
million. It is expected that Parana, as well as the Southeast and Central West states, would achieve this status by the
year 2004. Achievement for these states of FMD-free status (without vaccination) would eliminate an additional
aggregate vaccination cost of US$118.2 million. An incremental cattle production increase of US$197.5 million
annually would be achieved under the Project. Similarly, annualized swine losses of US$50.3 million would be
foregone following eradication of Hog Cholera. In the fruit sector, annualized phytosanitary costs of US$9.9 million
would be avoided following successful eradication of the pests and plagues which afflict apple, mango, melon and
papaya production.
The Project would contribute to greater access to export markets for Brazilian livestock and fruit production. Brazil's
beef and poultry sectors are already highly price competitive in terms of wholesale producer prices. Furthermore,
evidence suggests that both beef and poultry are also highly competitive in terms of product quality (Iowa State,
1997). Beef exports are 5% of total production while poultry exports amount to 15% of total poultry production.
Achieving FMD-free (without vaccination) status -- first in Rio Grande do Sul and Santa Catarina and later in the
Project states of the Central West and Southeast -- would permit increased beef exports. While vertical integration in
the poultry industry already minimizes the spread of Newcastle disease, poultry exports would nonetheless benefit
from the stronger monitoring and surveillance system achieved under the Project. Many variables in addition to price
and quality play a role in export markets (e.g. consumer preferences, changes in the competitive position of other
countries, exchange rate fluctuation, input markets); nevertheless, conservative estimates would show a 10% increase
in both beef and poultry exports by the end of the ten-year period of analysis.
The IERR for the Project is quite robust when subjected to sensitivity analysis. A 10% increase in incremental Project
costs would reduce the IERR to 33% while a 10% decrease in Project benefits would reduce the IERR to 32%. If
costs increased and benefits decreased simultaneously by 10%, the effect would be to lower the IERR to 30%. Given
that two-thirds of the Project benefits are related to FMD eradication, delays in realizing these benefits could
significantly impact the IERR. Lagging FMD eradication benefits by one year yields an IERR of 31%; when these
benefits are lagged by two years, the IERR decreases to 27%. Finally, even if Project-benefits are limited to (1)
benefits from reduced FMD vaccination costs and (2) export growth, the Project benefit-cost ratio and IERR remain
satisfactory at 1.2 and 13%, respectively.
2. Financial Assessment (see Annex 5):
Over the four years of Project implementation, Federal Government cofinancing will total US$16.5 million, an
average of US$4.1 million annually. Among the 14 Participating States, their aggregate contribution to project costs
will total US$13.5 million or approximately US$1.0 million per Participating State over the life of the Project.
Annual local purchases of goods and services via subprojects (Component A), Institutional Strengthening at-the
Federal level (Component B) and Administration, Monitoring and Evaluation (Component C) are estimated at



Project Appraisal Document                                                                      page 10
Country: Brazil                                                    Project Title: Animal and Plant Health Protection
US$20.1 million. Assuming a tax rate of 10% applicable to these purchases, US$2.0 million would accrue to Federal
and State governments due to Project investments.
Farner associations in those sectors addressed under the Project (e.g. cattle, swine, poultry, apple, mango, melon,
papaya) would also contribute US$13.2 miillion toward total costs (or US$3.3 million annually). In simply
eliminating the annual recurrent cost of FMD vaccination in cattle (US$144.4 million) and aggregate annual
phytosanitary costs for fruit production (US$9.9 million), farmers would achieve a annual net incremental revenue
ceteris paribus totaling US$154.3 million, which would be subject to various State and Federal taxes. Again,
assuming a 10% tax rate on this increment to private net revenues, an additional annual revenue contribution of
US$15.4 million would accrue to State and Federal government
Fiscal Impact:
The fiscal impact of the Project is given by the incremental contributions to the local, State and Federal revenue base
arising from greater productivity at the producer level and higher value produce at the farmgate and domestic retail
levels. Given that agricultural losses (in both livestock and fruits) currently range from 10% to as high as 30% of
total production (by volume), successful eradication of diseases as described under the Project would translate into
production gains through the commercialization of greater proportions of gross production. This would apply to both
primary production as well as processed goods using agricultural production as a major input. Presently, agricultural
production slated for export is exempt from ICMS. However, expanded exports would imply greater value-added in
agricultural production, which would translate into increased farm-level revenues subject to personal and corporate
income tax. Personal and corporate income tax rates vary according to income level but in all cases the net effect
would be a positive in terms of revenue generation in terms of income tax.
3. Technical Assessment:
Technical criteria for identifying the current FMD risk levels of Brazilian livestock and the essential framework for an
effective health monitoring and surveillance system -- including key indicators -- have already been approved by the
SDA (see for example Portaria no. 50, May 19, 1996). These same instruments can be used as patterns for Hog
Cholera, Salmonelosis, Mycoplasmosis and Newcastle Disease.
Veterinary Livestock Units (VLUs) per practicing veterinarian indicate the domestic technical capacity to effectively
address livestock health protection. VLUs per veterinarian were 7,295 in 1989, 5,967 in 1994 and 5,156 in 1997.
Animal health experts suggest that a country like Brazil should have a ratio no higher than 12,500 VLUs per
veterinarian. The data therefore suggest that Brazil's technical capacity is strong in the face of the activities proposed
under the Project. The Project also implies the availability of substantial supplies of vaccine in the case of FMD.
Brazil has a demonstrated capacity to produce the vast majority of such vaccines for domestic use.
4. Institutional Assessment:
1)     Executing agencies:
*      At the local level, the active participation of farmer associations in the identification, design,
preparation and subsequent implementation of animal and plant health subprojects is confirmed by
the ongoing activities of farmer groups in such states as Mato Grosso, GoiAs, Rio Grande do Sul and
Santa Catarina. In these states, the primary activities related to agricultural health protection are
already taken up by farmers, with positive results being achieved, especially in the area of FMD and
Hog Cholera.
*      SDA/ MAA is strong in its commitment to achieve enhanced agricultural health protection for
Brazilian livestock and plant production and supportive of the decentralized Project design.
*      CNP and the respective CEDAs will bring together a broad cross-section of stakeholders, which
should help to ensure solid decision making and resource allocation for Project activities identified
in State POAs.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                    page 11
Country: Brazil                                                  Project Title: Animal and Plant Health Protection
2)     Project management:
The SDA/ MAA, responsible for overall project coordination, is well-placed to successfully manage
the Project.  SDA entered the preparation of the proposed project after having successfully
administered and completed the previous Livestock Disease Control project (Ln 2864-BR), which
contributed to the achievement of FMD-free and Hog Cholera-free zones declared in Southern
Brazil in 1996 and 1994, respectively.  SDA has agreed to contract with the private sector for
Project management services under the PCU.
5. Social Assessment:
*  Improved animal and plant health protection contributes to higher quality food products for domestic markets and
enhances access to a safe food supply.
* Greater adherence to international sanitary regulations and improvements in monitoring and surveillance by
Brazilian farmers will increase access to export markets currently unavailable.
*  Higher value-added products will be generated by agricultural producers through safer, higher quality food
products.
6. Environmental assessment:
Environmental Category  [ ] A   [X] B   [I C
The activities programmed under the Project are not expected to generate a negative environmental impact. In fact,
expected activities under the Project are already shown to have a net positive environmental impact. Livestock health
improvements via vaccination campaigns will have no significant environmental impact. Subprojects to achieve
plague-free status in the fruit sector would result in the elimination of the use of toxic chemical inputs (e.g. pesticides,
insecticides). No chemical inputs are expected to be used in the post harvest, pre-export processing of plant
production. The primary mode for post harvest, pre-export preparation is expected to be irradiation treatment.
Criteria for individual environmental screening of each subproject proposal will be detailed in the Project MOP.
Although no activities under the Project are expected to have negative environmental impact, each STU will screen
subprojects according to technical and environmental criteria and, where necessary, use funds for technical assistance
to perform this screening. Each subproject proposal would include a simple environmental assessment, in the form of
a checklist, following a standard format as given in the MOP. Enforcement of environmental criteria will be ensured
via subproject supervision by the STU and the farmer associations.
7. Participatory approach (Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups)
Identification/ Preparation     Implementation         Operation
Farmer associations - animal and
plant producers will prepare and             COL                         COL                 COL
implement approved subprojects
Sanitary regulatory agencies - will      IS, CON, COL               IS, CON, COL         IS, CON, COL
establish norms and standards for
certification of agricultural export
products
Federal/ State/ Local Government         IS, CON, COL               IS, CON, COL         IS, CON, COL
[information sharing (IS); consultation (CON); and collaboration (COL)]



Project Appraisal Document                                                                      page 12
Country: Brazil                                                    Project Title: Animal and Plant Health Protection
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Project sustainability is best understood in the context of the three-step process required to eradicate animal and plant
diseases. In step one, disease and plague control is initiated; step two entails intensive efforts to move from disease
control to eradication; and step three culminates in the maintenance of disease-free zones. In all cases, step two in this
process is the most cost intensive. The proposed project specifically addresses activities under step two of agricultural
disease and plague eradication. Once step two is completed and disease eradication achieved, greater export market
access and higher quality production -- leading to greater value-added -- would be strong incentives for sustained
participation by farmers in step three (i.e. maintenance of disease-free areas). Maintenance of any newly opened
market niches will be directly contingent on the continued verification of minimum sanitary and phytosanitary
conditions (step three) as regulated by both importing countries and domestic authorities.
2. Critical Risks (see fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk             I Risk Rating                Risk Minimization Measure
Annex 1, cell "from Outputs to Objective"
Subprojects proposed and        Low        Each subproject proposal submitted will reflect local objectives
financed are ineffective in                 in agricultural health protection. Local farmers are keenly
improving animal and plant health           aware of the obstacles they face in ensuring healthy livestock
and plant production. With technical assistance where
indicated, these same farmers are best able to tailor specific
subprojects to their local needs.
Local farmer associations have   Low        Cross-fertilization from existing farmer associations which
difficulty defining, designing and          already have undertaken and successfully completed similar
implementing subproject activities          activities in their states (e.g. Mato Grosso, Goias, Santa
Catarina)
Annex 1, cell "from Components to Outputs"
Project information dissemination   Low     STUs in participating states will conduct information campaigns
by STU is not sufficient to create          at project inception to build awareness of SDA, agricultural
awareness and action on the part            health protection, and the key role of farmers in the delivery of
of farmer associations                      disease control activities.
Disbursements for procurement of  Low       Approval for subprojects is made at the STU level
subproject inputs are not timely
Overall Risk Rating  Low       I
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
*  Signing of a formal agreement between the Federal Government and at least three Participating States on the
execution of the Project
*  MAA adoption, through Portaria, of the Project Operational Manual already agreed with SDA and the Bank
*  Establishment of the PCU through MAA Portaria
2. Other: None



Project Appraisa Document                                                                         page 13
Country: Brazil                                                     Project Title: Animal and Plant Health Protection
H.      Readiness for Implementation
[X I    The Proj_ct Implementation Plan (Operational Manual) was appraised and will be finalized before
effectiveness of dte Loan.
J.      Compliance with Bank Policies
[X I    This Project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[ ,       &i    Qr    t-o Lz                                               _ _    _    _  _    _    _
Luis 0. toirolo             John Redwood, Acting Director          Gobind T. Nankani, Director
Task Teamn Leader               Sector Management Unit            Brazil Country Management Unit
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable
Development



Project Appraisal Document                                                                      page 14
Country: Brazil                                                    Project Title: Animal and Plant Health Protection
Annex 1
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary          Key Performance        Monitoring and Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Indicators
CAS objective                                                                  (Goal to Bank Mission)
1. Support ongoing        1. Proportion of sanitary   la. Certification of     1. Active participation of
structural reforms at     practices conducted        Disease-free              farmer associations in
the Federal and State     via public/ private        Agricultural              preparing and
levels of Government      partnerships               Production                presenting subprojects
>  OIE
=> Other
national/
international
agencies
lb. Specific surveys
2. Promote increased      la. Confirmation of        2. Declaration and/or     2a. Agricultural health
agricultural              effective disease          expansion of disease-     protection remains a
competitiveness and       protection via strong      free zones within         GOB priority
productivity in Brazil    agricultural monitoring    Brazil
by improving              and surveillance                                 2b. Brazil maintains its
agricultural sanitary     system                                               comparative advantage
practices and                                                                  in global agricultural
strengthening         2b. Compliance with non-                                 production
agricultural health       tariff regulations
monitoring and            governing Brazilian
surveillance systems.     agricultural exports
Project Development                                                            (Objective to Goal)
Objective:
I . Eliminate or          1 a. Eradication of FMD,    1. Serological monitoring  1. Human resources in
significantly control     Hog Cholera; control       and tests of cattle,      veterinary services
the incidence of          Newcastle disease;         swine and poultry to      provided by GOB are
animal and plant          control Salmonelosis,      detect viral activity     adequate for Project
diseases which            Mycoplasmosis;                                       execution
constitute trade          eradication of         2. Inspection of pest
barriers                  Bactrocera carambola,      sentinels to assess   2. Private sector is
Cydia pomonella,          presence of fruit          willing and capable of
mosca-das-frutas          plagues                    assuming a lead role in
design, preparation
lb. Economic benefit from   3. Number of FMD, Hog        and implementation of
increased attention to    Cholera and Newcastle      subprojects
agricultural health       outbreaks registered
protection                                       3. Timely provision of
4. Systematic reports         Federal and State



Project Appraisal Document                                                                        page 15
Country: Brazil                                                     Project Title: Animal and Plant Health Protection
from at least 80% of       cofmancing
2.  Strengthen the         2. Monitoring and              the Project States
Agricultural               Surveillance System        detailing disease      4.  Strong political will to
Monitoring and             generating credible        eradication and control    decentralize Federal
Surveillance System        data to verify disease     activities and results     activities in
control and eradication                               Agricultural Health
5. Project Supervision         Protection to State and
3.  Reorient the public     3. Level of                   Reports                    Local levels
sector role to a            decentralization
regulatory,                 obtained in activities
certification and           related to agricultural
inspection function         disease control and
and strengthen its          prevention; number of
coordinating and           subprojects
facilitating functions in  implemented by State
animal and plant            agencies
health protection
4.  Increase private sector  4. Number of subprojects
participation in the       implemented by
design and delivery of     farmer associations
animal and plant
health protection
activities
Project Outputs:                                                                  (Outputs to Objective)
1. Improved health and     1. Epidemiological and     1. Periodic reports from    1.  Subprojects proposed
well-being of Brazilian    Serological testing of     STUs                        and financed are
livestock                  livestock                                              effective in improving
2.  Annual report              animal and plant
2.  Improved quality of    2.  Inspection and             prepared by PCU             health
Brazilian plant            sampling of plant
production                 production             3.  Supervision Reports    2. Local farmer
associations are
3. Effective Agricultural   3.  Periodic reports                                      capable of defining,
Monitoring and             generated from                                         designing and
Surveillance System        Agricultural                                           implementing
able to verify animal      Monitoring and                                         subproject activities
and plant health status    Surveillance System
4.  Critical mass of       4. Number of training
capable public sector      events fnanced under
staff active in           the Project
public/private
partnerships for
agricultural health
protection
Project Components                                                               (Components to Outputs)
1. Animal and Plant       la. Subprojects            1. Monitoring and           1. Project information



Project Appraisal Document                                                                         page 16
Country: Brazil                                                     Project Title: Animal and Plant Health Protection
Health                     implemented by             Reporting by STUs           dissemination by STU
farmer associations,      from participating          is sufficient to create
Participating State        states                     awareness and action
Agencies and the                                      on the part of farmer
MAA to promote         2. Annual Reports from         associations
eradication of FMD,        PCU
Hog Cholera; control                              2.  Timely disbursements
of Newcastle disease    3.  Supervision Reports       for procurement of
in livestock and the                                  subproject inputs
eradication/control of
various plant plagues
and pests
(US$79.2 million)
2.  Technical Assistance,   2.  Capacity building for
Training and               SDA technical
Consultancies              personnel; purchase of
laboratory equipment,
vehicles, hardware and
software; feasibility
studies to investigate
potential export
markets; background
studies in support of
sanitary legislation
(US$4.4 million)
3. Administration,         3. Project promotion and
Monitoring and             dissemination,
Evaluation                 supervision and
consultancies for the
PCU (US$4.4 million)



Project Appraisal Document                                                                  page 17
Country: Brazil                                                 Project Title: Animal and Plant Health Protection
Annex 2
Detailed Project Description
Project Component A - Animal and Plant Health US$ 79.2 million (total cost of component)
This component would consist of subproject investments in animal and plant health financed by private, State,
Federal and Bank contributions. The focus of these subprojects would be Foot and Mouth Disease (FMD)
eradication in cattle; Hog Cholera eradication in swine; Newcastle disease, salmonelosis and mycoplasmosis control
in poultry; and eradication and/or control of plagues affecting apple, mango, melon and papaya production. While
selection of subprojects would be demand-driven, specific subprojects would most likely address
* compliance with international sanitary and phytosanitary agreements (e.g. WTO, MERCOSUL,
bilateral agreements),
* compliance with domestic sanitary and phytosanitary legislation,
* quality assurance through sanitary and phytosanitary safety of domestic agricultural products, and
* modernization of agricultural health protection activities.
For the purposes of identifying eligible subprojects, the individual farmgate of each producer will serve as a
boundary. Within the farmgate, individual farmers have historically (and will continue in the future) to bear the
cost of vaccination and other health related costs associated with animal and plant health protection. No individual
animal and plant health protection costs will be financed under the Project. Beyond the farmgate, subproject funds
would be available to finance a variety of associative activities designed to increase the health protection of animals
and plants in the Project area. Subprojects will be financed and implemented under three subcomponents (see Table
1).
Table 1: Subcomponents under Component A and Respective Subcomponent Costs (US$ million)
Subcomponent                             Subcomponent Cost
a.1 Subprojects implemented by farmer associations                          57.2
a.2 Subprojects implemented by State agencies                                13.2
a.3 Subprojects implemented by the Ministry of Agriculture (MAA)              8.8
TOTAL COST COMPONENT A:                               79.2
A Project Operational Manual (MOP), satisfactory to the Bank, will set forth rules, procedures and guidelines for
subproject implementation. Subprojects would meet technical, financial, economic and environmental criteria -- as
specified in the MOP.
a.1 Subprojects implemented by farmer associations will finance community activities at the producer level to
promote eradication of FMD in cattle; Hog Cholera in swine; and control of Newcastle Disease, salmonelosis and
mycoplasmosis in poultry. These subprojects will also finance community efforts to promote the eradication and/or
control efforts (varying with each plant type) for specific plagues affecting mango, melon, papaya and apple
production. Farmer associations would identify, prepare and present subproject proposals to the STU for technical
appraisal; final approval for subprojects would be given by the State Agricultural Health Committee (CEDA). The
maximum cost per subproject would not exceed US$350,000. Potential subprojects would include (a) promotion
and implementation of FMD vaccination campaigns, (b) animal and plant health education campaigns for farmers
and (c) monitoring and surveillance (e.g. documentation of outbreaks, emergency vaccinations, livestock transit
control). For subprojects financed under this subcomponent, the Bank will finance 50% of total subproject costs,
with farmer associations contributing 15% (either in cash or in-kind), State governments with 5% and the Federal
government with 30% (see Table 3).



Project Appraisal Document                                                                      page 18
Country: Brazil                                                    Project Title: Animal and Plant Health Protection
Specifically, activities will be undertaken to maintain the current FMD-free zone (with vaccination) in the states of
Rio Grande do Sul and Santa Catarina (Figure 1). These states have also been declared by the Brazilian government
as Hog Cholera-free. Eradication activities for both FMD and Hog Cholera would be extended to Parana (the
remaining state in the Southern livestock circuit) the Central West (Goias, Mato Grosso, Mato Grosso do Sul) and
the Southeast (Espirito Santo, Minas Gerais, Rio de Janeiro, Sao Paulo) livestock circuits, which border the
Southern livestock circuit, forming a buffer zone (zona tampao). In the FMD-free area, continued systematic and
compulsory vaccination of bovine herds will take place over a two year period, combined with the culling of
diseased animals, stringent animal transit controls and periodic serological monitoring in order to detect any
presence of FMD in susceptible cattle. Subproject funds would be used to promote full participation in these
campaigns by farmers in the Project area. In areas outside the FMD-free areas, farmer associations will be
encouraged (via information campaigns) to undertake subprojects aimed at achieving 100% vaccination coverage of
at-risk livestock. Subsidization of vaccination and related veterinary costs will be borne by the farnner associations
for some small farmers for whom such measures impose undo finance burden. In all other cases, the cost of
vaccination has been and will continue to be borne by private farmers.
Vaccination for Hog Cholera is prohibited in Brazil (Portaria no. 93, September 3, 1997); therefore, activities
would primarily consist of "stamping out" subprojects (i.e. sacrificing of infected and/or contaminated swine) over a
two year period to eliminate the disease from the swine herds in the Project states. Such stamping out activities
typically necessitate the formation of indemnization funds to compensate the farmer for any sacrificed animals,
usually up to 80% of the animal's value. In six states such funds already exist, with combined funds of over US$
8.0 million (Table 2). The Project would promote the creation of indemnization funds (100% resourced by farmer
association contributions) in the remaining Project states.
Table 2: Swine indemnization funds, by State, 1997
State                                 Indemnization Fund (US$ million)
Rio Grande do Sul                                                         2.509
Santa Catarina                                                            4.867
Parana                                                                    0.632
Minas Gerais                                                              0.172
Mato Grosso do Sul                                                        0.133
Mato Grosso                                                               0.044
Total Funds                                                               8.357
Finally, the Project will seek the control of Newcastle disease, Mycoplasmosis and Salmonelosis in poultry in the
Project states, through promotion of compulsory vaccination and biosecurity measures (e.g. improved hygiene,
isolation of poultry farms with incidence of Newcastle). Here, the private sector has already been extremely
effective in controlling these diseases through vertical integration of the production process. For example, the large
poultry processors in Brazil contract with local producers and provide all inputs to the production process (e.g.,
hatchlings, feed, vaccinations, other health related costs) as part of the contract agreement. Therefore, the Project
would primarily work to document such successes as part of the Agricultural Monitoring and Surveillance System
that will serve to verify disease eradication results.
Four fruit crops are targeted for improved health protection under the Project -- apple, mango, rnelon and papaya.
Ten states comprise the major producers of these fruits, from apples in Rio Grande do Sul and Santa Catarina to
melons in the Northeast state of Rio Grande do Norte (Figure 2). A number of plagues (pragas) afflict these crops;
the types of pests and diseases addressed by the subcomponent vary according to crop. In Rio Grande do Sul and
Santa Catarina, Cydia pomonella damages the quality of apple production and impedes apple exports to Japan and
other potential markets. In Bahia, Pernambuco and Rio Grande do Norte, the fruitfly (Anastrepha grandis) afflicts
melon production. Mango exports are also threatened by the fruitfly in Bahia, Pemambuco and Sao Paulo; as such,
control and eradication activities will also be implemented in these states. Both the fruitfly and meleira do
mamoeiro menace papaya production in Espirito Santo. While actual production losses in these fruits due to the
mentioned plagues has not been extensively quantified, losses in the range of 15% to 30% have been reported
(Fundagao Joao Pinheiro, 1990; Ribeiro 1981; MAARA, 1993). Possible subprojects would include (a) promotion



Project Appraisal Document                                                                      page 19
Country: Brazil                                                   Project Title: Animal and Plant Health Protection
and training for the expanded use of hot water bath and hot water brush in the post harvest, pre export preparation of
these fruits, (b) pest and plague eradication by means of host plant elimination (e.g. C. Pomenella in apple
production) and pheromone applications, (c) training and technical assistance for other specific techniques regarding
health protection and (d) surveys and studies. The use of chemical inputs (e.g. pesticides, insecticides) is not
envisioned under the Project.
Subproject Cycle: The subproject cycle would begin with the mobilization of existing and/or the formation of new
farmer associations to take part in Project activities. An information campaign would then stimulate Project
awareness, an understanding of Project objectives and the ways in which farner associations could participate.
Subsequently, these farmer associations would prepare and submit subproject proposals which reflect their
respective priorities in animal and plant health protection. Preparation of subprojects would follow a standard
format as given in the MOP. Following submission, each subproject proposal would be appraised by the STU and
evaluated on technical, environmental, economic and financial criteria, as specified in the MOP. For those
subprojects appraised by the STU and approved by CEDA, funds would be released to the farmer association
responsible for subproject implementation. Supervision of subproject implementation would be the responsibility of
the STU. The STU would also prepare a subproject implementation completion report for each completed
subproject, the information from which would be added to the Project Monitoring and Information System (MIS).
a.2 Subprojects implemented by Participating State agencies will fnance activities consistent with the States'
role in ensuring animal and plant health protection. These subprojects would be presented by State entities for the
execution of project activities primarily related to (a) training of veterinary auxiliaries, (b) investments in equipment
and materials for reference laboratories, in coordination with SDA, (c) activities related to the regulation,
supervision and certification of agricultural transit within state borders, (d) programs in agricultural health
education, (e) establishment of an information network for epidemiological monitoring and surveillance, (f)
establishment of emergency services to address disease outbreaks and (g) technical assistance and consultancies as
requested by the Participating State agencies. Examples of subprojects under this subcomponent include (a)
establishment of intrastate and interstate fixed and mobile transit inspection posts and (b) training courses and
workshops for state-level technical personnel. Under this subcomponent, the Bank would finance 50% of total
subproject costs, with 15% Federal Government cofinancing and 35% State government cofinancing (Table 3).
a.3 Subprojects implemented by the Ministry of Agriculture (MAA) would finance those activities which the
Federal government must undertake, either due to Brazilian law or international agreement. In most cases, these
activities include (a) the control of agricultural production into and out of maritime ports, airports and at interstate
and international border crossings; (b) quality control of vaccines and other medicines for use in animals and plants;
(c) certification of private laboratories which conduct routine surveillance testing; (d) production of reference
materials for monitoring and surveillance testing; and (e) maintenance of reference laboratories throughout Brazil.
This subcomponent would finance investments such as (a) establishment and equipping of additional interstate and
international transit posts to regulate the movement of livestock and plants; (b) establishment and equipping of
additional reference laboratories. The Bank would financed 50% of subproject costs under this component, with the
Federal Government financing the remaining 50%.
Table 3: Cofinancing Matrix: Subprojects under Component A (percentage of approved subproject.costs)
Subcomponent                    Bank         Federal         State          Farmer
Government   Government    Associations
a. I Farmer Association Subprojects            50            20             15              15
a.2 Participating State Agency Subprojects     50            15             35
a.3 Ministry of Agriculture Subprojects        50            50
The range of activities which encompasses animal and plant health protection will be undertaken as public/private
partnerships (Table 4). In most cases, strategic planning and coordination activities would be exercised by the
Federal government, while operational planning, supervision and implementation are shared by State and Municipal



Project Appraisal Document                                                                         page 20
Country: Brazil                                                     Project Title: Animal and Plant Health Protection
govermnmuets and the private sector. Such a process reinforces the move toward more decentralized responses in
animal and plant health protection in Brazil.
Table 4: Distribution of Health Protection Activities, Public and Private Sectors
________________________________________________ .______ Responsibilities
Activities                          Federal         State and   [   Private
Government       Municipal         Sector
Government
Inspection at maritime ports, airports, and international  SP/N/C/S/E
borders of animals, plants, and their respective products
Epidemiological surveillance
- national, international                        SP/N/C/S/E
- local                                                            OP/E/S             E
Prevention and eradication of exotic diseases and
sanitary emergencies                                    SP/N/C/S            E                E
Notification of disease and plague outbreaks               S/E             C/E               E
Control programs and disease eradication                SP/N/C/S           OP/E            OP/E
Inspection of inputs and plant and animal services
- production                                     SP/N/C/S/E
- commerce                                                            E
Diagnostic laboratories for animal and plant diseases
- reference                                    SP/OP/N/C/S/E
- routine                                                           OP/E            OP/E
Quality control of veterinary products, animal products,
animal feed and tests for biological residuals
- reference                                    SP/OP/N/C/S/E
- routine                                                            OP/E            OP/E
Production of immunogenes and biologic reagents
- reference                                    SP/OP/N/C/S/E
- routine                                                           OP/E            OP/E
Accreditation and monitoring of laboratories         SP/OP/N/C/S/E
SP: Strategic Planning; OP: Operational Planning; N: Normatization; C: Coordination; E: Execution
S: Supervision
Project Component B - Technical Assistance, Training and Consultancies US$ 4.4 million (total cost of
component)
This component would finance capacity-building activities for the SDA/ MAA to enhance its ability to meet the
quality standards required to increase Brazil's participation in agricultural export markets. Investments under this
component would support the Federal Inspection Service, within the MAA, which is required by law or by
importing countries to be responsible for monitoring food hygiene and ensuring compliance with sanitary and
phytosanitary standards for both domestic and export markets. Training activities would be conducted to better
prepare SDA's human resource base to effectively address animal and plant health protection in the targeted Project
areas. Essential equipment (e.g. vehicles, computers, software) would be purchased where needed to improve
infrastructure of the federal laboratories. Feasibility studies would be financed to determine the export potential of
selected agricultural products other than those already included in the Project.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                      page 21
Country: Brazil                                                   Project Title: Animal and Plant Health Protection
Project Component C - Project Administration, Monitoring and Evaluation US$ 4.4 million (total cost of
component)
This component would support overall project coordination, supervision and monitoring. It would finance field
supervision and monitoring (100% Bank financed) as well as the incremental operating costs of the SDA (20%
Bank financed) associated with day-to-day project activities e.g., promotion and dissemination of the Project and
consultancy services as needed by the PCU.
* Project Administration: STUs would appraise each subproject submitted based on (a) compliance with project
guidelines and technical, environment and cost criteria as specified in the MOP and (b) farmer association
capacity to meet cofinancing obligations and successfully implement and complete the subproject.
* Project Monitoring: Key variables from each stage of the subproject cycle (e.g. submission date, total
subproject cost, various cofinancing contributions, number of beneficiaries, locality, closing date) will be
compiled in a Project Management Information System (MIS) for use in preparing periodic reports (specified
below) using formats agreed with the Bank. The MIS will complement the existing databases maintained by the
SDA/ MAA. STUs will transmit data on a quartery basis to the PCU for analyses and subsequent submission
to the Bank. These quarterly data reports will also form the basis from which the prescribed semi-annual
supervision missions will be planned.
i Project Reporting: Annual reports for each Project year will be prepared and submitted to the Bank of such
scope and content as agreed with the Bank. The annual report will provide a review of physical performance
and implementation progress achieved for the previous calendar year. Supervision reports compiled by the
Task Manager would be filed at four month intervals during the first two years of the Project. A mid-term
review would be conducted in mid-2001 to document overall project performance and make recommendations
for future expansion.
Impact Evaluation: Apart from formal Project supervision and evaluation, impact evaluation will assess the degree
to which the Project has achieved significant and positive changes in the management of livestock and plant health
on the part of the producer. Quarterly data from the MIS on Project performance will be used to better understand
how the programmed interventions have contributed to improvements in animal and plant health protection in
Brazil. The Project will also forge stronger links with the private sector through partnerships with farmer
associations in the implementation of subprojects. This would be registered by evidence of continued, sustained
partnerships in at least 70% of farmer associations with the public sector in activities related to animal and plant
health protection. Furthermore, serological and epidemiological studies will confirm the health protection
achievements of the implemented subprojects.



Project Appraisal Document                                                            page 22
Country: Brazil                                             Project Title: Animal and Plant Health Protection
Brazil: Agricultural Regions
AMAZONA                                                             R O GRANDE
l AMAZO~~~~NA                                                      00H  D NORTE
J-A/ PARA   MARANHAO        CEARA       PARAIBA
JOINT AGRICULTURAL WEATHER FACILITYNOCAUNTINS D
F  ROND1: L                 C       B
MATO   ;,_5         ~~~~BAHIAL  ;   SRGIPE/
>      ~~~GROSSO        GA                          PERNAMBUCO
?CENTEP <ST                           7
S  MINAS 
GROSSO                                  E EAE SPIRITOO
>    / _v~~~~AULO                   10 DDEo
7   PRANA  
Center-South is an aggrebpt of  
the Centr-West, Southast, and                ,         CSTANRTIA
Sotth reghns.                        /     S 
K10 GRANDE DOS
SUL
JOINT AGRICULTURAL W1EATHE R FACILITY (NOAaVUSDA)
Figure 1: Livestock Circuits, Brazil



Project Appraisal Document                                                                    page 23
Country: Brazil                                                   Project Title: Animal and Plant Health Protection
BRAZIL - ANIMAL AND PLANT HEALT PROTECTION PROJECT                           MA I BIRD
AGRICULTURAL PRIORUTIES AREAS FOR PEST
PREVENTION, CONTROL AND ERRADICATION
_ } 4             v      .   ..tadktli. _.m
RDAII44l                         .,'
F               AMAZONA S    N FOr ut Pdi  RegonsT,EE
n z                     /~~~~~~~~~~~P PAR    MA NHAO{1 CEARAa             RAAIBA
o__                } -      [~~~~~~~~~~ BAHI      SRGIPE
MATO*MNOY.9H
-   NTES       
g g CATARINAS
/ R10 GRANDE t YGrRAIS
,0 SUL                 UTE a=823;i
x  X    Prgl}=~~~~la
Y       '~~~~~~~042m"
Figure 2: Seected FruitProducing Reions,RBrazi



Project Appraisal Document                                                                           page 24
Country: Brazil                                                       Project Title: Animal and Plant Health Protection
Project Performance Indicators and Implementation Plan
Project Components and Activities        Responsible          Unit       PYl      PY2       PY3       PY4      Total
Institution
A. Animal and Plant Health
Cattle vaccination rate                 Farmer Assoc./STU    %                85        90        95        95      -
Animal and Plant Transit Inspection at:
*   Fixed and Mobile Posts (new         STU                   Posts           38        42        52        42       174
construction and equipment)
Inspection of Veterinary Products       GOB/STU               Estab.        5,250     5,250    5,250      5,250    21,000
Outbreak Control
*   Outbreak surveillance rate          Farmer Assoc/STU      %              100       100       100
*   Strategic Vaccination rate          Farmer Assoc./STU    %               100       100       100
Seroepidemiological monitoring for FMD    Federal Government   Studies          1        2         2         2         7
using VIAA and/or EITB
Serological Monitoring for Hog Cholera    Federal Government   Tests            1        2         2         2         7
Serological monitoring for certification of                  Estab.           45       105       160        90       400
chicken farms
Farm-level Census of Animals            Farmer Assoc./STU    Farms         10,500    12,600    14,000    16,800    53,900
Sanitary Surveillance through farm visits    Farmer Assoc./STU    Farms    12,600    15,400    15,400    17,500    60,000
States w/ implemented monitoring systems  STU                %                10        40        80
Subproject proposals submitted          STU                  Proposals        70       180       220        25       620
Farmer association subprojects approved    STU                Subproject      21        77        59        21       178
s
State Agency subprojects approved       STU                  subprojects       7        10        14         7        38
Plant Transit Inspection Posts constructed    GOB             Posts            17       17        21        17        72
and/or refurbished
Phytosanitary Certificates Issued       GOB                   Certificates   52,500    52,500    52,500    52,000   210,000
Plague Risk Assessments Completed       GOB                   Analyses        10        15        15         10       50
Census of Rural Properties for selected  State Gov.           % total         30        60        90
fruit crops under the Project
Pfiytosanitary Surveys (Plague detection)    State Gov.       Survey           5        10        10         5        30
Plague monitoring in low risk and "free"    State Gov.; Priv.  # mon.           5        8         8         9        30
zones                                   Sector
Control of residues in imported and     GOB                  Lab. Tests      140       140       140       140       560
exported fruits
Plant plague outbreak control rate      State Gov.; Priv.     %               70        70        70        70          -
Sector
B. Technical Assistance, Training and Consultancies
Trained professional staff in animal and  SDA, Priv. Sector   People         210       315       455       175      1,155
plant sanitary defense
Trained field and laboratory staff, small    SDA, Priv. Sector  People       350       770      1,050      525      2,695
and medium farners
Completed consultancies                 SDA                   Staff           15        25        25        20        85
months
National and International Forums       SDA                   Events            2         2         2         2         8
Staff            5         5         5         5        20
C. Administration, Supervision, Evaluation
State Committees Formed                 SDA                  Committee         3         8         3                  14
Field Supervisions of Subprojects                                              2         2         2         2         8
Operational Project MIS                                                         1         -                   -        I
Mid-term review                                                                0          1        0                    1



Project Appraisal Document                                                           page 25
Country: Brazil                                            Project Title: Animal and Plant Health Protection
Annex 3
Estimated Project Costs
(US$ million)
Project Component                                                  Local    Foreign      Total
1. Animal and Plant Health
a. 1 Subprojects implemented by farmer associations                   37.4        9.3       46.7
a.2 Subprojects implemented by State agencies                          9.4        2.3        11.7
a.3 Subprojects implemented by the Ministry of Agriculture (MAA)       5.9         1.5        7.4
2. Consultancies, Studies and Training                                 1.1        1.1        2.2
3. Administration, Monitoring, Evaluation                              1.5        2.2        3.7
Total Baseline Cost                                                  55.3        16.4       71.7
Physical Contingencies                                              5.9         1.8        7.7
Price Contingencies                                                 6.6        2.0         8.6
Total Project Cost                                                    67.8       20.2       88.0



Project Appraisal Document                                                                      page 26
Country: Brazil                                                    Project Title: Animal and Plant Health Protection
Annex 4
Economic Analysis
Introduction
Securing sustained improvements in animal and plant health protection in Brazil is a good which accrues not only to
private farmers but also to society at large. Government at all levels - Federal, State and local - is responsible for
monitoring and evaluating the safety and quality of the food supply, which justifies the use of public funds for
promoting the eradication of various diseases and plagues afflicting Brazil's livestock and plant production.
Without strong enforcement, a moral hazard tendency arises; if no mechanism exists to confirm the FMD-free
nature of cattle or the plague-free state of a given fruit (neither of which may be observable to the consumer or
downstream purchaser), the farmer may have an incentive not to comply with compulsory sanitary and
phytosanitary practices. The private sector is uniquely positioned to implement and sustain effective sanitary and
phytosanitary interventions. The principal objective of the proposed Project is the removal of sanitary and
phytosanitary export barriers. To this end, the private sector is already investing significantly in health protection;
for example, annual private investments in FMD vaccinations total US$155 million. Nonetheless, the potential
private gains under the Project imply the need for a level of private sector financial contribution toward Project
implementation, which has already been incorporated into the Project through the mandatory minimum 15 percent
counterpart funding required for each subproject implemented by eligible farmer associations (subcomponent a. 1).
Investments under the Project will be for associative activities related to improved animal and plant health. Private
costs inside the farmgate (e.g., FMD vaccinations, insect traps for plant plague control) have been and will continue
to be borne by individual farmers. As such, these costs are not included in the economic analysis. Successful
completion of subprojects would contribute to the achievement of additional disease-free areas, which in turn would
eliminate the recurrent expense of these vaccinations and pest traps inter alia to control diseases and plagues in
animals and plants. Such foregone expenses are included in the economic analysis as incremental benefits. The
cost of animal and plant disease is a function of (a) losses due to the presence of disease and (b) the out-of-pocket
expenses incurred to treat and/or prevent the occurrence of disease. Benefits which flow from these investments can
be categorized as (a) reduced animal and plant losses through disease eradication, (c) foregone costs associated with
disease and plague control, (c) improved environment due to elimination of agrotoxics for plant plague control, (d)
greater access to export markets through internationally recognized certification of disease-free agricultural
production, and (e) increased productivity of livestock and plant production through higher quality capital stock.
Methodology
The impact of the Project would be three-fold:
*  eliminate disease-related losses in both animals and plants through interventions aimed at eradicating FMD and
Hog Cholera in cattle and swine, respectively; controlling the occurrence of NCD, Mycoplasmosis and
Salmonelosis in poultry production; eradicating C. pomonela affecting apple production; protecting the plague-
free area of melon production in Rio Grande do Norte; and controlling the incidence of plagues affecting
mango and papaya production in Pernambuco and Bahia (Table I)
*  eliminate the expenses associated with disease control by establishing and expanding disease-free zones
* increase Brazil's access to international agricultural markets through improvements in its agricultural
monitoring and surveillance system
Quantification and discounting of these benefits, when compared to discounted Project costs, can aid in deciding the
effectiveness of the investments undertaken. An aggregate benefit-cost analysis was completed for the Project,
applying the following assumptions and parameters:



Project Appraisal Document                                                                      page 27
Country: Brazil                                                   Project Title: Animal and Plant Health Protection
Cattle: The Brazilian herd was disaggregated by age class and function. Morbidity and mortality rates were
obtained from the Ministry of Agriculture in order to calculate ex ante production losses. Estimates of changes in
morbidity and mortality rates were then used to calculate ex post production losses and incremental Project benefits.
Estimates are calculated for (a) milk and meat losses due to morbidity and (b) animal losses due to mortality. Herd
growth is static over the period of analysis (i.e., no growth). FMD vaccination cost is estimated at US$1.20 per
head.
Swine. Hog Cholera vaccination is prohibited in Brazil; infected or exposed animals are therefore destroyed.
Indemnization funds have been established to defray the investment losses to private hog farmers incurred due to
extermination; these funds are fully maintained with private contributions. For the purposes of this analysis, only
the capital losses due to swine extermination are considered in the benefit-cost analysis.
Poultry: In the Brazilian context, Newcastle disease, salmonelosis and mycoplasmosis cannot be eradicated, only
controlled through preventive vaccinations and strong biosecurity measures. The poultry industry has already
advanced its biosecurity through vertical integration of the production cycle. Therefore, the benefits which accrue
to the poultry industry are assumed to be greater access to export markets achieved through advances in the
monitoring and surveillance system under the Project.
Fruits: Phytosanitary costs associated with plague control and prevention would be eliminated with the successful
eradication of pests affecting apple, mango, melon and papaya production. Estimates of per hectare phytosanitary
costs are calculated and extrapolated to the aggregate producing regions for these four fruit crops.
In both the livestock and fruit sectors, conservative estimates were derived for expected incremental exports due to
improvements in monitoring and surveillance and subsequent international certification of disease-free zones. A ten
year Project horizon is assumed in calculating net benefits.
Table 1: Major health risks and objectives, selected agricultural production, Brazil
Production                Major Health Risk             Health Objective
Cattle         Foot and Mouth Disease             Eradication
Swine          Hog Cholera                        Eradication
Poultry        Newcastle Disease                   Control
Salmonelosis, Mycoplasmosis        Control
Apple          Cydia pomenela                     Eradication
Melon          Melon fly                           Prevent reinfestation
Source: Ministry of Agriculture
Internal Rate of Return Calculation
An Internal Economic Rate of Return (IERR) for the Project is estimated at 35% and a benefit-cost ratio of 2.9. The
Net Present Value of incremental costs incurred under the Project is US$139.2 million. Incremental costs include
those investment and recurrent costs associated with Project implementation, provision for replacement resulting
from depreciation and Operation and Maintenance Costs. The Net Present Value of incremental benefits sums to
US$398.8 million. Incremental benefits considered in the analysis are (a) increased cattle production due to
successful FMD eradication, (b) reduced costs of FMD vaccinations, (c) increased swine production due to Hog
Cholera eradication, (d) foregone phytesanitary costs due to plague eradication in apple, mango, melon and papaya
and (e) incremental exports attributable to improvements in the monitoring and surveillance system. Furthermore,
only the portion of incremental benefits which can conservatively be attributed to the Project is considered in
estimating the IERR and NPV.
Increased Cattle Production: Cattle production losses due to FMD are a function of (a) herd size, (b) morbidity and
mortality rates and (c) distributional characteristics of the herd. FMD production losses calculated for benefit-cost
analysis include milk and beef loss due to morbidity and animal capital loss due to mortality. These losses were
estimated by applying "with project" and "without projecf' scenarios to identify the incremental benefits (Table 2).



Project Appraisal Document                                                                  page 28
Country: Brazil                                                 Project Title: Animal and Plant Health Protection
The benefits accrued would be those production losses foregone as a result of successful FMD eradication. Other
FMD losses not included in the model (but believed to be significant) are reproductive losses, which would also be
foregone as a result of successful FMD eradication. Without the project, FMD losses totaled US$216.3 million;
with Project, these losses were reduced to US$18.8 million.
Table 2: Quantification of Production Losses, Cattle, Brazil, model assumptions
Herd Size:                    120,371,342 head (South, Southeast, Center West regions; 11 states total)
Herd composition:                                        Percent
*  Bullocks                                                 15
*  Calves (male)                                            25
*  Calves (female)                                          20
*  Cows                                                     33
*  Steers                                                    5
*  Bulls                                                     2
Pre-Project    Post-Project
FMD Morbidity rate            0.059            0.011
FMD Mortality rate            0.0009          0.00007
Reduced FMD vaccination costs: At present, 83% of the Brazilian cattle herd is under FMD control through twice
yearly vaccination. In the Project area, eleven states have reported FMD vaccination coverage of 100% (Table 3),
although in view of current FMD occurrence, this full coverage might be overstated. These states have not
registered an outbreak of FMD for at least one year (longer in the case of Santa Catarina and Rio Grande do Sul,
where FMD-free certification has been achieved). With the annual cost of FMD vaccination at US$1.20 per head,
aggregate vaccination cost for the Project area totals US$144.4 million annually, all of which is borne by the private
cattle producer. Under the Project, both Rio Grande do Sul and Santa Catarina would continue with zero outbreak
occurrence and gain FMD-free without vaccination status by the year 2002, thereby eliminating an annual
vaccination outlay of US$17.5 million. It is expected that Parana, as well as the Southeast and Central West states,
would achieve this FMD-free without vaccination status by the year 2004. Achievement for these states of FMD-
free (without vaccination) would eliminate an additional aggregate vaccination cost of US$118.2 million.
Table 3: FMD Vaccination, Coverage and Cost, 1996
State         Under FMD Program            Annual Cost (US$)
(heads)
Rio G. do Sul                   11,989,495                 14,387,394
Santa Catarina                   2,600,000                  3,120,000
Parana                           9,128,178                 10,953,814
Mato Grosso                     14,395,094                 17,274,113
Mato G. do Sul                  22,244,427                 26,693,312
Goias                           15,409,788                 18,491,745
Minas Gerais                    21,066,183                 25,279,420
Sao Paulo                       12,649,774                 15,179,729
Espirito Santo                   1,805,162                  2,166,194
Rio de Janeiro                   1,817,910                  2,181,492
Bahia                            7,265,331                  8,718,397
ITOTALS                         120,371,342                144,445,610
Source: Ministry of Agriculture and Supply
Increased Hog Production: Quantification of losses due to Hog Cholera follows a similar methodology as that used
for FMD. Herd size is total swine population in the Project area. Mortality and morbidity rates are taken from data
provided by the Ministry of Agriculture and applied to the swine population across the Project area. Table 4 shows



Project Appraisal Document                                                                      page 29
Country: Brazil                                                   Project Title: Animal and Plant Health Protection
the assumptions used to calculate Hog Cholera losses. It is important to note that Brazilian law now prohibits
vaccination for Hog Cholera (Portaria no. 93, September 3, 1997). The principal activities to eradicate Hog
Cholera will therefore be stamping out (i.e. swine elimination) camnpaigns where outbreaks occur and when infected
animals are detected. The Project would encourage the establishment of indemnization funds (i.e. self insurance
funds) to compensate those farmers who lose swine due to stamping out. At present, six states have established
indemnization funds (see Annex 2, Table 2).
Table 4: Quantification of Swine Production Losses, Brazil, model assumptions
Total Swine Herd under the Project:             21,360,588 (Southern, Southeastern, Central West Region)
Growing stock   50%
Reproducers     7%
Finished swine  43%
Swine Lifespan until slaughter (avg)            10 months
Pre-Project                 Post-Project
Morbidity Rate:                                 0.0415                           0.000
Mortality Rate:                                 0.00352                          0.000
Losses from Hog Cholera can be classified as (a) loss of reproductive stock, (b) mortality losses and (c) quarantine
losses. Annualized aggregate Hog Cholera losses are estimated at US$50.3 million for the Project swine herd.
Reproductive losses -- defined as the sum of replacement cost and market value for growing stock sacrificed due to
Hog Cholera infection -- comprise 60% of total Hog Cholera losses quantified. These losses would be foregone
following the successful eradication of Hog Cholera.
Foregone Phytosanitary Costs: In the case of apple, mango, melon and papaya, successful eradication of plagues
such as fruit fly and carambola fly would eliminate the use of certain pesticides and insecticides, decreasing total
production costs and reducing environmental damage due to chemical use. Phytosanitary costs are a substantial
component in the overall production of apple, mango, melon and papaya. A variety of fungicides, insecticides and
pesticides are applied throughout the production cycle for each of these crops.  For these four crops, a total of
123,590 hectares are under cultivation. Per hectare phytosanitary costs range from US$658 for melon to US$1,455
for apple (Table 6). The annualized cost for phytosanitary interventions in these four fruit crops totals US$13.4
million.
Table 6: Phytosanitary Costs, selected fruit crops, Brazil
Crop     Production    Land Under       Phytosanitary    Total Phytosanitary   Annualized Phytosanitary
Horizon      Cultivation         Costs               Cost                   Cost
(years)      (hectares)      (US$/hectare)          (US$)                  (US$)
Apple              20           26,754         $1,454.65               38.918                     1.946
Mango              20           41,131           774.93                31.873                     1.594
Melon               1            7,410           658.27                 4.878                     4.878
Papaya             20           26,329          1,116.33               29.392                     1.470
TOTALS                         101,624         $4,004.18              105.061                     9.888
Source: FNP Consultoria, 1997
Incremental Exports
The Project would contribute to greater access to export markets for Brazilian livestock and fruit production.
Brazil's beef and poultry sectors are already highly price competitive in terms of wholesale producer prices.
Furthermore, evidence suggests that both beef and poultry are also highly competitive in terms of product quality
(Towa State, 1997). Beef exports are 5% of total production while poultry exports amount to 15% of total poultry
production. Achieving FMD-free (without vaccination) status -- first in Rio Grande do Sul and Santa Catarina and
later in the Project states of the Central West and Southeast -- would permit increased beef exports. While vertical



Project Appraisal Document                                                                     page 30
Country: Brazil                                                   Project Title: Animal and Plant Health Protection
integration in the poultry industry already minimizes the spread of Newcastle disease, poultry exports would
nonetheless benefit from the stronger monitoring and surveillance system achieved under the Project. Many
variables in addition to price and quality play a role in export markets (e.g. consumer preferences, changes in the
competitive position of other countries, exchange rate fluctuation, input markets); nevertheless, conservative
estimates would show a 10% increase in both beef and poultry exports by the end of the ten-year period of analysis.
Sensitivity Analysis
The IERR for the Project is quite robust when subjected to sensitivity analysis. A 10% increase in incremental
Project costs would reduce the IERR to 33% while a 10% decrease in Project benefits would reduce the IERR to
32%. If costs increased and benefits decreased simultaneously by 10%, the effect would be to lower the IERR to
30%. Given that two-thirds of the Project benefits are related to FMD eradication, delays in realizing these benefits
could significantly impact the IERR. Lagging FMD eradication benefits by one year yields an IERR of 31%; when
these benefits are lagged by two years, the IERR decreases to 27%. Finally, even if the Project-benefits are limited
to (a) benefits from reduced FMD vaccination costs and (b) export growth, the Project benefit-cost ratio and IERR
remain satisfactory at 1.2 and 13%, respectively.
Table 7: Sensitivity Analysis
Scenario                       Benefit-Cost Ratio           IERR
Increase incremental costs by 10%                         2.6                    33%
Decrease incremental benefits by 10%                      2.6                    32%
Decrease benefits and increase costs by 10%               2.3                    30%
Lag FMD eradication benefits by one year                  2.6                    31%
Lag FMD eradication benefits by two years                 2.3                    27%
Apply only benefit from reduced FMD vaccination           1.2                    13%
and export growth



Project Appraisal Document                                                        page 31
Country: Brazil                                          Project Title: Animal and Plant Health Protection
Annex 5
Financial Summary
Years Ending June 30
(US$ million)
| 2000  2001  2002  2003  2004  Total  2005  2006  2007
Project Costs
Investment Costs           13.3  17.6  14.3  11.3   5.2   61.7   0.0   0.0   0.0
Recurrent Costs             5.7   7.5   6.1   4.8   2.2   26.3   1.8   1.8   1.8
TOTAL                    19.0  25.1  20.4  16.1   7.4    88.0   1.8   1.8   1.8
Financing Sources
IBRD (50%/O)                9.5  12.5  10.2   8.1   3.7   44.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
Federal Government (20%)   3.8   5.0   4.1   3.2   1.5   17.6   0.4   0.4   0.4
State Government (15%)      2.9   3.8   3.0   2.4   1.1    13.2   0.3   0.3   0.3
Farmer Associations (15%)   2.8   3.8   3.1   2.4   1.1    13.2   1.1   1.1   1.1
TOTAL                    19.0  25.1  20.4  16.1   7.4   88.0   1.8   1.8   1.8



Project Appraisal Document                                                                  page 32
Country: Brazil                                                 Project Tide: Animal and Plant Health Protection
Annex 6
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
Procurement for works, goods and services procured under subprojects costing the equivalent of
US$350,000 or less and procured by local farmer associations would be accomplished through direct contracting
and under subproject agreements signed between the State Technical Unit and the respective farmer association.
This procurement method is justified, given that (a) farmer associations are uniquely qualified to choose health care
inputs for their livestock and plant production, (b) the public good aspect of improved livestock and plant health
(e.g. increased food quality) is achieved at lower cost through partnership with private sector associations and (c)
diversity of individual herd size, local conditions, transport and agricultural health services delivery imply a strong
need for local level participation in the planning and implementation of agricultural health protection activities. In
cases where the farmer association lacks capacity to purchase needed equipment and materials for the intended
subproject, the State Technical Unit would make purchases on behalf of the farmer association, packaging the
procurement for several subprojects where possible. Procurement by the State Technical Unit would follow: (a)
National Shopping procedures for goods and for small works under lump sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the
basis of at least three price quotations (under US$100,000 and up to an aggregate amount of US$3.0 million for
goods and under US$350,000 up to an aggregate of US$5.0 million for works); or (b) National Competitive Bidding
-- NCB (over US$100,000 for goods and over US$350,000 for works). For NCB, the standard bidding documents
agreed between the Bank and the Federal Government of Brazil will be used.
Prior review of procurement documentation by the Bank would be made for all NCB contracts and for a random
sample of about 25% of all contracts procured under subprojects implemented by STUs. In addition, an audit of the
contracts procured under direct contracting would be conducted during every year of the Project, under terms of
reference agreed during appraisal, to determine the cost efficiency of this procurement method. Using project MIS
data, cost comparisons of similar subprojects would detect any possible procurement problems and determine
whether prices paid under direct contracting procurement were reasonable. An annual performance evaluation
would verify the physical implementation of subprojects and analyze procurement issues. During regular Bank
supervision, contracts signed under subprojects would be reviewed at random through field visits and subproject
documentation review.
Except for procurement of services under subprojects costing the equivalent of US$350,000 or less, consultant
services to (a) provide technical assistance and training to agricultural health protection personnel and (b) conduct
feasibility studies, would be procured in accordance with Bank guidelines for the use of consultants. Contracts,
short lists, and selection procedures for technical assistance and training would receive prior review by the Bank
when the value of the contract is US$100,000 or more for consulting firms or US$50,000 or more for individual
consultants. Also, all sole-source contracts would be subject to prior review. In addition, all consultant terms of
reference would be subject to Bank prior review.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                  page 33
Country: Brazil                                                 Project Title: Animal and Plant Health Protection
Annex 6, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements'
(in US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method2                    Total Costs
Expenditure Category         NCB         Local        Direct        Other         (including
Shopping    Contracting                  contingencies)
1. Civil Works                     3.73        3.64         24.15                         31.4
(1.8)       (1.8)        (12.0)                       (15.6)
2. Goods                           0.73        2.24         36.15                         39.0
(0.4)       (1.1)        (18.0)                       (19.5)
3. Consulting Services, Studies     -           -                         17.6            17.6
and Project Administration                                                (8.8)           (8.8)
Total                           4.4          5.9          60.1         17.6            88.0
(2.2)       (2.9)        (30.1)        (8.8)           (44.0)
Totals include taxes and contingencies
2 Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan
Procurement >US$100,000 for goods and US$350,000 for works by STUs
4 Procurement <US$100,000 by STUs
Subprojects implemented by Farmer Associations
Annex 6, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure           NCB          Local Shopping      Direct        Other    Contracts subject to
Category                                           Contracting                  Prior Review
1. Works
by STU               > US$350,000   <US$350,000 (up                              *  All NCB
to a total of
US$3.0 million)
2. Goods and Services
By STU                 >US$100,00      <US100,000 (up                               *  All NCB
to a total of
US$5.0 million)
Works and Goods                                      <US$350,000                *  25% of the
and Consultant Services                                                                 subprojects
Procured under
Farmer Association
subprojects
3. Services            N/A             N/A                              All         *  Firms:
>US$100,00
*  Individuals:
>US$50,000
*  All Sole Source
*  All TORs



Project Appraisal Document                                                                 page 34
County: Brazil                                                 Project Title: Animal and Plant Health Protection
Disbursement
The proposed Bank loan would be disbursed over a period of four years. The Project is expected to be completed
by August 31, 2003. The allocation of loan proceeds by disbursement category is shown in Table C.
The MAA would open a Special Account in US dollars with a commercial bank. The authorized allocation required
for this Project would be equivalent to the Bank-financed expenditures for six months of project implementation
(about US$6.0 million). Initial expenditures under the Project will be covered by the MAA using its own resources.
After the initial deposit of the authorized amount in the Special Account, funds for approved subprojects would be
transferred directly to the farmer associations. Disbursements would be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure (SOEs), except for goods and works exceeding US$350,000 equivalent where contracted by farmer
associations or US$100,000 equivalent where contracted by STUs; contracts with consulting frms above
US$100,000 equivalent; and with individuals above US$50,000. The information required for the compilation of
SOEs would be maintained by the State Technical Unit in the Project Management Information System data base.
All SOEs would be transmitted from the STU to the Bank in Washington with copies to the Bank Recife Office and
the MAA for information.
Beneficiary contributions to subproject investments would be defined in the agreement (conv6nio) between the STU
and the farmer association. This contribution would be computed as part of the counterpart finance of the Project.
Simple, standard records, whose format would be included in the Project Operational Manual, would be completed
by a designated representative of the respective farmer association and would be used to record cash contributions,
materials and labor inputs. These records would be subject to project audit procedures.
The financial management system of the MAA was reviewed during appraisal for compliance with ODI 1.02
concerning Financial Management and was found to be satisfactory. An action plan to make this project eligible for
Project Management Reporting (PMR) has been agreed with the Borrower, and its implementation would be
completed within four months of project effectiveness.
Annex 6, Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category            Amount        Bank        Allocation of
(US$ m.)    Financing    Loan Proceeds
(%j         (US$ m.)
1.  Subprojects implemented by Farmer          54.3        50.0             27.2
Associations
2. Subprojects implemented by STUs              12.5        50.0              6.3
3. Subprojects implemented by MAA                8.4        50.0              4.2
4.  Training                                     2.4        50.0              1.2
5.  Technical Assistance and Special             1.8       100.0              1.8
Studies
6.  Incremental Costs for PCU                    4.2        20.0              0.8
7.  Unallocated                                  4.4                          2.5
TOTAL                                          88.0                         44.0



Project Appraisal Document                                                          page 35
Country: Brazil                                           Project Title: Animal and Plant Health Protection
Annex 7
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                       Planned               Actual
197.8                 110.8
B. Project Schedule                              Planned               Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)         6                      7
First Bank mission (identification)             02/09/98               02/09/98
Appraisal mission departure                     06/01/98               06/01/98
Negotiations                                    07/27/98               08/03/98
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   12/31/98
Prepared by: Secretariat for Agricultural Health Protection/ Ministry of Agriculture and Supply
(SDA/ MAA)
Project Preparation and Appraisal Team:
Luis Coirolo (Team Leader, LCSES)
Raimundo Caminha (LCSRE)
Edward Bresnyan (LCSES)
Carlos Alberto C. De Albuquerque (Consultant)
Flavio Marinho (Consultant)
Ilto Morandini (Consultant)
Peer Reviewer:
Comelis de Haan (Livestock Advisor, RDV; Chairman, Animal Resources Bank-wide Thematic
Group)



Project Appraisal Document                                                                   page 36
Country: Brazil                                                  Project Title: Animal and Plant Health Protection
Annex 8
Documents in the Project File
A. Project Imnplementation Plan
1. Draft Project Operational Manual
B. Bank Staff Assessments
1. Project Economic and Financial Analysis
2. Environmental Data Sheet
C. Government of Brazil Documents
1. Carta Consulta (February 1998)
C. Background Documents
1. Relatorio Final: Projeto de Controle das Doencas dos Animais (Contrato de Emprestimo 2864-BR).
Ministry of Agriculture and Supply, Secretariat of Agricultural Defense, Department of Animal Defense.
Fall 1997
2. Plano Diretor de Reforma da Politica Sanitaria Brasiliera (Executive Summary). Ministry of Agriculture
and Supply, Secretariat of Agricultural Defense. November 1996.
3. Astudillo, Vicente. 1991. Fortalecimiento de la Atenci6n veterinaria y de los Sistems de Informaci6n y
Vigilancia a Nivel Local. Centro Panamericano de Fiebre Aftosa (OPS/ OMS)
4. Astudillo, Vicente. 1996. "Participation Social na Erradicacao da Febre Aftosa na America do Sul."
International conference on the prespectives for the Erridation of FMD in the Next Millenium. Brasilia.
5. Ellis, Peter R. 1972. "An Economic Evaluation of the Swine Fever Eradication Programe in Great Britain
Using Cost-Benefit Analysis." University of Reading, Department of Agriculture.
6. Mclnerney, J.P., Howe K.S., Schepers, J.A. 1992. "A Framework for the Economic Analysis of Disease
in Farm Livestock. " Preventive Veterinary Medicine, 13: 137-154.
7. Mclnemey, John. 1996. "Old Economics for New Problems-Livestock Disease: Presidential Address."
Journal ofAgricultural Economics, 47: 295-314.
8. King, L..J. 1988. "National Animal Health Monitoring System in the USA: A model Information System
for International Animal Health." Rev. Sci. Tech., Off Int. Epiz. 7: 583-588.
9. Ministry of Agriculture, GOB. 1982. Estudo de Perdas de Producdo e Produtividade em gado com Febre
Aftosa.
10. Bennet, R.M. 1992. "The Use of 'Economic' quantitative modeling techniques in livestock health and
disease-control decision making: a review." Preventive Veterinary Medicine, 13: 63-76.
11. Patrick, I.W., D.T. Vere. "Ex ante Assessment of the Returns to Livestock Disease Control in Indonesia."
Agricultural Economics, 11: 83-91.
12. Irvin, A.D. 1997. "A Holistic approach to Animal Health Research: Increasing Livestock Production
under Disease Challenge." Outlook on Agriculture, 26: 267-272.
13. FAO. 1998. "Europe Vulnerable to Livestock Epidemics, Warning delivered at FAO Press Conference."
February 17.
14. Henry, Richard, Graeme Rothwell. 1995. The World Poultry Industry. IFC Global Agribusiness Series.
15. Legislative Bill (Portaria no. 93, September 3, 1997) concerning the control and eradication of Hog
Cholera.
16. Legislative Decree no. 30, 1994, concerning acceptance of GATT, Uruguay Round.
17. SDA/ MAA. 1998. Impactos ambientais do componente vegetal. Working Paper



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                       page 37
Country: Brazil                                                               Project Title: Animal and Plant Health Protection
Annex 9
Table A: Status of Bank Group Operations in Brazil
IBRD Loans in the Operations Portfolio
Difference
Between           Last PSR
Original Amount in US$ Millions        expected         Supervision
and actual         Rating b/
Disbursements
a/
Project ID   Fiscal  Borrower               Purpose              IBRD    IDA  Cancel   Undisb.   Orig.         Frm      Dev      Imp
Year                                                                                           Rev'd    Obi      Prog
Number of Closed Projects: 194
Active Projects
BR-PE-6414     1989   COMGAS, SP NTRL GAS DIST                     94.00  0.00      0.00       .04       .02    0.00      S        S
BR-PE-6370     1989   GOB          NE IRRI JAIBA                   71.00  0.00      0.00      1.25      1.27    0.00      S        S
BR-PE-6473     1990   SC STATE    LND MGMT II-S. CATAR             33.00   0.00     0.00      1.09      1.13    1.13      S        S
BR-PE-6453     1990   GOB          NE IRRIG I                    210.00   0.00    69.00      18.61    87.62   18.62       S        S
BR-PE-6505     1992   GOB          MATO GROSSO NAT RES           205.00  0.00       0.00     62.49    62.49    0.00       S        S
BR-PE-6368     1992   GOB          WATER SECTOR MODERNI           250.00  0.00      0.00      3.25      3.25    0.00      S        S
BR-PE-6547     1993   GOB          METRO TRANSP. RIO              128.50  0.00      0.00       .29       .30    0.00      S        S
BR-PE-6541     1993   SP/PA STS. WTR Q/PLN(SP/PARANA)             245.00  0.00      9.30     30.78    40.06   -6.24       S        S
BR-PE-6540     1993  MG STATE    WTR Q/PLNIMINAS GERA             145.00  0.00      5.00      2.29      7.28    2.28      5        U
BR-PE-6558     1994   GOB          PARANA BASIC EDUC               96.00  0.00      0.00     19.44      9.43    0.00      S        S
BR-PE-6555     1994   ST GOVTS    STE HWY MGT II                  220.00   0.00    36.00      6.20    33.19    6.19       S        S
BR-PE-6543     1994   MG STATE    M. GERAIS BASIC EDUC            150.00  0.00      0.00     20.31    13.30    0.00       S        S
BR-PE-6524     1994   MG STATE    MINAS MNC.DEVELOPMT             150.00  0.00      5.00     29.44    34.41   29.41       S        S
BR-PE-6522     1994   ES STATE    ESP.SANTO WATER                 154.00  0.00      4.00     72.97    70.36    3.13       U        U
BR-PE-6452     1994   MIN. EDCN   NE BASIC EDUC III               206.60  0.00      0.00     23.63    20.13    0.00       S        S
BR-PE-38885    1995   GOB          RURAL POV.-SERGIPE              36.00  0.00      0.00     11.37       .07    0.00      S        S
BR-PE-38884    1995   GOB          RURAL POV.- CEARA               70.00   0.00     0.00     22.41      -.19    0.00      S        S
BR-PE-38882    1995  GOB           RECIFE M.TSP                   102.00  0.00      0.00     71.95    43.97    0.00       S        S
BR-PE-35717    1995   GOB          RURAL POV. (BAHIA)             105.00  0.00      0.00     43.12    12.14    0.00       S        S
BR-PE-6564     1995   GOB          BELO H M.TSP                    99.00  0.00      0.00     44.07    28.86    0.00       S        S
BR-PE-6436     1995   CE STATE    CEARA UR.DV/WATER CO            140.00  0.00      0.00     61.27    51.25  -20.75       S        S
BR-PE-40028    1996   GOB          RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURG           350.00  0.00    50.00      37.42    37.42    0.00       S        S
BR-PE-37828    1996   PA STATE    IPR)R.POVERTY                   175.00  0.00      0.00    140.71    88.31    0.00       S        S
BR-PE-6554     1996   GOB          HLTH SCTR REFORM               300.00   0.00     0.00    226.55   131.54    0.00       S        S
BR-PE-6512     1996   CVRD         ENV/CONS(CVRD)                  50.00  0.00      0.00     23.16    12.17    0.00       U        U
BR-PE-48870    1997   MG STATE    MT STATE PRIV.                   45.00  0.00      0.00     45.00    35.01    0.00    HS          S
BR-PE-46052    1997                CEARA WTR PILOT                  9.60  0.00      0.00      7.89      7.89    0.00      S        S
BR-PE-43873    1997   GOB          AG TECH DEV.                    60.00  0.00      0.00     49.88    15.50    0.00       S        S
BR-PE-43871    1997   PI STATE    (PIAUI)R.POVERTY                 30.00  0.00      0.00      9.06    -4.74    0.00       S        S
BR-PE-43868    1997   RGS STATE   RGS LAND MGT/POVERTY            100.00   0.00     0.00     89.45    18.29    0.00       S        S
BR-PE-42566    1997   PE STATE    R.POVERTY(PE)                    39.00  0.00      0.00     16.36       .17    0.00      S        S
BR-PE-38896    1997   RGN STATE   R.POVERTY(RGN)                   24.00  0.00      0.00     15.25      3.75    0.00      S        S
BR-PE-34578    1997   RGS STATE   RGS HWY MGT                      70.00  0.00      0.00     66.70    21.70    0.00       S        S
BR-PE-6562     1997   BA STATE    BAHIA MUN.DV                    100.00  0.00      0.00     98.26    32.26    0.00       S        S
BR-PE-6532     1997   GOB          FED HWY DECENTR                300.00  0.00      0.00    261.02    81.03    0.00       U        U
BR-PE-6475     1997   GOB          LAND RFM PILOT                  90.00  0.00      0.00     61.25    13.89    0.00       S        S
BR-PE-57910    1998   GOB          PENSION REFORM LIL               5.00  0.00      0.00      5.00      5.00    0.00    HS         S
BR-PE-51701    1998   MA STATE    MARANHAO R.POVERTY               80.00  0.00      0.00     69.14      5.64    0.00      5        5
BR-PE-50762    1998   GOB          FUNDESCOLAI                     62.50  0.00      0.00     27.13   -24.11    0.00       S        S
BR-PE-48357    1998   GOB          CEN.BANK TAL                    20.00  0.00      0.00     16.83      6.33    0.00      S        S
BR-PE-43421    1998   RJ STATE    RJ M.TRANSIT PRJ.               186.00  0.00      0.00    186.00    76.65    0.00       S        S
BR-PE-43420    1998   GOB          WATER S.MOD.2                  150.00  0.00      0.00    150.00    27.99    0.00       S        S
BR-PE-42565    1998   PB STATE    PARAIBA R.POVERTY                60.00  0.00      0.00     48.56       .36    0.00      S        S
BR-PE-40033    1998   MG STATE    MG STATE PRIV.                  170.00   0.00     0.00    170.00   120.01    0.00       S        S
BR-PE-38947    1998   GOB          SC. & TECH 3                   155.00  0.00      0.00    138.99    21.49    0.00       S        S
BR-PE-38895    1998   GOB          FED.WTR MGT                    198.00  0.00      0.00    178.73    35.72    0.00       S        S
BR-PE-35728    1998   BA STATE    BAHIA WTR RESOURCES              51.00  0.00      0.00     41.22    17.96    0.00       S        S
BR-PE-6559     1998   SP STATE    1BF-R)SP.TSP                     45.00  0.00      0.00     45.00    20.75    0.00       S        S
BR-PE-6549     1998   TBG          GAS SCTR DEV PROJECT           130.00  0.00      0.00    130.00    67.00    0.00    HS          HS
BR-PE-6474     1998   SP STATE    LAND MGT 3(SP)                   55.00  0.00      0.00     55.00      7.00    0.00      S        U
BR-PE-58129    1999   GOB          EMER. FIRE PREVENTIO            15.00  0.00      0.00     15.00      0.00    0.00      U        U
BR-PE-54120    1999   GOB          AIDS 2                         165.00  0.00      0.00    144.99   -20.01      0.00     S        S
BR-PE-43874    1999   GOB          DISEASE SURVEILLANCE           100.00  0.00      0.00    100.00      0.00    0.00      S        S
Total                                                          6,300.20   0.00   178.30  3,215.82  1,382.01   33.77
Active Projects      Closed Projects          Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):              2,906.08           17,967.09          20,873.17
of which has been repaid:                261.42          13,405.00           13,666.42
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:              5,860.47            4,659.93          10,520.40
Amount sold                     :                0.00               45.83               45.83
Of which repaid              :                0.00               45.83              45.83
Total Undisbursed               :            3,215.82               97.83           3,313.65
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter based system was introduced (HS = highly
Satisfactory, S - satisfactory, U = unsatisfactory, HU - highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and
Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                      page 38
Country: Brazil                                                    Project Title: Animal and Plant Health Protection
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 3 1-Mar-99
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                          Disbursed
IFC                                IFC
FY Approval              Company           Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
1973/78/83              CODEMIN                   0.00     4.34     0.00     0.00    0.00     4.34     0.00     0.00
1975/96                 Oxiteno NE               25.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    25.00    0.00     0.00     0.00
1980187/97              Ipiranga                  40.00    6.32     0.00   150.00    40.00    6.32     0.00   150.00
1980/88                 OPP                        0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00
1980/92                 DENPASA                    0.00    1.00      .12     0.00     0.00     1.03     .05     0.00
1981                    Brasilpar                  0.00     .04     0.00     0.00     0.00     .04     0.00     0.00
1982/84/86              PISA                      0.00     3.90     0.00     0.00    0.00     3.90     0.00     0.00
1983                    SOCOCO                    0.00     0,00     2.50     0.00    0.00     0.00     2.50     0.00
1987/92/96              MBR                        7.02    0.00    10.00     6.23     7.02    0.00    10.00     6.23
1987/96                 Perdigao                 28.44    10.00     0.00    14.00    28.44    10.00    0.00    14.00
1987/96/97              Duratex                  22.00     0.00     0.00    78.00    22.00    0.00     0.00    78.00
1987/97                 SP Alpargatas             25.00    0.00     5.00     0.00    25.00    0.00     5.00     0.00
1989/95                 Politeno Ind.             14.62    0.00     0.00     0.00    14.62    0.00     0.00     0.00
1990                    ENGEPOL                    .88     0.00     0.00     0.00     .88     0.00     0.00     0.00
1990                    Ripasa                    2.86     5.00     0.00     0.00    2.86     5.00     0.00     0.00
1990/91/92              Bahia Sul                  7.14    20.97    0.00     0.00     7.14    20.97    0.00     0.00
1991                    Bradesco-AL              26.03     0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00
1991                    Bradesco-Bahia             3.75    0.00     0.00     0.00     3.75    0.00     0.00     0.00
1991                    Bradesco-Eucatex          7.50     0.00     0.00     0.00    7.50     0.00     0.00     0.00
1991                    Bradesco-Petrofl           7.50    0.00     0.00     0.00     7.50    0.00     0.00     0.00
1991                    Bradesco-Romi              1.59     .40     0.00     0.00     1.59     .40     0.00     0.00
1991                    Rhodia-Ster                7.14    5.95     0.00     0.00     7.14    5.95     0.00     0.00
1992                    CRP-Caderi                0.00     1.93     0.00     0.00     0.00     .68     0.00     0.00
1992/93                 TRIKEM                    0.00    12.86     0.00     0.00    0.00    12.86     0.00     0.00
1993                    BACELL                    11.00    10.70    0.00    16.20    11.00    10.70    0.00    16.20
1993                    CEBRACTEX                   .60    0.00     0.00     0.00     .60     0.00     0.00     0.00
1993                    Macedo Alimentos          14.50    0.00     0.00     0.00    14.50    0.00     0.00     0.00
1993                    Votorantim                13.00    0,00     0.00     1.00    13.00    0.00     0.00     1.00
1993/96                 CEVAL                    49.00    20.00     0.00   105.00    49.00    20.00    0.00   105.00
1994                    GAVEA                      9.69    0.00     5.50     0.00     9.69    0.00     5.50     0.00
1994                    GP Capital                0.00    14.04     0.00     0.00     0.00    14.00    0.00     0.00
1994                    Para Pigmentos           30.00     0.00     9.00    33.02    25.50    0.00     9.00    27.77
1994                    Portobello                13.36    5.00     0.00     0.00    13.36    5.00     0.00     0.00
1994/95/97              Sadia                    47.00    10.00     9.67   189.78    47.00    10.00    9.67   189.78
1994/96                 CHAPECO                   25.00    0.00     0.00     5.00    25.00    0.00     0.00     5.00
1994/96                 S.A.I.C.C.                0.00     7.85     6.87     0.00    0.00     7.70     6.87     0.00
1995                    Bradesco-Hering           7.50     0.00     0.00     0.00    7.50     0.00     0.00     0.00
1995                    Brahma- BRA              27.50     0.00     0.00    61.50    27.50    0.00     0.00    61.50
1995                    Cambuhy/MC                18.75    0.00     0.00     0.00    18.75    0.00     0.00     0.00
1995                    Lojas Americana          26.00     0.00     5.00    14.00    26.00    -0.00    5.00    14.00
1995                    LATASA - Brazil           14.33    0.00     0.00     2.50    14.33    0.00     0.00     2.50
1995                    Rhodiaco/PTA              20.00    0.00     0.00    18.00    20.00    0.00     0.00    18.00
1995/96/98              Globocabo                 35.00    27.97    0.00   118.00    35.00    27.97    0.00   118.00
1996                    Banco Bradesco           40.00     0.00     0.00    54.36    15.23    0.00     0.00    22.84
1996                    Mallory                    7.27    0.00     0.00     0.00     7.27    0.00     0.00     0.00
1996                    TIGRE                     25.00    0.00     5.00    19.23    25.00    0.00     5.00    19.23
1996/97                 Lightel                  25.00    18.17     0.00     0.00    25.00    18.17    0.00     0.00
1997                    Bompreco                 25.00     0.00     5.00     0.00    25.00    0.00     5.00     0.00
1997                    Copesul                   40.00    0.00     0.00   180.00    40.00    0.00     0.00   180.00
1997                    Guilmana-Amorim          29.47     0.00     0.00    86.21    29.47    0.00     0.00    86.21
1997                    Rodovia                   35.00    0.00     0.00    79.50    30.02    0.00     0.00    68.18
1997                    Samarco                   16.20    0.00     0.00    13.33    16.20    0.00     0.00    13.33
1997                    Sucorrico                 15.00    0.00     0.00     0.00    15.00    0.00     0.00     0.00



Project Appraisal Document                                                                        page 39
Country: Brazil                                                     Project Title: Animal and Plant Health Protection
Committed                          Disbursed
IFC                                 IFC
FY Approval               Company           Loan    Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan    Equity   Quasi   Partic
1997                     Wembley                    0.00    10.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    10.00     0.00     0.00
1997/93                  Coteminas                 15.00     4.00     0.00    20.00    15.00     4.00     0.00    20.00
1998                     Arteb                     20.00     7.00     0.00    20.00    14.00     7.00     0.00    14.00
1998                     BSC                       14.00     0.00     0.00     7.50    14.00     0.00     0.00     7.50
1998                     Dixie Toga                 0.00    15.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    15.00     0.00     0.00
1998                     Empesca                    5.00     0.00    10.00     0.00     5.00     0.00    10.00     0.00
1998                     Fras-le                   10.00    10.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00
1998                     Icatu Equity               0.00    30.00     0.00     0.00     0.00      .19     0.00     0.00
1998                     Randon                     7.00     0.00     3.00     0.00     7.00     0.00     3.00     0.00
1998                     Saraiva                   15.00     3.00     0.00     0.00    15.00     3.00     0.00     0.00
1998                     TRG (Tecon Rio)            7.50     0.00     5.50    18.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00
1999                     Vulcabras                 20.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00
Total Portfolio:                      960.14   265.44   82.16   1,310.36   856.36   224.22   76.59  1,238.27
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan    Equit   Quasi   Partic
1996                     AGUAS LIMEIRA             17.00     1.00     0.00    23.00
1998                     BANCO ICATU               30.00     0.00     0.00     0.00
1999                     CIBRASEC                   0.00     7.50     0.00     0.00
1997                     CTBC                      35.00     0.00     0.00   150.00
1998                     FOSFERTIL                 20.00     0.00     0.00    60.00
1998                     FRAS-LE                    0.00     0.00     0.00    15.00
1998                     FSA                       35.00     0.00    10.00    45.00
1996                     GLOBOCABO II               0.00     0.00     0.00    38.00
1999                     INNOVA                    20.00     5.00     0.00   160.00
1999                     INNOVATIVE HS              0.00     0.00     6.25     0.00
i997                     IPIRANGA EXPANS.           0.00     0.00     5.00     0.00
1998                     IPIRANGA-RI 2              0.00      .09     0.00     0.00
1998                     LOJAS RENNER              16.00     4.00     0.00     0.00
1996                     OXITENO/ETHYLO             0.00     5.00     0.00     0.00
1998                     RANDON                     0.00     0.00     0.00    15.00
1997                     SP ALPARGATAS 11           0.00     0.00     0.00    30.00
1998                     TRIKEM II                 25.00     0.00     0.00     0.00
1998                     UNIBANCO                  40.00     0.00     0.00   250.00
1999                     WIEST                      9.00     0.00     8.00     0.00
Total Pending Commitment:             247.00    22.59    29.25   786.00



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                   page 40
Country: Brazil                                                                        Project Title: Animal and Plant Health Protection
Brazil at a glance9/68
'Latin    Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL.                                          Ameorica   middle-                     ---                 - 
Ssaz)l  & Carib.  Indmi        Development dlamond*
1997
Population, mid-year (millions)                       183,6       494       571                  Life expectancy
GNP pe capita (Atlas molhooa US)                      4,7207    3,880      4,520
GNP (Atlas methoc, u.Ss biNlons)                      771.9      1,917     2,58
Average -annual growt, 1991-97T
Population I'`%)                                        1.4        1.7       1'S     GNP                              Gross
Labor fomce (%)                                         1.7        2.3       1.9     peprmy
Motrecent estmate (laes year aVAIlable, 1991-97                                    capita                       enrollment
Pove"t (% of population below natioal povfy; lie 1       7
Urban population I% of totawodp Wtion)                  80,         4        73
Ufe expectancy at birth(years)                      i 67           70        70
Infant mortafity per 1,000 live bhlhs)                  34         32:       30,
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                7                    -. .            Access to safe water
Access to safe water (9% of population                   72        73        79
111iteracil (9a Df population age 15.)                   1 7       1 3       15
Gross pri'mary enrollment (16 of school-~ae popuf000n   112       1l1       107           -Brazil
male                                                   ..         .          .Upper-middle-Income group
Female
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
196 1986       196       1991
EconomIc ratioa*
GDP (US$ b"~s                                152.17   2681      749        8203
Gross domestic investment/GOP                23. 1     19,1      20.7       22.-8Trd
Exports of goods,and servicesGDP               7.0      8.8       7.1        6.2ad
Gross domestic savings/GOP                   20.7      21.6       18.6      20.6T
Gross national savings/GOP                    19,2     17.1       17.3      18.6
Cuffent acoount balance/GOP                   -4.3     -1.9       -3.1     -4.1      Domestic                     Ivsm
Interest payffentsfGDP                         1.1      2.4        1.1       1.1                                   ivsmn
Total debt/GDP                                21.8     40.J       23.1      23.6     Savings 
Total debt service/exports                    37.9     48.8       41.7      45.2 
Present value of debtlGDP                       -.        ,      21.8          -
Present Value of debt/exports                             -  .   280.6Idetdns
197646  1987-97    11996        1997  11998142
(everage annual growth)-Bzi
GDP                                  2.9       1.9      2.8        3.2       3.5               Bai
GNP pe capita                        0.2       0.0      t,$        1.9       2.0    1          Upper-middle-income group
Exports of gooasand services        103        5.4      6.1       I1.8       5.0
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976     1956       1996      1997      Growth rates of output and Investment (%.)
(16 ot GDP)                                                                          I
Agriculture                                   13.0     11.2       14.4      12.7
Industry                                      39.7     45.2      36.4       37.8    10
Manufacturing                               30.4     33.0       22.9      23.4 
Services                                      47.3     43.7      49.2       49.5     ~      s        5     r       9
Private consumption                           68.8     67.8       62.2      61.9             9 9         4    9  6       9
General govemment consumption                 10.5     10.7       19.2      175                  _GDI    ---GDP
9.4      6.4       9.2        8.5 
1976486  1987-97      1996      1997      Grwth rates of exports and Imports (%
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                    3.7      2.5        2.2       2.4    40
Industry                                       2.7      0.1        3.0       3.8
Manufacturing                                2.3     -0.2        2.9       3.8    20
Services                                       2.9      3.1        3.1       3.5
Private consumption                            2.5      3.4        4.6       4.5                  9     4     9     6    9
General govemment consumption                  2.1     -1.6        9.8       8.0     2
Gross domestic investment                     -2.1      1.2       -0.2       6.2
Imports of goods and services                 -3.3     12.1        5.9      13.9            -Exprl,ts    -0-Irports
Gross national product                         2.4      1.5        3.2       3.3
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates. 1/ Poverty estimate is from 1990.
-The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incompleta.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                               page 41
Country: Brazil                                                                     Project Title: Animal and Plant Health Protection
Brazil
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976    1986       1996     1997      Inflation (%)
-Domestc priceBs250
(X change)                                                                       2.500
Consumer pices                                 ..   147.1      15.8      6.9    2,0002
Implicit GDP deflator                       47.6   145.3       17.2      7.8    i's  
Government finance                                                                5o0
(% of GDP, includes curent grants)                                                 o
Current revenue                               ..    22.3       31.3     32.1              02   93   94   95   96   97
Current budget balance                        ..    -5.0       -1.2     -1.6             -    GDP deflator  -*CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                       ..   -13.3       -5.9     -6.1
TRADE
(US$ millions)                             1976    1986       1996      1997     Exportandimportlevels(US$millIons)
Total exports (fob)                                22,394    47,747   52,986    75o000
Coffee                                       ..   2,380     2,095    3,094
Otherfood                                    ..   1,562     4,458    5,729    500
Manufactures                                ..  11,839    29,676   32,732
Total imports (of)                            ..  14,044    53,301    61,358
Food                                        ..       ..    3,279    3,290      2,_000
Fuel and energy                             ..   3,541      3,459    3,220
Capital goods                                ..   3,464    20,188   26,232
91  52  93  94  95  96   9
Export price index (1995=100)                  ..     68        100       96
Import price index (1995=100)                 ..      85        103       95               U Exports     U Imports
Termsof trade (1995=100)                      ..      80         97      101
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                              1976    1986       1996     1997      current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exportsofgoodsandservices                 10,848   23,870    51,853   56,827     2
Imports of goods and services             14,687   16,576    64,958   74,158
Resource balance                          -3,839    7,294   -13,105  -17,331 o
91  92  93  94
Net income                                -2,719  -12,259   -14,141   -18,329
Net current transfers                         -3     -26      2,899    2,220    -2                       E      l
Current account balance                   -6,561   4,991   -24,347  -33,439
Financing items (net)                      9,233    -319    33,364   25,629
Changes in net reserves                   -2,672    5,310    -9,017    7,810
Memo:
Reserves induding gold (US$miMions)        6,542    5,907    60,089   51,729
Conversion rate (DEC, local'US$)        3.88E-12  4.97E-9       1.0      1.1
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976    1986       1996     1997
(US$ millions)                                                                    Composition of total debt, 1996 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed      33,340  109,026   179,047  193,598
IBRD                                     1,172    7,546     5,876    5,743                    A: 5,876  C: 68
IDA                                         0        0          0        0          G:35439               D: 3,550
Totaldebtservice                           4,278   11,616    25,091    30,000                     E:6           16,803
IBRD                                      130    1,164      1,638    1,428
IDA                                         0        0          0        0
Composition of net resource flows
Offidcalgrants                              6       30         80       ..
Official creditors                        384    1,152       -514   -1,786
Private creditors                        5,215    -444    14,514   17,238
Foreign direct investment                1,555     320      9,889
Portfolioequity                             0        0      3,981        ..                         F: 117,311
World Bank program
Commitments                               486    1,620        858    1,104     A- BRD                       E - Bilateral
Disbursements                              173    1,619     1,500    1,416     B-IDA     D-Othermultilateral   F-Private
Principal repayments                       45      608      1,222    1,049     C - IMF                      G - Short-term
Nettfows                                   128    1,011      278       368
lnterestpayments                           85      556       416       380
Net transfers                              43      455       -138      -12



