Report No. PID6710
Project Name                     Brazil-Animal and Plant (+) ...
Health Protection Project
Region                           Latin America and Caribbean
Sector                           Agriculture and Rural Poverty
Project ID                       BRPA55388
Borrower                         Federative Republic of Brazil
Implementing Agencies            Ministry of Agriculture and Supply
Esplanada dos Ministerios, Bl. D
70.043-900 Brasilia, DF
Brasil
States of Rio Grande do Sul, Santa
Catarina, Parana (Southern
Region); Sao Paulo, Rio de
Janeiro, Espirito Santo, Minas
Gerais (Southeast region); Mato
Grosso do Sul, Mato Grosso, Goias
(Center-West region); Bahia,
Pernambuco, Piaui, Rio Grande do
Norte (Northeast region)
Date PID Prepared                May 1998
Appraisal Date                   June 1998
Board Date                       September 1998
Country and Sector Background. The Brazilian Agriculture Sector represents 11%
of GDP (or nearly 40% when agroindustry is included), 30% of exports, and 25%
of total employment. The Government views the current agricultural disease
protection system -- with its centralized federal control and focus on disease
rather than on health -- as inadequate to serve Brazil's needs as it competes
in the global marketplace. Current monitoring and surveillance at border
crossings -- both interstate and international -- is inadequate to halt either
the exit or entrance of livestock diseases and plant plagues, which severely
limits the international competitiveness of Brazilian agricultural production.
The previous Bank project (Loan 2864-BR) successfully experimented with
decentralized delivery of agricultural health protection services to the
State, municipalities and local farmer associations.
The Brazilian Agriculture Sector represents 11% of GDP (or nearly 40% when
agroindustry is included), 30% of exports, and 25% of total employment. The
output mix of Brazilian agriculture has shifted in emphasis from domestic
staples (e.g. rice beans, cassava) to export crops (e.g. soybeans, coffee,
sugar, meats). The agricultural sector faces several important challenges in
this new economic environment, namely: (a) increased productivity and export
growth in the face of greater international competition within GATT and
MERCOSUL and (b) non-tariff barriers, among these international sanitary and
phytosanitary regulations, which at present substantially limit Brazil's
participation in global agricultural markets.
The Government views the current agricultural disease protection system --
with its centralized federal control and focus on disease rather than on
health -- as inadequate to serve Brazil's needs as it competes in the global



marketplace. Current monitoring and surveillance at border crossings -- both
interstate and international -- is inadequate to halt either the exit or
entrance of livestock diseases and plant plagues, which severely limits the
international competitiveness of Brazilian agricultural production. The
previous Bank project (Loan 2864-BR) successfully experimented with
decentralized delivery of agricultural health protection services to the
State, municipalities and local farmer associations.
Trade agreements under the WTO and MERCOSUL -- to which Brazil is a signatory
-- effectively eliminate all trade barriers except those relating to sanitary
and phytosanitary standards. The WTO 1994 agreement affords signatory
countries the right to apply sanitary and phytosanitary regulations to protect
their citizens and respective agricultural production, as long as these
regulations do not block international trade. At present, Brazil's
participation in agricultural export markets is hindered by its inability to
effectively document its progress in eradicating a variety of animal diseases
(e.g. FMD, Hog Cholera) and plant plagues (e.g. melon fly) and, where diseases
or plagues are under effective control (e.g. New Castle Disease (NCD),
Salmoneloses, Mycoplasmoses), verify these controls with credible data from
satisfactory monitoring and surveillance of agricultural production.
Increasing globalization and integration of markets implies significant
potential for Brazilian agriculture in the international arena. However,
Brazil's capacity to eliminate plant and animal diseases in those products
with greater export potential will be a major factor in exercising its
agricultural competitiveness. Therefore, trade liberalization requires an
ability to (a) effectively monitor the health status of livestock and plants
slated for export and (b) present credible data to counter any bilateral
claims which question the health security of Brazilian agricultural
production.
In livestock, Brazilian beef production in 1997 was 5,820 million tons (up 13t
from 1994) of which approximately 59 was exported.   With the world's largest
cattle herd, Brazil's potential for expanded beef exports is large. Brazil
possesses the third largest swine herd worldwide, ranks third in total poultry
production (behind the U.S. and China) and maintains the lowest total cost of
poultry production per kg. (US$ 0.85). In terms of current competitiveness,
wholesale market prices for Brazilian beef compare favorably with U.S. and
European prices. Pork wholesale prices compare somewhat less favorably, while
poultry wholesale prices are the lowest worldwide. Expanded international
certification of FMD-free zones and international certification of Hog
Cholera-free zones should substantially improve export potential of fresh (in
natura) beef and pork. Greater poultry export will be contingent on improved
biosafety measures to control NCD, salmoneloses and mycoplasmoses in poultry
flocks.
In the plant sector, the Northeast and Southeast regions are major exporters
of mangoes and papaya (24,000 metric tons and 5,700 tons, respectively, in
1996). In recent years, Southern Brazil has significantly increased its apple
production (575,000 tons in 1997). The irrigated regions of the Northeast --
particularly Rio Grande do Norte and Pernambuco -- also boasts a substantial
melon production. Furthermore, favorable climate makes Brazilian fruit
production virtually year round, providing the opportunity to serve key export
markets exclusively when other major producers are in "off-season".
Nonetheless, various plant plagues and diseases result in losses of
approximately 20t of total annual production (by volume). In the case of
apple production, losses due to plague infestation (i.e. Cydia pomenella) can
be as high as 30t of annual production, estimated at US$100 million for a
total annual production value of US$272 million.
- 2 -



Objectives. The Project contributes to the objectives of the National Program
for Agricultural Health Protection by seeking to increase the competitiveness
and productivity of specific agricultural products (e.g. beef, pork, poultry,
mango, melon, papaya and apple) through (a) eliminating or significantly
controlling the incidence of relevant animal and plant disease which
constitute sanitary and phytosanitary barriers limiting Brazil's access to
global export markets and (b) strengthening the agricultural monitoring and
surveillance system to provide credible data on livestock and plant health.
Project Description. The Project consists of three components (1) Animal and
Plant Health, (2) Institutional Strengthening at the Federal Level and (3)
Administration, Monitoring and Evaluation. The project would finance
subprojects implemented by eligible farmer associations (80- of total
subproject costs) which would include, inter alia, (a) promotion of FMD
vaccination campaigns, (b) distribution of sentinels for the monitoring of
plant plagues (c) agricultural health protection training and education and
(d) monitoring and surveillance (e.g. documentation of outbreaks, emergency
vaccinations, livestock and plant transit control).     It would also finance
subprojects implemented by Participating State agencies (up to 20- of total
subproject costs) presented by State entities for the execution of project
activities mostly related to project promotion and dissemination,
comprehensive training programs, epidemiological surveillance, laboratory
reference tests, regulation, certification and supervising of state borders.
For these subprojects, the Bank would finance 50- of subproject costs with
Federal and State governments financing 25t each. Capacity building for
technical personnel of the Secretariat of Agricultural Health Protection
(SDA), purchases of laboratory equipment and materials, vehicles, computer
hardware and software and feasibility studies and consultancies to increase
capacity of the Federal Inspection Service would be financed through the
Institutional Strengthening component at the Federal Level.
Project Financing. Total project cost is US$120.0 million of which the Bank
will finance 50t (US$60.0 million). The Project will be implemented over
three years starting in FY 1999. Farmer associations will contribute at least
15t (US$18.0 million) of the total subproject cost (either in cash or in-
kind), with additional cofinancing of 15t (US$18.0 million) from State
government and 20t (US$24.0 million) from the Federal government.
Project Implementation. Farmer associations would identify and prepare
subproject proposals which address their priority concerns in animal and plant
health protection. Likewise, Participating State agencies would identify and
prepare subprojects which would improve their monitoring and surveillance
capacity. Farmer associations and Participating State agencies would submit
subproject proposals to their respective State Technical Units which would (a)
appraise and approve subproject proposals, following criteria in the Project
Operational Manual, (b) confirm the capacity of the farmer association to
complete the subproject and contribute the necessary 15t of total subproject
cost and (c) release funds to finance approved subprojects.     The National
Committee for Agricultural Health Protection (CNDA) will advise the Project
Coordination Unit in Project resource allocation decisions. Private farmer
associations, NGOs, universities and other representatives from civil society
will comprise majority participation of the CNDA.     The Project Coordination
Unit, housed in the SDA/ MAA will administer the Project. The Bank of Brasil,
S.A. will administer the funds used for Project implementation.
- 3 -



Project Sustainability. Both increased market access and higher quality
production -- leading to greater value-added -- are strong incentives for
sustained participation by farmers in the agricultural health protection
activities expected under the Project. Furthermore, maintenance of any newly
opened market niches will be directly contingent on the continued verification
of minimum sanitary and phytosanitary conditions as regulated by both
importing countries and domestic authorities. Additionally, the ex ante role
of farmers in the preparation of specific subprojects increases their
ownership of the activities undertaken.
Lessons from Bank Experience. The Project models the experience of
decentralized approaches to agricultural health protection already underway in
other countries. The United States has a long tradition of strong private
sector participation and local action in all areas of agricultural health
protection. Since 1972, the USDA Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
has provided compelling evidence that public/ private partnerships can
effectively and sustainably address agricultural health protection issues. In
Argentina (1992) and Uruguay (1994), decentralized approaches to livestock
disease eradication were instrumental in these countries achieving FMD-free
status.
Northeast Brazil, through the collective experience of nine States under the
Rural Poverty Alleviation Program (RPAP) from 1993 to the present, has
benefited approximately 2.1 million families with over 24,000 subprojects,
each of which was proposed and implemented by local community associations and
partially financed with local contributions.
Experience gained from the previous Livestock Disease Control Project (Loan
2864-BR) yielded the following inputs toward Project design:
Regardless of the degree of decentralization, Government's role is to provide
leadership, policy guidance and direction; define standards and norms; promote
stakeholder participation; and manage resources effectively
State-level farmer associations and municipalities have tremendous potential
to participate in animal and plant disease eradication programs
A Project Operational Manual with comprehensive and flexible rules and norms
for project operation was a determining factor in spreading the idea and the
practice of decentralization and facilitated project implementation
Environmental Aspects. Environmental Assessment Category "B" is proposed
for this Project. The activities programmed under the Project are not
expected to generate negative environmental impact. In fact, expected
activities under the Project are already shown to have a net positive
environmental impact. Livestock health improvements via vaccination campaigns
will have no significant environmental impact. Subprojects to achieve plague-
free status in the fruit sector would imply the elimination of the use of
toxic chemical inputs (e.g. pesticides, insecticides). No chemical inputs are
expected to be used in the post harvest, pre export processing of plant
production. The primary mode for post harvest, pre export preparation is
expected to be irradiation treatment. Criteria for individual environmental
screening of each subproject proposal will be detailed in the Project
Operational Manual.
Contact Point:           The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
- 4 -



Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending August 14, 1998.
- 5 -



Annex
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the borrower
prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report is required, once it is
prepared and submitted to the Bank, in accordance with OP 4.01, Environmental
Assessment, it will be filed as an annex to the Public Information Document
(PID) .
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an EA annex;
the findings and recommendations of the EA will be reflected in the body of
the PID.
-6-



