Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 16757-BR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROGRAM
RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - PARAIBA
October 23, 1997
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development
Sector Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of May 9, 1997) I/
Currency Unit = Real (R$)
R$1.06 = US$1.00
US$1.00 = R$1.06
R$1.06 million = US$ 1.00 million
FISCAL YEAR
(State of Paraiba)
January 1 to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The metric system has been used throughout the report.
Appraisal mission.
Vice President        Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director     Gobind T. Nankani
Sector Director      Maritta Koch-Weser
Task Manager         Luis Coirolo



GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
APCR                  Apoio as Pequenas Comunidades Rurais
(Program of Support to Small Rural Communities under the
original Northeast Rural Development Program)
CAS                   Country Assistance Strategy
EMATER                Empresa de Assist8ncia Tecnica e Extensao Rural
(Technical Assistance and Rural Extension Agency)
FAO/CP                World Bank/FAO Cooperative Program
FUMAC                 Conselho Municipal de Apoio Comunitario
(Municipal Community Schemes)
FUMAC-P               Fundo Municipal de Apoio Comunitario - Piloto
(Pilot Municipal Community Funds)
GOB                   Federal Government of Brazil
(Governo Federal do Brasil)
IBGE                  Funda,co Instituto Brasileiro de Geografia e Estatistica
(Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics)
IERR                  Internal Economic Rate of Return
IICA                  Instituto Interamericano de Cooperac o para a Agricultura
(Inter-American Institute for Cooperation on Agriculture)
IPEA                  Instituto de Pesquisa Economica Aplicada
(Institute of Applied Economic Research of the Ministry of
Planning of the Presidency of the Republic)
MIS                   Management Information System
(Sistema Gerencial de Informa,ces)
NCB                   National Competitive Bidding
(Licita,ao Nacional)
NGO                   Non-Governmental Organization
(Organiza§o Nao-Governamental)



NRDP                  Northeast Rural Development Program
(Programa de Apoio ao Pequeno Produtor Rural do Nordeste)
O&M                   Operation and Maintenance
(Opera9ao e ManutengIo)
PAC                   Programa de Apoio Comunitario
(State Community Schemes)
PCU                   Project Coordinating Unit
(Unidade Coordenadora do Projeto)
POA                   Plano Operativo Anual
(Annual Operating Plan)
POLONORDESTE          Programa de Desenvolvimento Integrado do Nordeste
(Northeast Integrated Development Program)
PPR                   Physical Performance Review
SEAIN                 Secretaria de Assuntos Intemacionais
(Secretariat of International Affairs of the Ministry of Planning
of the Presidency of the Republic)
SEPLAN                Secretaria do Planejamento
(State Secretariat of Planning)
SOEs                  Statements of Expenditure
(Prestacao de Contas)
SSMP                  Sistema Simplificado do Monitoramento do Projeto
(Simplified Project Monitoring System)
TORs                  Terms of Reference
(Termos de Referencia)
UT                    Unidade Tecnica
(Technical Unit)



BRAZIL
RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - PARAIBA
TABLE OF CONTENTS
1. RURAL POVERTY IN BRAZIL, THE NORTHEAST AND PARAiBA ...........................1
The Rural Poor and the Economy ........................................................................................1
Rural Poverty in the Northeast .......................................................1
Experience with Past Bank Lending .......................................................3
The State of Paraiba .......................................................6
Main Lessons Leamed from the Northeast Rural Development Program (NRDP) .................8
2. THE  PROJECT...................................................................................................................11
Origin and Rationale for Bank Involvement                           .....................................            11..... 11
Project Objectives ......................................................                                            12
Project Components ......................................................                                             12
A. Community Subprojects ......................................................                               12
B. Institutional Development ......................................................                           15
C. Project Administration, Monitoring and Evaluation .............................................. 17
Project Implementation Arrangements ......................................................                            18
Project Technical Assistance and Training Arrangements ................................................... 21
Targeting and Graduation ......................................................                                      21
Community Subproject Cycle .......................................................                                    23
Project Costs .......................                                                                                 26
Financing Plan ........................                                                                              26
Procurement ........................                                                                                 29
Disbursements and Special Account .......................                     .                                      31
Accounts and Audits ........................                                                                         31
Environental Aspects ........................                                                                        32
Poverty Category .......................                                                                              32
This report incorporates the findings of an Appraisal Mssion which visited Brazil between May 9
and June 2, 1997. The mission consisted of Messrs./Mmes. Luis Coirolo (Mission Leader); Tl6io
Barbosa, Joao Barbosa and Raimundo Caminha (LAIRE); Antonio Rocha Magalhbes (LAIBR);
Loretta Sonn (FAO-CP); and Edward Bresnyan (Consultant). It is also based on the findings of
previous Bank and Bank/FAO-CP missions consisting of Messrs./Mnmes. Anna Roumani (LAIER)
and Alberto Costa (Consultant, FAO-CP). The Peer Reviewers are Klaus Deininger (PRDDR) and
Johan van Zyl (Consultant). The Country Director is Gobind T. Nankani. The Sector Director is
Maritta Koch-Weser.



TABLE OF CONTENTS
(Continued)
Women's Participation .........................................................        33
Project Benefits .........................................................             33
Economic Analysis and Fiscal Impact .........................................................  34
Project Risks .........................................................               36
3. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ................. 37
Annexes
A.  Paraiba: A Socio-Economic Profile .39
B.   The Reformulated NRDP: Performance and Evaluation .45
C.   Targeting Mechanisms and Project Municipalities .74
D.     Institutional Development and Project Implementation .77
E.     Technical Assistance, Training and listitutional Capacity-Building .85
F.  The FUMAC-P Pilot Program .91
G.      Standard Designs and Operation and Maintance of Subprojects .95
H.   Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation .99
I.  Project Costs ...............111
J. Economic Analysis .115
K.  Project Supervision ............                                                       124
L.  Project Operational Manual (outline) .127
M.  List of Documents in Project Files .129
MAP: IBRD No. 28869



BRAZIL
RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - PARALBA
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                      The State of Paraiba
Guarantor:                     The Federative Republic of Brazil
Implementing Agency:           SEPLAN, State Government of Paraiba through the
Project Coordinating Unit
Beneficiaries:                 Poor rural community associations, including a
beneficiary population of some 705,000 people
(141,000 families)
Poverty:                       Program of Targeted Interventions. The project
employs a targeting methodology at the municipal
and community levels to reach poor rural dwellers.
Amount:                        US$60.0 million equivalent
Terms:                         Repayable over 15 years, including five years of
grace, at the Banks standard variable interest rate
Commitment Fee:                0.75 percent on undisbursed loan balances,
beginning 60 days after signing, less any waiver
Onlending Terms:               Not applicable
Financing Plan:                See paras. 2.43-2.44 and Annex I, Table 1.2
Economic Rate of Return:      IERRs estimated for specific types of subprojects,
ranging from 38% to over 50%, see paras. 2.61-2.64
and Annex J
Staff Appraisal Report:        Report No. 16757-BR
Hag:                           IBRD No. 28869
Project Identification Number:  BR-PA-42565






BRAZIL
RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - PARAIBA
1.   RURAL POVERTY IN BRAZIL, THE NORTHEAST AND PARAIBA
THE RuRAL POOR AND THE ECONOMY
1.1  In Brazil poverty is concentrated in the Northeast and a few other regions,
particularly in the rural areas where half of all Brazilian poor live. The incidence of
poverty --the chief cause of which is the lack of human and physical assets in poor
households-- among the rural population is more than double that in large cities and urban
areas. Over the past two decades economic instability (real annual economic growth was
less than 3% in the 1980s) was a major impediment to alleviating rural poverty. Poor
economic and sectoral policies resulted in a fall in savings and accelerating inflation, with
consumer prices increasing as much as 30% a month. Austerity programs which
accompanied different attempts at adjustment between 1986 and 1994 reduced investment
for rural development, notably for basic infrastructure such as rural roads and water
supply, for primary health and education, and for small farmer agricultural services.
Migration from rural areas in the 1980s and early 1990s --caused by unemployment,
underemployment and lack of social and other services-- created an enormous new burden
on urban centers, and underscored the urgency of addressing rural poverty to stem its
conversion into an urban poverty phenomenon.
1.2   The Piano Real, launched in July 1994, has achieved a substantial degree of
macroeconomic stabilization, successfully reducing the annual inflation rate (currently
about 100%-l 1% p.a.). In the short to medium term, however, stabilization also implies a
very strong fiscal adjustment with tightening of government expenditures, high real
interest rates and, hence, a deepening of the investment pause in the farm and rural sector.
The consequences in terms of rural employment and lack of social services continue to be
serious, and clearly call for offsetting safety net actions. While successful macroeconomic
adjustment should promote longer-term economic growth with benefits extending to rural
areas, international experience shows that targeted programs and policies for the socio-
economic development of the poor remain an essential complement to the adjustment
process.
RURAL POVERTY IN THE NORTHEAST
1.3   The Northeast, containing more than half of the country's poor and almost two-
thirds of its rural poor, has long been considered the single largest rural poverty pocket in



-2 -
Latin America. This Region, covering nine states and part of a tenth, accounts for 19% of
Brazil's total land area and almost 30% of its 148 million population (1993). According to
a World Bank Poverty Assessment for Brazil, annual per capita incomes of rural
inhabitants in the Northeast are estimated at US$230, or less than one-tenth of the national
average.' Among the underlying causes of rural poverty in the Northeast are the relatively
poor resource base of large parts of the region and variable agro-climatic conditions which
make them vulnerable to drought. Skewed access to land and the virtual absence of a
functioning rural financial system for the poor are additional constraints. Northeast
agriculture is characterized by limited input use and slow rates of technology adoption.
Productivity is low, with output per farm worker less than half that of other regions.
Overall Northeast agricultural GDP growth was negligible during 1991-1994, and reached
less than 1% in 1995.
1.4   About 40% of the Northeast's rural population lives in the interior semi-arid zone
characterized by poor soils and severe, cyclical and often protracted drought. The
"drought polygon" in the semi-arid region includes most of Ceara, Rio Grande do Norte,
Piaui, Paraiba and Bahia, and smaller proportions of all the other Northeastern states
except Maranhao. The remainder of the rural population lives in areas which are generally
more humid and have better soils, the coastal belt and the drought-prone transitional zone
between the coast and the semi-arid area. The rural economy revolves around food crops
including fruits and vegetables, and extensive irrigated commercial export cropping and
livestock grazing by larger farmers. As a consequence of limitations imposed by uncertain
climate and market fluctuations, the rural poor in the Northeast, comprising small farm
owners, tenants, sharecroppers and landless laborers rely on a complex of activities
including the subsistence cropping of basic foods and small-scale animal husbandry, cash
crops (mainly cotton and cashew), casual agricultural and non-agricultural work and
remittances from family members living in cities.
1.5   Health and social indicators attest to the poor quality of life in the Northeast,
compared to the rest of Brazil. The region has: (a) a rate of chronic malnutrition of
children under five at 27% and, in the rural areas, 31%, compared to 15% nationwide; (b)
57% of households without piped water supply, reaching 91% in the rural areas,
compared to 28% nationwide; (c) 30% of households without electricity, more than
doubling to 67% in the rural areas, compared to 13% nationwide; and (d) 73% of all
households and 96% of rural households lacking access to proper sanitation facilities,
compared to 46% nationwide.2
1.6   Public investment in the Northeast in basic infrastructure --particularly in
transport, electrification and water supply-- has declined dramatically in the past 25 years
Brazil: A Poverty Assessment Human Resources Operations Division, World Bank, Report No.
14323-BR, June 27, 1995.
2  World Bank, June 27, 1995.



-3-
because of economic recession and fiscal crisis.3 The annual growth rate of public capital
investment in the region was 9.6% in the period 1970-80, 3.1% in 1980-90, but a minus
1.5% in 1990-94. The distribution of public investment between the Federal, State and
municipal governments, has also evolved significantly since the early 1980s. Comparing
the period 1970-80 to 1990-93, the contribution of the Federal Government to total
capital investment expenditure in the Northeast dropped from 58% to 47% while that of
municipal governments more than doubled from 90/o to 19%. The State governments'
share remained practically constant at 33-34%. In 1994, investments by the Federal and
State Governments increased marginally to 51% and 33%, respectively, while the share of
the municipal governments dropped to around 16%. The proposed project would help
compensate for the lack of public investment expenditure in the Northeast. The project
would also reflect the shift in investment expenditure shares from the Federal Government
to municipal governments by concentrating resource allocation decisions for subproject
investments at the municipal level and by leveraging resources of municipal governments
to increase investment in poor rural areas.
1.7   The proposed project would also be a natural complement to important changes in
the political economy of Brazil that were brought about by the Federal Constitution of
1988. Fiscal resources, priority setting and program implementation responsibilities have
been increasingly decentralized from the Federal Government to the states, municipalities
and local populations. This encouraging trend should help avoid many of the financial and
managerial problems which generations of Northeast poverty programs encountered under
centralized coordination and implementation arrangements. Much of the Bank's dialogue
and lending for poverty, including in rural development, health and education, have now
shifted to the states, with the role of the Federal Government being redefined to stress
more strategic functions, such as broad policy and norm setting and financial transfer
schemes to improve equity.
EXPERIENCE WITH PAST BANK LENDING
1.8   The Federal and State Governments have been involved since the early 1970s in
financing projects to alleviate rural poverty in the Northeast. The World Bank has been
associated for many years with these efforts, through its financing of a series of programs
and projects, including area-specific and state rural development projects, various sectoral
operations and a regional rural development program.
1.9   Historically, rural development programs in the Northeast have coalesced around
two themes: drought relief and the integrated development of selected areas. The first
has involved emergency relief programs or projects to increase the productivity of scarce
water resources, including large public irrigation schemes. While the budgetary impact of
these projects has been tremendous, their poverty effects have been limited and often
temporary. The second approach, that of integrated subregional development programs,
3  Formacao Bruta de Capital Fixo do Setor Nblico - Nordeste do Brasil: 1960-93 SUDENE, Recife,
1995.



-4-
has included initiatives like the Sertanejo Project and the Bank-financed
POLONORDESTE projects of the 1970s and early 1980s.
1.10 POLONORDESTE. The POLONORDESTE operations concentrated on
specific microregions within each of the nine Northeast states and the northern part of
Minas Gerais. They were comprehensive, multisectoral projects designed to improve
agricultural efficiency, raise rural incomes and increase employment. They typically
included components for agricultural modernization (extension, research, credit,
marketing, land administration), infrastructure (rural water supply, roads and irrigation)
and social investments (education, health and community development). Many important
sectoral initiatives were first piloted under the POLONORDESTE projects: farm
management extension techniques; integrated farm unit research for small-scale
agriculture, rather than crop-based research; a wide range of land redistribution initiatives
and modem land titling technologies; educational curriculum and school calendar refonns
for rural areas; and community-based primary health care schemes.
1.11  Nevertheless, evaluation of the POLONORDESTE projects by the Bank in the
early 1980s showed that, in the aggregate, they had only a limited impact on poverty. The
micro-regions supported by the Bank projects were relatively small areas in the context of
the whole Northeast; poverty targeting mechanisms were weak; and delivery mechanisms
relied exclusively on Federal and state bureaucracies. The Federal Government frequently
failed to provide adequate counterpart funds and delayed the release of budgeted amounts,
with damaging effects on the projects given Brazil's chronically high inflation.
Consequently, less than one-third of project funds reached intended beneficiaries, as
seriously reduced budgets were absorbed by administration and overheads.
1.12 Sectoril Loans and the Northeast Rural Development Program. These
considerations prompted the Bank and Federal Government to change strategies in the
mid-1980s. On the one hand, the lessons learned from some of the pilot efforts under
POLONORDESTE were promising, but it was felt that these needed to be expanded
geographically and supported by broader sector policy reforms, within the framework of
single-sector operations unencumbered by the coordination and implementation difficulties
of multiple components. A series of sectoral operations, such as Northeast land titling,
education, health, and irrigation, resulted in the next few years.
1.13  With respect to integrated rural development, this was still considered to be a
viable and necessary approach but, again, it was felt that the effort should be expanded
statewide in order to have a broader impact, and that the number of components should be
drastically reduced. As a result, in 1985, the Northeast Rural Development Program
(NRDP) was established to alleviate rural poverty and improve the living standards of
small farm families in the Northeast. Under this program, the Bank approved during
1985-87 individual loans for the ten states in an amount totaling US$826.7 million. But,
through 1993, with the exception of one component supporting small community projects
(known as the APCR), implementation of the NRDP lagged behind schedule and
performance in meeting basic objectives was weak. Some of the main causes were quite
similar to the causes of poor performance under the earlier POLONORDESTE projects:



-5-
chronic fiscal deficits and other macroeconomic distortions led to almost constant
counterpart funding shortages and widespread deterioration of many of the public
institutions responsible for carrying out the NRDP. The Federal Government devolved
some responsibilities to the states, but, by and large, institutional arrangements were still
highly centralized. Decision-making, administration and financing arrangements were
generally non-participatory, and the sense of project "ownership" at both state and local
levels was limited.
1.14 On the other hand, the innovative APCR community-based components (para.
1.13), which stressed community organization and relied on local planning and
implementation, were noticeably more successful. They acknowledged the expressed
needs of the communities, their poverty alleviation impact was positive, the cost per family
relatively low, and disbursement and commitment rates far exceeded those of other
components.
1.15  Reformulated NRDP. On the Bank's initiative, in 1993 the NRDP was
reformulated and transformed into a community-based development program, drawing
both on the successful experience of the APCR small community projects component and
on lessons learned with similar schemes elsewhere in Latin America, particularly the
Mexican Solidaridad program. The outcome has been positive. Rural communities
participated in the identification, financing and implementation of subprojects that met
their most pressing needs, increased their sense of project ownership, and had a much
sharper focus on poverty alleviation. The reformulated NRDP covered all members of
poor rural communities and not only those with productive assets, and was based on a
"matching grant" mechanism linked to beneficiary contributions towards subproject cost.
The State Governments were fully responsible for counterpart funding, and the
corresponding sense of "ownership" of the program has been notable.
1.16 Based on implementation in the three years following reformulation, as well as the
earlier experience of the APCR components, certain facts are now clear. The program
generated unprecedented enthusiasm among beneficiaries and favorable multiplier effects
--with replicability evident in other programs-- and mobilized additional funds from
municipalities and communities. As much as 93% of disbursements reached targeted
beneficiaries, and diversion of funds for non-intended uses was sharply reduced compared
to past programs. The NRDP's participatory approach induced greater community
organization and empowerment, increased transparency, and demonstrated that rural
communities can influence the allocation and use of resources at the municipal level to
alleviate poverty. Investments funded by the program were of satisfactory quality and less
costly than those executed by public agencies. While the reformulated program was not
expected to change the basic agricultural economy in the Northeast, it successfully
reached a large number of landless families and land reform beneficiaries. Several field
investigations, surveys and studies have assessed the impact of NRDP. The consensus,
from a broad sample of completed and operational subprojects, is that they have had a
positive impact on the quality of life, and in the case of productive subprojects, on
employment and incomes of beneficiaries. In so doing, the NRDP initiated a process of
local accumulation and, albeit still on a small scale, elevated the socio-economic standards



-6 -
of beneficiary communities that will progressively allow them to enter formal market
channels. Additionally, the program, by providing essential infrastructure and social
services to these communities, relieved some of the budgetary burden of the Northeast
states and nunicipalities. A summary evaluation of the reformulated NRDP is provided in
Annex B.
T1E STATE OF PARAIBA
1.17  The State of Paraiba --the third smallest state in the Northeast-- covers a territory
of 56,372 km2 and has a population of 3.4 million (1996 estimate). The state is bordered
by the Atlantic Ocean on the east, and by the States of Rio Grande do Norte, Paraiba and
Ceara respectively, on its north, south and western sides. The state is divided into three
geo-economic zones. The semi-arid zone or serfao, falling under the "drought polygon",
occupies over three-quarters of the state territory and contains 40% of the population
(about 1.3 million people) whose living conditions are highly vulnerable to drought. The
agreste-brejo transitional region has an average annual rainfall of 600-1,000 mm and 5-7
months of rain; and, the zona da mata along the coast (Mata Atlantica) has a more humid
climate with rainfall of 1,000-1,500 mm and fertile soils. Population density in these two
regions is high, averaging 127 inhabitants per km2 in the agreste-brejo and 191 inhabitants
per km2 in the coastal/mata region against 29 inhabitants per km2. Two major rivers -- the
Paraiba and the Piranhas - drain the State. Underground water is plentiful on the coast,
but deep and of poor quality in the interior.
1.18  The indicators of quality of life attest to the severity of poverty in the state.
Paraiba has been classified, in the latest report on indices of human development prepared
by IPEA for UNDP, at the lowest end of the scale among all the states in Brazil. A
revealing indicator of the precarious living conditions is the percentage of the State's
population which is indigent, estimated by IPEA to have reached 1.5 million by 1990, or
47% of the population.' In the rural areas, the proportion of indigence rises to 72%.
According to a joint study by UNICEF and IBGE, 85% of the State's municipalities
harbor very precarious living conditions critically affecting rates of childhood survival.
Unhealthy living conditions stem from an inadequate infrastructure and a lack of basic
education or income-generating activities needed to overcome poverty, a situation which
becomes especially acute in the rural zones: (a) while 52% of urban heads of households
earn less than one minimum salary (currently about US$120 per month), this rises to 81%
in rural areas; (b) inadequate water supply affects 24% of urban families, and 95% of rural
families; (c) while 14% of urban families lack any form of sanitation, this increases to 73%
in rural areas; and (iv) illiteracy affects about 32% of urban persons over 14 years old,
rising to 60% in rural areas.5 Outmigration from rural to urban and semi-urban areas over
the past two decades has resulted in a slight decrease in the rural population (currently
4  Indigence is defined as the level of income that corresponds, at the maximum, to the value of a
"basic food basket" that meets a family's minimum nutritional requirements as defined by
FAO/WHO. Source: OMapa da Fome, IPEA, 1993.
5     IBGE, Census 1991.



-7-
about 35% of total population). There has been, however, a certain deceleration in this
process in the past few years, as manifested by a negative growth rate in the rural
population of -1.7/o between 1991 and 1995, compared to -2.0%Yo in the period 1985-91.
1.19 As in the rest of the Northeast, poverty in Paraiba is closely correlated with
geography. The rural poor are primarily smallholders, sharecroppers and wage workers,
who depend on a diverse strategy of income-generating activities in which the subsistence
production of maize, beans, manioc and rice, and small livestock predominates. Their
well-being fluctuates with changes in the agro-climatic conditions. In the semi-arid and
transition zones, rainfall is scarce and highly irregular, yielding crops of low quality and
income-generating capacity. In addition to the lack of reliable water supply, these small
farmers lack modem production technology and basic infrastructure to store harvests to
take advantage of cyclical price fluctuations. Consequently, family income is highly
variable, and there is little opportunity for savings (see Annex A).
1.20  State Government Strategy to AUeviate Poverty. The State Government of
Paraiba, under its plan for sustainable development, is pursuing actions focusing on the
decentralization and diversification of economic activity and expanding access to basic
services. With respect to the rural sector, the State's strategy focuses on: (a) regional
integration of economic activity which recognizes differences in ecosystems and expands
on existing infrastructure; (b) creation and diffusion of technical innovations geared
towards local production needs and capabilities; (c) implementation of policies that make
maximum use of local potential, particularly water resources, to curtail the abandonment
of productive activities and outmigration; (d) land reform initiatives based on
consolidation and intensification of rural settlements; and (e) expanded access to basic
services for the rural population. The NRDP has been one of the State's most important
tools for promoting organized decentralization, local development and community
participation, through the establishment of municipal councils which generate concrete
investment proposals for economic and social infrastructure and local employment and
income creation.
1.21 Experience with Previous Bank Rural Development Projects in Paraiba. The
State of Paraiba has undertaken two Bank-financed rural development projects since 1978
under POLONORDESTE (Projeto de Desenvolvimento Rural Integrado do Brejo
Paraibano) and the NRDP. Paraiba's performance under Bank-financed projects prior to
the 1993 NRDP reformulation was generally consistent with the integrated rural
development and NRDP project experience of other Northeastern states (paras. 1.8 to
1.16).
1.22 The NRDP-Paraiba project closed on December 31, 1996, after a three-month
extension of the original closing date. Under the reformulated NRDP, Paraiba's
performance was highly positive. Nearly 40% of all approved subprojects were under
FUMAC, a result of the sustained and effective efforts of the Technical Unit combined
with a long-standing state tradition of associative action, and the restructuring of
ineffective FUMAC Councils. In the approximately three years following reformulation
(end-1993 to end-1996), loan disbursements in Paraiba reached US$38.0 million, as



-8 -
compared to US$21.4 million during the entire implementation period of the original
NRDP (1985 to end-1993), leaving at loan closing a balance of about US$0.6 million for
canceullation. On an annual basis, the rate of disbursements more than doubled from
US$4.4 million pnror to reformulation to US$11.7 million thereafter. Furthermore,
whereas targets at refomulation were only 920 subprojects that were to benefit about
23,000 families, by loan closing date a total of 2,308 community subprojects had been
fimded (out of some 4,920 subproject applications received from rural community
associations), benefiting some 149,630 families. About 74% of the approved investments
were infrastructure subprojects, 23% were productive and 3% were social subprojects.
MAN LESSONS LEARNED FROM THE NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
(NRDP)
1.23 The World Bank has 20 years of experience in supporting rural development and
poverty alleviation in Northeast Brazil, starting with the POLONORDESTE Program
(1975-84), a variety of sectoral projects and more recently with the NRDP (1985 to the
present). The NRDP, following its reformulation in 1993, focused entirely on client-
driven subproject investments implemented by the communities themselves, with
decentralized project management at the state and municipal levels and more transparent
decision-making and accountability for project performance. Implementation has provided
important lessons for the proposed project (see Annex B for further details):
(a)   Decentralization of fiscal and investment decision-maldng from Federal to
state and local governments ensures more efficient project administration.
Decentralization of resource allocation and investment decisions to
municipalities and communities should be accompanied by a clearly defined
and well-disseminated system of incentives and penalties to discourage the
misuse of funds;
(b)   Poverty-targeting mechanisms should be simple, explicit and
monitorable; be based on objective criteria; foster transparency and
minimize political interference in project resource allocation; and ensure
that project resources reach the poorest communities;
(c)   Participation in the financing of subprojects generates a sense of
ownership and a willingness to share responsibility for the future operation
and maintenance of project investments. Beneficiary participation in the
selection, execution, supervision and financing of project investments
ensures that investments respond to true, perceived needs, generate cost
savings and increase accountability at the local level; the organization of
poor communities heightens their awareness of available programs and
services, facilitates their participation and increases subproject cost-
effectiveness;
(d)   Sustainability of project investments has greater potential when the
municipalities and communities contribute to subproject financing in a cost-



-9 -
sharing arrangement and when there is increased beneficiary participation.
For example, the participatory process introduced in the pilot Municipal
Council component (FJMAC) of the reformulated NRDP ensured better
selection and prioritization of subprojects by beneficiaries. Sustainability is
also promoted when communities assume greater responsibilities and
continue to voice their demands in a concrete fashion to influence public
investment expenditure at the local level;
(e)   A widely disseminated and careflifly designed information campaign is
essential to ensure transparency and proper knowledge of the program's
objectives and contents by all potential beneficiaries;
(f)    Technical assistance and training should be accessible to rural
conmunities to enable them to identify, prepare and implement their own
subprojects, thereby augmenting their capacity to compete for investment
funds. Technical assistance should also be targeted to weaker
municipalities to improve their planning, management and financial
capacity; and, the quality of the Project Coordinating Unit (PCU), whether
it provides technical assistance directly or through partner entities, is a
critical factor in project success and may entail the contracting oflocal
and/or international organizations to strengthen its institutional capacities;.
(g)   Standardization of subproject documents, technical designsand unit
costs simplifies the subproject preparation and evaluation process,
faciitates the procurement of goods and works, prevents overdesign and
improves the quality of subprojects, thereby encouraging greater
participation by poorer communities and reducing bottlenecks in the
subproject cycle;
(h)   Supervision, both during and after subproject implementation, is an
indispensable determinant of success and sustainability. It has to be
reinforced at all levels and involve local entities closest to the communities,
particularly Municipal Councils and NGOs;
(i)    A user-friendly monitoring and evaluation system facilitates the
subproject evaluation process, provides feedback and necessary
information to improve targeting and efficiency, and is an essential
management and planning tool. Project design should pay carefil attention
to baseline studies as the springboard for well-designed M&E and for ex-
post financial and economic evaluation of productive subprojects;
()    Productive subprojects financed in a social context should be subject to
rigorous selection, preparation, technical assistance and supervision.
Eligible productive investments should be those which provide services for
a large number of community members; whose collective use is regulated
by strict operational guidelines (regulanento de uso); and for which



-10-
operation and maintenance is assured by charging adequate user fees to
both association members and non-members; and
(k)   Dissemination of "best practices", such as experiences with NGOs in Rio
Grande do Norte, EMATER in Minas Gerais and with FUMAC Councils
in Paraiba, through exchanges of information among Technical Units, at
training seminars and workshops, can hasten learning and reward
innovation.
1.24 The design of the proposed Paraiba Rural Poverty Alleviation Project has taken
into account these lessons, which are consistent in many respects with lessons learned
elsewhere in Latin America and other regions with similar community-based development
programs. The project will expand the FUMAC approach and initiate a pilot municipal
funds program (para. 2.7), to promote decentralization of decision-making and resource
allocation to municipal and community levels, to relieve the administrative logjam resulting
from state intervention in the minutiae of subprojects, and to further encourage municipal
cost-sharing of subprojects. The project will employ a poverty targeting methodology
based on a series of poverty-related criteria at the municipal, community and beneficiary
levels, and backed by a strong system of operational checks and balances to thwart
mistargeting and misappropriation of resources. As a condition of loan effectiveness, an
improved monitoring and evaluation system will be adopted to reinforce the targeting
mechanism and to strengthen the management of the subproject cycle (paras. 2.31-2.40).
Equally important, for simplicity and efficiency in subproject preparation, evaluation and
supervision, the Project Operational Manual will establish standard subproject designs,
technical and financial parameters, and cost indicators for the most frequently requested
subprojects. In addition, funds for technical assistance to rural communities and
municipalities will be facilitated to actively promote the organization of the poorest areas
to enable their participation, foster community capacity and empowerment, and encourage
the active participation of NG3s and local grassroots organizations. Finally, greater
emphasis on supervision by the PCU and local entities of community subprojects to be
funded by the project will be supported with a larger share of Bank financing of the costs
related to this activity. This would not only secure the quality of project investments but
also ensure that implementation bottlenecks, if any, are quickly resolved so as to allow
smooth and successful operation of the subprojects.



- 11 -
2. THE PROJECT
ORIGIN AND RATIONALE FOR BANK INVOLVEMENT
2.1   The proposed Rural Poverty Alleviation Project is a follow-up to the reformulated
Northeast Rural Development Program (NRDP). Evaluation by the Brazilian
Government, FAO/CP and the World Bank has confirmed that this program, itself the
culmination of two decades of experience, successfully introduced an effective model for
rural poverty alleviation in the Northeast. After field-testing the reformulated NRDP
model for over three years, the Northeast State Governments are developing new projects
to expand its coverage. The proposed project in Paraiba would be one of the third group
of successor operations, which include the Rural Poverty Alleviation Projects for Bahia,
Ceara and Sergipe, approved by the Board on June 29, 1995, and similar projects for
Pernambuco, Rio Grande do Norte and Piaui, approved on December 12, 1996.
2.2   The level of poverty in certain segments of the population, particularly in the
Northeast and its rural areas, remains a primary concern for the Brazilian administration.
Because of the high incidence of poverty in the Northeast, this region is a priority for
public development programs. The cornerstone of the Federal Government's effort to
combat poverty and hunger is the Comunidade Soliddria program, launched in early 1995
as a broad framework for the coordination of rural and urban poverty programs and
projects and focusing on municipalities where poverty is most severe. Implementation is
decentralized, stressing community self-help and local empowerment, and concentrating
on four main themes: rural development, income and employment generation, food and
nutrition, and urban services. The proposed Paraiba Rural Poverty Alleviation Project is
fully consistent with this strategy, parts of which draw heavily on the Bank-supported
NRDP experience in Northeast Brazil (paras. 1.12-1.16).
2.3   The project is also fully supportive of the Bank's recent Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS) for Brazil, discussed by the Board on June 12, 1997. The new CAS
continues to identify poverty reduction as the chief objective of the Bank's assistance
efforts in Brazil. Regional development is targeted as a major means of achieving this
objective, with high priority for the Northeast, a region selected under the Bank's
Strategic Compact for enhanced support of rural development. Overall, the Bank will
seek stronger sustainability of the poverty projects, including increased cost recovery,
project designs that increasingly target development of the poor and not only poverty
relief, and stronger financial commitment from the municipal and state governments where
these projects would be implemented. The design of the proposed project also followed
some of the recommendations of the previous CAS and its Progress Report (discussed by
the Board on June 20, 1996), in particular that policy dialogue and lending should be



- 12 -
directed to the states -whose role is fundamental in the provision of infrastructure
social services- and that the Bank should support efforts to decentralize and shift
expenditure and implementation responsibilities from the Federal Government to the
states, municipalities and local communities. Finally, in accordance with CAS support for
Government's macroeconomic and structural reforms, the proposed loan will include
funds for technical assistance to help the State of Paraiba to further identify and implement
appropriate reform programs to improve its fiscal situation. The proposed project, whose
design is based on the lessons and experience of the reformulated NRDP, will be an
important element in meeting the Bank's objectives in Brazil. As the principal donor
engaged in a sustained, long-term partnership with the Brazilian Government to address
rural poverty issues in the Northeast, the Bank is particularly well placed to support this
next phase of development initiatives for Paraiba.
PROJECT OBJECTIVES
2.4   The project would assist the State Government of Paraiba to alleviate rural poverty
and its consequences by: (a) providing basic social and economic infrastructure, and
employment and income-generating opportunities for the rural poor; (b) decentralizing
resource aDlocation and decision-making to local levels by supporting community-based
municipal councils and beneficiary associations in investment planning and
implementation; (c) leveraging resources mobilized at the community and municipal levels;
and (d) deepening the creation of social capital that was initiated by the reformulated
NRDP. The project is expected to lay groundwork for, and consolidate, participatory
institutions and processes at the municipal and community levels. The project would
ensure that funds reach the poorest municipalities and communities, and would expand the
successful strategy of decentralization and participation tested under the reformulated
NRDP.
PROJECT COMPONENTS
2.5   The proposed project would include three main components, as follows:
(a) Community Subprojects (US$71.0 million or 90% of total base cost), which would
support small-scale investments selected and subsequently operated and maintained by the
beneficiaries themselves; (b) Institutional Development (US$4.8 million or 6% of total
base cost), which would provide all implementing entities and communities with technical
assistance and training to increase'their capacity and improve implementation of the
project; and (c) Project Administration, Supervision, Monitoring and Evaluation (US$3.2
million or 4% of total base cost), which would finance project coordination and activities
to provide feedback on project performance and impact.
A. Community Subprojects
2.6   The project would provide matching grants to rural community associations to
finance small-scale subprojects (up to US$50,000 each) identified by these groups as
priority investments that would improve community well-being. Subprojects would be of



- 13 -
many types, broadly classified as infrastructure (such as rural water supply, electrification,
local road improvements and small bridges), social (e.g., sanitation, community centers,
day care centers) and productive subprojects (such as communal irrigation schemes, small-
scale community agro-processing, provision of small agricultural equipment and
comnunal farm tractors, small livestock production). Subproject selection is demand-
driven and based on community preferences. The project would establish a negative list of
subproject types ineligible for financing and, for productive subprojects in particular,
additional and rigorous eligibility criteria.6 Subproject proposals would observe standard
documentation and technical, economic, environmental and sustainability criteria
established in a detailed Project Operational Manual, which sets forth procedures and
guidelines for implementation. The Operational Manual, based on the manual already in
use for the reformulated NRDP project, will reflect the lessons learned during the past
three years of implementation. During appraisal, agreements were reached on the needed
improvements to the NRDP Operational Manual. During negotiations, the Bank reviewed
a complete revised draft of the Operational Manual, and assurances were provided by the
Borrower that all project components and subprojects would be executed in accordance
with the Project Operational Manual (para. 3. 1(a)). Adoption of the Operational Manual
would be a condition of loan effectiveness (para. 3.2(a)).
2.7    The identification, preparation and implementation of all subprojects financed
under the project will be the responsibility of the beneficiary rural communities (see paras.
2.31 to 2.40 for a detailed description of the community subproject cycle). Three different
delivery mechanisms will distinguish how the subprojects are approved and the respective
inancing arranged:
(a)    State Community Schemes (PAC). PAC was the original subprojects
component of the refornulated NRDP. Under PAC, rural communities
submit their subproject investment proposals directly to the State Project
Coordinating Unit (PCU). The PCU screens, approves and releases funds
for subprojects, interacting directly with the beneficiary communities. It is
expected that up to US$19.6 million equivalent, or 25% of total base costs,
would be invested under this subcomponent over the five-year project
implementation period;
(b)   Municipal Community Schemes (FUMAC). FUMAC was tested and
proven successful under the reformulated NRDP. In FUMAC, decision-
making on subproject approval is delegated by the State to project
Municipal Councils, composed of community members and representatives
6  Eligible productive subprojects would be those which provide services which benefit a large number
of community members and for which a fee is charged for operation and maintenance. Productive
subprojects, as with infrastrture and social subprojects, must be property of the association as a
whole and not of select members. For each type of productive subproject, a set of operational
guidelines (regulamento de uso), developed by the PCU, would be provided to the association and
must be adopted. In addition, each subproject proposal must identify the source of technical
assistance for subproject implementation and subsequent operation.



-14-
of civil society and municipal authorities. The Municipal Councils
prioritize the demands presented by rural communities through local
consensu-building and approve subprojects, within an indicative annual
budget, for financing by the PCU. The selection process would be the
basis of targeting in the project since the communities themselves, through
their participation in the project Municipal Councils, determine where
project resources can best be applied based on their first-hand knowledge
of local investment needs. It is expected that at least US$44.3 million
equivalent, or 56% of total base costs, would be invested under this
subcomponent.
(c)   Pilot Municipal Community Funds (FUMAC-P). This new
subcomponent would be a pilot variant of FUMAC, in which selected
Municipal Councils would prioritize and approve subprojects submitted by
rural communities and then would finance them within the context of an
annual budget, which the State PCU would delegate to the Municipal
Councils to manage themselves. This annual budget envelope would be
allocated to the Municipal Councils according to a distribution formula,
based on clear and measurable criteria, such as rural population and
previous year's performance, for implementation of an Annual Operating
Plan (POA - Plmo Operativo Anual) prepared by each Municipal Council
and approved by the PCU. The Municipal Council would transfer funds to
beneficiary associations to finance approved community subprojects. It is
expected that at least US$7.1 million equivalent, or 9% of total base costs,
would be invested under this subcomponent.
2.8   Each subcomponent represents a greater degree of decentralization of decision-
making and resource allocation responsibilities. Moving from PAC to FUMAC to
FUMAC-P, the control over project investment planning becomes increasingly local and
rural communities gain greater voice through their representation on the Municipal
Council as well as through their participation in its decisions. This institutionalization of
the participatory process would protect it from political fluctuation, and would eventually
lead to stronger partnerships between communities and Municipal Councils and their
respective municipal governments in determining the use of public resources.
2.9   Given the overwhelmingly positive response to FUMAC under the reformulated
NRDP, it is expected that the need for the PAC subcomponent would diminish over the
course of project implementation, with the FUMAC and FUMAC-P subcomponents
gradually expanding. The continued existence of PAC would facilitate participation in the
project of those comnunities within municipalities which lack either the capacity or the
political will to adopt the FUMAC or FUMAC-P approach. When a municipality is well
organized and receptive to participatory decision-makdng processes, it enters FUMAC, a



- 15 -
Municipal Council is formed and resource allocation decisions are made at the local level.7
Once the Municipal Council demonstrates effectiveness in prioritization of demands and
subproject supervision and a capacity to manage resources, the municipality is promoted
from FUMAC to FUMAC-P, and henceforth the actual resources are administered at the
local level by the Municipal Council based on locally-determined investment planning.
Flexibility would be built into the project to reallocate funds among subcomponents to
accommodate the expansion of FUMAC and FUMAC-P.
2.10 In compliance with Brazilian law, beneficiaries must form legally-constituted civil
associations in order to be eligible to receive financing under the project. Disbursements
to the beneficiary associations would be made through agreements (convenios) with the
PCU and/or project Municipal Councils. During appraisal, understandings were reached
on draft model agreements between the PCU, Municipal Councils and community
associations for the implementation of community subprojects under the FUMAC,
FUMAC-P and PAC subcomponents. The final model agreements would form part of the
Project Operational Manual. Beneficiary associations would contribute to subproject
costs, either in cash, kind or labor, and would be responsible for the operation and
maintenance (O&M) of the investments. The minimum level of contributions expected
from the beneficiaries, municipalities and the State Government would be specified in a
cost-sharing matrix in the Project Operational Manual.
B. Institutional Development
2.11  The Institutional Development component (US$4.8 million or 6% of base costs)
will finance appropriate technical assistance and training in order for each group
participating in project implementation to acquire the capabilities needed to effectively
carry out its respective tasks (see Annex D). The project will consolidate participatory
institutions and processes at the municipal and community levels through the community
subproject approach, described above, in which well-organized communities with sound,
carefully prepared proposals are provided with financial support for investments, and in
which FUMAC Municipal Councils which demonstrate effective decision-making capacity
are promoted to FUMAC-P and rewarded with their own investment budget.
2.12 To encourage this process and to accompany the decentralized implementation
framework of the project, technical assistance and training would be provided for the
beneficiary associations, Municipal Councils, and the PCU, as well as other participating
entities (Annex E). For example, to derive optimal benefits from subproject investments,
the beneficiary associations will need accessible support for community organization and
subproject preparation and execution, as well as for training in operation and maintenance
techniques. The project Municipal Councils will require assistance to orient their decision-
making on resource allocation among community investments and, in the FUMAC-P pilot
7 Under the reformulated NRDP in Paraiba, 25 FUMAC Municipal Councils were formed. These
Councils will continue as FUMAC Councils under the proposed project or may be upgraded to
FUMAC-P Councils.



-16 -
program, to create capacity for investment planning and financial administration. In
addition to providing or making available from other sources a wide range of technical and
managerial advice to the project Municipal Councils and beneficiary associations, the PCU
will need training to enhance its own project coordination and supervision skills. Also,
because the fiscal situation of the State affects both project implementation and state
counterpart funding, technical assistance at the state level is needed to analyze issues
surrounding the reform of the State and to identify measures to improve the State's
capacity to address the inherent causes of its fiscal deficit situation. The instruments for
achieving this capacity building would include a combination of workshops, technical
exchanges, on-site training, and more traditional technical assistance, drawing upon local
expertise within the state --local extensionists, technical consultants, universities, NGOs,
and other local service providers-- as well as national and international technical assistance
agencies. To this end, the component would finance consultant services, training materials
and courses, seminars, workshops, and related operational costs.
2.13 The implementation of the institutional development component would be
decentralized, and the provision of and accountability for technical assistance and training
would occur increasingly at the local level. In particular, project Municipal Councils will
play a critical role in overseeing the capacity-building activities for community associations
in their jurisdictions. Municipal Councils, provided with model terms of reference
prepared by the PCU, would contract technical assistance based on programs agreed with
the PCU, which would then release funds for that purpose. Institutional development
activities can be broadly categorized into five areas: (a) mobilization assistance and
training for participating communities. Organized and contracted by the PCU and
Municipal Councils, assistance would be provided for the organization and strengthening
of community associations, identification of viable investments, subproject preparation,
and operation and maintenance of investments; (b) capacity-building programs for
Municipal Councils. Organized by the PCU, the programs would include intensive
training on the role of Municipal Councils, guidelines of the Operational Manual,
subproject evaluation and supervision and related topics such as environmental assessment
of subprojects for each Municipal Council under the project, as well as participatory
plamning and financial management training for FUMAC-P Councils; (c) specialized skills
training for all participating entities. Based on needs, expert advice and "on-the-job
training" by local providers would be contracted by the PCU, Municipal Councils and
groups of community associations, in areas such as the use of standard designs,
monitoring techniques, and financial administration as well as technical support (e.g., for
groups of community associations on water use); (d) technical assistance for State reform.
The Secretariat of Planning (SEPLAN), through the PCU, will have access to technical
assistance funds (US$0.5 million or less than 1% of base costs) for consultant services and
studies required for administrative and other state reforms. During appraisal, agreements
were reached with the State on the content and implementation arrangements for this
Technical Assistance subcomponent; and (e) workshops and seminars for the Municipal
Councils and beneficiary associations, to exchange experience under the project. These
"best practice" exchanges could also extend to seminars joining all PCUs of the ten
Northeastern states to disseminate successful experiences across states.



- 17-
C. Project Administration, Monitoring and Evaluation
2.14 This component (US$3.2 million, or 4% of total base costs) would support overall
project coordination and supervision and would help to strengthen the effectiveness and
quality of project operations. It would finance the incremental operating costs of the
PCU, for overall coordination of project activities, and a statewide information campaign
to disseminate information about the project and its guidelines to all potential beneficiary
communities, to increase awareness, transparency and participation. For this campaign,
the project would finance: (a) local technical assistance in the design and development of
the campaign; and (b) the implementation costs, including posters, leaflets, radio spots and
videos. The preparation of a statewide information campaign. acceptable to the Bank
would be a condifion of loan effectiveness (para. 3.2(b)).
2.15 Given the importance of supervision to the overall impact of the program, project
supervision (Annex K) will be intensified under the project and, accordingly, will be
allocated half of the component's resources (US$1.6 million, or 2% of base costs).
Project supervision will provide the PCU with the necessary information on project
performance to make managerial decisions, such as the provision of technical assistance or
training, the correction of departures from project guidelines, and the promotion of project
municipalities from FUMAC to FUMAC-P. In line with the decentralized implementation
of the project, the responsibilities for project supervision at the state and local levels will
correspond to the PCU and the project Municipal Councils, respectively. Supervision
activities to be financed under the project include operational expenses for field visits and
subcontracted services from NGOs and other participating agencies.
2.16 This component would also finance the establishment of a monitoring system,
including the maintenance and use of a Management Information System (MIS). To
function as an efficient management tool, the project MIS (Annex H), originally designed
under the NRDP, would be improved and made more user-friendly and performance-
oriented. It would contain key technical, financial and socio-economic information on
subprojects, as well as cost and other physical indicators. MIS-generated project reports,
including monthly disbursement reports and semi-annual progress reports, would facilitate
subproject tracking and generate appropriate feedback on project performance. Project
performance and impact indicators would be regularly updated to take stock of project
implementation and included in the semi-annual progress reports. A Project
Implementation Plan and a matrix of Project Performance Indicators were finalized and
agreed at appraisal. In addition to financing operating costs for monitoring activities, the
project would finance experts in information technology and project management: (a) to
improve the MIS; and (b) to collect and analyze data on cost indicators and physical
parameters from the most frequently approved types of subprojects, so as to calculate a
range of values for these indicators and to adjust subproject eligibility criteria accordingly.
These adjustments would then be incorporated into the Project Operational Manual.
2.17 Finally, the project would finance consultant services to develop and implement
studies to evaluate the impact of the subprojects and provide feedback to improve project
operations: (a) annual physical performance reviews, to assess the quality and



- 18 -
sustainability of common types of subprojects financed by the project, including reviews of
community-based procurement; (b) an implementation review, carried out at the mid-term
of project implementation, which would include beneficiary consultations to generate an
evaluation of project performance and impact as perceived by the ultimate beneficiaries;
and (c) a comprehensive impact evaluation, which would include a baseline evaluation to
establish indicators of socio-economic impact and a final evaluation of the project using
these indicators. Anmex H contains a detailed description of the studies to be financed
under the project.
2.18 During negotiations, assurances were provided by the Borrower that: a project
information and monitoring system, with reports and format agreed with the Bank, would
be maintained throughout the project period. The Bank would receive monthly
information on disbursements of project funds and semi-annual reports on subproject
activities and performance of project investments on July 31 and January 31 of each year
(para. 3. 1(b)); a baseline impact evaluation study would be completed within one year of
loan effectiveness, a mid-term review would be carried out in the third year of the project,
and a full impact evaluation would be executed at project completion (para. 3. 1(b).
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
2.19 Project Coordinating Unit. The Secretariat of Planning (Secretaria do
Planejamento - SEPLAN) of the State of Paraiba would implement the project through
the PCU, represented by the Unidade Tecnica do Projeto Cooperar, which is the focal
point for project administration and for communication with the Bank and the State
Government. The PCU is the project's principal liaison for the Municipal Councils and for
those community associations located in PAC municipalities. Under the proposed project,
the PCU will shed some of the executive responsibilities that it held under the
reformulated NRDP, delegating these to Municipal Councils and other participating
entities at the local level, and wili concentrate on its monitoring, technical assistance and
supervision responsibilities.
2.20 The PCU boasts over a decade of experience in rural development, having
overseen the implementation of the NRDP project since its inception. The Unidade
Tecnica is headed by a General Coordinator who is assisted by three functional
Coordenadorias in charge, respectively, of administrative, financial and technical matters
(current structure established by law in 1993). Under the reformulated NRDP, execution
of the PAC and FUMAC programs was carried out through two distinct units, directly
responsible to the General Coordinator and the Technical Coordenadoria and assisted in
the field by four regional offices strategically located (Itaporanga, Areia, Patos and
Pombal). Of the PCU's technical staff, about 64 operate out of headquarters in Joao
Pessoa while an additional 20 are based in the regional offices. The organizational
structure of the PCU will be revised in line with the new project's decentralization
strategy, that would redirect the PCU's efforts towards monitoring, field supervision,



-19-
technical assistance and training, rather than direct execution of most of the project
activities. Under the proposed, more simplified structure (see Organizational Chart in
Annex D), the General Coordinator, assisted by a Technical Advisory Group, would
oversee the same number (three) of Departments or Coordenadorias but the
responsibilities of these would be streamlined. The Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation
Department (Coordenadoria de Planejamento) would be in charge of
preparing/consolidating project POAs, elaborating and refining the project Operational
Manual, processing subproject proposals received from the communities and the
Municipal Councils, managing the Special Account and coordinating the management of
subproject funds, monitoring project activities through the MIS, carrying out or
contracting evaluation studies, and finally preparing physical and financial performance
reports on the project. The Technical Operations Department (Coordenadoria de
OperaV&es), in charge of field operations (including community mobilization, technical
assistance and training, and subproject appraisal) would function through four Regional
Technical Groups composed of multi-disciplinary teams with logistical and technical
support by the four existing field offices. The Administrative and Financial Support
Department (Coordenadoria de Apoio) would have responsibility for general PCU
administrative, financial and human resource aspects. In addition, the General
Coordinator would be supported by an Advisory Consultative Council, constituted by
selected personnel from the various units and whose main role would be to provide, as
needed, advice in the final stage of approval of the community investments to be funded
under the project.
2.21  The PCU's principal tasks under the project would include: (a) project planning
and coordination at the state level through the preparation of POAs, including the
consolidation of POAs by FUMAC-P Councils, and monitoring activities through
maintenance of the project's MIS; (b) promoting the project and encouraging participation
of potential beneficiary communities, NGOs and private sector entities; (c) preparing
project implementation reports and organizing evaluation exercises; (d) ensuring timely
and adequate provision of loan and state counterpart funds; (e) appraising and approving
all PAC subproject proposals; (f) entering into subproject agreements with community
associations (PAC) and Municipal Councils (FUMAC) and into POA-based agreements
with FUMAC-P Municipal Councils, to transfer subproject funds and monitor their use;
(g) overseeing ali monitoring and supervision activities under the project to ensure
compliance with project guidelines and to improve the quality of subprojects and project
interventions; (h) ensuring that environmental guidelines for subproject approval and
implementation are followed; (i) providing technical assistance to the FIMAC and
FUMAC-P Municipal Councils; (j) preparing statements of expenditure (SOEs) and
applications for reimbursement; and (k) ensuring that procurement, disbursement and
auditing procedures applicable to the Bank loan are followed.
2.22  Assurances were provided by the State of Paraiba at negotiations that proposed
POAs and budgets satisfactory to the Bank would be furnished to the Bank in October of
each year; that the Bank would receive a copy of the final plan and budget as soon as they
are approved by the Borrower's Legislative Assembly; and that adequate counterpart
funding would be made available for the project in a timely manner by the State (para.



-20 -
3. 1(c)). Approval of targets for any given year will be contingent upon performance in the
previous year, including a thorough analysis of the actual demand from communities, of
subproject costs actually observed, and of the number of uncompleted subprojects.
2.23 Project Municipal Councils. Municipal Councils are the key entity for the
targeting of project benefits and the allocation of resources under the proposed project.
By their nature as open and representative bodies which build consensus on priorities, the
project Municipal Councils instill transparency into the decision-making process for
FUMAC and FUMAC-P investments. The Councils would comprise representatives
from: (a) rural communities, civil groups and organizations such as NGOs, religious
organizations and rural labor unions; and (b) publicly-elected representatives and
municipal government officials. While the composition of these Councils may vary from
one municipality to another, representatives from rural communities and civil society
would make up at least 800/% of the Councils' membership. The PCU would participate in
the Councils in an advisory capacity.
2.24 The Councils would receive, prioritize and approve subproject proposals from the
beneficiary associations during regularly scheduled meetings which are widely publicized
and which the public is encouraged to attend. The Councils would deliberate and
prioritize the subproject proposals presented according to their determination of the needs
of the different communities, based on criteria such as the level of poverty and the existing
infrastructure of each community in relation to the rest of the municipality; the type of
subproject to be financed and its potential to improve the quality of life of the beneficiary
population; and the demonstrated participation of the beneficiary community in the
identification of the subproject and its commitment to the operation and maintenance of
the subproject. Decisions to approve subprojects would be made by majority of votes and
based on pre-established technical criteria and/or standard designs. Detailed criteria, rules
and procedures for the Municipal Councils' structure and operations are included in the
Project Operational Manual.
2.25 The Municipal Councils would be entrusted with the following responsibilities: (a)
promoting the project in their areas; (b) facilitating assistance to the communities for
organizational strengthening and subproject preparation and execution; (c) prioritizing,
through local consensus-building, community subproject proposals and reviewing them for
approval or rejection; and (d) monitoring and supervising the implementation of approved
subprojects. Under FUMAC, the Municipal Councils will present subprojects which they
have approved to the PCU for financing; under FUMAC-P, the Councils will be
responsible for managing the funds allocated to them and signing the subproject
agreements with the respective beneficiary associations (Annex F). Under FUMAC and
FUMAC-P, the Municipal Councils foster partnerships among the community
associations, the municipal governments and the State Government to share the costs of
the subprojects and therefore leverage the loan funds to finance increased numbers of
subprojects.
2.26 Community Associations. Community associations are the foundation of project
implementation. These associations are responsible for formulating ideas for subprojects



-21 -
and submitting these proposals to the Municipal Councils (under FUMAC and FUMAC-
P) or the PCU (under PAC) for approval. Once a subproject has been approved, the
community association enters into a legally binding agreement with the PCU and/or
Municipal Council through which the funds to implement the subproject are passed to the
association. The association is responsible for all procurement and record-keeping during
the implementation of the subproject, as was practiced successfully in the reformulated
NRDP. ' Beneficiary associations contribute to subproject costs, either in cash, kind or
labor, and are responsible for the operation and maintenance of the investments.
PROJECT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND TRAINING ARRANGEMENTS
2.27  Technical assistance and training to beneficiaries is an indispensable input to
successful and sustainable subproject investments. Technical assistance and training
would be provided to beneficiary communities via two mechanisms (see Annex E): (a) the
institutional development component (paras. 2.11-2.13); and (b) a percentage of
subproject costs allocated to technical assistance in subproject preparation. The
institutional development component provides flexibility and is not tied to any particular
subproject, so that communities can receive assistance even prior to subproject
preparation and after subproject completion. The component also allows for savings
because of economies of scale at the local level, since assistance can be contracted for
several communities simultaneously (e.g., retainer contracts for operating expenses of
local extensionists). Finally, the operation of the component is decentralized and
encourages local-level accountability. Municipal Councils will be responsible for applying
resources from the component toward assistance to communities in their jurisdictions and
all technical assistance and training agents hired by the Municipal Councils or by the PCU
and approved by the Councils (in FUMAC) would be held accountable to the Councils for
their performance.
2.28 Complementary to the institutional development component, each community
association has the option of directing up to 8% of the cost of each subproject to hire
technical assistance and training support tailored to the particular subproject. A proposal
for the use of this percentage would be included in the subproject application. In addition,
because technical assistance should extend into the operation and maintenance period of
their subprojects, particularly for productive subprojects, community associations should
include technical assistance among the expenditures to be financed out of O&M funds
maintained by each association. As part of their regular supervision efforts, the PCU and
the Municipal Councils would monitor the frequency and quality of technical assistance
and training provided to beneficiaries.
TARGETING AND GRADUATION
2.29 Beneficiary targeting would occur at three levels: (a) geographically by poverty
level and other characteristics of the municipality; (b) geographically within municipalities
s  Beneficiary associations may request assistance from the PCU for procurement under subprojects.



-22 -
to target rural settlements and communities; and (c) community-based selection of poor
beneficiaries and particularly vulnerable groups by the project Municipal Councils.
Targeting at the first and second levels defines the project area. The project area includes
all municipalities outside of the metropolitan region of Joao Pessoa, the state capital.
Project beneficiaries, however, include only those rural communities located in settlements
of less than 7,500 people, resulting in a project target population of about 1.1 million
people. The target population therefore lives in small, more isolated rural areas with
greater representation of the rural poor. The third and principal level of targeting is
community-based. Increased decentralization of subproject selection through the
expanded FUMAC and FUMAC-P programs will further strengthen the project's capacity
to reach the most needy communities in the project area. The Municipal Councils'
prioritization process is the basis of targeting in the project since the communities
themselves, through their majority participation in the Councils, determine where project
resources will best be applied based on their first-hand knowledge of community socio-
economic conditions and local investment needs. Clear and transparent rules and
procedures for the Councils' functioning are also important for targeting poor beneficiaries
at the lowest level. The effectiveness of the targeting methodology in directing project
benefits to the poor would be assessed through the project monitoring system and through
annual performance reviews and the implementation review (Annex H). Details on
targeting mechanisms are included in Annex C. During appraisal, agreements were
reached with the State of Paraiba on these targeting mechanisms; these understandings
would be reflected in the final Project Operational Manual.
2.30 Graduation of Communities and Municipalities. The demand-driven
community development model presented in the proposed project is expected to increase
the income-generating capacity and standards of living in the beneficiary communities.
Because project resources will be targeted to the poorest rural communities, certain
communities with better socio-economic standing relative to others would gradually
receive fewer investment resources during the course of project implementation. These
communities, able to leverage a critical mass of subprojects and other benefits from this
and previous Bank-financed and other projects, would gain access to other sources of
financing and reach a point where a "safety net" is no longer necessary. In order to
formalize this process, the proposed project would introduce a community graduation
strategy whereby those communities with demonstrated capacity for sustainable asset-
accumulation (savings), adequate social and economic infrastructure and community
organization, would progressively be charged a higher cost-sharing percentage (para.
2.45) and then eventually cease to be eligible for project matching grants (see Annex C).
To make this determination, profiles of beneficiary communities would be developed and
would include information on benefits from the reformulated NRDP and other public
programs, existing infrastructure and access to social services, indicators of
accumulation/savings (e.g., farm animals and equipment) and other indicators of
community well-being. The information would be collected from subproject proposals
submitted by the communities, incorporated into the MIS, and regularly updated through
monitoring and supervision exercises (see Annex H). The point at which a community
would provide a higher counterpart contribution and the subsequent "take-off' point, the



- 23 -
point at which a community would graduate from the project, would be estimated at the
end of the second year of the project, based on a study comparing community profiles and
indicators from the baseline impact evaluation. Using this analysis, the PCU (for PAC)
and the Municipal Councils (for FUMAC and FUMAC-P), with the support of the PCU,
would graduate those communities having reached the "take-off' point. As communities
graduate, those municipalities with fewer eligible communities would gradually receive
less funding for subprojects and, concurrently, would graduate from the program as well.
During appraisal, agreements were reached with the State of Paraiba on a community
graduation strategy; these understandings would be reflected in the final Project
Operational Manual.
COMMUNTY SUBPROJECT CYCLE
2.31  Mobilization. The critical juncture in the community subproject cycle is the initial
stage when communities mobilize existing associations or form new associations which
can then benefit from the project. At the outset of and throughout the project, an
information campaign, carefully prepared and targeted to potential beneficiary
communities by the PCU to create a level playing field for access to project funds, would
disseminate information about the project and its procedures to stimulate demand from
potential beneficiaries across the state. Some communities already have significant levels
of organization, either traditionally or from previous development projects in the area, and
are poised to benefit immediately from the project. However, for those less organized
communities, the project, through its institutional development component, would actively
extend mobilization assistance through the services of NGOs or accredited state agents
(e.g., EMATER extensionists) who know the communities well and can serve as catalysts
for organization. These NGOs or accredited agents would mobilize the communities and
provide them with technical assistance for identifiying and prioritizing their needs and
demands, preparing subprojects and forming associations, in order that all communities in
the project area can participate in project benefits. Through the MIS and regular
supervision, the PCU and project Municipal Councils would monitor the ex-post allocation
of project benefits, which would then facilitate targeting assistance to those municipalities
which had not yet received support.
2.32 Prioritization and Preparation. Beneficiaries submit proposals for subproject
investments based on priority needs of their communities. Standard documentation for
subproject proposals, developed by the PCU, would be distributed to the beneficiary
associations to facilitate the subproject preparation and screening process. To ensure the
quality of the investments financed and to provide guidance to the beneficiaries when
preparing subprojects, the Project Operational Manual would contain standardized
technical designs, including simple environmental guidelines and cost parameters (e.g.,
cost per physical unit or per beneficiary) for the most frequent types of investments.
Beneficiary associations may request technical assistance for more sophisticated or less
common subproject types.



-24 -
2.33 Standard designs have already been developed by the PCU for a number of
subproject types. These designs would be updated on a regular basis under the project
and, depending on community demand, additional ones could be prepared for other
frequently requested types of investments (Annex G). In some cases, specialists would be
contracted to prepare the designs, based on terms of reference agreed with the Bank. In
others, the PCU would gather and adapt existing designs (e.g., for pipes or box culverts,
retaining walls, fords, and decks of bridges) and make them available to the Municipal
Councils and associations. Standard designs will include the following considerations,
where appropriate: (a) engineering aspects; (b) technical, financial and economic
feasibility; (c) operation and maintenance; (d) recommendations on environmental impact;
and (e) social demand. This process will be facilitated by the ongoing Rural Poverty
Alleviation Projects in other Northeast states, with considerable scope for dissemination
and exchange of designs between the Paraiba PCU and the other State PCUs.
2.34 Appraisal. The appraisal of community subprojects would be carried out by the
Municipal Councils (under FUMAC and FUMAC-P) or the PCU (under PAC). The
appraisal procedures would take into account: (a) compliance with the project's guidelines
and eligibility criteria, including those related to the technical, environmental and cost
specifications contained in the Project Operational Manual; (b) the beneficiary
association's commitment to provide the required contribution and to take full
responsibility for the execution, operation and maintenance of the investments to be
funded; and (c) in the case of an association which has already benefited from other
subprojects, assessment of past performance. Using standardized cost indicators,
reasonable costing for subproject implementation would be ensured. Departures from
standard designs would have to be fully justified in the subproject proposal for review by
the Municipal Councils and/or the PCU, as would proposed investments which fall outside
the range of standardized costs.
2.35 Financing. In order to disburse finds for subproject implementation, agreements
(convenios) would be signed: (a) under FUMAC, between the PCU, the Municipal
Council and the beneficiary association for subproject funding and implementation; (b)
under FUMAC-P, between the Municipal Council and the association, for subproject
finding and implementation, and between the PCU and the Municipal Council for release
of project funds; and (c) under PAC, between the PCU and the beneficiary association for
subproject funding and implementation. Such agreements would spell out the terms and
conditions for the funding, execution, ownership, operation and maintenance of the
approved subprojects (para. 2.10). The final model agreements would form part of the
Project Operational Manual.
2.36 Subproject Supervision. Direct supervision and administration of the subprojects
are carried out by a community-elected Supervision and Control Committee (Annex D),
which oversees subproject execution, including contracting. This Committee of three to
four persons is comprised of subproject beneficiaries, both members of the association and
non-members within the community. The PCU, the Municipal Councils or other
contracted groups, would visit the subproject sites during subproject execution to liaise
with the Supervision Committee and monitor physical and financial progress. The PCU



-25 -
would have overall responsibility for supervision of the entire subproject cycle through the
project Management Information System (MIS) (Annex H), which would track subproject
progress from initial submission to completion, and through accounting and auditing
arrangements.
2.37 Operation and Maintenance (O&M). Community associations would bear the
responsibility for O&M for all investments, as specified in the convenio for release of
project funds. These associations may request technical assistance to develop O&M
programs and techniques. Experience under the NRDP has been positive with respect to
O&M of investments when local communities have a strong sense of ownership.
2.38 Operational Checks and Balances. Operational checks and balances, included in
the Project Operational Manual, would promote transparency and accountability in the use
of project funds. Increased decentralization of resources and decision-making to
beneficiary associations and Municipal Councils, with only ex-post control by the State
through audit of accounts and supervision and monitoring by the PCU, is central to the
project strategy. However, this advancement would be accompanied by operational
disincentives, based mainly on education/joint problem solving and, as a last resort,
penalties, to deter potential departures from project guidelines such as misappropriation,
mistargeting, lack of participation or improper O&M. Positive incentives for adherence to
project guidelines and or superior performance include the promotion of Municipal
Councils from FUMAC to FUMAC-P and, in FUMAC-P, a potential increase in the
Councils' budget envelope.
2.39 Project Monitoring and Supervision. Analysis of implementation will depend
on a database of subproject information from the project MIS, created under the
reformulated NRDP and to be improved under the project (para. 2.16). Inputs to the
database would be made from a standard data sheet at key stages of the subproject cycle
(e.g., identification, appraisal, procurement and disbursement. See also Annex H).
Periodic processing of the database information wilH permit the monitoring of the
characteristics and evolution of project implementation. The PCU, together with project
Municipal Councils, wili be responsible for meeting and reporting on the project
performance indicators (para. 2.16). The Bank's Recife Office would monitor project
performance indicators through the MIS, which the Recife Office will maintain and update
on a regular basis with inputs from the states, and through review of monthly
disbursement summaries. The Recife Office will also supervise subproject implementation
progress on a sample basis in the field (see Annex K for Supervision Plan).
2.40 Project Operational Manual. The NRDP Operational Manual (Annex M) would
be adjusted and expanded to reflect the need for fine-tuning and additions based on recent
experience. Agreements were reached with the State during appraisal on the following
points to update and/or include in the Manual: (a) indicative quantitative and qualitative
targets to be tracked with the Project MIS; (b) the project area and the criteria used to
select the municipalities included in the project area; (c) the initial distribution of
municipalities among the three components (FUMAC, FUMAC-P and PAC) and the
criteria for future redistribution; (d)' guidelines for the pilot component (FUMAC-P); (e)



-26 -
arrangements for institutional strengthening and project administration, monitoring and
evaluation; (f) the PCU's new structure and additional technical support agreements with
other state agencies and non-governmental organizations; (g) FUMAC and FUMAC-P
Municipal Councils' composition, responsibilities and modus operandi, notably in relation
to FUMAC-P; (h) clear identification and description of responsibilities of beneficiaries
and municipalities in the implementation of subprojects; (i) guidelines for environmental
assessment of subprojects; (j) model agreements to be signed between the PCU, the
Municipal Councils and beneficiary associations; (k) new standard agreements between the
PCU and the FUMAC-P Municipal Councils and between the FUMAC-P Municipal
Councils and the beneficiary associations; (l)standard forms for proposals to be submitted
by potential beneficiaries; (m) the cost-sharing matrix for the various types of subprojects;
(n) the fund release mechanism to beneficiaries for FUMAC-P; (o) operational incentives
and penalties; (p) monitoring arrangements, including a new classification of the various
categories of subprojects; (q) standard project designs and their role in the appraisal of
proposals submitted by beneficiaries; (r) a revised standard form of acceptance of
completed works (ata de recebimento); and (s) targeting mechanisms and a community
graduation strategy.
PROJECT COSTS
2.41  The total project cost, calculated in May 1997 prices and including contingencies,
is estimated at US$80.0 million. Foreign exchange costs are estimated to be US$16.6
million, equivalent to about 21% of total project cost. The baseline cost is estimated at
US$79.0 million, and contingencies at US$1.0 million. Contingencies are low because
they apply only to the two components of institutional development (except for costs
associated with technical assistance for state reform) and project administration,
supervision, monitoring and evaluation. For these activities, physical contingencies of
1 0%/O and 5% have been included, as well as annual price increases averaging 2.4% for
local and foreign costs (both expressed in US dollars). No contingency provisions have
been applied to the community subprojects component. Since the number of community
investments is not defined ex ante, it was considered preferable that any change in physical
or price attributes of subproject investments would be accommodated by a change in the
number of subprojects approved and implemented.
2.42  Investments in subprojects are expected to represent some 90% of the total base
cost (56% for FUMAC, 9%o for FUMAC-P and 25% for PAC). The distribution among
different categories of subprojects, as well as the phasing of expenditures over the five-
year implementation period, are indicative only, and there would be flexibility to reallocate
finds from the PAC to the FUMAC or FUMAC-P subcomponents as Municipal Councils
gain experience.
FINANCING PLAN
2.43 The Borrower would be the State of Paraiba. The loan would be guaranteed by
the Federative Republic of Brazil. In accordance with the CAS Progress Report discussed



- 27 -
by the Board in June 1996 as well as with the new CAS discussed by the Board on June
12, 1997, and in reference to the strategy to be adopted for special assistance to poor
States, the State of Paraiba qualifies as a Borrower in the context of this loan. The State
Government of Paraiba has formulated and is adopting measures for administrative and
other state reforms that will improve its fiscal situation and ensure its capacity to
contribute required counterpart funding to the project and to repay the loan.9
2.44 The Bank loan would be repayable over 15 years, including a five-year grace
period, and would bear interest at the Bank's standard variable rate. The loan of US$60
million equivalent would finance about 75% of the total project cost, and would disburse
against 100% of expenditures for technical assistance, training and evaluation studies,
75% of expenditures for community subprojects, 50% of expenditures for supervision
(except salaries) and 20% of incremental project administrative costs (except salaries) and
monitoring. The State Government would be responsible for the remaining 25% of total
project cost, with beneficiaries and their respective municipal governments contributing to
these counterpart funds. As it consistently did under the reformulated NRDP, the State
Government of Paraiba is expected to meet its counterpart funding obligations under the
new project, which would require annual counterpart funding of about 1.5% of the State's
capital investment budget. Beneficiaries would provide a minimum of 10% of the total
costs of community-managed investments, in cash, labor or kind, amounting to about
US$7.1 million. To enable the early start-up of project activities, retroactive financing
would be provided up to a maximum of US$6 million in respect of eligible expenditures
incurred up to twelve months before loan signing, but after May 9, 1997, when the project
was appraised. In addition to training for new Municipal Councils, the State already has a
substantial pipeline of community subprojects for review and financing for which it can
utilize this retroactive financing facility. Detailed project costs and the financing plan are
presented in the table below.
9 An annex on the State of Paralba's fiscal situation and creditworthiness is available to the Executive
Directors upon request.



- 28 -
Estimated Project Costs and Financing Plan
Estimated Costs              Local     Foreign      Total     % of Total    % of
(USS Million)                                               Baseline Costs  Foreign
A. Community Subprojects
1.FUMAC                       35.7        8.6        44.3        56         20
2. FUMAC-P                     5.7         1.4        7.1        9          20
3. PAC                         15.7        3.9       19.6        25         20
Subtotal                      57.1        13.9       71.0        90         20
B. Institutional Development   3.0         1.8        4.8        6          38
C. Project Administration,
Supervison, Monitoring and     2.6        0.6         3.2        4          19
Evaluation
Total Baseline Cost           62.7        16.3       79.0       100         21
- Physical Contingencies       0.4        0.2        0.6         -         30
- Price Contingencies          0.3        0.1        0.4         -         25
Total Project Costs           63.4        16.6       80.0        -          21
Fmnancing Plan
- State/municipal Governments  12.9       -         12.9'        -          -
-Beneficiaries                 7.1        -          7.1         -          -
*IRDBi                        43.4       16.6       60.0        -           -
- Total                       63.4       16.6       80.0         -         21
Icling US$2.5 million in local-taxes.
2.45  Cost Sharing and Sustainability. The cost estimates and average size of
community-manag6d subproject investments have been determined based on the
expenrence gained under the reformulated NRDP and the operation of its PAC and
FUMAC components. On this basis, the project is expected to finance some 2,840
community-managed subprojects over five years. Counterpart contributions by the
beneficiary communities and their respective municipal governments would be made
according to a cost-sharing matrix, which is part of the Project Operational Manual (para.
2.40). The minimum contribution of beneficiaries would be 10% --to increase for
beneficiaries from select communities as a first step toward graduation from the project--
and of municipal governments would be 5% (recommended but not required). The
relative share contributed by each community and municipal government would be based
on agreementIbetween the two parties with the Municipal Council. As in the existing
NRDP, ownership of project facilities by the beneficiaries should enhance the sustainability
of conmunity investments. A key element would be the establishment of sound
arrangements under the project for the provision of operating, maintenance and capital
replacement expenditures, the requirements for which would vary significantly among
types of subprojects and the availability of which would vary by municipality and
conumunity association. The Project Operational Manual and the subproject agreements
(connios) (para. 2.10) would contain specific guidelines conceming the finding ofthese
costs.



- 29 -
2.46 Experience with the reformulated NRDP indicates that the sustainability of the
community subprojects is generally good. Subprojects would finance relatively small
investments which can easily be maintained by the communities themselves, both
technically and financially, as demonstrated under the NRDP, even prior to the 1993
reformulation with the APCR component (see para. 1.13). Equally important is the fact
that client-driven subprojects, identified and implemented by the communities, have
demonstrated a high degree of ownership by the beneficiary groups and their consequent
willingness to maintain project investments. Under the reformulated NRDP, commitment
by each community group for operation and maintenance was a condition for the approval
of subprojects, and formed part of the subproject agreement to be signed with the
beneficiary community. Compliance has been good and these same features are built into
the proposed project. Finally, the formation and strengthening of project Municipal
Councils, which have been piloted successfully under the reformulated NRDP and will
continue under the proposed project, stimulate grassroots participation in local
development, and thus foster longer-term project sustainability.
PROCUREMENT
2.47 Procurement for community subprojects costing the equivalent of US$50,000 or
less and procured by local communities, would be carried out mainly through direct
contracting, and under subproject agreements signed between the PCU and the
community. This procurement procedure is appropriate because most subprojects: (a)
would be small and/or implemented in scattered or remote areas and therefore it will be
difficult to obtain competitive proposals; (b) can be managed directly by rural communities
which will contribute to the work through the donation of unskilled labor and local
materials; (c) wilH be selected on the basis of willingness of the beneficiary communities to
contribute to and physically supervise their execution; and (d) would provide a vehicle for
communities to play an active role in the local development process. There may be cases
when the community lacks the capacity to make the necessary purchases of equipment and
materials. For such subprojects, the PCU would make purchases on behalf of the
communities, packaging the procurement for several subprojects whenever possible.
Procurement by the PCU would follow: (a) National Shopping procedures for goods, and
procedures acceptable to the Bank for procurement of small works under lump sum, fixed
price contracts awarded on the basis of price quotations (under US$100,000 and up to an
aggregate amount of US$1.6 million for goods and US$2.0 million for small works); or
(b) National Competitive Bidding -- NCB (over US$100,000). For NCB the standard
bidding documents agreed between the Bank and the Federal Government of Brazil will be
used. ICB is not anticipated for any goods or works under the project. Although the
costs of individual subprojects may not exceed US$50,000, the average size of the
subprojects is expected to be less than US$30,000. Approximately 570 subprojects are
expected to be implemented yearly using these procurement methods.
2.48 Prior review of procurement documentation by the Bank would be made for all
NCB contracts. Although the level of Bank prior review of procurement would be low, it
would be compensated in several ways. First, a study of procurement by community



-30-
contracting would be cafried out during the first year of the project, under terms of
reference agreed during appraisal. Second, cost comparisons of similar subprojects would
be conducted using the project MIS (para. 2.16) in order to detect possible procurement
problems. Third, the project physical performance evaluation (Annex H) would analyze
procurement issues; and finally, during Bank supervision, random reviews would be
conducted of subprojects, including field visits and review of subproject documentation.
2.49   Consultant services to provide technical assistance and training to the beneficiary
communities, the Municipal Councils and the PCU would be procured in accordance with
Bank guidelines for the use of consultants. Contracts, short lists, and selection procedures
for technical assistance and training would receive prior review by the Bank when the
value of the contract is US$100,000 or more for consulting firms or US$50,000 or more
for individual consultants. All consultant terms of reference would be subject to Bank
prior review. During negotiations, assurances were provided by the State of Paraiba that:
(a) the above procurement arrangements would be followed (para. 3. 1(d)); and (b) the
study of procurement by community contracting referred to in para. 2.48 would be carried
out during the first year of the project and any agreed recommendations adopted
expeditiously (para. 3. 1(d)). Procurement arrangements are summarized in the table
below.
Procurement Arrangements
(USS million)
Procurement Method
Category                  NCB           Other          Total Cost
Community Subprojects
Small Works 1                                        35.1              35.1
(under US$50,000)                                    (26.3)           (26.3)
Goods and Materials                                  28.8              28.8
(under USS50,000)                                    (21.6)           (21.6)
Small Works                            3.5                             3.5
(over US$100,000)                     (2.6)                            (2.6)
Small Works 2                                         2.0              2.0
(over US$50,000)                                     (1.5)             (1.5)
Goods and Materials 2                                 1.6              1.6
(over US$50,000)                                     (1.2)             (1.2)
Consulting Services                                    5.6              5.6
(5.6)            (5.6)
Project Administration                                 3.4              3.4
(1.2)            (1.2)
Total                                   3.5           76.5              80.0
(2.6)        (57.4)            (60.0)
Figures in paentheses are the respective amounts expected to be financed by the Bank.
' sonciin g.
2 Shopping.



- 31 -
DISBURSEMENTS AND SPECIAL AccouNT
2.50 The proposed Bank loan would be disbursed over a period of five years. The
project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2002, and the project's Closing Date
is June 30, 2003. The disbursement period shown in the projected Disbursement Schedule
(Annex I) is shorter than the Bank's standard disbursement profile for rural development
projects in Brazil, but is in line with the recent experience under the reformulated NRDP
and with other Bank-financed social fund projects in Latin America. The allocation of
loan proceeds by disbursement category is shown in Annex I.
2.51 During negotiations, assurances were provided by the State of Paraiba that it
would open and maintain a Special Account in US Dollars in a commercial bank for Bank
disbursements (para. 3.1(e)). The authorized allocation would be US$4.0 million,
adequate to cover the expected average four-month flow of disbursements under the
project. Disbursements for all expenditures would be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure (SOEs), except for goods and works exceeding US$100,000 equivalent;
contracts with consulting firms above US$100,000 equivalent; and with individuals above
US$50,000.
2.52 The information required for the compilation of SOEs would be maintained by the
PCU in the MIS data base. All SOEs would be transmitted by the PCU to the Bank in
Washington. Simultaneously, the PCU would send to the Bank's Recife Office a copy of
SOEs and reimbursement applications submitted to the Bank in Washington, as welt as
updated information on the status of all subprojects, enabling a rapid review of subproject
eligibility. This procedure would allow the Bank and the PCU management to maintain a
cumulative account of the progress of project implementation.
2.53  The communities' contributions to subproject investments would be defined in the
agreement (convWnio) between the PCU and the community association (for PAC),
between the PCU, the Municipal Council and the association (FUMAC) or between the
Municipal Council and the community association (FUMAC-P). Any contributions by
municipal governments would also be defined in the subproject agreements. Both
contributions would be computed as part of counterpart finance of the project. Simple,
standard records, whose format would be included in the Operational Manual, would be
completed by a designated community representative. They would be used to record cash
contributions, materials and labor inputs, and would be subject to project audit
procedures.
AccouNTs AND AUDITS
2.54 The PCU would maintain separate accounts for project expenditures, which would
be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. The accounts of the
Municipal Councils (for the FUMAC-P subcomponent) and of the community associations
would also be subject to review by the independent auditors on a sample basis. Finally,
independent auditors would also audit the Special Account (para. 2.51). Copies of the
audit reports would be provided to the Bank within six months of the end of each state



- 32 -
fiscal year. The audit reports would convey the auditor's opinion and comment as
necessary on the methodology employed in the compilation of the statements of
expenditure, their accuracy, the relevance of supporting documents, eligibility for
financing in terms of the project's legal agreements and standards of record keeping and
internal controls related to the foregoing. The State of ParaDba provided assurances
during negotiations that: (a) the Special Account and the project accounts would be
established, maintained and audited annually in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (b) with respect to
withdrawals on the basis of SOEs, that such audits would contain a separate opinion as to
whether the SOEs, together with the procedures involved in their preparation, support the
related withdrawals; and (c) certified copies of the audited accounts and of the auditors'
reports would be submitted to the Bank within six months of the close of each project
fiscal year (para. 3. 1(f)).
ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS
2.55  The proposed project has been assigned a "B" environmental classification.
Because of their relatively small size, most PAC, FUMAC, and FUMAC-P subprojects
would not have a significant effect on the environment. The project would, however,
ensure proper environmental screening and enforcement measures, to prevent certain types
of productive or infrastructure subprojects from producing negative effects on the
environment. The Operational Manual would specify key environmental criteria and
screening and enforcement procedures to be followed.
2.56 Based on specific criteria for different subproject types, each subproject proposal
presented by the community associations would include a simple environmental
assessment in the form of a "checklist", following a standard format. For standard
subproject types, enviromnental screening at the subproject approval stage would be the
responsibility of the PCU and Municipal Councils. For exceptional subproject types, for
which technical standards have not been developed, the PCU would screen the subproject
proposals in detail for enviromnental impact, contracting technical assistance when
necessary, and this assessment and any subsequent recommendations would be
incorporated into the subproject proposal. For the FUMAC-P subprojects, the Municipal
Councils would conduct the environmental screening together with either the PCU or with
contracted technical assistance, such as NGOs. The PCU has identified expertise within
the state for technical assistance purposes and would include environmental education and
awareness as part of its training to Municipal Councils. Enforcement of environmental
criteria would be ensured via subproject supervision by the PCU and Municipal Councils.
POVERTY CATEGORY
2.57 The proposed project is part of the Bank's Program of Targeted Interventions.
Project municipalities in Paraiba were determined based on poverty-related indicators and
other key parameters (see Annex C), which will ensure that project resources reach those
municipalities which contain a high concentration of rural poor. The project's targeting



- 33 -
mechanism is then centered on community-based selection, with the assumption that local
communities can best judge what their investment priorities are in each municipality. In
particular, project Municipal Councils would be charged with targeting poor rural dwellers
and especially vulnerable groups, based on criteria including the socio-economic situation
of participating communities, their level of organization and the availability of
infrastructure and services. The transparency of rules and procedures for Municipal
Councils also would facilitate targeting under the project by permitting rural communities
to monitor local resource allocation decisions. Finally, communities which eventually are
determined to have capacity for sustainable asset-accumulation (savings) and access to
adequate social and economic infrastructure, would progressively be charged a higher
cost-sharing percentage and then would be graduated out of the program (para. 2.30).
WOMEN'S PARTICIPATION
2.58  The full participation of women is critical to the poverty objectives of the project.
Bank-supported operations and studies in the Northeast of Brazil show the strong
correlation between the problems and needs of rural women and those of producers and
flmily units in general. Under the reformulated NRDP in Paraiba, participation of women,
who accounted for about half of all project beneficiaries, was significant. The proposed
project would continue to ensure that women's activities (both traditional and innovative)
are included; to support subprojects which foster maternal/child health and day care
facilities (the latter have proven invaluable under the ongoing PAC/FUMAC operations in
freeing rural women for income generating activities); to target groups and activities in
which female participation has proven constructive; to provide technical assistance for
women's subproject proposals and implementation; and to monitor women's participation
in the project and its benefits.
PROJECr BENEFTrs
2.59 The proposed project would result in an improved quality of life for some 705,000
people (141,000 families) (about 60% of the target population), by providing improved
access to water supply and other basic social and economic infrastructure and services,
and by contributing to an increase in production, incomes and employment.10 Project-
financed rural water supply and minor irrigation works will be particularly important in
reducing vulnerability to drought. Productive subprojects will provide a vehicle for
financing improvements in input use, technology and value-adding activities, thus raising
productivity and incomes. Female community members will benefit especially from
subprojects such as water supply and some productive activities and social investments
which enable rural women to seek paying jobs and contribute to increased family cash
incomes.
10  Assumes 10% of the beneficiary families are "repeater" beneficiaries and benefit from more than one
subproject



-34 -
2.60 The proposed project will provide a safety net for some of the poorest segments of
Paraiba's rural population who will likely continue to be affected by decreased public
investments for services during the period of fiscal adjustment and macroeconomic reform.
Another important project benefit will be the creation of social capital within rural
municipalities and their communities. Municipal councils established under the project will
direct the identification and prioritization of local needs and confirm potential subproject
feasibility and compatibility with these priorities. Community resources, both financial and
in-kind, will be leveraged to achieve desired improvements in quality of life and access to
market channels. It is expected that the new project will have a similar impact on the
mobilization of additional community and municipal resources, as did the reformulated
NRDP (about 15% of resources invested under the program), and this will improve the
longer-term sustainability of investments. Project-related benefits can potentially generate
savings for state and municipal governments as well by reducing certain budgetary
obligations to rural areas, such as emergency water supply through water trucks (carros
pipa) or medical services. Finally, as a result of benefits from the project which lead to an
overall improvement in community organization and well-being and capacity to save, it is
expected that a small number of beneficiary communities will graduate from the project
and gain access to alternative sources of financing.
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS AND FISCAL IMPACT
2.61  The demand-driven nature of the project implies that communities will determine
the nature and scope of each subproject funded and that neither benefits nor costs can be
identified ex ante, thereby prohibiting estimation of an ex ante overall internal economic
rate of return. Subprojects to be funded under the proposed project would, in general, be
similar to those subprojects funded and completed under the reformulated NRDP. To
give an illustrative idea of the financial and economic results that are likely to be obtained
under the proposed project, the experience and expost results of a sample of completed
subprojects under the NRDP have been examined and presented in Annex J.
2.62  Infrastructure and social subprojects were analyzed on the basis of least cost, best
alternative criteria. First, the demand-driven nature of each subproject permits scarce
resources to flow where they are most needed, thereby improving allocative efficiency.
Community participation, under the direction of the municipal councils created under the
project, ensure that the chosen subproject is the best alternative for the local community.
Second, the use of standard technical designs, including cost parameters, for the most
common types of subprojects ensures that least cost models are adopted and decreases
search and information costs by providing communities with established patterns of
initiating and completing a subproject. Third, the contracting procedures prescribed in the
Project Operational Manual require competitive bidding on all subprojects; the community
solicits three bids for the subproject and subsequently chooses the least-cost bid. Finally,
subprojects executed by the communities themselves have been shown to be more cost
effective than if they had been undertaken by the public sector (for details and examples,
see Annex B).



- 35 -
2.63 Financial and economic analyses were conducted on the following sample of
productive subprojects in Paraiba: (a) electricity-induced irrigation, (b) forage grinder, (c)
cereals processing, (d) productive irrigation, and (e) small ruminants production.
Financial IRRs for all subprojects evaluated were satisfactory and ranged from 12% (small
ruminants production) to over 50% (productive irrigation and forage grinders). Economic
IRRs were highly positive and, in most cases, greater than the financial IRRs due to the
proportion of nonmonetary benefits accruing from the subproject. lERRs ranged from
38% (small ruminants production) to over 50% (electricity-induced irrigation, forage
grinders, cereals processing and productive irrigation). Various sensitivity analyses were
undertaken (e.g., by shadowing public funds), producing satisfactory EERR results.
2.64 Cost effectiveness was examined by estimation of benefit-cost ratios for each
productive subproject and investment per job created. Benefit-cost ratios range from 1.7
(productive irrigation) to more than 5.0 (forage grinders). Additionally, the financial
sustainability of selected productive subprojects was evaluated by examining (a) cost
recovery measures undertaken by each subproject and (b) the replacement period for
initial capital equipment. In some cases, user fees are assessed to cover O&M expenses
and contribute toward the eventual replacement of capital equipment; in others, cost
recovery takes the form of subproject revenues (e.g., goat milk and meat sales, marketed
produce). For all subprojects evaluated, cost recovery was sufficient to cover O&M
expenses and replacement periods for capital equipment were substantially less than the
useful economic life of the equipment.
2.65  The fiscal impact of the project will derive from two sources: (a) cost savings
and (b) revenue generation. Experience has shown that local communities can undertake
and complete these small-scale subprojects at a lower total cost that is possible through
the public sector. For example, the rural electrification network installed by the NRDP in
1995 alone was equivalent to that which was developed through other programs by the
previous State Government over a four-year period. In another example, NRDP water
supply subprojects have minimized the need for water delivery via tanker trucks (carro
pipa); based on conservative estimates, cost savings related to these water subprojects
range, for all participating states, from US$7 million in a year of normal precipitation to
US$15 million in a drought year. Surveys in many states indicate that infrastructure
projects are, on average, about 30% less expensive when implemented by the communities
(i.e., demand-driven) than by government agencies or contractors. Thus, by decentralizing
toward the community level, the state can achieve costs reductions which in turn will
allow reallocation of scarce public finance to other pressing needs. On the revenue side,
the demand-driven nature of the project precludes the ex ante estimation of fiscal
revenues; however, experiences accumulated under the reformulated NRDP can shed light
on any potential changes in public sector fiscal balances which may result from the project.
Expanded commodity production under the majority of the productive subprojects
evaluated can potentially generate additional public revenues through taxation.



-36 -
PROJECT RJUSKS
2.66  Baik expeence in Latin America and elsewhere suggests that the main sources of
risk for this type of program arise from: (a) irregular counterpart funding, which can
erode community confidence and interest in participating; (b) technical weaknesses and
inadequate supervision of large numbers of widely dispersed subprojects; (c) mistargeting
of program resources; and (d) undue political interference in subproject selection, which
often has the corollary effect of depressing local initiative and community involvement.
The funding risk will be mitigated by several distinguishing features of the projects. The
Bank loan, which will finance 75% of total project expenditures, will be taken directly by
the State, thereby eliminating those disbursement delays previously encountered at the
Federal level and minimzig the overall counterpart funding obligation of the State. In
addition, counterpart funding responsibilities would be shared to a larger extent by the
municipalities, decreasing the relative proportion of the State's own participation, and,
unlike in the reformulated NRDP, beneficiary contributions under the proposed project
will be counted toward the global counterpart requirements. The project will also help
address the State's fiscal deficit situation with technical assistance funds for administrative
reforms, thereby reducing the risk of counterpart funding difficulties. Finally, and perhaps
most importantly, the strong sense of ownership by the State, municipalities and
communities should help to protect project counterpart funding needs during the process
of allocating scarce budget resources. The risks of overdesign and weak supervision at
the subproject level would be substantially reduced with the establishment of standard
technical designs and cost criteria for the most common types of subprojects, and a
reinforced institutional strengthening component with specific resources allocated to
technical assistance for community associations. Increased delegation of supervision
responsibilities by the PCU to Municipal Councils and contracted public and non-
governmental agencies, will increase supervision coverage and will minimize the risk of
mistargeting of program resources. In addition, the project design has introduced a
system of strong operational disincentives against mistargeting and other departures from
project guidelines. For instance, a community or municipality would be obligated to
redress the problem, or be cut off entirely from the program, in cases of misappropriation,
mistargeting or insufficient participation. Finally, an information campaign targeted to
potential beneficiaries and the expansion of the FUMAC and FUMAC-P programs, will
stimulate greater community participation and increase transparency in the selection of
subprojects and thereby work against negative political influence in the allocation of
project resources.



-37 -
3. SUIMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
3.1   During negotiations, assurances were provided by the Borrower that:
(a)   all project components and subprojects would be executed in accordance
with the Operational Manual (para. 2.6);
(b)   a project information and monitoring system, with reports and format
agreed with the Bank, would be maintained throughout the project period.
The Bank would receive monthly information on disbursements of project
funds and mid-year reports on subproject activities and performance of
project investments on July 31 and January 31 of each year; a baseline
impact evaluation study would be completed within one year of loan
effectiveness; a mid-term review would be carried out in the third year of
the project, and a full impact evaluation would be executed at project
completion (para. 2.18);
(c)   proposed POAs and budgets satisfactory to the Bank would be furnished to
the Bank in October of each year; that the Bank would receive a copy of
the final plan and budget as soon as they are approved by the Borrower's
Legislative Assembly; and that adequate counterpart funding would be
made available for the project in a timely manner by the State (para. 2.22);
(d)   (i) the indicated procurement arrangements would be followed (para. 2.49);
and (ii) the study of procurement by community contracting referred to in
para. 2.48 would be carried out during the first year of the project and any
agreed recommendations adopted expeditiously (para. 2.49);
(e)   the State would open and maintain a Special Account in US Dollars in a
commercial bank for Bank disbursements (para. 2.51); and
(f)   (i) the Special Account and the project accounts would be established,
maintained and audited annually in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) with respect
to withdrawals on the basis of SOEs, that such audits would contain a
separate opinion as to whether the SOEs, together with the procedures
involved in their preparation, support the related withdrawals; and (iii)
certified copies of the audited accounts and of the auditors' reports would
be submitted to the Bank within six months of the close of each project
fiscal year (para. 2.54).



-38 -
3.2   Conditions of Loan Effectiveness would include:
(a)   adoption of the Operational Manual (para. 2.6); and
(b)   the preparation of a statewide information campaign, acceptable to the
Bank (para. 2.14).
3.3   Subject to the above agreements and conditions, the proposed project would be
suitable for a Bank loan of US$60 million equivalent at the Bank's standard variable
interest rate with a maturity of 15 years, including five years of grace.
October 23, 1997



-39 -                           Annex A
BRAZIL
RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - PARAIBA
A. PARAIBA: A SOCIO-ECONOMIC PROFILE
Geography and Cimate
1.    The State of Paraiba occupies an area of 56,372 km2 in the eastern part of the
Brazilian Northeast. It is bordered on the east by the Atlantic Ocean, and on the north,
west and south, respectively, by the states of Rio Grande do Norte, Pernambuco and
Ceara. The State displays considerable variation in its agro-climatic composition, with
most of its territory lying within the semi-arid "drought polygon" characterized by poor
soils and severe, periodic drought. The semi-arid Sertdo region covers about 77% of the
State, has an average annual rainfll of 500 mm, which is irregularly distributed, and a long
dry season of seven to ten months. Soils are generally shallow and impermeable. Along
the coast, the Litoral-Mata, comprising about 9% of the State, has a more humid climate
with an average annual rainfall of 1,800 mm and fertile soils. Between these two major
geo-economic regions lies the Agreste-Brejo, which includes an elevated inland region of
fertile soils and a range of transitional zones. This area covers about 14% of the State's
territory, with total annual rainfall of 800-900 mm and four to five dry months. The State
is drained by two major rivers (Paraiba and Piranhas), both with a perennial flow.
Underground water is plentifil on the coast, but generally very deep and of poor quality in
the interior.
Demographic and Social Situation
2.    The population of the state is currently estimated at about 3.4 million, of which
some 65% is urban and 35% rural.' Between the two censuses of 1980 and 1991, the
population grew at around 1.3% per year, compared to 1.8% for the Northeast and 1.9%
for Brazil overall. The average annual rate of growth was 3.2% for the urban population
and -1.3% for the rural population. Outmigration over the past two decades has caused a
continuous decline in the rural population.
3.    As in other states in the Northeast, Paraiba has witnessed an increase in the total
number of poor among its population, stemming from low growth and economic
instability. Public policies have failed to promote poverty reduction because of an inability
to stabilize the economy and promote broad-based growth, an incentive framework
detrimental to the poor, and insufficient and ineffective investments in human capital, such
1996 estimtes by the State Secretariat of Planning.



-40 -                            Annex A
as education or safety nets for the poor. Thus, the State has failed to either eradicate the
root causes of poverty or alleviate its consequences (World Bank, 1995). These
deficiencies in public policy disproportionately affect the rural population, whose
livelihood is also more vulnerable to economic forces and natural phenomena. The
modermization of the industrial base, falling prices of basic food crops in international
markets, technical innovation, concentration of landholdings and periodic droughts and
pest outbreaks all contribute to suppress the income and employment of the rural poor.
4.    The increasingly limited prospects for the rural population inevitably result in rural-
urban migration, including migration to other parts of the country. Because of a declining
labor market nationwide, local urban centers have been the main destination for the
unskilled work force uprooted from the countryside. In the span of 25 years, the rate of
urbanization in Paraiba increased from 42% to 64%. The growing supply of unskilled
labor, coupled with a decreasing demand resulting from technological advances in
production methods, creates a tremendous burden for rural municipal centers, which
become the first stopping-off point, and ultimately for larger cities and the state and
federal governments. This dislocation of population, without a corresponding increase in
public investment in infrastructure, leads to a disorganized occupation of urban space,
aggravating socio-economic conditions and having an adverse effect on the urban
landscape, the quality of life and the environment. At the same time, production is being
abandoned in the rural zones, where the rate of outmigration in certain areas threatens to
leave them unoccupied in the near future, contributing further to the concentration of non-
productive lands as well as to the dismantling of small farms, which become unsuitable
even for subsistence fanning. The continued neglect of rural areas and populations
essentially means that neither rural nor urban poverty can be reduced.
5.    Paraiba has been classified, in the most recent report on indices of human
development prepared by IPEA for UNDP, at the lowest end of the scale among all the
states in Brazil. IPEA estimates that by 1990 about 1.5 million people or 47% of the state
population, was indigent.2 In the rural areas, the proportion of indigence rises to 72%.
According to a joint study by UNICEF and IBGE, 85% of the State's municipalities
harbor very precarious living conditions critically affecting rates of childhood survival.
Unhealthy living conditions stem from an inadequate infrastructure and a lack of basic
education or income-generating activities needed to overcome poverty, a situation which
becomes especially acute in the rural zones.3 The indicators of quality of life attest to the
severity of poverty in the State: (a) while 52% of urban heads of households earn less
than one minimum salary (currently about US$120 per month), this rises to 81% in rural
areas; (b) inadequate water supply affects 24% of urban families, and 95% of rural
families; (c) while 14% of urban families lack any form of sanitation, this increases to 73%
2 lndigence is defined as the level of income that corresponds, at the maximum, to the value of a "basic
food basket" that meets a family's minimum nutritional requirements as defined by FAO/WHO.
Source: OMapa da Fome, IPEA, 1993.
3  IBGE, Census 1991.



-41-                             Annex A
in rural areas; (d) illiteracy affects about 32% of urban persons over 14 years old, rising to
600/Y in rural areas; (e) infant mortality rates --an important indicator of standard of living-
- had reached 65.5/1,000 children under the age of one by 1990, well above the national
average of 49.7/1,000.4 Rural housing is grossly inadequate in many zones and
contributes to a high incidence of Chagas disease, while water-borne diseases such as
verminose (worms), schistosomiasis and leshmaniosis are also prevalent, reducing life
expectancy.
The State Economy
6.    In the last few decades, the economy of Paraiba has experienced a major
transformation characterized by a decline in traditional commercial crops, an expansion
and consolidation of the industries producing perishable consumer goods:and an
accelerated process of income concentration. The restructuring of the-agro-industrial base
has increased the vulnerability of agricultural production, which remains particularly
susceptible to natural phenomena and to market fluctuations. As a result, the relative
contribution of the agricultural sector has been declining steadily. Whereas the service
sector has expanded, generating 64% of the State's GDP in 1995 compared to a
contribution of 48% in 1970, the participation of the agricultural sector has witnessed a
relative decline from 24% in 1970 to 11% in 1995.i In spite of its reduced contribution to
State production, the agro-livestock sector still employs about one-third of all manual
labor, a discrepancy which points to one of the primary causes of rural poverty in this
state.
7.    Although its GDP has been growing at an average annual rate of 2.6% since 1990,
Paraiba is one of only three states in the Northeast --along with Bahia and Pemambuco-
whose relative contribution to the region's GDP has dropped during the last 25 years.
The State generated a GDP of US$6.8 billion in 1995, corresponding to 6.8% of total
GDP for the Northeast, and 1.1% at the national level. Paraiba is also among the lowest-
ranking states in the region in terms of per capita GDP, which was registered at US$2,028
in 1995, compared with US$2,236 for the Northeast and US$4,054 for Brazil as a whole.
Because of its weak productive base, Paraiba depends heavily on transfers from the
Federal Government, which amounted to about 50% of the State's total revenues in 1995.
Collection of the value-added tax ICMS accounted for 46% of total revenues, contributing
about 6% of the ICMS levied in the Northeast.6
4  These are offcial rates which do not capture the real situation owing to the high percentage of both
births and deaths which are never registered, especially in rual areas.
5 SUDENE, Agregados Economicos Regionais, 1995, and Regido Nordeste do Brasil em Nuimeros,
1997.
6 SUDENE, Boletim Conjuntural do Nordeste, 1995 and 1996.



-42 -                            Annex A
The Agricultural Sector
8.    An important contributing factor to rural poverty in Paraiba is the skewed
distribution of agricultural land. The Agricultural Census of 1985 demonstrates that small
farms under 10 ha account for some 73% of all farm establishments, but only 8% of
farmland; moving up the scale to farms of 100 ha or less, the percentage rises to 95% of
total farm estabishments and 36% of fannland.7 Conversely, close to 5% of farms control
64% of the farmland.' The increase in large-scale commercial farming implies the
probability of even greater concentration of landholdings in the decade since the last
Census. As in the rest of the Northeast, perverse incentives limit access of the poor to
land, even on a temporary basis. For example, legislation on renting and sharecropping,
typical forms of temporary access to land, sets ceilings on rents and crop shares, providing
almost permanent rights to tenants after a few years but making such arrangements
unattractive to owners and reducing access for those the law was intended to protect.
Similarly, agricultural land is a tax haven for wealthy investors, thus increasing its price
and reducing access for the smallholders and landless workers unable to take advantage of
tax laws.9 The increasing concentration of income and wealth promotes the exploitation of
labor and prevents the results of economic growth from benefiting the majority of the
population.
9.    The sectoral economy is closely related to the State's varied geography.
Agriculture in the humid coastal zones has been dominated by traditional colonial crops,
principally sugar cane. In the semi-arid regions, the larger farmers engage in extensive
livestock grazing, while their tenants and owners of small farms grow cotton and basic
foodcrops (manioc, corn, beans and rice). Conforming to regional patterns, yields
fluctuate greatly due to the impact of erratic climate, insecure land tenure, the poor natural
resource base, inability to purchase inputs or to store water, intensive cropping on
unsuitable lands, and generally low levels of technology. The rural poor, most of whom
are smallholders, sharecroppers or wageworkers, must therefore rely on several sources
for income: traditional subsistence agriculture and small-scale animal husbandry, cash
crops, casual work on- and off-farm and remittances from family members living in cities.
10.   Major changes in the economy of the State during the past few decades have
further weakened the fragile base of agricultural production, with a negative impact on the
rural poor. Modernized production methods and regional development policies, in
common with trends in other parts of Brazil, contributed to the establishment of consumer
goods industries with little or no dependence on local production. The resulting
disruption in the traditional productive chain of the State neutralized the export potential
7 Given the poor soils and rainfall of the semi-anid northeast, the productive capacity of a fann of less
than 100 ha, in the absence of inputs, classifies it as 'small'.
I 1BGE, Agricultural Census, 1985.
9  Brazil: A Poverte Assessment Human Resources Operations Division, World Bank, Report No.
14323-BR, June 27, 1995.



-43 -                           Annex A
of local industries based on livestock and cotton, such as clothes-making and shoe
manufacturing. In addition, the prices of basic food crops in the international markets
declined due to the rise of more competitive economies and of synthetic products used as
substitutes. Basic food crops also could not compete with products imported from other
regions, which came to occupy a privileged position in the supply of the main centers of
consumption in the State. The production of cotton has suffered throughout the
Northeast from a combination of declining prices, competition from synthetics and credit
access problems, firther aggravated by the arrival of the bicudo pest in the early 1980s.
This decline has serious implications for the poorer segments of the rural population, who
have traditionally depended on cotton as a principal source of cash income. Average rural
income per capita now corresponds to about one-third of that for urban areas.
State Government Strategy to Alleviate Poverty
11.  In its Plan for Sustainable Development, the State Government of Paraiba aims to
decentralize the economic base of the State and reduce the problems of rural-urban
migration stemming from the impoverished situation in rural areas. With regard to the
rural sector, the State's strategy focuses on: (a) regional integration of economic activity
which recognizes differences in ecosystems and expands on existing infrastructure; (b)
creation and diffusion of technical innovations geared towards local production needs and
capabilities; (c) implementation of policies that make maximum use of local potential,
particularly water resources, to curtail the abandonment of productive activities and
migration to the cities; (d) land reform initiatives based on consolidation and
intensification of rural settlements; and (e) expanded access to basic services for the rural
population. The NRDP has been one of the State's most important tools for promoting
organized decentralization, local development and community participation, through the
establishment of municipal councils which generate concrete investment proposals for
economic and social infrastructure and local employment and income creation.
Experiences with Bank-Financed Development Programs
12.   The history of the State's involvement with Bank-financed rural development
programs is consistent with that of the other northeastern states: under
POLONORDESTE the Brejo Paraibano Integrated Rural Development Project (Loan
1537-BR) met its physical targets, but implementation and disbursement delays occurred
due to Federal counterpart funding and rural credit problems, drought, over-centralized
project administration and limited beneficiary participation in project planning and
execution. Poor coordination, duplication of effort and competition for scarce funds were
also key factors. However, the project did strengthen state institutional capabilities,
established services and infrastructure which contributed to agricultural modernization,
and laid the groundwork for further rural development programs.
13.   The Northeast Rural Development Program (NRDP), initiated between 1985 and
1987, was largely unable to improve on the performance of POLONORDESTE but did
successfully launch the community-based rural development methodology through the



-44-                            Annex A
small APCR component. The NRDP-Para'ba experience conformed to this pattern and,
like POLONORDESTE, also made other important contributions: it paved the way for
administrative decentralization, a more strategic approach to rural development, the
involvement ofNGOs and i greater role for communities in project planning and
execution. The NRDP projects in each of the northeast states were reformulated in 1993
by essentially converting the successful APCR component into the primary model for
development.
14.   The performance of Paraiba under the reformulated NRDP has been generally
successful. As a demonstration of its commitment to the project, the State Government,
along with the participating municipalities under the FUMAC subprogram, has made an
extraordinary effort to release the required counterpart funds, despite its current fiscal
difficulties. In addition, the State has made great strides to expand the FUMAC
subprogram - almost 50% of all subprojects approved, the highest proportion among the
participating states - and to involve the municipalities in a positive way in project
implementation, through the respective Municipal Councils. Before the installation of a
Municipal Council, the Technical Unit (Unidade Tecnica do Projeto Cooperar-Paratba)
carries out a workshop involving Municipal Government authorities, NGOs and State and
community representatives to discuss project roles and procedures and FUMAC
guidelines. As a consequence, these Councils are playing a crucial role in the process of
setting community priorities and in overseeing the implementation of the subprojects in
their respective jurisdictions.
15.   The NRDP-Paraiba project closed on December 31, 1996, nine months after the
original Closing Date. Of the original NRDP loan of US$60 million for Paraiba, signed on
July 20, 1987, US$21.4 million had been disbursed at the time of reformulation. Since
then, another US$38.0 million have been disbursed, leaving an estimated balance of
US$0.6 million to be canceled. The rate of disbursements improved resoundingly after the
NRDP reformulation: prior to reformulation, the NRDP-Paraiba project disbursed an
average of US$4.2 million annually and after reformulation this rate jumped to US$11.7
million. By the Closing Date, beneficiary communities had submitted some 4,924
proposals, of which 2,308 were financed, almost double the number forecast at
reformulation. Of these subprojects, 74% were for infrastructure investments, 23% were
for productive activities and about 3% were for social investments. These investments
benefited about 150,000 rural families in 171 municipalities, exceeding appraisal estimates
and well over four times the number anticipated at project reformulation (see Annex B for
details).



- 45 -                       Annex B
BRAZIL
RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - PARAIBA
THE REFORMULATED NORTHEAST RURAL
DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (NRDP):
PERFORMANCE AND EVALUATION
INTRODUCTION
1.    Northeast Brazil, containing more than half of the country's poor and almost two-thirds of
its rural poor, has long been considered the single largest rural poverty pocket in Latin America.'
Coupled with Brazil's increasingly difficult macroeconomic situation in the two decades following
the 1970s, poverty remained unabated in the Northeast despite a series of rural development
programs -- including the Bank-supported Northeast Rural Development Program (NRDP),
which aimed to improve living standards of small farm families and reduce poverty through
individual projects established between 1985 and 1987 in the ten Northeast states. For several
years, implementation of the NRDP lagged behind schedule and overall performance in meeting
basic objectives was poor. One notable exception was a component supporting small community
projects, Apoio as Pequenas Comunidades Rurais (APCR). This innovative component, relying
on the planning and organization of rural communities and recognizing their expressed needs,
produced results that were extremely encouraging and replicable. The impact of the APCR on
poverty alleviation was positive, the cost per family relatively low, and its disbursement and
commitment rates far exceeded those of other components. In 1993, drawing both on the
successful experience of the APCR and on lessons learned with similar schemes in other parts of
Latin America, the Federal Government, jointly with the Bank, reformulated the NRDP in its
entirety into a community-based development program. Concomitant with the administrative and
fiscal decentralization embodied in the new Brazilian constitution of 1988, a significant feature of
the reformulation was to decentralize decision-making, program counterpart funding and
implementation from the Federal Government to the States and local levels.
2.    Effective in late 1993, the reformulated NRDP provided matching grants to finance small-
scale subprojects (up to US$40,000) that were identified by rural community associations as
priority investments to improve their well-being. These groups contributed to the costs of the
subprojects, executed them, and were committed contractually to assume their operation and
maintenance (O&M). Two different delivery mechanisms were available for screening, approving
and implementing community subprojects: (a) State Community Schemes (PAC) in which rural
communities submitted their subproject investment proposals directly to the state Project
The Northeast Region includes the States of Maranhao, Piaui, Ceari, Rio Grande do Norte, Paraiba,
Perambuco, Alagoas, Sergipe, Bahia and the northern part of the State of Minas Gerais.



- 46 -                       Annex B
Technical Unit (TU), an autonomous entity responsible --in most cases-- to the State Secretariat
of Plnning. The TU screened, approved and released funds for subprojects, interacting directly
with the beneficianes; and (b) Pilot Municipal Community Schemes (FUMAC), in which
subproject proposals, simlarly identified and prepared by rural communities, were first screened
and reviewed by project Municipal Councils. The Councils, composed of community members,
local government representatives and representatives of civil society, promoted local-level
consensus-building on priority needs through open "town meetings", reviewed and submitted
subprojects to the State for subsequent approval and financing. This pilot was originally designed
to reach only 5 to 10 municipalities per state but, due to its early success, largely surpassed its
initial target to reach a total of 168 municipalities in the ten states. Of the last four loans, the
NRDP-Alagoas closed on September 30, 1996 and those for Paraiba, Maranhao and Minas Gerais
onDecember 31, 1996.
3.    This Annex presents a performance and impact analysis of the approximately three years
of implementation of the reformulated NRDP, as a result of an evaluation carried out by the Bank
and FAO (United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization) in late 1996, subsequently updated
during appraisal of the proposed Rural Poverty Alleviation Project for Paraiba. Certain aspects of
the analysis, based on the latest information from NRDP's Simplified Project Monitoring System
(SSMP) and State databases as well as findings of earlier studies, cover the overall program in the
ten participating states. Other aspects, such as the project institutional performance and the
socio-econoinic impact of subproject investments on beneficiaries, have been analyzed specifically
for the State of Paraiba. Featured below are: (a) the information base used for the evaluation; (b)
implemeaion results, in terms of subprojects and loan disbursements, in each of the states; (c) an
impact analysis of the reformulated NRDP at the state and municipal levels for the program as a whole,
and at the local level for Paraiba (d) comparative results of FUMAC and PAC, the two delivery
nmechanim available in the NRDP; (e) a technical assessment of subprojects; (f) an assessment of
institutional performance in the program as a whole, and more specifically in Paraiba; and (g)
conclusions and recommendations for design improvements in follow-on operations.
4.    Results of this and previous evaluations of the reformulated NRDP tend to indicate that,
after several decades of experience with rural development efforts in the Northeast, a large
measure of success has been achieved with this program in reaching the rural poor through
targeted interventions. Further modifications to project design and operational features would,
however, enhance the effectiveness and sustainability of such an approach. The design of
successor projects should explicitly take into account the lessons derived from the different NRDP
evaluations, which are consistent in many respects with lessons learned elsewhere in Latin
America and other regions with similar community-based development programs.
INFORMATION BASE
5.    The analysis presented in this Annex draws upon the following sources:
(a)   The SSMP, which is the major data base from which project performance in each
state under the reformulated NRDP was monitored by the Bank's Recife Office.
The SSMP has been updated monthly and stores key information, including the



-47-                         Annex B
number and types of community subprojects at the different stages of
implementation, number of beneficiary communities, subproject costs, and
disbursement information;
(b)   A review of: (i) special evaluation studies of FUMAC, conducted in 1994 by the
state TUs, based on their implementation experience and specific case studies; (i)
the University of Michigan's "Baseline and Popular Participation Study' (Kottak
and Costa), initiated in 1993 and followed by a community impact evaluation
analysis based on field surveys covering 38 communities in 23 municipalities of the
states (excepting Minas Gerais) in July-October 1994; (ini) a series of studies under
the "ARIDAS Project on Regional/Municipal Development in Semi-arid Areas of
the Northeast"; (iv) an evaluation of NRDP commissioned in 1994 by the Federal
Secretariat of International Affairs (SEAIN), Ministry of Planning; (v) another
evaluation of the program, completed in early 1996 by SUDENE, the regional
agency that oversees development programs in the Northeast; and (vi) reports
from several Bank and FAO missions reviewing the experience of the reformulated
NRDP;
(c)   Previous Bank/FAO evaluations of the reformulated NRDP. Of these, the first
one was undertaken in February 1995 for all participating states and presented in
the SARs of the new Rural Poverty Alleviation Projects (RPAPs) for Bahia, Ceara
and Sergipe (nos. 14390-BR, 14394-BR, and 14395-BR, respectively); the second,
conducted in late 1995-early 1996 for the states of Rio Grande do Norte, Piaui and
Pernanbuco, appears in the relevant SARs (nos. 15933-BR, 15934-BR and
15935-BR, respectively); and
(d)   Impact evaluation findings from surveys by the Bank/FAO in November 1996, of
the most common types of subprojects found in Paraiba. The surveys focused on
the foliowing aspects: (i) the process of subproject identification, implementation,
technical assistance and supervision; (ii) the nature of the subproject (investments
funded); (iii) special qualitative and quantitative information; and (iv) socio-
economic impact of the subproject.
IMPLEMENTATION RESULTS
Subprojects and Beneficiaries
6.    Statistical information --compiled from the SSMP and State databases-- on the
performance of each of the participating states at closing date of the last NRDP loans is presented
in Tables 1 to 6. Out of a total of about 46,500 subproject proposals submitted by potential
beneficiaries in the ten states following reformulation, some 17,860 community subprojects were
implemented, of which about 14,150 under PAC and 3,710 under FUMAC. In Paratba, 2,308
subprojects were funded (1,455 PAC and 853 FUJMAC) out of the approximately 4,920 proposals
received from communities in the state (Table 1).



-48 -                        Annex B
7.    During its 3 years of implementation, the reformulated NRDP reached about 1.8 million
poor families in rural areas across the Northeast. With community subproject investments totaling
about US$424 million in the ten states, the delivery cost of the program was remarkably low at
less than US$250 per beneficiary family. These recipient families include an estimated 10 to 200/%
"repeater" families which benefited from more than one subproject, belonging to different types of
investments. Such families form part of community associations which typically are better
organized than others, usually with support from NGOs and/or other technical assistance
agencies. The gradual accumulation by some of the target population of benefits and assets from
different NRDP subprojects as well as from other programs has a significant impact on
community development. It would constitute an important element of a strategy to graduate
some of the NRDP recipients into other, non grant-based programs (paras. 18-19).
8.    Throughout the ten participating states, some 100 different types of subprojects were
proposed by rural communities. A large majority of these constituted basic rural infrastructure
(such as electrification and water supply), followed by productive subprojects (mostly small-scale
agro-processing and communal tractors) and, to a lesser extent, investments of a social nature
(such as day care centers or house improvement). Table 2 shows community demand for the
most common types of subprojects for the NRDP as a whole, and separately for the states of
Paruaba, Maranhao, Minas Gerais and Alagoas. It is clear that in all participating states, rural
electrification and water supply were by far the most popular types of investments. The profile of
the subprojects financed was in line with community demand: out of the total number of
subprojects that had been implemented in the 10 states as of late 1996, about 61% were in rural
infrastructure, 33% productive investments and 6% social subprojects (Table 1). In Paraiba,
communities exhibited a higher than average preference for infrastructure subprojects (74% of the
total implemented), with 23% devoted to directly productive investments and about 3% for social
subprojects; the latter were in relatively scarce demand under the NRDP as other state programs
were available, and continue to exist, to provide social investments that were requested by rural
communities in other states, such as rural school or health post rehabilitation. The state itself
encouraged communities to orient NRDP investments towards infrastructure and in particular
rural electrification (55% of all subprojects financed), not only because these improve living
conditions of rural communities but also because they can lead to a variety of productive
undertakings that help raise communities' incomes considerably (see Annex J).
9.    Although FUMAC was initially to be implemented on a pilot basis, it quickly gained in
popularity with communities and municipal authorities and was expanded towards the end of the
project implementation period to reach over 20% of all NRDP subprojects approved in the ten
states (Table 1). Moreover, demonstrating that screening of subprojects at local level accelerates
processing, FUMAC had a greater number of community investments approved per municipality
than PAC: on average in the participating states, some 22 subprojects were implemented per
municipality under FUMAC, compared with only 11 under PAC. This difference was particularly
striking for Paraiba, where the success of FUMAC and organizational efficiency of FUMAC
Municipal Councils were such that an average of 34 subprojects were processed and approved in
each of the 25 FUMAC municipalities, while the 155 PAC municipalities benefited from only
about 9 subprojects each (Table 3). Understandably, Paraiba achieved, among the ten states, the
highest proportion of FUMAC subprojects (37% of all subprojects approved in the state) while
Alagoas found itself at the other extreme, having only about 8% of all subprojects implemented



-49 -                        Annex B
under FUMAC. Indeed, depending on the local socio-political situation, conditions favorable to
the FUMAC process, as promoted under NRDP, differ from state to state. Thus, if this delivery
mechanism was more prevalent and successful in Paraiba, where a long existing tradition of
community organization and participation is backed by a favorable political environment and the
TU's sustained efforts at commuunity mobilization and training, FUMAC was extremely limited in
Alagoas due to the difficult political circumstances in this state.
10.   For the ten states as a whole, subprojects costs were similar for PAC and FUMAC,
averaging about US$24,000 per subproject (Table 4). In Paraiba subproject costs were markedly
lower than in other states, especially for infrastructure and productive subprojects and more
particularly so under FUMAC. One possible reason is that FUMAC communities in this state
tended to request financing for small, lower cost investments in order to obtain as many
subprojects as possible. Whether PAC or FUMAC, infrastructure and social subprojects generally
benefited larger numbers of people than productive subprojects, and thus tended to have lower
costs per beneficiary. The average cost per subproject varied among investment types, ranging
from about US$14,800 for manioc flour mills to about US$30,000 for communal farm tractors
(Table 5). Within each type, costs could vary substantially from one state to the other depending
on the specific nature and technical requirements of the subproject.
Loan Disbursements
11.   Final analysis of loan disbursements shows that the NRDP's overall disbursement rate was
significantly higher than its historical equivalent before reformulation (Table 6). In just over three
years a total of US$338.6 million of loan funds was disbursed under the reformulated program
(ate 1993 to end-1996), as compared to only US$302.1 million during the entire implementation
period of the original NRDP (1985-late 1993). It should also be noted that municipalities in states
like Maranhio and Paraiba frequently contributed to counterpart funds, in light of shortages at the
state level. For the program as a whole, it is estimated that 93% of project funds disbursed
reached the beneficiary communities directly, as compared with only 44% under the original
NRDP. An outstanding loan balance of US$0.6 million for Paraiba remains to be canceled.
IMPACT EVALUATION
State and Municipal Levels
12.   Based on conservative estimates derived from SSMP data and information provided by the
state TUs, there is ample evidence to show that the reformulated NRDP was cost-effective in
attending to the rural poor in the Northeast. First, it delivered low-cost basic infrastructure and
services that would have constituted a larger burden on State and Municipal Government budgets,
had they been executed on force account rather than by the communities themselves. Given the
fiscal difficulties faced by most of these govemnments, such investments and services would
probably have required a longer timeframe to complete than through the NRDP. Second, the
rural water supply structures that were put in place by the program are providing water to
beneficiary communities on a more permanent and wider basis, substituting in these areas for



-50 -                       Annex B
annual and/or extraordinary expenditures that municipalities and States have traditionally had to
incur to reduce the effects of often severe and protracted drought on their rural communities.
Third, on the revenue side, those NRDP-financed productive subprojects that generate surplus
agricultural produce (including high-value and industrial crops) and non-agricultural commodities
(such as clothes), can add to State and municipal tax revenue when their outputs are sold in
formal markets.
13.   With respect to construction costs, surveys in many states have demonstrated that
infrastructure projects are, on average, about 30% less expensive when they are implemented by
the communities themselves (directly or through small local firms) than by government agencies
or contractors. For example, a detailed survey conducted by the TU in Maranhao plainly show
that unit costs of NRDP investments in this state were much lower than those executed by a
public agency: for rural water supply systems, NRDP costs were, on average, US$23,000 as
compared to US$32,000 when the system is installed by CAEMA, the state water and sewage
company; for rural electrification, NRDP costs --depending on the type of network-- ranged
between US$3,750 and US$17, 100 per km against US$6,300-US$19,400 per km as charged by
the state electricity company (CEMAR); and for rural road rehabilitation, the cost was US$6,000
per km under NRDP as compared to US$9,700 per km when the works are executed by the state
Roads Department. Conservatively assuming that half of all community subprojects financed by
the reformulated NRDP were effectively 30% cheaper than if they had been implemented by
public agencies, total savings in this regard for the Northeast State governments would be the
equivalent of US$64 million (the total investment cost of the approximately 17,860 subprojects
implemented under the program, as shown in Table 1, amounts to about US$424 million).
Another example of the extent to which the NRDP substituted for costlier state programs is the
fact that in Paraiba, the rural electrification network installed by the NRDP in 1995 alone was
equivalent to that which was developed, through other programs, by the previous State
Government administration over a period of 4 years.
14.  In the areas where they were set up, NRDP water supply systems have eliminated the need
for municipalities to provide water by carro pipa (tanker-truck) to rural communities, both in
years of "normal" precipitation and in periods of drought (during which additional emergency
fund contributions may be sought from the State and the Federal Governments). In Paraiba, for
instance, more than US$4 million was spent over only 10 months during 1993/94 to provide
water to drought-affected rural areas. Now, NRDP water supply subprojects help to minimize
that recurring expenditure, and part of the municipal funds previously allotted for water supply
can be used to attend to the many other needs of the rural populations. For all the municipalities
which benefited from the 2,700 NRDP water supply subprojects financed in the ten states under
the reformulated program, the actual annual savings to their respective budgets from not having
to provide the corresponding carrospipa are estimated to range from a total of about US$7
million in a year of normal precipitation to US$15 million in a drought year.
15.   Finally, NRDP investments can generate tax revenue for the State and Municipal
governments. When marketed formally, certain outputs of productive subprojects are subject to a
value-added tax (ICMS) which varies, according to the state and the product, between 12% and



- 51 -                        Annex B
17% of the value of the product.2 Where productive subprojects are prevalent and generate
outputs for the market as, for instance, clothes-making subprojects in Rio Grande do Norte or
farm tractor subprojects in Minas Gerais, ICMS revenue from NRDP subprojects can be
significant. In Paraiba, however, the tax revenue from productive investments financed by the
NRDP is estimated to be small due to two factors: (a) several of the basic commodities produced
by these subprojects, such as corn, manioc, some fruits and horticultural crops, lamb meat and
fish, are not subject to the ICMS; (b) for most of those commodities whose sales in formal
markets are taxed, a substantial part of the production is for family consumption; the only
exceptions being for specific fruits and vegetables and for clothes, which are produced by only a
small number of NRDP subprojects in the state.
Local Level
16.   At the community level, the impact of the NRDP on both the quality of life of the
beneficiaries and the local economy has been considerable. The availability of electricity and
water supply, the localized improvements to feeder roads and bridges, the rehabilitation of rural
schools and health posts, and finally the provision of community-owned and operated facilities
and services in support of local production, have changed the socio-economic outlook of entire
communities which have been reached by the NRDP. With the increases in local capacity and
multiplier effects produced by the program, endogenous economic development has begun to
emerge, leading to savings accumulation both at household and community levels. Except in
cases where technical assistance was deficient, community cohesion was weak and/or cases of
subproject types addressing individual needs and requiring entrepreneurial skills which poor
community associations do not possess, the productive investments financed by the NRDP have
generated higher family production and incomes and created employment opportunities. These
infrastructure and productive alternatives served as incentives for beneficiaries to remain in the rural
areas, thus contributing to reducing outmigration to urban or semi-urban centers. Infrastructure
and social subprojects under the NRDP, providing cleaner water and/or better sanitary conditions,
also resulted in significant health improvements for the recipient communities -- and the related
savings in terms of medical assistance, which is another municipal responsibility. Finally, an
important outcome of the program has been to initiate the creation of social capital in the form of
organized and sustainable community associations, some of which have begun to leverage project
funds against other sources of financing to promote their own development.
17.   Most of the above findings are confirmed by the recent (late 1996) state-specific
evaluation which was undertaken for Paraiba. In this state, a number of completed subprojects,
belonging to the major types of investments (predominantly infrastructure) financed under the
reformulated NRDP or, as it called locally, "Projeto Cooperar," were surveyed in detail.3 An
2  In Brazil the major tax applicable to marketed products is ICMS, of which 75% goes to the State and 25% is
divided among the municipalities. It is collected when the sale of the product is certified by a nota fiscal. In
some states like Paraiba, certain agncultural products and staples are exempt of ICMS.
3   Although NRDP's generic name in Brazil is PAPP (Programa de apoio ao pequeno produtor), the program
is known by yet another, specific name in some of the participating states. In Paraiba the original NRDP was
called Projeto Nordeste and, in its reformulated phase, Projeto Cooperar.



-52 -                            Annex B
abbreviated description of the major types of subprojects found is presented below. Amongst
them, 8 types account for nearly 80% of all subprojects approved in the state; for each of these
types, data provided by the state on the number of subprojects implemented, total beneficiaries
and average cost per beneficiary, are shown in Table 7. Additionally, for some of the productive
subprojects financial and economic analyses were conducted, the results of which are presented in
Annex J.
The reformulated NRDP in Paraiba
Implementation period:                39 months (Oct 1993-Dec. 1996)
Total no. of subprojects financed:    2,308
of which          1,455 PAC and 853 FUMAC
and               74% infrastructure subprojects (mostly rual
electrification and water supply), 23%
productive subprojects (e.g., minor irrigation
schemes, small-scale agro-processing, smal
agricultural equipment, smal runinants
production and artisanal fisheries) and 3%
social  subprojects  (community  centers,
sanitation, day care centers)
Total no. of beneficiary families:    149,633
Total no. of municipalities
with approved subprojects:            171
or 100% of eligible municipalities (171)
Total investments:                    US$47.6 million
or US$3 18 per beneficiary family
Total benericiary contribution:       US$4.8 million
Infrastructure Subprojects
(a)    Rural electrification. Providing electricity to streets, houses, schools, village
shops and small-scale processing units in rural areas outside the main distribution
network, NRDP electrification subprojects have been major contributors to
improving the quality of life of rural inhabitants. They give access to radio,
television and the use of domestic appliances, greatly easing household tasks for
women and improving the well-being of the family as a whole. Electricity also
generates additional employment and incomes from the increased operation of
local businesses and agro-industries. In Paraiba, a total of about 64,300 families in



-53 -                         Annex B
different communities are benefiting from the 1,263 rural electrification subprojects
financed under the reformulated NRDP. In addition and equally important, many
of these subprojects have generated productive activities, an example of which is
provided by the electrification subprojects that were approved for 4 community
groups in the municipality of Nova Floresta and are producing irrigated maracuja,
a high-value fruit crop, with a visible impact on the local economy (see results of
financial and economic analyses in Annex J). Other productive undertakings made
possible by the NRDP electrification subprojects were for small-scale agro-
processing (e.g., cereal mills) and production of industrial fodder, in which
beneficiaries generally invest --the great majority with NRDP support-- once they
have electricity.
(b)   Rural water supply. Like much of the rest of the Northeast, Paraiba --about
80% of whose land area lies in the "drought polygon"-- is subject to cyclical and
protracted droughts that can have a devastating impact on the lives of its rural
communities. Due to variation in physical conditions among the different areas,
rural water supply works implemented under the NRDP differ according to the
source of water (surface or groundwater) and the type of infrastructure required
(new or rehabilitated well, reservoir, fountain, etc.). The most common type is a
"simplified system of water supply", which consists of a communal water tank and
a simple distribution network, sometimes --but not necessarily-- with individual
household connections. Water supply subprojects provide a precious resource
which previously was obtained only through long hours of walking, usually by
women, or had to be supplied by carro pipa paid by the municipality (para. 14) or,
for those dwellers who can afford to pay, privately. They lead to savings in time,
effort and cost, and often to improved health. In Paraiba, nearly 23,000 rural
families are benefiting from the 264 water supply subprojects that were executed
under the program.
Productive Subprojects
In Paraiba, productive subprojects, while representing a relatively small proportion of total
investments financed by the NRDP, have been of many different types. The more representative
types, benefiting groups of diverse agricultural occupations, are the following:
(a)   Minor irrigation schemes. In Paraiba as in other states where there exists a
tradition for irrigation, the NRDP, at the request of communities, financed simple
infrastructure and equipment (kits) for small, communal irrigation schemes. The
size of these schemes can vary from 2 to 12 ha (each benefiting groups of farming
families), where groundwater and, occasionally, surface water is used for sprinkder
or gravity irrigation to produce both subsistence and high-value fruit and
horticultural crops. A total of about 4,200 farm families are involved in the 79
small-scale irrigation subprojects that were implemented in Paraiba. Beneficiaries
are sometimes faced with technical problems (lack of know-how and adequate



- 54 -                       Annex B
technical advice, e.g., in selecting the right varieties to grow or dealing with pests)
and marketing constraints (seasonal price fluctuations).
(b)   Cereals processing. The second most popular type of productive subproject in
Paraiba is for small-scale processing of subsistence crops such as corn, beans, rice
and manioc. This typically involves the purchase of low-cost equipment that is
communally operated and maintained by the beneficiary association, substituting
for time-consuming, manual processing or processing in a private mill usually
located outside the community. For instance, a familiar structure in all rural areas
of the Northeast, where manioc is a major food crop consumed primarily in the
form of flour, is the casa defarinha. Processing of manioc in their own, NRDP-
financed mills replaces, for the beneficiaries, either home-based, artisanal
processing producing poor quality flour (with unprocessed manioc sold in kind at
low prices) or processing at private mills, often located outside the area and at
higher cost. Community mills result in reduced processing time and costs, and
generate increased production of flour of superior quality and commanding higher
prices, both for sale and family consumption. Throughout the region, many casas
defarinha were set up in the time of the APCR (para. 1) and are still operating.
Under the reformulated NRDP, 21 new manioc flour mills and an additional 54
rice and corn mills were financed in Paraiba, benefiting a total of about 8,000 rural
families.
(c)   Communal agricultural equipment (forage grinders). Rural communities in
Paraiba are also keen to obtain financing for various types of agricultural
equipment that can be used collectively by groups of producers. Over the past
years, some 55 subprojects of this type were implemented in the state, benefiting
about 4,800 families. One particular example is forage grinders (forrageiras),
which are popular with the many livestock producer associations found in parts of
Paraiba. The equipment is simple, processes locally produced maize and native
grass, and is operated (usually by a wage-earning employee) and maintained
communally, with funds sourced by association fees, service fees and other
contributions by group members, who obtain fodder for their individual herds.
This type of subproject is highly profitable as it is very low-cost (less than R$6,000
in current prices, including a shed commonly built by the communities themselves)
but generates substantial increases in farm incomes through sales of incremental
meat and milk production (see financial and economic results in Annex J). A total
of 25forrageiras were financed under the NRDP, benefiting some 2,000 families
with small herds of livestock.
(d)   Small ruminants production. Goat subprojects --another type frequently
requested in Paraiba-- seek primarily to boost the nutrition in rural communities by
increasing milk and meat consumption. For each beneficiary community, the
NRDP typically funded the purchase of forty female, two male goats and the
necessary materials to house and process the animals, such as goat pens and a
slaughterhouse. While the initial investment benefited a group of twenty families
on average, continued cycles extended the total beneficiary group. For example,



- 55 -                       AnnexB
from the initial forty females purchased under the subproject, the beneficiary group
donates the first female calf born to each goat back to the community, in order to
generate another similar investment. In this way, the initial subproject is leveraged
by the community to create a network of similar subprojects, thereby establishing a
"virtuous circle" of community investments. Some 44 small ruminants production
subprojects were financed by the NRDP in Paraiba, benefiting about 3,550
families. While these subprojects are modest performers in a financial sense, the
direct economic benefits of improved nutrition, especially for children, will have a
long-term payoff in terms of greater health and well-being and educational
performance.
(e)   Artisanal risheries. As in other states like Pernambuco, many fishing "colonies"
(including some constituted by indigenous groups) are found in the coastal areas of
Paraiba. Most are subsistence fishermen who have traditionally fished using
artisanal methods and/or earned low wages working on boats that are owned by a
few better-off individuals or families in or outside the community (most also grow
food crops on small plots to feed their families). For a number of these fishermen,
regrouped into associations, the NRDP funded motor boats (or rehabilitation of
old boats), more modern equipment, and installation of, or improvements in,
communal processing/marketing infrastructure including freezers to keep the fish
for sale. The boats and equipment are used either collectively (sometimes in
shifts), with elaborate arrangements for distribution of production and incomes
among association members; or they are "sold" to individual members whose
repayment (in kind and cash) serves to buy new sets for other group members, so
that the whole association is eventually equipped (i.e., the initial NRDP investment
generates several other rounds of investments within the beneficiary association).
Some 31 such artisanal fisheries subprojects were financed, benefiting about 700
poor fishing families. This type of investment can have a positive impact on
fishermen's production and incomes, but these are also subject to external factors
such as fish availability and wide fluctuations in market prices.
Social Subprojects
Community demand for social types of investments under the NRDP was relatively
limited. Major types of social subprojects that were implemented were the following: community
centers that have both social and productive functions as they can be used by the community to
meet or have social events in as well as for receiving training; sanitation, through the provision of
latrines and other such facilities; day care centers (creches), whose principal merit is to enable
mothers to attend to other activities, including paid employment in order to supplement family
incomes; and communal wash-houses (lavanderias comunitfrias), providing water for the
women to wash their family laundry and fulfilling a social function as well.
Graduation
18.   By improving living standards and economic conditions of beneficiaries, the NRDP
initiated a process of accumulation at both the local and household levels, thereby ensuring a



-56 -                        Annex B
degree of sustainability that previous development efforts in the Northeast did not provide. As
found in the University of Michigan study (para. 5(b)), socio-economic conditions in the
communities reached by the program improved notably. In particular, NRDP-funded investments
accelerated the post-1993 drought recovery of these communities, and provided them with
incentives to use land more intensively. While rural infrastructure and social subprojects have
ameliorated, sometimes dramatically, living standards of beneficiary families, they also have, along
with productive subprojects, generated employment for rural households, and led to improved
welfare and increased, more stable, family incomes. The resulting better economic conditions
have provided beneficiaries with initial start-up funds and allowed them to start generating savings
for financing other investments as well as accessing formal credit. In addition, a notable feature of
the NRDP was to encourage resource mobilization at the municipal level, as demonstrated by the
financial participation of municipalities in the program in states like Paraiba and Maranhao.
19.   Given the relatively high IERRs of some of the productive subprojects (Annex J), it could
be argued that these cases would have been better attended through credit rather than through a
grant mechanism. However, the rural poor in the Northeast --the target group of the
reformulated NRDP-- generally have limited access to credit for such micro-ventures. As an
alternative to credit, the grant mechanism provided the NRDP beneficiary communities with the
means to accumulate benefits and save, using these to leverage with the financial sector (as the
Nova Floresta beneficiaries did, para. 17(a)) to obtain credit for additional investments and
eventually graduate out of the program. However, careful study is required to determine the
critical variables to be applied when deciding when a given community or municipality should
graduate from the program.
ADVANTAGES OF FUMAC OVER PAC
20.   The pilot experience of FUMAC under the reformulated NRDP has clearly demonstrated
that this component was successful and should be expanded. The FUMAC approach instilled
greater community participation and transparency than PAC and helped strengthen the capacity of
communities to select and implement subprojects. Although socio-economic benefits produced by
the two components were similar in many respects, there is enough evidence, as found in Kottak
and Costa's follow-up study (1994), to assert that greater community participation and
transparency in decision-making were achieved through FUMAC, since subproject proposals were
deliberated not only by the community but also by the project Municipal Council at open public
meetings. Not only did awareness of the program appear to be stronger with FUMAC
communities than with PAC communities, but participation in decision-making was also found to
be higher with the first group. Generally, as a result of better selection and prioritization by the
beneficiaries through the Municipal Council forum, FUMAC subprojects were able to meet the
program's criteria better than PAC subprojects. This more rigorous process in FUMAC also
contributed to an increased capacity by communities in FUMAC municipalities to identify, plan
and implement subprojects. In addition, the stronger and more capable Municipal Councils served
as catalysts to increase community organization.
21.   In the majority of Northeast states, local governments and communities have also been
highly committed to the FUMAC approach. Its success can be measured by the large degree of



-57 -                        Annex B
acceptance and commitment of these entities, which quickly adhered to its principles of consensus
building and local development planning -- although this latter aspect would need to be further
developed, drawing on the encouraging experience of a few participating states (Maranhao,
Ceara and, on a pilot basis, Paraiba). This translated, as in Maranhlo and Paraiba, into the
establishment of "FUMAC-like" councils in municipalities originally participating under PAC,
where local priorities were discussed and collective decisions made on subproject submissions to
be forwarded to the TUs.
The FUMAC Experience in Paraiba
22.   In the participating states, FUMAC was applied most successfully in Paraiba. As seen
above, nearly 40% of all NRDP subprojects approved in this state were delivered under FUMAC
(even though this mechanism was introduced, as in other states, on a pilot basis), and at a much
lower average cost than under PAC (about US$15,300 and US$23,700 per subproject,
respectively). Beyond these statistics, the most telling indicators of the positive performance of
FUMAC are the institutional quality and operational capacity of the project Municipal Councils in
Paraiba. These achievements were the result of two major factors, (a) the sustained and effective
efforts by the TU to mobilize and train rural communities and Municipal Councils, combined with
the long-existing tradition of"associativism" in the state, and (b) the restructuring of those
FUMAC Councils which were found to be ineffectual or lacking transparency.
23.   The initial ten FUMAC Councils, carefully nurtured by the TU, increased to 16 in 1995
and to 25 in 1996. From the start of the reformulated program, the TU, to reduce political
manipulation of these councils (especially at the local level), established two guiding principles for
organizing and establishing the FUMAC Councils: first, that 50% plus one member with voting
right in each council be community representatives, and second, that these representatives be
elected by all members of communities living in the same territorial area or "district". This
approach was successful in preventing, in Paraiba, undue interference from outside the
communities and in reinforcing the authentic representation of communities on the Councils -- a
feature which makes FUMAC Councils in Paraiba more representative and genuine than Councils
in some of the other states. Training efforts by the TU culminated with the application of the
participative ZOPP methodology in two important seminars held during 1996, with the
participation of members of all Fl)MAC Councils except one.4 These seminars produced very
useful exchanges of experiences between the various FUMAC Councils in the state as well as
operational plans for these Councils, including specific responsibilities and a schedule of future
activities.
24.   The FUMAC Councils in Paraiba are generally able to function in a politically mature and
transparent fashion even when local authorities are ineffective or indifferent. Some of these
Councils (e.g., in Sap6 and Serra Branca) have already reached a high level of organizational and
operational autonomy and are obvious candidates for a program where they would be devolved
financial autonomy as well. In this sense, Paraiba is clearly ready for the pilot program which has
4 "Objectives Oriented Project Planning7: a method developed by GTZ (the German bilateral aid agency),
already succesllly used in Brazil, which develops logical frameworks and management objectives using a
sedes of workshops to engage stakeholder participation.



- 58 -                       Annex B
already been introduced --as a variant of FUMAC-- in the new Rural Poverty Alleviation Projects
for Bahia and other states, where Municipal Councils with proven capacity and good performance
are given an annual budget envelope to manage themselves and to use to finance their
communities' subprojects according to a well prepared annual operating plan.
TECHNICAL ASSESSMENT OF SUBPROJECTS
25.   A technical evaluation carried out by the Bank in late 1994 found that in most
participating states, works executed under the program were generally of good quality,
particularly when implemented by private contractors (75% of PAC and FUMAC subprojects).
For the remaining 25% of subprojects (20% executed by municipalities, with unskilled labor often
provided by beneficiaries, and 5% implemented by the communities themselves), the quality varied
but remained generally fair to good. Only for a very small proportion (less than 5% of all
subprojects) was construction quality rated as poor. More recently, the state TU in Paraiba
conducted its own technical assessment of works executed under the program. Based on a
representative sample of different types of infrastructure subprojects --from water supply systems
to small dams and fords-- that constituted about a third of all works built under the reformulated
NRDP, the quality of construction was rated good in about 30% of subprojects, 50 to 60% fair
and about 10% Dpoor. There was no major difference in construction quality between works
implemented by the communities themselves or by a local contractor, and in both cases works
were found to be of particularly poor quality only for private sanitation facilities.
26.   Because of their relatively small size, PACtFUMAC subprojects generally do not produce
significant effects on the environment. However, certain types of projects, by their very nature,
produce environmentally undesirable by-products (e.g., from the processing of manioc) or lead to
increased use of products that may have a negative environmental impact (including fertilizers and
pesticides associated with the use of tractors, wood for fuel in manioc and rice mills). In the
proposed Rural Poverty Alleviation Project, following the example of similar projects already
onstream in some of the other Northeast states, these aspects will be given greater consideration.
INSTITUTIONAL ANALYSIS
27.   A participatory, demand-driven program addressing a large target population such as the
reformulated NRDP, involves many actors and stakeholders. The analysis of the performance of
each of these groups, although varying among the states, yields a generally favorable picture. The
cfientelistic approach traditionally found in the Northeast remains prevalent in some specific areas
but, by and large, the program, by promoting transparency and consensus building as well as
enhancing the capacity of communities to address and prioritize their own needs, succeeded in
reducing the incidence of politicization and in particular the use of project resources for political
or personal purposes. In cases where this has happened, however, close and permanent
monitoring by the Bank and commitment by the State to take appropriate measures so as not to
penalize beneficiaries, are necessary.



- 59 -                       Annex B
28.   Once mobilized and established with a formal legal status (as is the requirement in Brazil
for private entities to receive public funds), NRDP community associations generally function
well. Collective responsibilities such as appointment of office-holders, payment of dues or user
fees and accounting are generally met by the members, particularly in those groups which are well
organized, as in Paraiba or Minas Gerais where many date back to the start of the original NRDP.
Nonetheless, there were instances where communities, under the influence of individuals trying to
monopolize benefits, were established with the objective of requesting financing for a needed
subproject, even though they had limited organizational experience. While the potential for
political influence exists in the organization of these community associations, the outcome has
been generally favorable as mayors, TU and NGO agents facilitated the spread of information
about the project and provided the conditions necessary for communities to capitalize on project
benefits which met their basic needs. In Paraiba, the majority of community associations are
cohesive and well organized, and are able to voice their aspirations and priorities through well-
represented FUMAC Councils (paras. 23-24). A feature which is less commonly found in other
states is that the women, who often are community leaders or presidents of associations, actively
take part in decision-making, subproject implementation and management of association funds. It
has also been observed that, although men might prefer productive subprojects, requests made by
both men and women are overwhelmingly for basic infrastructure, which, as in the case of rural
electrification, tend to benefit the family as a whole -- improving its living conditions as well as its
income. This partly explains the dominance of infrastructure subprojects over other types in
Paraiba.
29.  In all participating states, however, community associations share a common need for
technical assistance. Not only is this essential for the organizational development of newly-
formed associations, but it is also needed to assist the associations during the whole subproject
cycle, from preparation to implementation and O&M of subprojects. While training and technical
assistance is a critical input for all subprojects, the need for assistance is more acute for
productive subprojects where inadequate O&M is often the result of lack of technical know-how
by the communities. Better access to organizational and management training will also contribute
to the sustainability of both community associations and subprojects.
30.   The FUMAC Municipal Councils have been the focal point of the reformulated NRDP's
decentralization strategy and must be protected from political interference which would
undermine the demand-driven nature of the progranm In FUMAC, the project Municipal Councils
review and discuss in a public forum the subproject requests put forward by the communities,
before submitting them, in priority order, to the TU for financing. The Councils are generally
chaired by the mayors and comprise representatives from both public and non-governmental
agencies and community associations. Development and performance of the FUMAC Councils
can be affected by the attitude of the local political power base, especially that of the mayor, but
usually, prefeitos were supportive and the disparate interests represented in the Councils found a
modus vivendi. While political influence can work to the advantage of the FUMAC Councils by
facilitating the subproject approval process and forging mutual benefits for project Councils and
municipal governments, this sane influence can undermine the demand-driven approach of the
project if left unchecked. As seen in para. 24, the performance of some of the FUMAC Councils
in Paraiba has been strikingly good.



-60 -                        Annex B
31.   The participation and support of rural municipal governments is important for
sustainability and should be nenouraged, but with sufficient safeguards against negative political
influence. While the project Municipal Councils act independently of municipal governments, the
participation and support of the latter is nonetheless important. Rural municipal governments
have limited financial resources with which to invest in rural communities and, hence, the
reformulated NRDP served as an important source of funds at the local level to bridge the gap in
public resources for investment in poor rural communities. Mayors and municipal leaders viewed
the project as a welcome source of additional resources for investment to meet basic community
needs to which their municipal budgets cannot realistically attend. For the most part, mayors,
municipal legislature members (vereadores) and municipal administrations supported and
participated in NRDP. In some states, such as Paraiba and Maranhao, the municipal governments
were encouraged to provide the counterpart funds which the financially strapped state
governments were unable to supply. While this represented a very promising development, in
some cases local financial contributions led to political manipulation of the communities. In
Paraiba, the former situation, where communities benefited from subprojects despite political
influence, was much more common. And in this state as well as others, in those municipalities
where the local environment was not conducive to the FUMAC approach owing to, for instance,
opposition of local political leadership, the PAC component still allowed communities to submit
proposals directly to the state TUs. However, this delivery mechanism was clearly not as
democratic and participatory as FUMAC.
32.   Technical Units need assistance to streamline operational procedures and strengthen
project supervision. Under the NRDP the TU has been the focal point for project administration
and the project's principal liaison for the Municipal Councils and for those community
associations located in PAC municipalities. TUs are attached to the State Planning Secretariat
(except in Rio Grande do Norte where the TU is located within the State Secretariat for Labor
and Social Action) and enjoy a large degree of autonomy. Most have established field offices,
each with one or more technicians. In some cases TUs also handle other development programs
in the state, but usually these are programs of minor importance. That the TUs have generally
been successful in promoting NRDP is obvious from the overwhelming community response.
However, despite their size (generally 40-60 technicians), most TUs found it hard to process the
large number of subproject proposals and to provide technical assistance for the preparation and
implementation of subprojects. In addition, supervision of subprojects was weak given the
logistical constraints of visiting a large number of subprojects. Under the project, technical
assistance, contracted from IICA and other intemational and bilateral agencies, was provided to
all state TUs.
33.   Among the ten states, the Paraiba TU has been comparatively one of the most competent.
Headed by a dynamic Coordinator who has spent most of her public career in social sectors, the
TU is genuinely committed to decentralization and participation, and has worked closely with
rural communities since NRDP inception. Of the total TU managing and technical personnel
(about 84 tecnicos distributed between headquarters and four regional offices), close to half are
women agronomists, sociologists, engineers and other professionals. Owing to the relative
inefficiency of the state rural extension agency (EMATER) and the lack of local NGOs, the TU
was able to strike few collaborative arrangements with other entities to mobilize communities and
train FUMAC Municipal Councils. Despite this constraint, it achieved good results and these



- 61 -                       Annex B
Councils are now increasingly capable of taking over part of the TU's tasks in following up with
communities and in supervising and monitoring the implementation of subprojects.
34.   The successful cases of NGOs and other technical assistance providers participating in
the reformulated NRDP need to be replicated. One solution to the problem of the Tus' inability
to provide sufficient technical assistance and to supervise the large number of subprojects, was for
the TUs to forge alliances with NGOs or other agencies to provide technical support to
communities and monitoring services. In Minas Gerais and Alagoas, for instance, EMATER
provides quality agricultural extension services and has been more supportive and successful than
in most other states in contributing to income-generating productive subprojects. However, even
where there is no official alliance between the TU and EMATER, individual extensionists may still
support NRDP adpersonwn. In general, NGOs have played a mixed role. In certain states,
churches, rural labor unions and some of the more technical NGOs played a useful part in the
implementation of subprojects - stimulating and helping with the initial formation of communty
associations or providing assistance with submission or execution of community proposals. This was
the case, in particular, of Rio Grande do Norte where NGOs, grouped together under the Fornm do
Campo, participated actively m the project. Other states, such as Paraiba, suffered from the imited
presence and/or lack of interest of NGOs in participating in the reformulated NRDP.
35.   The World Bank Recife Office is fundamental to the coordination and supervision of the
reformulated NRDP. The three task managers in the Bank's office in Recife (Pernambuco) are
dedicated exclusively to working with the ten participating states. By delegating all supervision
activities to the Recife Office, including procurement reviews and field visits, Bank support is
better tailored to the decentralized structure of the reformulated NRDP.
Summary Institutional Assessment
36.  Institutional analysis shows that, by assigning greater responsibility and influence to local
level organizations and municipal governments, the reformulated NRDP's primary achievement
has been to support a decentralized approach to resource allocation and the creation of social
capital in the rural areas of the Northeast. After three years of implementation of the approach
adopted by the program, it is possible to draw certain conclusions about its institutional
arrangements and performance. The capacity of both communities and municipal governments to
prioritize investment decisions is strengthened by the subproject development and approval
process inherent to the program. The reformulated NRDP provided a fiscal incentive to
decentralized decision-making, since local level decisions were backed by inflows of project
resources. The FUMAC approach, in particular, not only placed the power to prioritize
community investment proposals with local level organizations, but also introduced transparency
into the resource allocation process for rural investments at the municipal level, thereby
minimizing the traditional clientelistic approach. FUMAC provided a forum, which did not exist
before, for local government representatives and community representatives to discuss investment
needs and priorities. As FUMAC spreads beyond the pilot phase and as municipalities gain more
years of experience with the mechanism, municipal governments will become more accustomed to
participatory decision-making processes, and rural community associations will continue to
exercise their voice.



-62 -                        Annex B
37.   The reformulated NRDP was nonetheless vulnerable to political interference, particuhriy
where local level organizations such as community associations and FUMAC Municipal Councils
were newly established, lacking sufficient information, or without adequate technical assistance
and training, factors needing to be addressed in follow-up projects. Experience under the
reformulated NRDP demonstrates that there is a fine line between participation of local political
leaders in the program, which is strongly encouraged, and politicization of the program.
Politicization occurs when transparency breaks down, which can happen if information about the
project is not widely and carefully disseminated, or when project internal controls are not
enforced, such as with weak supervision by the TUs or insufficient external support from NGOs
or other third parties to monitor project implementation. As municipalities increase their
contributions to the financing of NRDP investments, greater vigilance will be required to ensure
that the demand-driven nature of the project is not sacrificed. Also, the FUMAC approach which
instills greater transparency into the program's resource allocation process can fall prey to
political interference if community representation on the Councils is insufficient. In addition,
where technical assistance and training is inadequate, sustainability of the investments is more
precarious since operation and maintenance of the investments requires certain skill sets which
may not exist in some communities. Increased "on the job" training to community associations is
vital to ensure their sustainability, particularly of newly-formed associations.
CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
38.   The generally satisfactory performance of the reformulated NRDP and its favorable impact
on the lives and incomes of beneficiaries show that after several decades of experience with rural
development efforts in the Northeast, a good measure of success has been achieved in effectively
reaching the rural poor with targeted interventions. Some of the most positive results can be
summarized as follows:
- The reformulated NRDP put in place objective conditions for the organization of poor
communities in the ten participating states. In some of these states, organized rural
communities have shown that they can influence the allocation and use of municipal
financial resources in such a way as to favor the rural poor.
* The program fostered the institutional and financial commitment of local governments
to its decentralized approach to addressing the needs of the rural poor. A large
number of municipalities, although not legally required either under PAC or FUMAC,
provided financial and other types of assistance to approved community subprojects.
In addition, in some states, mayors readily adopted the FUMAC approach and
instituted it for decision-making on non-project investments at the municipal level.
* Investments funded by the program have, to a large extent, (i) satisfied real
community needs; (ii) been of good or satisfactory technical quality and (iii) been
relatively less costly than those executed by public authorities (municipal, state and
federal).



- 63 -                      Annex B
*  Beneficiary communities have adhered enthusiastically to the program; such
enthusiasm translated into participation in the execution and in contributing to the
costs of operation and maintenance of the investments, enhancing their sense of
ownership of the subprojects.
*  Although the reformulated NRDP did not incorporate instruments for structural
changes in the agriculture of the Northeast, it proved to be a valuable approach for
reaching and assisting a large number of landless families -- usually excluded from the
target groups of many other programs, including the original NRDP. Further, land
reform beneficiaries became a very active clientele of the reformulated program, as it
provided them with opportunities to satisfy investment needs other than those
received through the government's land reform program.
* In the majority of FUMAC participating municipalities, there are encouraging signs
that the "clientelistic" approach traditionally used in the Northeast to satisfy
community needs is gradually giving way to a more genuinely participatory and
transparent approach. This transparency in decision-making has allowed a built-in
mechanism of "social control" over investments using public funds.
39.   Nevertheless, project implementation and performance could be improved by introducing
modifications to its design and operational features. In Paraiba, helped by a favorable local
setting, the NRDP was particularly successful in promoting the FUMAC consultative and
participatory approach and in bringing about improvements in the quality of ife of beneficiary
communities in the state. However, the predominance of electrification subprojects, often
encouraged by the State, should give way in future projects to more directly productive as well as
social investments that would further enhance the incomes and well-being of such communities.
40.   Taken together, the various evaluations of the NRDP have brought to light a number of
lessons, which suggest that the following modifications be made to the design of successor
projects:
41.   Expand FUMAC. The projects should expand FUMAC and initiate a pilot municipal
funds program (FUMAC-P), to promote further decentralization of decision-making to municipal
and community levels, to relieve the administrative logjam resulting from state intervention in the
minutiae of subprojects, and to further encourage municipal cost-sharing of subprojects. The
appraisal and subsequent approval of community subprojects by Municipal Councils under
FUMAC and FUMAC-P would significantly reduce the role played by TUs in approving
subprojects -and the bias that this implies-- in the existing program. Also, FUMAC tends to be
more effective in thwarting political interference because of the increased transparency of its
subproject approval process over that of PAC. Increasing community representation on the
Councils to at least 80% of all voting members will help Councils resist overpowering political
influence.
42.   Supervision. By the same token, supervision of subprojects by the TUs should be more
rigorous, including by contracting external assistance as in Rio Grande do Norte where a NGO



-64 -                        Annex B
was contracted for this purpose. Supervision, both during and after implementation of the
subprojects, is an indispensable determinant of their success and sustainability. Increased supervision
would improve the quality of implementation of subprojects and would help identify and resolve
potential problems in subproject operation and subsequent maintenance.
43.   Standard Designs and Appraisal Criteria. For simplicity and efficiency in subproject
preparation, evaluation and supervision, as well as for minimizing design deficiencies, the Project
Operational Manuals should establish standard engineering designs, technical and financial
parameters, and cost indicators for the most frequently requested subprojects. Standaon of
subproject documents, technical designs and unit costs simplifies the subproject preparation and
evaluation process, facilitates the procurement of goods and works, prevents overdesign and improves
the quality of subprojects, enourgig greater participation by poorer communities and reducing
bottlenecks in the subproject cycle. Also, environmental assessment criteria should be part of the
Operational Manual and routinely monitored during subproject supervision.
44.   Productive Subprojects. The managerial requirements and profit maximization
objectives of certain types of productive subprojects are difficult to meet when they are financed
in a social context and operated and maintained communally as under the NRDP. To ensure
sustainability, productive subprojects financed by such a program should be subject to rigorous
selection, preparation, technical assistance and supervision. Eligible productive investments
should be those that provide services for a large number of community members; whose collective
use is regulated by strict operational guidelines (regulamento de uso); and for which operation
and maintenance is assured by charging adequate user fees to both association members and non-
members.
45., Technical Assistance and Training. Funds for technical assistance and training should
be channeled to rural communities and project Municipal Councils to enable participation of the
poorest areas, foster community capacity and empowerment, and encourage the active
participation of able and competent NGOs and local development agencies. Increased technical
assistance to rural communities also will enable them to identify, prepare and implement their own
subprojects, thereby augmenting their capacity to compete for investment funds and to operate and
maintain the subprojects appropriately. In addition, technical assistance activities should be targeted to
project Muncipal Councils to improve their planning. management and financial capacity. Finally, the
quality and capacity of the Technical Unit is a critical factor in project success, and thus its institutional
strengthening, which may entail the contracting of international or bilateral aid-funded entities such as
RCA or GTZ, as is currently practiced, should receive increased attention. The TUs should actively
organize all technical assistance and training arrangements under the project and oversee the
quality of said activities.
46.   Participation and Transparency. In addition to the above measures, participation and
transparency should be further enhanced by setting clear rules for the composition and modus
operand of project Municipal Councils, with more than 80% of members coming from
community representatives and local civil society. Greater efforts by the TUs to organize and
mobilize poor communities are also fundamental in order to enable these communities to
participate in project benefits.



- 65 -                       Annex B
47.   Transparency should also be promoted by incorporating a system of operational incentives
and penalties into the project design. Incentives for positive performance and penalties against
departures from project guidelines --misappropriation of resources, mistargeting of project
benefits, faulty subproject design, insufficient community participation or lack of proper O&M-
should accompany the increased decentralization of resources and decision-making responsibilities
to beneficiaries and project Municipal Councils through FUMAC and FUMAC-P. This
framework of incentives and disincentives would require backing by the TUs through ex-past
control of subproject activities through auditing of accounts, and supervision and monitoring.
48.   Finally, to minimize the risk of political manipulation and increase participation, the
Northeast states must better tailor their information campaigns to the rural poor and ensure that
information about the project, particularly its objectives, operational guidelines and procedures for
soliciting financing, is widely disseminated to all potential beneficiaries. Better and more widely
disseminated information campaigns will also increase transparency --stimulating the role of public
"watchdogs"-- and will put all communities on a level playing field with respect to access to
project benefits.
49.   Sustainability. Through a system of matching grants to poor nrral community associations,
the reformulated NRDP has improved the quality of life and the economic and social conditions of its
beneficiaries. By providing an initial jump-start to poor communities previously without investment
capital, the reformulated NRDP initiated a process of local accumulation at the beneficiary and
community levels and laid the groundwork for sustainable local development. This process will be
further encouraged through greater financial participation of municipal governments in subproject
investments, a process which has already been launched in several states under the NRDP and should
be expanded but with appropriate safeguards. Sustainability of the subproject investments also has
greater potential when the municipalities and communities contribute to the subproject financing in a
cost-sharing arrangement and when there is increased beneficiary participation. Beneficiary
cuterpart contributions should be better quantified and should count toward the global counterpart
fund requirements. Furthermore, increased technical assistance and training to rural communities
as well as stronger supervision by the TUs will improve the quality of implementation of
subprojects and stem potential problems in subproject operation and maintenance, which can
impede sustainability.
50.   Cost Sharing and Graduation. A strategy should be formalized to graduate
municipalities and communities from the program, once a certain level of accumulated benefits has
been reached. A fundamental element of a feasible graduation strategy would be the criteria
adopted to determine the point of graduation, backed by appropriate data which can be collected
to implement such a strategy. The strategy would need to carefully consider beneficiaries' access
to credit as well as monitorable indicators of income levels and local capacity to manage funds, as
would be demonstrated through mastery of the FUMAC-P approach.
51.   Monitoring and Evaluation. A user-friendly monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system
facilitates the subproject evaluation process, provides feedback and necessary information to
improve targeting and efficiency, and serves as an effective management and planning tool.
Project design should pay careful attention to baseline studies as the springboard for well-
designed M&E and for ex-post financial and economic evaluation of productive subprojects. To



- 66 -                       Annex B
bolster the measurement of overall project impact, the M&E system would need to expand the
range of project impact indicators and performance benchmarks. Examples include: increased
employment for women; improved health and related "savings" to State/municipal budgets;
resource mobilization at the local/municipal level; and indicators of migration. In addition, the
project M&E system must be geared to collect the information necessary to support a graduation
strategy. Therefore, as a condition of loan effectiveness, the project M&E system should be
improved to reinforce the mechanisms for targeting and to secure reliable data for evaluating
subproject impact, as well as to facilitate better control and project management throughout the
subproject cycle by the TUs.
52.   "Best Practice" Exchanges. Across the ten states of the reformulated NRDP, there exist
numerous successful interventions that could be replicated to the benefit of the whole program,
such as the experience with FVMAC Councils in Paraiba, the preparation of municipal
development plans in Maranhao, EMATER in Mmnas Gerais or NGOs in Rio Grande do Norte. In
addition, certain states have adopted technical parameters or have developed training materials
which have produced positive results and should be disseminated throughout the program. Thus,
"best practice" exchanges should be arranged among the TUs to share successful experiences and
to reward innovation. At the state level, as is being done in Paraiba, community associations with
successful subprojects or possessing certain skills should also be encouraged to share these with
other associations through training seminars and workshops as well as field visits.



- 67 -                                              Annex B
BRAZIL
RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - PARAIBA
Table 1. PAC/FUMAC Subprojects by State
State       Number of Community Proposals                Implemented1'                           Subproject Types '
Total      PAC      FUMAC          Total      PAC       FUMAC       Infrastrncture Productive   Social    Total
Sergipe A             1,565     1,321        244           600       501          99           398           80         122       600
Rio Grande do Norte A'  1,972   1,827        145           769       694          75           183          572          14       769
Pernambuco '          4,573     3,942        631          1,237     1,073        164           688          455          94      1,237
Bahia Al             14,076    12,502       1,574         2,701     2,297        404         1,523         1,167         11     2,701
Piauif '              3,945     3,451        494          1,569     1,417        152         1,068          320         181      1,569
Cear Al               4,651     4,194        457          3,025     2,695        330         1,698         1,185        142     3,025
Paraiba  '            4,924     4,009        915          2,308     1,455        853         1,714          529          65     2,308
Minas Gerais6'        3,211     2,016       1,195         1,844     1,224        620         1,262          435         147      1,844
Maranhao '            6,244     4,730       1,514         3,065     2,110        955         1,979          940         146     3,065
Alagoas 1             1,327     1,244         83           742       683          59           462          215          65       742
Total                46,488    39,236       7,252        17,860    14,149      3,711        10,975         5,898        987    17,860
1/ Community subproject proposals received by the State Technical Units.
2/ Number of subprojects completed and/or under implementation.
3/ Number of subprojects completed and/or under implementation, by type.
4/ Loan closed on December 31, 1995.
5/ Loan closed on June 30, 1996.
6/ Loan closed on December 31, 19%.
_/ Loan closed on September 30, 1996.



-68 -                            Annex B
BRAZIL
RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - PARAIBA
Table 2. Comunty Demand - Perentage Distribution of Subprojects Submitted by Type
Tol NRDP       NRDP          NRDP         NRDP         NRDP
Type of Project    (AN states)    Paraiba    Maranhlo  Minas Gerais    Alam
Water supply            15.1         14.2          10.7        13.3           2.2
Rumal electrification   28.0         37.5          18.4         53.3         18.4
Farm tactor              6.0          0.7           3.2          8.7          4.7
Manioc floer mill        6.4          2.0           3.5          1.0          3.2
House improement         3.3          -             6.0          1.6          8.9
Small-scale irrigation   1.8          3.4           2.0         1.7           1.3
Sanitation               1.2          0.6           0.7         0.1           0.0
Clothes-making           2.2          -             5.7         0.2           1.7
Bridges                   2.4         -             1.7          1.1          2.1
Brick-making              1.0         -             0.7         0.1           0.0
Rice processing           1.2         2.3           5.1          0.0          2.1
Localized road           4.1          -            20.0          2.4         10.7
rehabilitation
MaiM processing           1.1         1.8           0.1          0.0          0.0
Child day carecenters    0.4          -             1.2         0.7           0.1
Cashew processing        0.4          -            -            0.0           0.6
Other                   25.4         37.5          21.0         15.7         44.0
Total                  100.0        100.0         100.0       100.0         100.0



-69-                                                         Annex B
BRAZIL
RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - PARAIBA
Table 3. Number of Municipalities Reached by NRDP
State                  Number of Municipalities '
In the   In Project      With implemented              Number of approved            Subprojects Iunicipalit
State     Area             subprojects                    subprojects
Total    PAC   FUMAC          Total    PAC    FUMAC            Total    PAC    FUMAC
Sergipe               75         74         74       67         7         600       501        99           8.1      7.5    14.1
Rio Grande do Norte   159        158       136       127        9          769      694        75           5.7       5.5     8.3
Pemnambuco           174         167       161       145       16        1,237     1,073      164           7.7       7.4    10.3
Bahia                415        264        264      237        27        2,701     2,297      404          10.2       9.7    15.0
Piaui                148         123       117       107       10        1,569     1,417      152          13.4      13.2    15.2
Ceari                178         176       195       168       27        3,025     2,695      330          15.5      16.0    12.2
Paraiba              171         171       180       155       25        2,308     1,455      853          12.8       9.4    34.1
Minas Gerais          79Y         791       79        61       18        1,844     1,224      620          23.3      20.1    34.4
Maranhlo             136         135       148       122       26        3,065     2,110      955          20.7      17.3    36.7
Alagoas               97          57        58       55         3          742      683        59          12.8      12.4    19.7
Total               1,632      1,404     1,412    1,244       168       17,860    14,149     3,711         12.6      11.4    22.1
V1  The sum of the PAC and FUMAC municipalities may exceed the total number of municipalities in the Project Area because some original PAC
municipalities later became FUMAC.
2/ Including 29 municipalities of Jequitinhonha Valley that were incorporated in the project area in 1996.



- 70 -                                                        Annex B
BRAZIL
RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - PARAIBA
Table 4. Average Cost of Subprojects Implemented per Project, Type and State
Sute                                                             Averae Cost (USS)
PAC                                                   FUMAC                                    Total
Infrastructure  Productive    Social    Total        Infrastrcture   Productive      Social       Total
Sergipe                28,122        23,209      22,452    26,211           25,533         21,199        23,358       24,569            25,940
Rio Grande do Norte    24,926        30,228      28,614    28,951           23,854         32,214       ...............  29,134         28,969
Pernambuco             27,251        29,347      26,332    27,618           29,317         28,505        25,105        28,782           28,123
Bahia                  19,457        22,217      20,660    20,654           20,911         22,620        21,600        21,652           20,803
Piaui                  20,151         19,327     35,368    21,752           19,153         22,797        26,461        20,546           21,635
Ceari                  20,608        30,837      26,214    23,825           23,735         31,393        28,386       27,330            24,207
Paraiba                25,736         15,000     17,888    23,668           17,327          9,644        25,626        15,311           20,580
Minas Gerais           30,789        29,548      28,569    30,312           31,873         28,134        30,332       30,894            30,674
Maranhio               26,540         17,358     25,940    24,325           28,001         20,425        27,537       24,347            24,340
Alagoas                25,686         17,814     17,603    20,823           23,620         18,917        25,356       23,304            21,009
Total                                                      24,074                                                     23,81            24,098



-71-                                                Annex B
BRAZIL
RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - PARAIBA
Table S. Average Cost of PAC/UMAC Subprojects, by Type and by State
Average Cost by Type
STATE                                                          (USS)
Manioc  Farm  Water supply   Water   Small   Rural    Rice          House      Small-scale        Clothes
Type of Project:    flour  tractor  (simplified   supply    dam    electrif  process.  inprovemn   imgation  Bridge making
mill            system)   (all te)
Sergipe              11,300  29,035   30,500      29,601    -       23,692   -           24,437       -        25,935   -
Rio Grande do Norte   18,692  33,700   17,200     22,172   28,603   19,407      -                    25,020   18,337  20,796
Pernambuco           24,000  31,000   29,000      30,000   29,000   28,000   30,000      28,000      29,000   28,000  25,000
Bahia                 7,416  19,918   14,544      14,500   13,154   20,514   10,897      18,870       18,970   20,391  22,727
Piaui                 5,843  30,825   16,800       8,722   22,343   26,383    8,859      30,897       17,701   27,969  18,428
Ceara                18,526  37,676    -          21,840   27,324   22,650   24,273      25,298      29,616   28,114  26,910
Paraba               15,015  38,439   18,288      16,844   19,139   24,957    7,693      -            13,572    -      13,172
Minas Gerais         26,591  31,998   28,517      27,400   24,157   31,911    -          32,745       18,351   31,444  19,839
Marauhio              8,364  25,117   21,358      24,305   15,859   28,539   10,618      30,593      24,316   21,264  21,964
Alagoas              12,425  18,735   16,050      23,625    9,615   27,202   -           -           27,970   28,850   -
Total                14,817  29,644   21,362      21,901   21,022   25,326   15,390      27,263      22,724   25,589  21,105



-72 -                                              Annex B
BRAZIL
RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - PARAIBA
Table 6. Disbursement Performance of the NRDP by State, USS million
State          Original Loan    Disbursement at   Cancellations '        Actual             Total
Amount       Reformulation                         Disbursement       Disbrsement
after
Reformulation
Sergipe 3                    61.3              36.6              1.0               23.7              60.3
Rio Grande do Norte          61.4              32.7             10.2               18.5               51.2
Pernambuco 4/                92.0              47.1             20.0               24.9               72.0
Bahia '                     171.0              52.1             63.8               55.1              107.2
Ceara 2                     122.0              37.1             37.1               47.8              84.9
Piaui A                      78.0              30.5             25.0               22.5               53.0
Paraiba '                    60.0              21.4              0.6               38.0               59.4
Minas Gerais                 55.0              11.2              4.7               39.1              50.3
MaranhAo '                   84.0              22.8              3.8               57.4              80.2
Alagoas6                     42.0              10.6             19.8               11.6              22.2
Total       -               826.7            302.1             186.0             338.6              640.7
1/  Excluding initial deposit into Special Accounts. Reformulation became effective on September 28, 1993.
2/ Cancellation became effective on Decemiber 21, 1994 for Sergipe, Rio Grande do Norte, Pernambuco, Bahia, Ceari and Piaui;
amounts estimated to be canceled for Paraiba, Minas Gerais, Maranhao and Alagoas.
2/  Loans closed on December 31, 1995.
4/  Loans closed on June 30, 1996.
5/  Loans closed on December 31, 1996.
6/  Loan closed on September 30, 1996.



-73 -                             Annex B
BRAZIL
RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - PARAIBA
Table 7. Seected Data on Major Types of Subprojects Financed by the NRDP in Paraiba
Total No. of    Total No. of       Cost per
Subprojects     Beneficiaries    Beneficiary
Subproject Type              Implemented       (Families)      Family (USS)
Infrastructure
Rural electrification (55%/)11             1,263           64,275              490
Rural water supply (11).)  -                 264           22,974              190
Productive
Minor irrigation schemes (3/)1'               79            4,194              256
Cereals procesing (3%/'                       75            7,993              142
Snmall agriculturl equipment (20/%)           55            4,776              150
Small ruminants production (2%/)/            44             3,552              157
Artisanal fisheries (1%/et)"                  31             684              799
Soceial.
Multi-purpose community centers (20/o)i'      41            3,746              259
Percentage of all subprojects implemented in the state.
Source: State database.



74-                            Annex C
BRAZIL
RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - PARAIBA
C. TARGETING MECHANISMS AND PROJECT
MUNICIPALITIES
1.    Targeting of the rural poor is of critical importance in the project, particularly as
justification for the use of grants for subproject financing. Under the project, it is
proposed that targeting occur at three levels:
(a)   geographically by poverty level and other characteristics of the
municipalities;
(b)   geographically within municipalities to target rural settlements and
communities; and
(c)   community-based selection of poor beneficiaries and particularly
vulnerable groups by the project Municipal Councils.
2.    Municipalities. Targeting at the first and second levels defines the project area.
AUl municipalities, with the exception of the municipality of Joao Pessoa, are included in
the project area, bringing the project municipalities to a total of 222. Targeting of these
municipalities takes into consideration the concentration of income and economic activity
in the metropolitan area of the capital and the higher incidence of poverty in the
municipalities of the interior, manifested by such indicators as the rate of indigence,
availability of municipal resources, and other socio-economic indicators.' According to
IPEA (1993), all but six municipalities in the state suffer a rate of indigence greater than
50%. In addition, since rural poverty in Paraiba is closely correlated with the poor natural
resource base, the harsh agro-climatic conditions and concentration of land ownership, the
project area includes the entire semi-arid region and other parts of the state (close to 80%
of the state falls within the "drought polygon"). The rural poor are primarily smallholders,
sharecroppers and wage workers, who depend on a diverse strategy of income-generating
activities in which the subsistence production of maize, beans, manioc and rice, and small
livestock predominates.
3.    Within the project municipalities, the selection of PAC and FUMAC municipalities
will be based on criteria such as past performance under the reformulated NRDP,
estimation of the organizational capacity of communities within the municipality, and
"progressiveness" of the mayor and municipal administration. The criteria for selection of
Rate of indigence equals the number of families below the official poverty line established by
IPEA divided by the total number of families in the municipality. See 0 Mapa da Fome, IPEA,
March 1993.



- 75 -                          Annex C
FUMAC-P municipalities is included in Annex F. As an incentive and basis for a
reasonable rate of development for FUMAC and FUMAC-P Councils, a minimum of 5
subprojects would be financed annually for each of these Councils. Adopting this rule and
based on the experience of the NRDP in terms of subproject costs in Paraiba, amounts
initially allocated to the two subcomponents would permit the establishment of 136
FUMAC Councils and 20 FUMAC-P Councils during the project period.
4.    Rural Settlements and Communities. The second level of targeting, within
municipalities, focuses on rural settlements and communities. Beneficiary settlements or
communities are limited to those with a population of or under 7,500 people.
5.    Community-based Selection. The third and principal level of targeting is
community-based selection. The project assumes that local communities can best judge
which community groups are poor and what investment priorities are in each municipality
and/or each community. The process of consensus-building at the local level by project
Municipal Councils helps to ensure that only poor communities benefit from the project.
During the open meetings to set priorities, criteria such as the socio-economic situation of
the participating communities, including existing infrastructure and availability of services,
would be discussed as part of the ranking of subprojects within the municipality. The
composition of the Municipal Councils, in which 80% are representatives from rural
communities and local civil society, as well as the clear and transparent rules and
procedures for the Councils' functioning, are important elements which facilitate targeting
poor beneficiaries. Finally, indicative targets set for social subprojects and those which
benefit women in particular, should be considered by the Municipal Councils as criteria for
subproject selection, insofar as the principles of need and perceived benefits guide ranking
decisions.
6.    The effectiveness of the targeting methodology would be assessed through the
project monitoring system and through ex-post evaluation studies. For example, annual
physical performance reviews (Annex H) would monitor the targeting of project benefits.
Also, the project implementation review (Annex H) would measure the ability of the
project to target and reach the poor. Adjustments and fine-tuning of the targeting
methodology would be based on these ex-post reviews, in agreement with the Bank.
GRADUATION STRATEGY
7.    The demand-driven community development model presented in the proposed
project is expected to increase the income-generating capacity and standards of living in
the beneficiary communities. Because project resources will be targeted to the poorest
rural communities, certain communities with better socio-economic standing relative to
others would receive fewer investment resources during the course of project
implementation. These communities, able to leverage a critical mass of subprojects and
other benefits from this and previous Bank-financed and other projects, would gain access
to other sources of financing and reach a point where a "safety net" is no longer necessary.
In order to formalize this process, the proposed project would introduce a community
graduation strategy whereby those communities with demonstrated capacity for



- 76 -                         Annex C
sustainable asset-accumulation (savings), adequate social and economic infrastructure and
community organization, would no longer be eligible for project matching grants.
8.    To make this judgment, baseline profiles of beneficiary communities would be
developed using indicators of community well-being collected from community subproject
proposals. Each subproject proposal would be accompanied by a 'fact sheet' to be filled
out by the community which would provide indication of the community's socio-economic
standing. The questions asked would extract information on benefits from previous
subprojects as well as from NRDP and other public programs, existing infrastructure and
access to social services, and indicators of accumulation/savings, such as: (a) the average
income of families in the community, in terms of minimum wages; (b) the average portion
of this income which fimilies dedicate to buy food; (c) the average portion of family
income dedicated to buying medicines; and (d) the percentage of community households
which have electricity, which have secure access to water and/or treated water, and which
have access to a health post. The information contained in the baseline community profiles
would be incorporated in the project MIS, and regularly updated through monitoring and
supervision exercises.
9.    At the end of the second year, the project would finance a study to detenmine the
point at which a community would be charged a higher cost-sharing percentage as well as
the "take-off po  the point at which a community would graduate out of the project.
The study would be based on a comparison of community profiles and on information
from the baseline impact evaluation (see Annex H). Using this analysis, the PCU (for
PAC) and the Muiicipal Councils (for FUMAC and FUMAC-P), aided by the PCU,
would graduate those communities which have reached this "take-off' point. As
communities graduate, those municipalities with fewer eligible communities would
gradually receive less funding for subprojects and, concurrently, would graduate from the
project as well.



-77-                            Annex D
BRAZIL
RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - PARAIBA
D. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION
1.    The success of the Rural Poverty Alleviation Project in Paraiba in meeting its
stated objectives is dependent on the strength and capabilities of four distinct groups of
entities: (a) community organizations; (b) project (FUMAC and FUMAC-P) Municipal
Councils; (c) the Project Coordinating Unit (PCU); and (d) participating govenmental and
non-governmental agencies.
COMMuNrTy ORGANIZATIONS
2.    Community associations are the legitimate representatives of the beneficiaries
before the Municipal Councils and the State under the project, which will only benefit
those communities organized into legally-constituted civil associations. This, a
prerequisite under Brazilian law for associations to receive public fuinds, also helps ensure
that the project meets the needs of a representative group from a given community and not
simply the needs of its more vocal or politically influential constituents. Due to the rather
cumbersome legal process in Brazil for forming associations, the project only requires that
the association be legally formed once the subproject proposal has been approved.
3.    Under local law, the organization of community associations typically comprises an
Executive Board of Directors, a General Assembly and a Fiscal Council. The Executive
Board of Directors comprises the President, Secretary, and Treasurer and the
Coordinators of any special working groups within the Association. These fixed-term
positions are fiHed by the vote of the General Assembly which meets regularly every three
months to discuss and vote on the Association's work program and internal procedures.
All decisions made by the General Assembly are registered in official documents (atas)
and signed by all members present. This procedure is reflected in the identification and
prioritization of subprojects: a subproject proposal addresses the needs of a majority of
the association, as voted by its members, and therefore is accompanied by an ata signed by
the association members. The fiscal council, normally composed of three members,
supervises all of the association's activities and functions as internal auditor of all financial
transactions made by the association. The principal source of funds for most associations
is monthly dues paid by members.
4.    Community associations are the foundation of project implementation. The
associations are responsible for formulating and prioritizing ideas for subprojects and
submitting these proposals to the Municipal Councils (under FUMAC and FUMAC-P) or



-78 -                           Annex D
to the PCU (under PAC) for financing. The General Assembly deliberates and votes on
each subproject proposal, thereby ensuring that these subprojects attend to the needs of
the majority of the association members. The signed ata which accompanies each
subproject proposal attests to the association's commitment to the subproject. Once a
subproject has been approved, the community association enters into a legally binding
agreement with the PCU and/or Municipal Council through which the funds to implement
the subproject are passed to the association. The association, in most cases, is responsible
for all procurement and record-keeping during the implementation of the subproject. This
agreement also binds the association to provide the necessary counterpart contribution
(which can include labor, materials and cash) to execute the subproject as well as
undertake the future operation and maintenance (O&M) of the investment. In the case of
infrastructure, the association generally transfers O&M to appropriate public sector
agencies (e.g., the local electricity company in the case of rural electrification subprojects)
to which it pays the relevant user fees.
5.    Implementation of subprojects therefore implies significant responsibility for the
community associations and the communities which they represent, and is a source of
empowerment for them. Charging the communities with the primary responsibility for the
implementation of their own subprojects assures better quality and reinforces their sense of
ownership. The supervision and administration of the subprojects is caried out by an
elected Supervision and Control Committee, which oversees the subproject from start to
finish and reports back to the association on progress. This Committee of three to four
persons is comprised of subproject beneficiaries, both members of the association and non-
members within the community. The members of the Committee are elected by the
beneficiaries-at-large and are recognized as having some experience or knowledge about
the proposed subproject type. The Committee visits the subproject regularly and monitors
subproject implementation, costs, procurement, and community contribution, as well as
any potential problems. The Supervision and Control Committee therefore acts as a
"community watchdog" to ensure that subproject funds and the community's contribution
are invested in accordance with the subproject agreement and that the investment is of a
high quality.
MUNICIPAL COUNCILS
6.    Under the proposed project, FUMAC and FUMAC-P Municipal Councils may be
formed as legally-constituted civil organizations or may be established through Municipal
decree. In the latter case, the Council must nonetheless be granted administrative and
financial autonomy from the local municipal government. The size of the Municipal
Councils will vary across municipalities (usually between ten and fifteen members) and
their profile will be representative of the beneficiary communities. Of the Council's voting
power 80% is granted to representatives of community associations and of local civil
society, such as NGOs, labor unions and religious organizations. The remaining 20%
represent Municipal Government and other public institutions such as EMATER. The
PCU has a seat on the Council with the right to voice but not vote. Members of the



-79 -                          Annex D
Council are elected for one-year terms (which can be renewed once) by a community
assembly.
7.    While the project Municipal Councils act independently of the Municipal
Govemnment, the participation and support of the latter is nonetheless important.
Experience under the reformulated NRDP has demonstrated that the mayors and
municipal leadership welcome the project Municipal Councils as an instrument to meet
basic community needs to which their municipal budgets cannot realistically attend. The
participation of the mayor is fundamental in creating a synergy between the priorities of
the Council and the Municipal Government's investment program. In this sense, the
project Municipal Council is not seen as a parallel institution to Municipal Government but
as a counterpart.
8.    Municipal Councils are the key organization for the targeting of project benefits
and the allocation of resources under the proposed project. The Councils have a
fundamental role in mobilizing communities and fomenting community participation in
decision-making at the municipal level. By their nature as open, representative and
d*emocratic bodies which build consensus on priorities, the Municipal Councils instill
transparency into the decision-making process for FUMAC and FUMAC-P investments.
The Councils receive, prioritize and approve subproject proposals from the beneficiary
associations. The monthly meetings of the Municipal Councils are widely publicized and
the public is encouraged to attend them. At these meetings, the beneficiary associations
present their subproject ideas to the Council. The Council deliberates and prioritizes the
subproject proposals based on its determination of the needs of the different communities,
and on criteria such as the level of poverty and the existing infrastructure of each
community in relation to the rest of the municipality; the type of subproject to be financed
and its potential to improve the life quality of the beneficiary population; and the
demonstrated participation of the beneficiary community in the identification of the
subproject and its commitment to the implementation and subsequent operation and
maintenance of the subproject. The Municipal Councils' prioritization process is the basis
of targeting in the project since the communities themselves through the Councils
determine where project resources will best be applied based on their first-hand
knowledge of local investment needs. The Council ranks the subprojects in priority order
based on the vote of the Council members. The subproject approval process is based on
technical and eligibility criteria. The Municipal Council screens the FUMAC/FUMAC-P
subprojects based on pre-established technical, environmental and cost/financial standards
(see Annex G) and either approves or rejects the proposals. Rejected subprojects are
returned to the beneficiary association with recommendations to improve the proposal.
Decisions for approval or rejection of subproject proposals are also determined by vote.
Under FUMAC, approved subprojects are sent by the Municipal Councils to the PCU in
order of priority for financing. In the case of FUMAC-P, the subprojects are financed
directly by the relevant Councils within an annual budget envelope as described below.
9.    A FUMAC-P Council bases its investment decisions on an Annual Operating Plan
(POA), developed with the assistance of the PCU at the start of every fiscal year. This
POA, which is voted on by Council members after detailed deliberations, establishes the



-80 -                           Annex D
development priorities of the communities within a given municipality and the
corresponding investments to be financed with project resources. Each year, based on the
POA prepared, the PCU will transfer the allotted budget to the Council. The Council, in
turn, will transfer fiuds for subprojects approved to the beneficiary associations on the
basis of signed, legal agreements. This concept of approving subprojects within a budget
envelope enhances the Council's capacity to program and prioritize investments. If, on
the other hand, the Council's performance is unsatisfactory, it will run the risk of seeing its
budget envelope reduced the following year.
10.   Municipal Councils also supervise the implementation of subprojects in the
communities and work closely with the Community Control and Supervision Committee in
this respect. The Councils are well placed to provide this assistance. Given their
proximity to the communities and their lines of communication both with the PCU and
with the communities themselves, Municipal Councils are effective trouble-shooters for
subproject implementation problems.
PROJECT COORDINATING UNT
11.   The PCU is the focal point for project administration and for communication with
the Bank and the State Government. It is also the project's principal liaison for the
Municipal Councils and for those community associations located in PAC municipalities.
In Paraiba, the PCU is the Unidade Tdcnica do Projeto Cooperar, an entity which enjoys
financial autonomy but is administratively linked to the State Secretariat of Planning.'
Under the proposed project, the PCU will shed some of its executive responsibilities that it
held under the reformulated NRDP and increase its monitoring, technical assistance and
supervision responsibilities. It will promote decentralization and community participation
in the project by delegating tasks to Municipal Councils and participating state and non-
governmental organizations.
12.   The Unidade T4cnica is headed by a General Coordinator who is assisted by three
functional Coordenadorias in charge, respectively, of administrative, financial and
technical matters (current structure established by law in 1993). Under the reformulated
NRDP, execution of the PAC and FUMAC programs was carried out through two distinct
units, directly responsible to the General Coordinator and the Technical Coordenadoria
and assisted in the field by four regional offices strategically located in the interior
(Itaporanga, Areia, Patos and Pombal). Of the PCU's technical staff, about 64 (excluding
the General Coordinator and her Chief of Cabinet) operate out of headquarters in Joao
Pessoa while an additional 20 are based in the regional offices. The organizational
structure of the PCU will be revised in line with the new project's decentralization
strategy, that would redirect the PCU's efforts towards monitoring, field supervision,
technical assistance and training, rather than direct execution of most of the project
Technical Unit for Projeto Cooperar (previously Projeto Nordeste), as the reformulated NRDP has
been known in Paralba.



-81-                           Annex D
activities. Under the proposed, more simplified structure (see Organizational Chart at the
end of this Annex), the General Coordinator, assisted by a Technical Advisory Group,
would oversee the same number (three) of Departments or Coordenadorias but the
responsibilities of these would be somewhat changed, as follows: the Planning, Monitoring
and Evaluation Department (Coordenadoria de Planejamento) would be in charge of
preparing/consolidating project POAs, elaborating and refining the project Operational
Manual, processing subproject proposals received from the communities and the
Municipal Councils, managing the Special Account and coordinating the management of
subproject finds, monitoring project activities through the MIS, carrying out or
contracting evaluation studies, and finally preparing physical and financial performance
reports on the project; the Technical Operations Department (Coordenadoria de
Operag6es), in charge of field operations (including community mobilization, technical
assistance and training, and subproject appraisal) would function through 4 Regional
Technical Groups composed of multi-disciplinary teams with logistical and technical
support by the four existing field offices; and, the Administrative and Financial Support
Department (Coordenadoria de Apoio) would have responsibility for general PCU
administrative, financial and human resource aspects. In addition, the General
Coordinator would be supported by an Advisory Consultative Council, constituted by
selected personnel from the various units and whose main role would be to provide, as
needed, advice in the final stage of approval of the community investments to be funded
under the project.
13.   The PCU's principal tasks under the project will include: (a) project planning and
coordination at the state level through the preparation of POAs, including the
consolidation of POAs by FUMAC-P Councils, and monitoring activities through
maintenance of the project Management Information System (MIS); (b) promoting the
project and encouraging participation of potential beneficiary communities, NGOs and
private sector entities; (c) preparing project implementation reports and organizing
evaluation exercises; (d) ensuring timely and adequate provision of loan and state
counterpart funds; (e) appraising and approving all PAC subproject proposals; (f) entering
into subproject agreements with community associations (PAC) and Municipal Councils
(FUMAC) and into POA-based agreements with FUMAC-P Municipal Councils, to
transfer subproject funds and monitor their use; (g) overseeing all monitoring and
supervision activities under the project to gauge compliance with project guidelines and to
improve the quality of subprojects and project interventions, ensuring that environmental
guidelines for subproject approval and implementation are followed; (h) providing
technical assistance to the FUMAC and FUMAC-P Municipal Councils; (i) preparing
statements of expenditure (SOEs) and applications for reimbursement; and (j) ensuring
that procurement, disbursement and auditing procedures applicable to the Bank loan are
followed. To increase the current Unidade Tecnica's capacity to undertake some of these
tasks, particularly with respect to stimulating the mobilization and organization of
communities and providing technical assistance to them, training in specific areas will be
organized for its staff under the institutional development component of the project
(Annex E). In the area of environmental impact assessment, the PCU will be provided
training and assistance from specialized national or state agencies such as the Brazilian



- 82 -                         Annex D
Institute for the Environment (IBAMA) and the State Superintendency for the
Environment (SUDEMA).
INSTIrUTIONAL CAPACITY
14.   The project, through the community subproject methodology, is expected to lay
the groundwork for, and consolidate, participatory institutions and processes at the
municipal and community levels. Formed into community associations, the rural
population is gaining a voice and a role in political participation which it did not have as
individuals. When communities organize themselves to receive benefits from the project,
and contribute to and operate and maintain the investments, the sense of ownership of the
investment empowers the communities and their organization and commitment are
rewarded. A municipality participates in the FUMAC (and eventually FUMAC-P)
program when this level of organization is apparent at the municipal level, and the official
municipal leadership supports participatory decision-making. The project Municipal
Council in FllMAC formalizes the communities' voice in the establishment of investment
priorities at the municipal level. FUMAC also forges a partnership between the
communities and municipal leadership as both groups contribute to the financing of
investments, thus leveraging project funds. As Municipal Councils gain experience and
capacity, progressing from FUMAC to FUMAC-P, they increase their bearing and
influence on public resource programming at the municipal level while reinforcing a
sustainable participatory process. Such an experience has been gained in a number of
highly organized municipalities in some of the northeast states under the reformulated
NRDP.
15.  Implementation capacity is central to the successful performance of the community
subprojects component and, hence, of the project's development objectives.
Implementation capacity constraints of the various institutions participating in the project
--beneficiary associations, Municipal Councils, public and non-governmental agencies, and
the PCU itself- are specifically addressed by the project's institutional development
component. This component provides resources to finance appropriate technical
assistance and training in order that each group acquire the capabilities needed to
effectively perform its functions under the project (see Annex E for operational details).
16.   The institutional development component will give community associations access
to funds for community mobilization and organizational strengthening. Beneficiary
associations will also have access to expertise on subproject preparation and execution, as
well as training in operation and maintenance techniques to derive optimal benefit from
subproject investments. By providing training in financial administration, the project will
also prepare these groups to manage productive activities which open doors for future
income-generating endeavors. To fully develop their potential leadership role at the
municipal level and to fulfill their role within the project, Municipal Councils will require
assistance to orient their decision-making on resource allocation among community
investments and, in the FUMAC-P program, to develop their capacity for investment
planning and financial administration. Municipal Councils will also themselves serve as a



- 83 -                           Annex D
source of technical advice for community associations. The PCU, in its refined role as
project facilitator, will require training to master effective monitoring and supervision
techniques as well as enhanced project management and other skills. Where the PCU
contracts NGOs or other state agencies to assist in filfilling some of its technical
assistance, monitoring and supervision tasks, these institutions may also receive specific
training under the project.



- 84 -                                Annex D
PROPOSED ORGANIZATIONAL CHART OF TIHE STATE PCU
(Unidade Tecnica do Projeto Cooperar, Paraiba)
State Governor
| ~~State Secretariat of Plamirsg
General                     Advisory
Coordinator              Consultative Council
Technical      _
Advisory Group J
Planning, Monitoring and      Technical Operations          Administrative and
Evaluation Depatrinet            Departinet                Financial Support
_                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Departient
Regional    |         Regional                Regional               Regional
Technical             Technic                 Technical              Technical
Group I               Group 2                 Group 3                Group 4
Regional Office I |   Regional Office 2       Regional Office 3         Regional Office 41
(Itaporang)              (Areia)                (Patos)        j       (Pombal) 



- 85 -                          Annex E
BRAZIL
RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - PARAtBA
E. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE, TRAINING AND
INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY-BUILDING
1.    Both technical assistance and training are fundamental inputs into the various
stages of the subproject cycle and overall project implementation. Evaluations of the
reformulated NRDP have emphasized the need for improved technical assistance and
training to the different partners in project execution -community associations, project
Municipal Councils and Project Coordinating Units (PCUs)-- in order to ensure higher
quality planning and implementation and greater sustainability of subprojects and to
increase the development impact of the project. Under the proposed Paraiba Rural
Poverty Alleviation project, technical assistance (TA) would be provided in two forms:
(a) under the Institutional Development comnponent of the project; and (b) as a percentage
of the cost of community subprojects. Details on the operational aspects for the provision
of TA are included in the project Operational Manual.
2.    The Institutional Development Component. Funds under the project's
institutional development component would be used: (a) to mobilize and strengthen the
planning and implementation capacity of potential beneficiary associations and of FUMAC
and FUMAC-P Councils established under the project; and (b) to direct technical
assistance to the Paraiba PCU and State Planning Secretariat in specific areas, such as
specialized skills training and technical assistance for State reform. Since the component
is not tied to the subproject cycle, communities and Municipal Councils can receive
assistance independent of whether they have an approved subproject or approved portfolio
of subprojects, respectively. The resources of the Institutional Development component
would finance a variety of capacity-building programs, such as:
(a)   Mobilization assistance to beneficiary associations: the PCU (for PAC) and
Municipal Councils (for FUMAC and FUMAC-P) would formulate and
fund strategies to extend mobilization assistance to those communities
lacking in organization and thus not initially in a position to benefit from
the project. Such assistance would include community workshops to
determine priority needs, training to community groups in organization
skils and helping them with the process of forming legal associations, etc.;
(b)   Introductory Municipal Council training program: the PCU would organize
this program to train, either directly or through collaborative arrangements
with other entities, FUMAC and FUMAC-P Municipal Councils on the
project philosophy, subproject cycle and Operational Manual guidelines;



-86 -                           Annex E
and, more specifically for the FUMAC-P Councils, on the preparation of
annual operating plans (POAs), budgeting and administration;
(c)   Specialized skills training: the PCU, the project Councils, and groups of
community associations, would receive, on a demand basis, practical "on-
the-job training" in areas such as monitoring techniques, environmental
impact assessments, financial administration, as well as specific technical
topics in support of subproject implementation and operation and
maintenance (e.g., for groups of community associations on water use);
(d)   Standard subproject design training: standardized subprojects (Annex G)
will reduce the need for intensive technical assistance in subproject
preparation for the majority of subproject types requested by communities.
The standard subproject models are especially helpful to communities
lacking experience in subproject preparation. Workshops organized with
community associations, community leaders and project Municipal
Councils would provide technical assistance in the application and use of
standard subproject designs;
(e)   "Best Practice" exchanges: the PCU and Municipal Councils would arrange
for technical exchanges among community associations with similar types
of subprojects. These exchanges have proven to be an effective way to
transfer know-how on subproject operation and maintenance from
community associations with successful subprojects to associations
initiating new subprojects. In addition, exchanges among Municipal
Councils within the state and among PCUs throughout the Northeast could
be financed to disseminate successful experiences across states; and
(f)   Technical assistance for State reform. Because the fiscal situation of the
State affects both project implementation and state counterpart funding,
technical assistance at the state level is needed to analyze issues
surrounding the reform of the State and to identify measures to improve
the State's capacity to overcome fiscal crisis and address its underlying
causes. The State Secretariat of Planning (SEPLAN), through the PCU,
will have access to technical assistance funds for consultant services and
studies required for administrative and other state reforms.
3.    For access to funds from the Institutional Development component, the PCU and
each project Municipal Council would prepare, as part of the Annual Operating Plan
(POA), a TA and training proposal indicating proposed beneficiaries (by type), numbers of
activities (e.g., events, consultants, etc.), expected subject matter and estimated costs.
The aggregate dollar amount of technical assistance included in each proposal would be
based on a series of parameters, such as the number of subprojects expected, the estimated
number of new Municipal Councils, the estimated number of communities needing
mobilization assistance or general technical support, etc. During the course of the year,
each actual TA and training event would require detailed terms of reference, outlining the



- 87 -                          Annex E
objective and contents of each event. The PCU would provide the Municipal Councils
with a framework for the annual technical assistance and training proposals and with
model terms of reference to facilitate their access to the funds under the Institutional
Development component.
4.    Types of contracts under the Institutional Development component would range
from short-term contracts for single training events, to longer-term retainer contracts for a
series of training or technical assistance activities to be performed over a period of time.
For example, project Municipal Councils may contract the services of a local extension
agent to follow-up and provide TA to all community subprojects within the municipality.
Also, training in basic accounting and recordkeeping may be needed by a number of
community associations with productive subprojects and would best be handled by having
the PCU contract a specialized NGO to conduct in situ training with various community
associations over a certain period of time. The flexibility of contract types reflects the
diversity of TA and training needs of the various entities participating in the project.
However, to reduce the administrative task of processing a series of contracts and to take
advantage of economies of scale, technical assistance and training events would be
packaged whenever possible.
5.    The funds for institutional development at the project level will be administered by
the PCU, which will contract all technical assistance and training for the PAC program
and, in cases of packaging or upon request by the Municipal Councils, for the FUMAC
program. FUMAC and FUMAC-P Municipal Councils may contract technical assistance
and training for themselves or, upon request, for beneficiary associations, with the
assistance of the PCU and on the basis of standard terms of reference. The PCU would
monitor the use of institutional development funds by the Municipal Councils and by
beneficiary associations through review of statements of expenditure (SOEs) and periodic
supervision.
6.    Percentage of subproject cost targeted to technical assistance. At the
discretion of community associations, subproject proposals may include, as part of the
subproject cost, an allocation for technical assistance in preparation and/or implementation
of the subproject. The percentage, to be determined by the Municipal Councils in the case
of FUMAC or FUMAC-P and by the PCU in the case of PAC, would vary from 2% to
8% of the subproject cost. It would depend on the technical complexity of the subproject,
on whether a standard design already exists for the type of subproject under consideration,
and on other factors.
7.    Technical assistance and training financed as a percentage of the subproject cost,
would need to be described in detail in the subproject proposal. For TA during subproject
preparation, the service provider would necessarily work in an "at-risk" situation, since
TA services provided would be paid only if the subproject is indeed approved and funded
under the project. However, to avoid the risk of hampering the provision --under this
mode- of technical assistance for subproject preparation, community associations have
the option of requesting Municipal Councils to use resources from the institutional
development component instead to contract the required assistance. If the subproject is



-88 -                            Annex E
approved, funds for technical assistance provided as a percentage of subproject cost
would be disbursed directly to the beneficiary association. The association would contract
the extensionist/entity under procurement procedures acceptable to the Bank and
described in the Operational Manual. For "turn-key"-type contracts, where the technical
assistance provider helps prepare and then implement the subproject, a smaller percentage
would be paid for the preparation assistance vis-a-vis the implementation assistance, in
order to direct the financial incentive toward the successfiul implementation of the
subproject.
8.    For greater effectiveness, technical assistance for subprojects should extend into
the post-implementation (i.e., operation and maintenance) period, particularly for
productive subprojects where success depends on the association's capacity to operate
and administer its small-scale, communal activity. Therefore, as a prerequisite for
approval of productive subprojects, community associations would have to provide a
satisfactory technical assistance plan with the service provider identified. In addition, as
part of their commitment to sufficiently operate and maintain their subprojects, beneficiary
associations should include technical assistance among the expenditures to be financed out
of the O&M funds maintained by each association. The PCU and project Municipal
Councils would actively encourage this practice during routine monitoring and
supervision.
SERVICE PROVIDERS
9.    The identification and mobilization of technical assistance and training providers is
a crucial complement to the availability of resources. The most important providers of
technical assistance would continue to be the PCU and the project Municipal Councils.
Other service providers are readily identifiable from their participation in the reformulated
NRDP:
(a)   Multilateral and bilateral technical assistance agencies -- international
technical assistance organizations contracted by the PCU can provide
technical assistance to the PCU itself and to the Municipal Councils at the
project level;
(b)   EMATER extensionists -- in each municipality, local accredited agents of
the state rural extension agency (EMATER) would be identified by the
PCU, to be contracted by individual community associations for work on a
particular subproject, or by Municipal Councils, on a retainer contract, for
clearly-specified work with a group of communities. As a rule, the project
would channel resources (only for incremental operating costs, not salaries)
directly to local extensionists rather than to the central, state-level agency,
in order to stimulate greater local participation, reward effective agents and
penalize those that do not effectively provide the assistance needed; and



-89 -                            Annex E
(c)   Non-Governmental Organizations -- staff from local grassroots
organizations can also serve as accredited agents, as described in the
-paragraph above, or the NGOs themselves can enter into contracts with
associations, the Municipal Councils or the PCU for global or specific
technical assistance and training activities.
10.   The PCU and Municipal Councils would be charged with developing lists and
contacting all potential sources of technical assistance, such as: university students, local
private organizations, private extensionists, and state agencies. These lists would be
updated annually and would be available at the local level.
IMPLEMENTATION APRANGEMENTS
l.   To create institutional incentives in the PCU to promote accountability for TA and
training activities, technical assistance would need to be a more visible and effective line
function within the PCU. A high-level Technical Assistance Coordinator, to be nominated
from among the staff of the PCU, would be responsible for overseeing the Institutional,
Development component as well as the technical assistance arrangem-ents forming part of
subproject funds (as described above). The main tasks of the Coordinator would be to:
(a) develop the technical assistance and training framework under the project; (b) identify
and contact potential technical assistance providers and maintain updated lists for each
municipality and for the project as a whole; (c) identify and prepare potential local
accredited agents; (d) prepare the annual TA and training proposal for the project; (e)
assist the Municipal Councils in the preparation of the annual TA and training proposals
and review the proposals presented by each Municipal Council; (f) develop model terms of
reference for specific technical assistance activities and training events; (g) encourage
replication of successfid technical assistance and training activities wherever possible; and,
(h) based on supervision findings, measure and report on the progress of technical
assistance arrangements and their effectiveness.
12.   As part of their regular supervision efforts, the PCU and the Municipal Councils
would monitor the frequency and quality of technical assistance and training provided to
each subproject. SOEs presented by Municipal Councils and community associations for
technical assistance and training expenditures would be closely monitored by the PCU to
ensure that resources are used exclusively for that purpose and in a cost-effective manner.
As further incentive for their effective use, loan funds allocated to the Institutional
Development component will not be permitted to be re-allocated to finance community
subprojects or any other expenditure under the project. To give Municipal Councils
greater incentive to promote and achieve successful technical assistance arrangements in
their respective municipalities, the provision of technical assistance, both by the Councils
and other providers, would be considered a parameter by which to judge the overall
performance of project Municipal Councils and would factor into decision-making on the
promotion of FUMAC Councils to FUMAC-P. Technical assistance would also be
monitored through the project's monitoring and reporting arrangements (see Annex H).
Information from the MIS would identify active technical assistance contracts which will



-90 -                           Annex E
then be followed up during subproject supervision visits. The mid-year and annual project
progress reports, compiled by the PCU for the Bank, would contain specific sections
pertaining to the quantity, quality and effectiveness of technical assistance provided. The
project implementation review (Annex H) would also evaluate the quality and cost-
effectiveness of technical assistance and thus provide the beneficiaries' assessment of TA
arrangements. The Bank's Recife Office would evaluate the project's technical assistance
arrangements during regular supervision visits.



-91-                            Annex F
BRAZIL
RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - PARAIBA
F. THE FUMAC-P PILOT PROGRAM
BACKGROUND
1.    Decentralization of decision-making and the transfer of project implementation
responsibilities from the State to the local (municipal and community) levels, started under
the reformulated NRDP with the introduction of the community-based PAC and FUMAC
programs, wili be further advanced in the proposed project. First, FUMAC coverage will
expand significantly under the project to cover over 130 municipalities by the fifth year of
implementation. Second, a further step towards decentralization will be taken through a
pilot program, FUMAC-P, which will promote the transfer of financial management
responsibilities to selected FUMAC Municipal Councils.
2.    Generally, municipalities which participated in FUMAC under the reformulated
NRDP tend to be those in which the environment for participatory decision-making is
more favorable, which distinguishes them from more traditionally-run municipalities with a
strong "cfientelistic" approach. This environment has been the result of a conjunction of
cultural/political factors, such as the emergence of a movement for the development of
civil society (usually induced by religious organizations, NGOs and more recently by some
political parties) and the coming to power of a new generation of more open-minded
political leaders.
3.    Several important lessons have emerged from the FUMAC experience under the
reformulated NRDP. First, it proved to be an efficient, transparent approach for
identifying and prioritizing, through local-level consensus building, multiple demands for
investments by needy conununities. Second, it provided the opportunity to experiment not
only with increased transfer of decision-making, including approval of subprojects, from
the state Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) to Municipal Councils representing
communities, but also with the management of community subproject funds by these very
Councils. This experience is reflected in the proposed project in the design of FUMAC
and, in particular, FUMAC-P, where the feasibility of financial management at the
grassroots level will be tested.
FUMAC-P: MAIN FEATURES
4.    The FUMAC-P pilot would account, initially, for about US$7.1 million or 9% of
the total base cost of the project over the five-year implementation period. In order to
motivate project Municipal Councils (both FUMAC and FUMAC-P) and have them
participate in the project in a sustainable manner, each Council --and its communities--



-92 -                           Annex F
would benefit from a minimum of 5 subprojects per year. The initial amount allocated to
this subcomponent is therefore expected to allow the installation of some 20 FUMAC-P
Councils by the end of the project period. If this pilot approach proves successful with the
communities and meets its objectives of local-level investment selection, execution and
financi management, FUMAC-P would be expanded with funds initially earmarked for
the FUMAC and PAC subcomponents (see para. 10) and more FUMAC-P Councils than
initially foreseen could be set up during project implementation.
5.   Initially, the PCU would select FUMAC-P municipalities from among the best
FUMAC performers under the reformulated NRDP, i.e., those with the best record in
administering and executing community subprojects. Additionally, other municipalities
which have a favorable enviromnent for participatory work (extensive community
organization, municipal officials open to participative decision-making, etc.), and are
interested and can commit themselves to following project guidelines, could be included.
There should also be some indication that local capacity exists to manage financial
resources, for instance in communities or existing associations already managing small-
scale businesses (on an individual or group basis) and whose members could potentially
form part of FUMAC-P Municipal Councils. As the proposed project gets underway, and
the FUMAC-P approach proves successful, other well-performing FUMAC municipalities
could gradually be upgraded into FUMAC-P municipalities.
6.    Once the municipalities are selected, allocation of funds would be done based on a
number of criteria to which different weights will be assigned. These criteria may include
several of the foliowing:
(a)   ratio of rural to total population;
(b)   rate of indigence;
(c)   number and degree of dispersion of poor rural communities;
(d)   availability of public resources per capita;
(e): number of subprojects approved under the reformulated NRDP (small
discriminatory factor);
-(t)   performance-in. e previous year; and
(g)   williness of the mayor (prefeito) to participate.
7.    FUMAC-P Municipal Councils would have the same composition and modes of
operation as FUMAC Municipal Councils (Annex D). They would be responsible for:
(a)   assisting rural communities in identifying priority needs and translating
them into investment proposals;



- 93 -                         Annex F
(b)   screening and reviewing these proposals, and ensuring that they meet
eligibility criteria as contained in the Project Operational Manual;
(c)   monitoring and supervising, together with the PCU, the implementation of
approved subprojects;
(d)   providing, directly or through contracting, technical assistance and training
to beneficiary associations in the design and operation and maintenance of
project-financed investments;
(e)   managing subproject funds and transferring funds to beneficiary
associations with approved subprojects; and
(f)   preparing indicative annual operating plans (POAs) for review and
approval by the PCU. The POA would contain a list of community
investment priorities, indicative targets to be met, a tentative timetable, the
indicative budget and the technical assistance required to implement the
proposed program. The PCU would review and approve the POA at the
end of the year preceding implementation.
8.    An agreement (convenio) between the PCU and the Municipal Council would
establish the terms and conditions as well as rights and obligations of each party with
respect to the release and use of the approved funds. These (both loan and state
counterpart funds) would be deposited into an account in a commercial bank, and would
be withdrawn solely upon formal order by the Municipal Council. The Council would
screen community subproject proposals on the basis of the approved POA and the funds
made available by the PCU. An agreement (convinio) between the Municipal Council and
the beneficiary association would be required.
9.    Regular supervision of the operations of the FUMAC-P Municipal Councils would
be the responsibility of the PCU, focusing in particular on the administrative and financial
arrangements made by the Councils to effectively control and release project funds to the
community associations and on progress in the implementation of the POA agreed for
each FUMAC-P Council. Municipal Councils would be aided in their tasks, both for
management and accounting as well as subproject appraisal, monitoring and supervision,
by appropriate technical assistance under the guidance of the PCU. Unsatisfactory
performance of a Council would have to be carefully assessed by the PCU, including, if
necessary, the weighing of penalties. If unsatisfactory performance is not rapidly
corrected, it would lead to a reduction of the budget envelope allocated to the Council the
following year (para. 6) or, in the case of serious wrongdoing such as misappropriation or
misuse of funds, to legal remedies, combined with restructuring of the Council or its
downgrading from FUMAC-P back to FUMAC. On the other hand, built-in incentives
would encourage positive performance. Positive performance, for example, would be
rewarded with a potential expansion in the budget envelope allocated each year.



-94-                            Annex F
10.   The project implementation review to be carried out at mid-term would include a
specific evaluation of the FUMAC-P program. The basic purpose of this evaluation will
be to assess performance under the pilot program and, where necessary, adjust its design
and mechanisms in order to improve its procedures and impact on beneficiaries. If the
pilot program is found successful and its expansion is justified, part of the remaining PAC
and FUMAC fuinds under the project could be transferred to the FlUMAC-P program for
implementation in the final project years.



-95-                            Annex G
BRAZIL
RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - PARAIBA
G. STANDARD DESIGNS AND OPERATION AND
MAINTENANCE OF SUBPROJECTS
STANDARD DESIGNS
1.    Experience under the NRDP showed that the technical elaboration of subprojects
can be a difficult task for rural community associations. In some cases, especially where
competent technical assistance is not available locally, this resulted in inappropriate design,
cost overruns and subprojects left incomplete or unoperational. Under the proposed
project, preparation of subprojects by associations, as well as appraisal of the technical
proposals by Municipal Councils and/or the Project Coordinating Unit (PCU), will be
facilitated with the adoption of standard designs developed by the PCU for the most
common types of subprojects found in Paraiba. The use of standard designs will ensure
that, at least for those subprojects most in demand by communities, project investments
foflow recommended technical specifications, both for construction and operation and
maintenance (O&M), meet reasonable cost parameters so as to be financially viable, and
comply with all necessary environmental requirements. At the same time, the risk of
"directing" community demand towards subprojects for which standard designs will be
made available would be reduced by the project's information campaign which advises
communities, inter alia, about the variety of subprojects that are eligible for financing.
2.    Different standard designs or appropriate standard documentation (projetos-
padr&o orprojetos de referencia) will be prepared for the various types of investments:
productive, infrastructure and social subprojects. The main items to be included in each of
the relevant documentation are indicated below.
3.    For productive subprojects:
(a)   a summary of the existing situation, including considerations on demand,
supply of raw materials, as well as markets;
(b)   a set of considerations and parameters to carry out simplified feasibility
studies, in particular: a presentation of subproject objectives and potential
benefits; the technical production process and type of equipment required;
technical parameters such as expected yields, coefficient of utilization,
range of output; range of costs of production, depreciation, maintenance
requirements; expected benefits and number of beneficiaries; indicative
internal rates of return, benefit/cost ratios, and other such indicators;



- 96 -                           Annex G
(c)   technical aspects, including a description of civil works, technical
specifications, bill of quantities, and the list of suppliers of equipment
required to operate the subproject;
(d)   guidelines for O&M; and
(e)   environmental considerations and recommendations for specific measures
to mitigate the negative impact, if any, of the proposed subproject.
In addition, a set of operating rules (regulamento de uso) will accompany the
documentation for each of the proposed productive subprojects.
4.    For social subprojects:
(a)   a methodology for establishing the profile of social demand in order to
properly tailor the size of the required facility;
(b)   design considerations, e.g., services to be delivered by the proposed
subproject, and technical, legal and administrative aspects;
(c)   technical aspects as for productive subprojects;
(d)   O&M features, including an evaluation of the delivery costs of the
proposed social service; and
(e)   environmental considerations where relevant.
5.    For infrastructure subprojects, whose size can vary widely depending on the local
context, intended number of beneficiaries and other factors, the concept of standard design
as such is not totally adequate. However, it is possible to develop:
(a)   generic terms of reference for engineering of different types of subprojects,
e.g., water supply systems, road rehabilitation, etc.; and
(b)   "typical" engineering (projetos tipicos) of small works such as pipes and
box culverts, retaining walls, typical decks for small bridges, etc.
6.    Standard designs will be available for those types of subprojects that most respond
to the needs and demand of communities. By project effectiveness, a first group of ten
standard designs will have been prepared by the PCU, and listed in the project Operational
Manual, for the following most popular types of subprojects: rural electrification, various
communal water supply systems, fords (passagem molhada), communal wash-houses,
multi-purpose community centers, communal warehouses, sheep/goat raising, manioc
mills, sanitation facilities. While these standard designs would be continuously reviewed
and adjusted, others, depending on demand, would be elaborated by the PCU for
additional types of subprojects that would be requested by a relatively large number of
communities.



-97 -                           Annex G
7.    Careful field supervision and monitoring of standard subprojects by the PCU will
be necessary in order to: (a) avoid mistakes to be replicated on a large scale, and (b) fine-
tune and adjust the standard designs that have been developed. The need for the different
participating states to share experience on standard designs of subprojects has also been
identified. In particular, those that have been prepared by the first six states participating
in the Northeast Rural Poverty Alleviation Program (Bahia, Ceara and others) could be
shared by Paraiba. Workshops should be arranged in which standard subproject
documentation developed by the different states would be used for discussions to compare
and evaluate the different solutions that have been found to the same problem.
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
8.    Although the reformulated NRDP financed many of the same types of community
investments (e.g., manioc mills or small-scale rural water supply projects) that have been
supported under past programs or projects in the Northeast, one of its innovative features
was to ensure that these investments are operated and maintained by the beneficiaries
themselves, thereby enhancing their sense of ownership and the prospects for sustainability
of the investments. Under the proposed project, this feature will be maintained and
strengthened.
9.    Community associations will bear the primary responsibility for O&M for most
project-funded investments, and this provision will be included in the agreements
(convWnios) with the associations. The relative responsibilities of the associations for
O&M would vary according to the type of investment. As a general rule, beneficiaries
would be fully responsible for operating and maintaining their own productive subprojects
and some social subprojects, such as community or day care centers. In the case of most
infrastructure and other types of subprojects, the responsibility for O&M would normally
be shared between the communities and the relevant State or municipal institution. In
exceptional cases of relatively complex subprojects, beneficiary associations might
contract private firms or NGOs to assist them in O&M tasks.
10.   Based on experience under the reformulated NRDP, several types of arrangements
would be implemented in order to ensure the financial sustainability of project investments,
as follows:
11.   Productive Subprojects (e.g., small-scale irrigation schemes, co"m'munal cereals
processing, manioc mills, etc.). Once a subproject has been approved for financing, the
beneficiary association elects a committee to be in charge of subproject implementation
and management. This committee has the task, among others, of determining the different
dues and user fees to be charged to association members (as well as to non-association
members using project facilities), based on estimated requirements for O&M and capital
replacement or eventual expansion. User fees have to be approved by all association
members, and may be paid in cash, labor or kind, depending on the particular situation.
The committee is responsible for collecting the fees, placing them in a "reserve fund",
managing the reserve fund to meet extraordinary maintenance and capital replacement



- 98 -                          Annex G
requirements, and making payments for recurrent expenditures such as electricity
consumption, fuel, inputs, repairs, and employees' salaries.
12.   Social Subprojects (e.g., community centers, sanitation, health-related house
improvement, day care centers, school or health post rehabilitation). The degree of
community involvement in the O&M of social subprojects depends on the type of
investment. In the case of subprojects related to public services, such as health posts or
schools, the municipality or relevant public/private entity could undertake O&M foliowing
an agreement with the community. For other types of subprojects such as community
centers or house improvement, the community will be responsible for O&M, each of the
community members contributing either financially or in the form of labor.
13.  Infrastructure Subprojects (e.g., small bridges, water supply systems, fords,
road repairs). Different arrangements are to be followed for O&M of infrastructure
subprojects. In the case of services (e.g., water supply) connected to individual
households, beneficiaries could transfer the corresponding assets to the relevant state or
municipal utility company, which then undertakes O&M and recovers costs through user
fees. Simplified water supply systems (without connection to households) will be
operated and maintained by the community itself, which makes arrangements for collection
of dues or fees from individual community members to pay for O&M expenses. These
arrangements are commonly found in the rural water supply subprojects financed under
the reformulated NRDP. For infrastructure subprojects such as rural roads, bridges, and
street paving, which serve a larger public, responsibility for O&M would normally be
shared with the municipality under agreement with the beneficiary association.



-99-                           Annex H
BRAZIL
RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - PARAIBA
H. PROJECT MONITORING, REPORTING AND
EVALUATION
PROJECTr MONiTORING
1.    The establishment of an efficient project monitoring system will be instrumental in
following the progression of the investment program financed by the proposed Paraiba
Rural Poverty Alleviation Project and ascertaining its consistency with project objectives.
Project implementation relies heavily on a decentralized system of decision-making and
management, and is driven by demand from rural community associations which is filtered
through a selection process based on established criteria. This process involves a large
number of small, diverse subprojects over an extensive geographic area. Hence, since the
ex ante determination of the pattern of project investment and other key parameters is not
possible, effective supervision depends on the existence of a capable monitoring system.
2.    The objectives of the project monitoring system are to:
(a)   provide information regarding the progress of the project and the status of
the subproject cycle in its different stages (e.g., subproject approval,
procurement, implementation and disbursement); and
(b)   verify that project activities are consistent with the guidelines, targeting
methodology and selection criteria included in the Project Operational
Manual.
Project Database
3.    The project monitoring system would depend on a Management Information
System (MIS), created under the reformulated NRDP and to be improved under the
project.' The project MIS is a data base organized in three general levels: (a) a
subproject information module, which contains pertinent physical and financial information
for each subproject; (b) a financial management module, from which Statements of
Expenditure (SOEs) are generated; and (c) a project management module, from which all
project reports are generated. Under the proposed project, the MIS will operate as a
network to facilitate the inputting of information and provide access to up-to-the-minute
information by all levels of project management, tailored to individual needs.
Under the reformulated NRDP, this system was referred to as the SSMP, or Simplified Project
Monitoring System.



-100-                           Annex H
4.    For the State of Paraiba, the Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) would be
responsible for operating and maintaining the MIS and for providing the input
corresponding to PAC subprojects. The project Municipal Councils would be responsible
for completing the data sheets for FUMAC and FUMAC-P subprojects and, upon
completion of each data sheet, would present them to the PCU which would subsequently
update the MIS.
5.    The subproject module is the basic module into which all information collected
from the subprojects is entered and processed. Subproject information feeds into both the
financial management module and the project management module. Subprojects are
identified and entered in the MIS according to the following format. Information for the
MIS is obtained from data sheets for each subproject and separated into four submodules
which correspond to key steps of the subproject cycle:
(a)   Submodule No. 1 would include information for the subproject regarding
its location and identification, according to the following format: (i) by
program [PAC, FUMAC, and FUMAC-P]; (ii) by type [Infrastructure,
Productive and Social subprojects]; (iii) by category [e.g., water supply,
agro-processing, energy, etc.]; (iv) by sub-category, in particular for water
supply subprojects [e.g., dams, wells, tanks, etc.]; and (v) by location
[municipality, community and beneficiary association];
(b)   Submodule No. 2 would include the technical, social and financial
characteristics, as well as a set of indicators such as cost/capita, cost/n2,
and other parameters to the subproject budget;
(c)   Submodule No. 3 would include information on subproject implementation,
including procurement procedures and contracting, all disbursement data,
including beneficiary and municipal government contributions to
counterpart funding, and provision of technical assistance and training to
the community association in question; and
(d)   Submodule No. 4 would include subproject completion information,
including beneficiary numbers and relevant subproject impacts (e.g.,
production figures, income generated, etc.).
6.    The information input into the MIS would come from standard data sheets of three
types: (a) subproject data sheet; (b)3 supervision data sheet; and (c) graduation data sheet.
The subproject data sheet, completed by the PCU (for PAC) and the Municipal Councils
(for FUMAC and FUMAC-P) would supply the basic information on the subproject
stemming from the subproject proposal. The supervision data sheet would verify and/or
update information on the subproject data sheet, identifyr any implementation problems and
possible mitigating measures, and report relevant subproject impacts. The supervision
data sheets would be completed by the PCU and Municipal Councils, or by those entities
subcontracted to provide supervision services, in which case the supervision data sheets
would be included in the TORs. Finally, the graduation data sheets would include



-101 -                          Annex H
information on the community itself, including existing infrastructure and other indicators
of community well-being (see Annex C), to be filled out by the beneficiary community
associations as part of their subproject proposals, and verified and/or updated by the PCU,
Municipal Councils, or subcontracted participating agencies.
7.    Given the 2,840 subprojects estimated to be financed during the five years of
project implementation, the MIS is an essential tool for following the course of project
investment. Information from the MIS is also fundamental to measure compliance with,
and subsequent effectiveness of, the project's targeting mechanisms. By monitoring the
direction of project benefits and types of subprojects being financed, the PCU and the
Municipal Councils can direct appropriate technical assistance and training based on the
frequency of certain types of investment or target community mobilization activities.
Cases of mistargeting or misappropriation of funds -- resources channeled outside the
project area or for ineligible investments -- will be verified using the MIS in order for
appropriate remedies to be applied.
Monitoring Activities
8.    Within the framework of the project monitoring system, the PCU and the project
Municipal Councils (under FUMAC and FUMAC-P) are responsible for supervising the
application of the guidelines from the Operational Manual in the development and
implementation of all subprojects. Using the information from the MIS, combined with
field visits and inputs from project supervision reports, project-contracted studies and
audits, the PCU and the Municipal Councils would monitor project characteristics and
trends, identify implementation problems and accomplishments and undertake or promote
appropriate actions to improve project implementation (see Annex K on Project
Supervision). The MIS will also serve as a basis from which to derive Annual Operating
Plans (POAs), regulate their implementation, and make necessary adjustments to the
POAs and corresponding budgets during the course of each fiscal year. The delineation of
monitoring responsibilities between the PCU and the Municipal Councils would be clearly
reflected in the Project Operational Manual.
PROJECT REPORTING
9.    The PCU is responsible for reporting on project progress to the Bank. Four types
of reports would be generated by the PCU and presented to the Bank:
(a)   a copy of the content of the MIS data base on diskette would be provided
on a monthly basis to the Bank's Field Office in Recife. The information
from the MIS will facilitate Bank supervision efforts and monitoring of the
investment program;
(b)   an MIS-generated report which would include the updated status of project
implementation (USPI) and an updated list of subprojects with their
physical, procurement and disbursement status would be provided to the



-102-                           Annex H
Bank's Field Office in Recife at the same time that the statements of
expenditure (SOEs) are sent to Bank Headquarters. The USPI and
subproject list will permit the Recife Office to review the eligibility of
subprojects presented for reimbursement;
(c)   a Mid-year Project Progress Report, using standard formats agreed with
the Bank, would be presented by July 31 of each year of project
implementation; and
(d)   an Annual Report would be presented by January 31 of each year of project
implementation. The Annual Report would use the standard formats from
the mid-year report but would also include a comprehensive review of: (i)
the status of.the project performance indicators and the specific activities of
the institutional development component; (ii) subproject appraisal
indicators, the status of the targeting of project benefits, the application of
subproject investment eligibility criteria, and other implementation
guidelines included in the Operation Manual; and (iii) other relevant
analyses and recommendations from project-contracted studies and audits
which may be applied to improve project implementation.
PROJECT EVALUATION STUDIES
10.   The project would develop and implement a range of evaluation studies to measure
the impact of the subproject investments and to provide appropriate feedback to improve
project methodology and implementation. The PCU would be responsible for drafting
Terms of Reference (TORs), which would form part of the Project Operational Manual,
and contracting local and other consulting services, both steps in agreement with the
Bank, for the following studies: (a) annual physical performance reviews; (b) a mid-term
implementation review; and (c) a comprehensive impact evaluation. These studies are
described below. In addition, the project would finance a study to determine the point of
community graduation; details on this study are included in Annex C. During the course
of project implementation, the PCU may also identify, other needed evaluation studies
which can be financed under the project in agreement with the Bank.
Annual Physical Performance Reviews
11.   The objective of the Physical Performance Review (PPR) is to evaluate the success
of investments financed by the project, in terms of their achievement of specific subproject
objectives, and the quality, efficiency, and sustainability of the investments. For each
subproject included in the sample, the study would focus on the following points: (a) the
adequacy of the physical design in relation to the subproject's objective; (b) the quality and
cost of subproject execution; (c) the efficiency of procurement procedures used; and (e)
the targeting of project benefits. The PPR would provide indication of the effectiveness of
community-based procurement; compliance with and/or needed adjustments to cost



-103 -                         Annex H
indicators and other physical/financial appraisal indicators and to the Standard Designs
included in the Operational Manual; and the quality of project investments and the profile
of distribution of project benefits. The PPR wilH also be an important input to the project's
implementation review and to project Annual Reports.
12.   The PPR will be conducted on the basis of TORs agreed with the Bank and
included in the Operational Manual. The first PPR will be conducted at the end of 1998
for a sample of subprojects representative of the prior year's investment program (PAC,
FUMAC, and FUMAC-P). To conduct the PPR, the PCU would: (a) establish, with
Bank agreement, the sample of subprojects to be reviewed; (b) supply counterparts to the
independent consultants contracted by the PCU to implement the study; (c) participate in
the diagnosis and generation of appropriate recommendations; and (d) incorporate the
recommendations into the implementation of the project. Subsequent PPRs would be
conducted each year and would review physical performance issues identified dunng the
first PPR and monitor improvements. TORs for the remaining PPRs would be agreed
with the Bank by no later than July 31 of each corresponding year.
13.  In addition, the first PPR will include a module to measure the quality and
efficiency of community procurement (direct contracting) of goods and works. Similar to
an audit, this module of the PPR would analyze the contracting procedures used and the
accompanying documentation for a sample of subprojects. The issues to be examined
would include: (a) the transparency of the contracting process; (b) if the goods/works
were procured at the lowest cost for the quality required and how these costs compare
with the unit cost references in the MIS; (c) in the case of technical assistance, if the
service providers contracted satisfied the profile and experience indicated in the TORs;
and (d) if the documentation maintained by the community association is sufficient to
complete Statements of Expenditure (SOEs) and to satisfy an audit.
Inplementation Review
14.   Project performance would be measured through an implementation review at the
mid-term of project implementation. The purpose of the implementation review is to
assist the State Government of Paraiba, the PCU and the Bank, in the identification of
positive experiences and implementation problems and bottlenecks, particularly in
FUMAC and FUJMAC-P, in order to recommend needed modifications to their
methodology and design. Importantly, since the FUMAC-P program is a pilot, this mid-
term review would determine its feasibility and recommend its expansion.
15.   The mid-term review would be carried out through beneficiary consultations--
interviews and group discussions. These consultations would determine, inter alia: (a)
how the project is perceived and valued by the actual beneficiaries; (b) the level of
community participation -- and any outside involvement (e.g., NGOs, EMATER, etc.) -
in the different stages of the subproject cycle, including in the process of prioritizing local
demands; (c) the effectiveness of the subprojects in alleviating poverty and its
consequences; (d) the access to and quality of technical assistance for the preparation,
implementation and O&M of subprojects; (e) the role of the Municipal Councils, how



-104 -                          Annex H
these Councils are perceived in the communities, and how decisions on prioritization are
effectively made; (f) the role of Mayors in decision-making and in actual project
implementation; (g) the operation and maintenance of subprojects; and (h) how the role
and performance of the PCU is viewed in the communities (for PAC). Additional
questions would evaluate the efficiency and impact of the different subcomponents (PAC,
FUMAC and FUMAC-P), the effectiveness of institutional development activities, the
level of community participation, and the ability of the project to target and reach the
poor. Overall, the beneficiary consultations would generate a reliable evaluation of project
performance and impact as seen through the eyes of the ultimate beneficiaries which
would serve as a convincing input to improve project implementation.
16.   The implementation review would be carried out in the third year of project
implementation with a sample of community associations drawn from FUMAC and
FUMAC-P municipalities, with a small residual sample drawn from PAC municipalities,
and a sample of Municipal Councils. The implementation review would be carried out by
independent consultants -- preferably a local organization with field experience -- under
TORs and contracting procedures agreed with the Bank. Inputs to the review process
would include: the mid-year and annual reports, MIS-generated analyses and reports,
results of the PPRs, recommendations from project audit reports, and additional reviews
or studies contracted by the PCU.
Project Impact Evaluation
17.   The project would also finance a baseline (year 1) and final (year 5) evaluation to
measure the socio-econornic impact of the subproject investments. This comprehensive
evaluation, based on a random sample survey of representative subproject types, would
select important socio-economic indicators, such as employment, income, health,
education, and migration, and measure the impact of subproject investments on these
indicators and consequently the impact of the project on the quality of life of the
beneficiary population, differentiating by gender where possible. The evaluation would
also relate impact back to specific aspects of the project in order to identify those
conditions or activities which have resulted in positive impacts.
18.   The evaluation study would also measure the effects of the project on the financial
situation at the municipal and state levels, due to the positive impacts on project
beneficiaries (communities and families). For example, the financing of subprojects for
community water supply implies savings for municipal governments, and even State and
Federal Governments, in drought periods by preempting the need of these governments to
finance temporary water provision to rural communities through carro pipa, typically a
significant expenditure for municipal governments of the Northeast and one which is not
made to the extent needed due to limited resources. The project would also generate
benefits in terms of improved health or, in general terms, in improved quality of life for
beneficiaries, which would result in savings for the State or municipal governments in
medical services, medicines, etc., furnished to rural communities. In addition, the project
produces products over which the State and municipal governments can collect taxes



-105-                           Annex H
(such as the ICMS tax on marketed production). These products can include not only
products generated by productive subprojects but also consumer goods (e.g. refrigerators,
radios, etc.) purchased by families benefiting from rural electrification subprojects.
Therefore, the study would evaluate the aggregate impact of the project at the State and
municipal levels, measring: (a) the savings permitted by the project, in terms of
expenditures for water supplied by carro pupa and provision of medical services, etc., that
no longer have to be made due to the project, and (b) the taxes generated by various types
of subprojects financed.
19.   As in the mid-term implementation review, the study would concentrate on
FUMAC and FUMAC-P municipalities, where the majority of project investments would
be located, and include a small sample of PAC municipalities, consistent with the project's
investment profile. The indicators would be identified and measured during the baseline
evaluation in the first year of project implementation, and assessed in the final evaluation
at the conclusion of implementation. The impact evaluation would be carried out by
independent consultants and contracted under TORs and procedures acceptable to the
Bank.
Implementation Plan and Project Perfonnance Indicators
20.   The implementation plan and project performance indicators for each project
component over the five-year implementation period were agreed upon during appraisal.
Given the demand-driven nature and flexibility of the project, these indicators will be
mostly indicative targets. They can be expected to be achieved at least in the initial year of
the project, but may well develop somewhat differently in subsequent years, particularly in
terms of the proportion that each main category of subprojects (infrastructure, social or
productive) would represent out of the total investments financed by the project.



-106-                            Annex H
Project Performance Indicators
Project Inputs           Project Results            Project Impact
Counterpart funding, by   # of financed subprojects,   Improved standards of living
type (state, municipal,   per category (PAC,        (measurements in increased
beneficiary); loan funds  FUMAC, FUMAC-P), per  income and access to public
disbursed                type (infrastructure,      services and/or
productive, social); # of  infrastructure; etc.)
beneficiary families; women
beneficiaries; communities;  Increased community
municipalities            Participation
Technical assistance funds   # of technical assistance and  Increased women's
disbursed (institutional  training events (including  participation
development component)   for women)
FUMAC-P POAs approved  # of Municipal Councils
functioning satisfactorily
(FUMAC and FUMAC-P)
Information Campaigns     Sustainability of subprojects
(financial and
organizational)
Supervision visits



-107-                                                  Annex H
NORTHEAST RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - PARAtBA
Project Performance Indicators/ Implementation Plan
Project Components and          Responsible         Unit        PYO      PY0       PY2      PY3       PY4       PYS      Total
Activities             Institution
IA. Community Subprojects
Subprojects Impleented'        Benef. Assoc.        No.                   412      448       524      664       792    2,W0
- Ifrastucture                                    No.                   268       290      341       432       515     1,846
- Social                                          No.                    20        22       26        34        40      142
- Productive                                      No.                   124       136      157       198       237      852
Beneficiaries                 PCU, Councils
- Total                                        Families2
('000)                  20       22        26       33        40       141
- Total                                         People 3
(000)                  100      110       130      165       200      705
- women as % of productive                         %                     30        30       30        30        30
subproject beneficiaries
Conununity Associations       PCU, Councils         No.                   206      430       692     1,024     1,420    1,420
benefited 4                                    (cum.)
Municipalities benefited with     PCU               No.                   192       177      152       114       66
subprojects (PAC)
Municipal Councils created
- FUMAC                          PCU              No.                    28        12       20        30       46       136
-FUMAC-P                         PCU              No.                     2         3        5         8         2       20
I  At $25,000/subproject (65% infastctre, 5% social, 30% productive).
2 S5 families/subproject with 10/o "repeatee' families.
3   5 persons/fmily.
4   2 subprojectstassociation.



-108-                                                    Annex H
Project Components and        Responsib            Unit        PY       PY1       PY2       PY3       PY4       PYS       Total
Activities              Institution
[B. nstitutionalDevel ment
Preparation of annual program  PCU, Councils
of technical assistance and
(i) PCU                                             No.                      1         1         1         1         1         5
(ii) MunicipalCouncils                              No.                     30        45        70       108       156      409
Community Mobilization         PCU, Councils
- Beneficiaries                                  Seminars5                   8         8         8         8         8        40
- Local Leaders (for                               No. of                  300       150       250      380       480      1,560
formation of Project                          Participants6
Municipal Councils)
No. of training courses offered
to:
- Beneficiary associations                         No.7                     24        24        24       24         24       120
- All Municipal Councils       FUMAC +             No.                      90        45        75       114       144      468
FUMAC-P
- FUMAC-P Municipal                                No.9                      6         9        15       24          6       60
Councils
- PCU staff                                         No.                     10        10         6         6         4       36
2 seminars/regiohal office/year.
6   10 community leaders/Municipal Council.
7
12 courses in associative action and 12 courses in specific activities each year for a group of not less than 10 associatons.
Average of 3 courses for each new Council (FUMAC+FUMAC-P).
9   3 courses for each new FUMAC-P Council.



-109-                                                  Annex H
Project Components and       Responsible        Unit        PYO      PYl       PY2      PY3      PY4       PYS      Total
Activities            Institution
Technical Assistance provided
- for Subproject             PCU, Councils     Subprojects              412       448      524       664      792      2840
finplementation                               Attended
(technology transfer)
- to Municipal Councils          PCU            Contracts                30        15       25        38       48       156
C. Project Administration, Supervision, Monitoring and Evaluation
Supervision
- Subprojects                 PCU, Councils       No. of                 824      896      1048    1,328    1,584    5,680
Visits 10
- Municipal Councils              PCU             No. of                  60       90       140      216       312      818
Visits
Annual Operating Plans
(POAs)
- Preparation of POA for  FUMAC-P Councils       No.             2       5        10       18        20        -        55
FUMAC-P
- Consolidation and             PCU              No.              1      1         1        1         1         ..       5
Preparation of Project POA
Standard designs
- Preparation                   PCU              No.            10
- Review and Updating           PCU                                      x         x        x         x
Special Account                   PCU                                      x
(establishment)
Information Campaign              PCU
2 visits/subproject
2 visit/Municipal Counctea.



-110-                                                  Annex H
Project Components and      Responsible         Unit        PYO      PY       PY2       PY3      PY4       PY5      Totd
Activities            Institution
- Presentation to Bank                                        x
- Campaign Launched                                                      x         x        x
Operational Manual                PCU
- Preparation                                                 x
- Review and Adjustme                                                    x         x        x
(with Bank approval)
Monitoring Reports (sent to
Bank)
- Monthly Disbursement          PCU              No.                    12        12       12        12       12        60
Summaries and MIS update
- Annual, Semi-annual           PCU              No.                     2         2        2         2        2        10
Reports
- External Audits               PCU              No.                     1         1        1         1        1         5
Evaluation Studies
- Physical Performance          PCU              No.                     1         1        1         1        1         5
Reviews
- Impact Evaluation             PCU              No.
(i) Baseline                                                            1                                               1
(ii) Mid-Term                                                                              1                            1
(iii) Final                                                                                                   1         1
- Graduation Study              PCU              No.                               I                                     I



-111-                                                               AnnI
Table 1.1
BRAZIL
RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - PARAiBA
Annual Phasing of Project Costs by Component
(US$ million)
Project Component                                                   Totals Induding Contingencies
PY1             PY2              PY3             PY4              PYS             Total
A. Community Subprojects
1. FUMAC                                            3.5              5.0              7.5            11.3             17.0            44.3
2. FUMAC-P                                           0.3             0.7              1.3              2.3             2.5              7.1
3. PAC                                               6.5             5.5              4.3             3.0              0.3             19.6
...........................   ................................................................. .......................................... ... ........ .... ......................... .... . ... .  .............................................................  _. 
Subtotal                                                10.3            11.2             13.1            16.6             19.8             71.0
B. Institutional Development                             1.5             1.0              1.0              1.0             0.3              4.8
(Technical Assistance and Training)
C. Project Administration, Supervision,                  0.7             0.6              0.6              0.6             0.7              3.2
Monitoring and Evaluation
TOTAL BASELINE COST                                     12.5            12.8             14.7            18.2             20.8             79.0
Physical Contingencies                               0.2             0.1              0.1              0.1              0.1             0.6
Price Contingencies                                  0.0             0.1              0.1              0.1              0.1             0.4
TOTAL PROJECT COST                                      12.7            13.0             14.9            18.4             21.0             80.0



-112-                                AnnexJ
Table 1.2
BRAZIL
RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - PARAiBA
Financing Plan
(US$ million)
Project Component                           Amounts to be Financed by
State
Total            Governmentl
Cost   IBRD   Municipalities  Beneficiarie
A. Community Subprojects
1. FUMAC                            44.3    33.2         6.7             4.4
2. FUMAC-P                           7.1      5.3        1.1             0.7
3. PAC                              19.6    14.7         2.9             2.0
.. ................................. ................................ .... .. ..... .. ................................................. ............................... ...
Subtotal                            71.0    53.2        10.7             7.1
B. Institutional Development            4.8      4.8         -
(Technical Assistance and Training)
C. Project Administration,              3.2      1.5         1.7
Supervision, Monitoring and
Evaluation
TOTAL BASELINE COST                    79.0    59.5         12.4             7.1
Physical Contingencies               0.6      0.3        0.3
Price Contingencies                  0.4      0.2        0.2
TOTAL PROJECT COSTb/                   80.0    60.0         12.9             7.1
Ii/    M     _mm contribution.
b/    Including about US$2.5 million of taxes and duties not financed by IBRD.



-113 -                             Annex I
Table I.3
BRAZIL
RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - PARALBA
Alocation of Loan Proceeds
Category                 Item and % of Expenditures                 Total Amount
(US$ Million)
I.     Commumnty Subrojects                                        53.2
(75% of expenditures)
A. FUMAC                                                    33.2
B. FUMAC-P                                                   5.3
C. PAC                                                      14.7
HI.    Institutional Development. including Technical Assistance
and TRaima and Evaluation Studies                            5.3
(100% of expenditures)
IL.     Project Administration and Monitoring System                  0.2
(20% of expenditures)
IV      Proiect Supervision                                          0.8
(50% of expenditures)
I.      Unallocated                                                  0.5
TOTAL                                                          60.0



-114-                             Annex
Table 1.4
BRAZIL
RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - PARAiBA
Estimated Schedule of Bank Disbursements
(US$ million)
Bank       Quarter      Disbursement         Cumulative            Balance
Fiscal      Ending         During            Disbursement            of
Year                      Quarter                                  Loan
Amount    % of Total
1998    March 31, 1998       4.O!l          4.0          6.7        56.0
June30, 1998         1.9           5.9           9.8        54.1
1999    Sept. 30, 1998       1.8            7.7         12.8        52.3
Dec. 31, 1998        1.8            9.5         15.8        50.5
March31, 1999        2.3           11.8         19.7        48.2
June 30, 1999        2.5           14.3         23.8        45.7
2000    Sept. 30, 1999       2.5           16.8         28.0         43.2
Dec. 31, 1999        2.5           19.3         32.2        40.7
March 31, 2000       2.8          22.1          36.8        37.9
June 30. 2000        2.8           24.9         41.5        35.1
2001    Sept. 30, 2000       2.8           27.7         46.2         32.3
Dec. 31, 2000        2.8           30.5         50.8        29.5
March 31, 2001       3.4           33.9         56.5        26.1
June 30, 2001        3.4          37.3          62.2        22.7
2002    Sept. 30, 2001       3.5           40.8         68.0         19.2
Dec. 31, 2001        3.5          44.3          73.8        15.7
March 31, 2002       3.9          48.2          80.3        11.8
June 30, 2002        3.9          52.1          86.8         7.9
2003    Sept. 30, 2002       3.9           56.0         93.3          4.0
Dec. 31, 2002        4.0           60.0        100.0         0.0
at Including the authorized allocation of US$4.0 million into the Special Account.



-115-                            Annex J
BRAZIL
RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - PARAIBA
J. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Introduction
1.    The project will assist the State Government of Paraiba to alleviate poverty and its
consequences by providing basic infrastructure, employment and income-generating
opportunities for the rural poor, decentralizing resource allocation and decision-making to
local levels, leveraging resources mobilized at the community and municipal levels and
expanding social capital in rural areas of the state. These objectives will be attained
through three project components--Community Subprojects (90% of total base cost),
Institutional Development (6% of total base costs) and Project Administration,
Supervision, Monitoring and Evaluation (4% of total base costs).
2.    The demand-driven nature of the project implies that communities will determine
the nature and scope of each subproject funded. Accordingly, neither benefits nor costs
can be identified ex ante. As such, it is not possible to estimate an ex ante overall internal
economic rate of return for the project nor individually for the variety of potential
subprojects. The proposed Rural Poverty Alleviation project is a follow-up to the
reformulated NRDP (see perforrnance and impact evaluation in Annex B). Subprojects
intended to be funded under the proposed project would, in general, be similar to those
subprojects funded and completed under the previous project. Therefore, the experience
and ex post results of a sample of completed subprojects under the reformulated NRDP
can be examined, as internal rates of return and other economic parameters for subprojects
likely to be financed under the new project are not expected to differ greatly.
3.    Subprojects would be of many types, broadly classified as infrastructure (e.g.,
rural water supply, electrification, small roads and bridges), social (e.g., community
centers, sanitation) and productive (e.g., small-scale agro-processing and minor irrigation
schemes). Nmety percent of the total cost of the project (US$71.0 million) would support
matching grants for these subprojects. Bank funds will cover 75 percent of the total cost
of each subproject, with the remaining 25 percent consisting of counterpart funds from
state, municipal and community contributions. Of this 25 percent, approximately 10
percent is expected to come from the local community, either in cash or in-kind.
Subproject selection is demand-driven and based on community preferences. Subproject
proposals would observe standard documentation and technical, economic, environmental
and sustainability criteria established in a detailed Project Operational Manual, which sets
forth procedures and guidelines for implementation.



-116-                             Annex J
Methodology and Assumptions
4.    In terms of the counterfactual, the project will support infrastructure and social
investments which, due to their public nature and the inappropriability of potential benefit
streams, are unlikely to be undertaken in sufficient quantities by the private sector.
Furthermore, while state, municipal and community counterpart contributions will total 25
percent of all subproject costs, it is doubtful that, in the absence of this project, the local
governments and communities would be financially capable of amassing the necessary
investment required to fund these projects, either due to poor rural financial intermediation
or generally low asset levels. Also, resource efficiency is improved through direct
community participation in the identification, selection and implementation of each
subproject proposal.
5.    While it is feasible to separate the three components of the project (i.e.,
Community Subprojects; Institutional Development; and Project Administration,
Supervision, Monitoring and Evaluation), such a strategy would jeopardize the
achievement of project objectives. A project based solely on the provision of matching
grants for community subprojects would not address the need to simultaneously foster and
bolster the development of grass-roots institutions, such as the Municipal Councils created
under the project which review and approve the subproject proposals. While the overall
level of funding for institutional development is low (6 percent of total project costs),
these funds are vital to properly train and prepare these Councils for effective leadership in
their communities. Project Administration, Supervision, Monitoring and Evaluation will
provide needed feedback on project performance and impact, as well as finance project
coordination.
6.    Complementarity among community subprojects makes a precise overall
quantitative analysis (i.e., economic IRR calculation) difficult. Simply put, the synergy
created from the interactive effects of several subprojects within any municipality is
difficult to capture and equally difficult to quantify. For example, rural electrification,
which accounted for about one-half of all subprojects funded under the reformulated
NRDP in Paralba, generates a variety of productive undertakings, such as irrigation in
previously rain-fed only regions, opening opportunities for an expanded portfolio of crops
which the farmer can cultivate. Additionally, the electricity generated permits local milling
of basic grains, such as manioc, corn and rice, where previously these grains were
manually milled at home or processed outside the community at private mills. In short,
subprojects can build on each other, forging a network of community development
activities. Similarly, spillovers and spillins, in the form of incremental benefits or costs
which are unintended yet nonetheless result from the undertaking of the subproject, must
also be recognized in the economic analysis. Again, the spillovers are both difficult to
identify and difficult to quantify.
7.    Finally, the community subprojects foster the creation of social capital. The
demand-driven imperative of the subprojects requires that communities identify and
prioritize their most pressing needs. Municipal councils established under the project
would critically examine subproject proposals to both confirm their feasibility and verify



- 117-                           Annex J
their compatibility with overall community development objectives. These socially
sustainable community organizations are an important element of social capital formation.
Members of the community are responsible for counterpart financing of each subproject,
either in cash or in-kind. As such, project resources are leveraged to undertake the
productive subprojects by which the community gains access to market channels.
Qualitative recognition of these benefits is vital to a full understanding of the economic
impact of a given subproject. However, as in the case of complementarities, spillovers and
spillins, social capital is difficult to quantify within the framework of estimation of internal
economic rates of return.
Infrastructure and Social Subprojects
8.    First, infrastructure and social subprojects are analyzed using the least cost, best
alternative criteria. Several aspects of project design help to ensure that infrastructure and
social subprojects undertaken represent the least-cost, best alternative. First, the demand-
driven nature of each subproject permits scarce resources to flow where they are most
needed, thereby improving allocative efficiency. Community participation, under the
direction of the Municipal Councils created under the project, ensure that the chosen
subproject is the best alternative for the local community. Second, the use of standard
technical designs (projetospadr5es), including cost parameters, for the most common
types of subprojects ensures that least cost models are adopted and decreases search and
information costs by providing communities with established patterns of initiating and
completing a subproject. Third, the contracting procedures prescribed in the Project
Operational Manual requires competitive bidding on all subprojects; the community
solicits three bids for the subproject and subsequently chooses the least-cost bid. This
methodology has been shown to be more cost effective in completing the subproject than
were the same project undertaken by the public sector (for details and examples, see the
discussion presented in Annex B).
Productive Subprojects
9.    The financial and economic analyses completed for this project utilize expost data
on past subprojects completed under the reformulated NRDP. Productive subprojects
are analyzed by calculating the IRR for a sample of productive subprojects completed
under the previous NRDP. Actual cash flows associated with the productive subprojects
are captured in the estimation of the financial IRR. Nonfinancial benefits and costs, chief
among them incremental unskilled labor costs, are incorporated into the estimation of the
economic IRR. The economic IRR is then refined by shadowing the impact of public
funds on the overall performance of the productive subproject. Data permitting, the cost
effectiveness of productive subprojects is indicated by estimating the subproject's benefit-
cost ratio and investment per job created.
10.   Generally, the analysis of sample cases indicates that the impact of the NRDP on
the quality of life and incomes of beneficiary communities has been quite positive. As
shown in Annex B, productive subprojects comprised a small percentage of NRDP



- 118-                           AnnexJ
investments in Paraiba (23%) and were typically implemented only after the basic
infrastructure (electncity, water supply, better feeder roads) became available. For this
reason, many of the surveyed productive subprojects only recently became operational,
while others will reach maturity over the next several years. Financial and economic
analyses have been conducted on five fully operational productive subprojects,
representing some of the most popular types of NRDP investments in Paraiba:
(a)   the group of electrification-induced irrigation subprojects in Nova
Floresta, benefiting 169 families in 4 different communities. The provision
of electricity has improved the well-being of these communities and
increased sales and incomes of local businesses and agro-industries. It also
led to complementary investments, financed through a special credit
program of Banco do Nordeste, to produce maracujd, a high-value fruit of
which there are currently 18 ha irrigated with the use of electric pumps.
For simplicity, the analysis has considered as subproject benefits only
maracujd production, while taking into account the cost of additional,
credit-based investments in irrigation infrastructure and equipment. This
subproject exemplifies the complementarity discussed earlier; a relatively
low-cost NRDP infrastructure subproject (about US$140 per person) was
fully exploited by beneficiaries, with the support of their municipalities and
local financing agencies, to increase family incomes and living standards;
(b)   a forage grinder subproject, typical of a popular, extremely low-cost
NRDP investment which requires equally low operating costs and can
induce substantial benefits for the recipient communities;
(c)   a cereals processing subproject, benefiting 130 families, which permitted
the community of Meia Pataca to mechanize tasks formerly done manually
(e.g., bean hulling) and carry out the value-added activity of corn milling
locally;
(d)   a group of productive irrigation subprojects in Araca and Barragem da
Farinha, benefiting 44 families, where 48 additional hectares were brought
under cultivation and sown to an expanded variety of produce; and
(e)   a small ruminants subproject in Mazagio, benefiting 20 families, which
boosts milk consumption for both beneficiary families and the community-
at-large. Additionally, this subproject fosters a virtuous circle of
community investment in that each beneficiary family donates two female
goats from its first production so that other such subprojects can be
started. In total, the twenty beneficiary families for the subproject analyzed
donated 40 goats to their community as capital investment in subsequent
subprojects.
11.   Productive subprojects were evaluated using data collected by a late 1996
BankWFAO mission and by the Technical Unit in Paraiba. Detailed cost and revenue data



-119-                             Annex J
were obtained on each productive subproject. Where either benefits or costs were
nonmonetary in nature, economic costs or benefits were assigned in order to calculate the
economic IRR. Conversion fictors were also used to transform financial prices to
economic prices where necessary. The principal nornonetary cost in the majority of
productive subprojects was unskilled labor; it was priced at the prevailing minimum wage
and subject to a conversion factor of 0.7 (See Table 1 for the conversion factors applied in
the analysis). Nonmonetary benefits flowing from the productive subproject (e.g., goats
milk, legumes, corn for family consumption, increased efficiency in bean processing) were
valued at the prevailing market price for that good or service. No conversion factors were
assigned to subproject benefits, since in most cases small quantities were produced and
they were traded locally. Benefits, costs and prices are assumed to be constant over the
10-year project horizon.' Estimates of annual benefits, costs, and net incremental benefits
were then obtained and used to calculate both financial and economic IRRs. Given the
sampling nature of the exercise and the variations that exist among subprojects in terms
both of costs and performance, these results should be taken as illustrative only.
Table 1: Conversion Factors for Selected Productive Subproject Inputs, Paraiba
Subro-ect Item                     Conversion Factor
Construction Materials                                0.862
Civil Works                                           0.739
Electricity                                           0.995
Seeds                                                 1.023
Fertilizers                                           0.778
Diesel Fuel                                           0.630
Unskilled labor (male)                                0.779
Unskilled labor (female)                              0.669
12.   Financial and economic analyses were conducted on a sample of productive
subprojects in Paraiba (see Annex B for descriptions of productive subprojects): (a)
electricity-induced irrigation, (b) forage grinder, (c) cereals processing, (d) productive
irrigation, and (e) small ruminants production. Collectively, these productive subprojects
accounted for slightly less than 10 percent of all approved community subprojects in
Paraiba under the reformulated NRDP. Table 2 gives the financial RRs for these
productive subprojects. Financial IRRs for all subprojects evaluated were satisfactory.
Forage grinders and productive irrigation both registered financial IRRs in excess of 50
percent, largely a result of low investment costs for the former and high net benefit
streams for the latter. For electrification-induced irrigation, the financial IRR was 42
percent. Small runminants development and cereals processing showed a modest financial
IRR of 12 percent and 15 percent, respectively.
For the smail ruminant development subproject, data revealed that projected benefits rose steadily over
the 10-year horizon.



-120-                            Annex J
Table 2: Financial Internal Rates of Return, Selected Productive Subprojects, Paraiba
Subproject Type  Electricity-   Forage   Cereals   Productive     Small
induced    Grinder   Processing   Irrigation   Ruminants
Irrigation
Financial IRR        42         > 50        15         > 50         12
13.  In the economic analysis, domestic prices were transformed to border prices
(where conversion factors were available) and the financial analysis was extended to
include nonmonetary benefits and costs. Economic IRRs for the sample of productive
subprojects are reported in Table 3. Given the large nonmonetary impact for small
ruminants production and cereals processing (e.g., increased milk consumption, donation
of goats for other similar subprojects, improved efficiency in cereals processing, unskldled
labor savings), the economic IRR for these productive subprojects was much higher than
the financial IRR (38 percent and >50 percent, respectively). Forage grinders, productive
irrigation and electricity-induced irrigation subprojects exhibited economic IRRs in excess
of 50 percent.
Table 3: Economic Internal Rates of Return, Selected Productive Subprojects, Paraiba
Subproject   Electricity-   Forage    Cereals   Productive    Small
Type       induced     Grinder   Processing   Irrigation   Ruminants
Irrigation
EcononicIRR       >50         >50         >50        >50          38
14.   To determine the sensitivity of the economic IRRs to the distortionary effects of
publicly-funded grants and the costs associated with raising these funds (i.e., taxation), an
additional analysis was carried out using a shadow price of public funds. Although lower
than the "base" economic IRR estimates, the resulting "shadowed" economic IRRs remain
significantly positive, with the forage grinder subproject continuing to exhibit an economic
IRR in excess of 50 percent (Table 4). Productive irrigation yields a shadowed economic
IRR of 30 percent, while electricity-induced irrigation, cereals processing and small
runinants production and show shadowed economic IRRs of 46 percent, 40 percent and
20 percent, respectively.
Table 4: Shadowed Economic IRR, Selected Productive Subprojects, Paraiba
Subproject    Electricity-   Forage    Cereals   Productive    Small
Type        induced     Grinder  Processing  Irrigation   Ruminants
Irrigation
Shadowed
Economic IRR       46        > 50       40          30         20



-121-                             Annex J
15.   Unexpected variations in benefit and cost streams can substantially effect the above
mentioned financial and economic rates of return. Sensitivity analysis attempts to
capture these unexpected variations. Table 5 reports the financial and economic IRRs
under the conditions of (i) a 10 percent decrease in benefits and (ii) a 10 percent increase
in costs. The estimates obtained from the sensitivity analysis can be interpreted as a lower
bound on the financial and economic IRRs for each type of productive subproject
examined. For both small ruminants production and cereals processing, variation in
benefits and costs decreased financial IRRs to 9 percent and 3 percent, respectively, while
productive irrigation and forage grinders maintained an financial IRR in excess of 50
percent. Economic IRRs for the five types of productive subprojects ranged from 27
percent (small ruminants production) to greater than 50 percent (cereals processing,
forage grinders and electricity-induced irrigation). The shadowing effect of public funds
reduced the range of economic IRRs to 13 percent (small ruminants production) and
greater than 50 percent (forage grinders).
Table 5: Sensitivity Analysis, Selected Productive Subprojects, Paraiba1'
Subproject Type Electricity    Forage   Cereals   Productive    Small
-induced    Grinder   Processing  Irrigation  Ruminants
Irrigation
FinancialiRR        25        > 50         3         > 50         9
Economic lRR2      > 50       > 50        > 50        44         27
Economic IRR3/      31        > 50        29          15         13
1 assuming a 10°/e decrease in subproject benefits and a 10%/. increase in subproject costs
21 base etmate
a' with shadowing of public fuinds
16.   Cost effectiveness is examined by estimation of benefit-cost ratios and investment
per job created for each productive subproject (Table 6). These ratios are calculated by
deriving the NPV of both benefit and cost streams, utilizing a discount rate of 10 percent.
The ratios reflect economic (i.e., monetary and nonmonetary) costs and benefits. Benefit-
cost ratios for these productive subprojects range from 1.7 (productive irrigation) to
greater than 5.0 (forage grinders). Including the marginal cost of public funds decreased
these ratios across all productive subprojects, but ratios remained in the range of 1.3
(small ruminants and productive irrigation) to greater than 5 (forage grinder). Investment
per job created was highest for cereals processing subprojects (US$5,819); for productive
irrigation and small nminants production, investment per'job created was US$1,921 and
US$1,370, respectively.
17.   It is envisioned that those subprojects eventually undertaken will possess the
capacity for long-term sustainability through cost recovery. Whereas initial subproject
financing will provide the outlays required for start-up, subsequent net revenues from the
subproject should be sufficient to meet replacement costs of the original capital
investment. The sustainability of the productive subprojects was evaluated by examining
(i) cost recovery measures undertaken by each subproject and (ii) the replacement period



-122 -                               Annex J
for initial capital equipment. In some cases, user fees are assessed in order to cover 0 &
M expenses incurred under the subproject and contribute toward the eventual replacement
of capital equipment. For example, cereals processing subprojects assess a user fee
(conga) as a percentage of cereals processed by the subproject; these fees also vary,
depending on whether or not the user is a member of the project group. In the case of the
forage grinder (forrageira), cost recovery through user fees by the beneficiary association
is shown to be sufficient for operation and maintenance, including replacement of worn-
out equipment. As for small ruminants production, productive irrigation and electricity-
induced irrigation, cost recovery takes the form of subproject revenues (e.g., goat milk
and meat, marketable produce). For all subprojects evaluated, cost recovery was
sufficient to cover 0 & M expenses and contribute to eventual replacement of capital
equipment. Table 7 details cost recovery measures and replacement period for selected
subprojects in Paraiba.
Table 6: Cost Effectiveness Indicators, Productive Subprojects, Paraiba
Project Type                  Benefit-Cost         Total
Ratio        Investment per
Job Created
Electricity-induced Irrigation                    2.1              n.a.
Small Ruminants Production                        1.8             1,370
Cereals Processing                               2.4              5,819
Productive Irrigation                             1.7             1,921
Forage Grinder                                   > 5.0             n.a.
1' Real discount rate is 10%
Table 7: Financial Sustainability Indicators, Selected Productive Subprojects, Paraiba
Item/Subproject Type              Cereals Processing            Forage
Grinders
Number of associations                              54                       22
Average net income per                           7,482                    9,500
association (US$)t'
Average cost of subproject                       8,721                    5,600
(US$)
Cost Recovery Measures               Service Fees          User Fees, Sale of
Forage
Average number of years:
Of useful economic life (years)           5                        5
To build replacement fund                 2                        1
(years)?
I/ Total inc  from association fees and cost recovery net of all O&M and othe recurrt costs
2/ Number of years after which the association has accumulated enough funds to replace the orginal
inveslment, which is typically less than the usefil economic life of the investment. The real interest rate is
assaed to be 10Of.



- 123-                           Annex J
Fiscal Impact
18.   The project will cost an average of US$16 million per year over the five year
project horizon. For FY 1996, capital expenditures of US$1,034 million were realized by
the state of Paraiba, an increase of 19 percent from FY 1995. Therefore, annual project
costs represent 1.5 percent of 1996 capital expenditures. The primary fiscal impact of the
project will derive from two sources: (a) cost savings and (b) revenue generation.
Experience has shown that local communities can undertake and complete these small-
scale subprojects at a lower total cost that is possible through the public sector. For
example, the rural electrification network installed by the NRDP in 1995 alone was
equivalent to that which was developed through other programs by the previous State
Govenment over a four year period. In another example, NRDP water supply
subprojects have mmniized the need for water delivery via tanker trucks (carropipa);
cost savings for all states under the reformulated NRDP due to these water subprojects
range from US$7 million in a year of normal precipitation to US$15 million in a drought
year. Surveys in many states indicate that infiastructure projects are, on average, about 30
percent less expensive when implemented by the communities (i.e., demand-driven) than
by government agencies or contractors. Thus, by decentralizing toward the community
level, the state can achieve costs reductions which in turn will allow reallocation of scarce
public finance to other pressing needs.
19.   The demand-driven nature of the project precludes the ex ante estimation of fiscal
revenues; however, experiences accumulated under the reformulated NRDP can shed light
on any potential changes in public sector fiscal balances which may result from the project.
Expanded commodity production under the majority of the productive subprojects
evaluated can potentially generate additional public revenues through taxation. However,
the combination of informal market transactions, own consumption of subproject benefits
and tax exemptions will limit public revenue generation from these subprojects. The State
of Paraiba exempts the following agricultural items from value-added taxation (ICMS)
when marketed within the State: corn (for animal consumption), fish, agricultural inputs
and goat products. Interstate and state tax exemptions apply to the following items:
manioc, raw sugar, most fresh fruits and vegetables. This list would encompass the vast
majority of marketable produce from productive subprojects. In all cases, tax collection
depends on the extension of a notafiscal which formalizes the sale before the public
authorities. However, rural transactions are largely informal in nature, which in turn
precludes significant public sector revenue generation from community subprojects.



-124-                           AnnexK
BRAZIL
RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - PARAtBA
K PROJECT SUPERVISION
1.    The principal role of project supervision is to ensure that project implementation
follows the guidelines set forth in the Loan Agreement and detailed in the Operational
Manual. At the operational level, project supervision arrangements are designed to
provide essential informaton on the general performance of the project and the feedback
necessary for managerial decision-maling. Information collected regularly from the field
during project implementation will provide the Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) with the
tools necessary to: (a) identify and correct departures from project guidelines; (b)
reinforce targeting mechanisms; (c) modify technical assistance strategies; and (d) identify
training needs.
2.    Supervision Responsibilities. In line with the decentralized implementation of
the project, the responsibilities for project supervision at the state and local levels will
correspond to the PCU and the project Municipal Councils, respectively:
(a)   at the state level: the PCU will monitor global trends across all project
municipalities, oversee the functioning and activities of project Municipal
Councils, and supervise the portfolio of subprojects under the PAC
subprogram; and
(b)   at the local level: the project Municipal Councils will monitor the
performance of the subproject portfolio under the FUMAC and FUMAC-P
subprograms.
3.    At the state level, the PCU's responsibilities include: (a) monitor the quality of
global project implementation and administration; (b) assess community participation in
the identification, preparation and execution of PAC subprojects, as well as the quality of
technical assistance provided to beneficiary communities in PAC; (c) collect and verify
pertinent information on the project and subprojects for the MIS; and (d) review the
activities of the FUMAC and FUMAC-P Municipal Councils.
4.    Supervision of the project Municipal Councils by the PCU will focus on the
following points: (a) the composition of the Councils to ensure they meet the required
80%/ beneficiary representation; (b) the frequency and openness of the Councils' meetings;
(c) the criteria applied to screen, prioritize and approve subproject proposals and the
effectiveness of targeting of project benefits to the poorest communities; and (d) the
capacity of the Councils to provide technical assistance to the beneficiary communities. In
addition to these points, supervision of the FUMAC-P Councils will focus on whether the
administrative and financial arrangements made by these Councils are effective in



- 125 -                         Annex K
managing and releasing subproject funds to the community associations as well as
progress in the implementation of POAs agreed for each FUMAC-P Council.
5.    At the local level, the Municipal Councils, with support from the PCU, will carry
out the following supervision tasks in their respective municipalities: (a) verification of
the status and quality of subproject implementation; (b) assessment of community
participation in the identification, preparation and execution of subprojects; (c) evaluation
of the extent to which communities are organized to effectively undertake the operation
and maintenance of the investments, following, in the case of productive subprojects, the
appropriate regulamentos de uso; (d) identification of technical assistance and training
needs; and (e) assessment of effectiveness of targeting of project benefits and identification
of potential beneficiary communities not yet participating in the project. In addition to
these tasks, FUMAC-P Councils witl follow-up on compliance by beneficiary associations
with subproject agreements signed with them.
6.    To fulfill their supervision responsibilities, given the number of subprojects in the
field and the amount of information to collect, both the PCU and the project Municipal
Councils may delegate some supervision tasks to selected NGOs and participating public
agencies (e.g., EMATER), according to specific terms of reference developed for this
purpose. This assistance would be especially useful for evaluating the status of
community organization and mobilization. In addition, to facilitate the supervision of
individual subprojects under implementation, the PCU and the Municipal Councils would
liaise with the Subproject Supervision and Control Committees (Annex D) --community
miembers designated to supervise each subproject and control the status and quality of
subproject implementation. Whether carried out by the PCU, Municipal Councils or a
partner organization, subprojects would receive two supervision visits in their first year of
implementation and, in the case of productive subprojects and water supply subprojects, at
least one visit per year thereafter.
7.    Supervision Reporting. Information collected during supervision, including
indicators of subproject implementation performance and the identification of the principal
bottlenecks or problems, will be incorporated into the subproject standard data sheets (see
Annex H) and included in the MIS, maintained by the PCU. To aid the overall
information collection process between the state and local levels, the project Municipal
Councils will report regularly to the PCU on the implementation of the subprojects in their
respective municipalities. The contents and frequency of these reports would be
determined by the PCU and included in the Operational Manual. Based on the project and
subproject information collected at the state and local levels, the PCU will prepare and
submit to the Bank mid-year and annual reports on the overall physical and financial status
of project implementation and performance. In addition, the PCU will present the Annual
Operating Plan (POA) and corresponding budget for each subsequent fiscal year of
implementation to the Bank for its review and comment.
8.    World Bank Supervision. In keeping with the decentralized implementation of
the project, and based on the experience under the reformulated NRDP, the Bank will
continue its decentralized supervision of the project. The Bank will carry out at least two



-126-                            Annex K
regular supervision missions per year from its field office in Recife. Regular supervision
will entail: (a) a discussion of project implementation problems identified by the PCU
and/or Municipal Councils; (b) field visits to a random sample of community subprojects;
and (c) a review of the performance of all project components, and particularly an
assessment of the FUMAC-P pilot subprogram, to address problems and make appropriate
recommendations. In addition, based on frequent communication with the PCU, the
Recife Office will conduct short supervision missions to address problems which require
prompt action. Also, in view of the diversity of community subprojects, consultants of
different expertise would be contracted to provide occasional input and advice to Bank
missions. Two full supervision reports will be issued annually, as well as Back-to-Office
reports for each short supervision mission. It is estimated that about 35 staff-weeks will
be required for project supervision, or about seven staff-weeks annually during the five
years of project implementation.
9.    The schedule of project supervision is as follows:
(a)   by July 31 and January 31 of each year, presentation of mid-year and
annual reports from PCU to the Bank;
(b)   by February and September of each year, full Bank supervision missions
completed; and
(c)   by October 30 of each year, presentation of the POA for the subsequent
year to the Bank for review and comment by November 15.



- 127 -                          Annex L
BRAZIL
RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - PARAIBA
L. PROJECT OPERATIONAL MANUAL (OUTLINE)
The Operational Manual would have the following table of contents:
I.   Introductory Remarks and Organization of Manual
II.   The Project
a.    Objectives
b.    Project Description
i.    Conununity Subprojects (FUMAC, FUMAC-P and PAC)
H.    Institutional Development Component
iii.   Project Administration, Supervision, Monitoring and Evaluation
C.    Strategy and Targets
d.    Project Area
e.    Poverty Targeting Mechanisms
f     Eligibility Criteria for Subprojects
g.    Cost-sharing Matrix
h.    Institutional Framework for Project Implementation
i.    State Government
H.    Project Coordinating Unit (PCU)
iii.   Municipal Councils
iv.   Community Associations
V.    Municipal Government
vi.   Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs)
i.    Flow of Funds
Im.   Operational Guidelines
a.    Information Campaign
b.    The Subproject Cycle: Identification; Preparation; Standard Subprojects
(projetos-padrdo/projetos de referencia); Submittal; Evaluation; Legal
Agreements (convenios); Execution; Conclusion; Operation and
Maintenance
c.    Environmental Assessment
d.    Procurement
e.    Technical Assistance and Training
e.    Supervision
C     Operational Incentives and Penalties
g.    Statements of Expenditure (SOE)



- 128 -
Annex L
IV.   Project Management and Monitoring
a.    Management Tasks of the PCU
b.    Financial Management
c.    Monitoring
d.    Supervision
e.    Auditing
f.    Evaluation Studies
Annexes:
A.  Indicative List of Project Municipalities by Subprogram (FUMAC, FUMAC-P and
PAC)
B.  Ineligible Subprojects
C.  Standard Subproject Designs
D.  Unit Cost Tables
E.  Environmental Assessment Checklist
F.  Standard Forms (for proposal submittal and for ata de recebimento)
G.  Operational Manual for FUMAC
H.  Operational Manual for FUMAC-P
I.   Model Law for Creation of FUMAC and FUMAC-P Municipal Councils
J.   Model Annual Operating Plan (POA) for FUMAC-P
K.  Model Contracts (for PAC, FUMAC and FUMAC-P subprojects)
L.  Guidelines for Community Associations
M.  Guidelines for Subproject Supervision and Control Committees
N.  Terms of Reference for Contracting Technical Assistance
0.  PCU Organizational Chart
P.  Technical Assistance and Training
Q.  Supervision
R.  Graduation of Communities
S.  Management Information System (M1S) and Reporting
T. Standard Data Sheets for MIS (Subproject, Supervision and Graduation)
U.  Standard Contract for Procurement of Goods and Works
V.  Guidelines for SOEs
W. Guidelines for Financial Management
X.  Terms of Reference for Evaluation Studies
Y.  Terms of Reference for Auditing



_ 129 -
Annex M
BRAZIL
RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - PARAIBA
M. LIST OF DOCUMENTS IN PROJECT FILES
1.    Boletim Conjuntural-Nordeste do Brasil: Agosto 1996, Superintendencia do
Desenvolvimento do Nordeste (SUDENE), Volume 4, August 1996.
2.    Agregados Econ;umicos Regionais-Nordeste do BrasuD, 1965-95,
Superintendencia do Desenvolvimento do Nordeste (SUDENE), 1996.
3.    RegiUo Nordeste do Brasil em numeros, Superintendencia do Desenvolvimento
do Nordeste (SUDENE), 1997.
4.    FormafAo Bruta de Capital Fixo do Setor Publico - Nordeste do Brasil, 1960-
93, Superintend8ncia do Desenvohimento do Nordeste (SUDENE), 1995.
5.    0 Mapa da Fome, IPEA, three volumes, 1993.
6.    Relat6rio sobre Desenvolvimento Humano no Brasil, PNUD/1PE, 1996.
7.    Projeto de Desenvolvimento Municipal Sustentavel, ARIDAS, October 1994.
8.    Anuirio Estatistico da Paraiba, 1995.
9.    Relat6rio Final do PDRI do Brejo Paraibano, Secretaria de Agricultura e
Abastecimento, Comissio Estadual de Planejamento Agricola, Estado da Paraiba,
September 1987.
10.   Piano de Desenvolvimento Sustentivel (Verslo resumida para discussao),
Secretaria do Planejamento, Governo do Estado da Paraiba, April 1996.
11.   A Study of Popular Participation in the Brazil Northeast Rural Development
Program (NRDP-PAPP), C. Kottak (University of Michigan), February 7, 1994
(Draft).
12.   1994 Follow-up Study - Northeast Rural Development Program/PAC-
FUMAC, C. Kottak and A. Costa, December 2, 1995.
13.   Brazil: A Poverty Assessment, World Bank, Human Resources Operations
Division, Report No. 14323-BR, June 27, 1995.



- 130 -
Annex M
14.   Projeto de Combate k Pobreza Rural no Estado da Paraiiba, Carta-Consulta a
Coniisso de Financiamentos Externos (COFIEX), Projeto Nordeste/PAPP,
Secretaria de Estado do Planejamento, Governo do Estado da Paraiba, August
1996.
15.  InfonragOes para a Misso do BIRD, Projeto Cooperar, Secretaria de Planejamento,
Governo do Estado da Paraiba, May 1997.
16.   Reflex6es sobre o Projeto de Apoio ao Pequeno Produtor Rural (PAPP),
Projeto Cooperar, Secretaria de Planejamento, Governo do Estado da ParaPba,
May 1997.
17.   Projeto de Combate i Pobreza Rural no Estado da Paraiba - Manual de
Operao6es e Anexo (versoes preliminares para discussao interna), Projeto
Cooperar, Secretaria de Planejamento, Govemo do Estado da Paraiba, April 1997.
18.   Manual de Acompanhamento e Supervisio (Primeira versao para uso interno),
Projeto Cooperar, Convenio de Cooperacao Tecnica IICA/Governo do Estado da
Paraiba, April 1997.
19.   Manual de Assistencia Tecnica: Principios e Procedimentos (Primeira versao,
para uso interno), Projeto Cooperar, Conv8nio de Cooperacao Tecnica
IICA/Govemo do Estado da Paraiba, April 1997.
20.   Proposta de Fluxo de Processos e Adequacio da Estrutura Organizacional
Bisica do PAPP/FNE/PB, Projeto Cooperar, Convenio de Cooperacao Tecnica
HCA/Governo do Estado da Paraiba, April 1997.



IBRD 28869
/-. v ..                                                                                                                                                                                                                        D ? BRAZIL  6"-
RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT
r  r9;. - ws   --sH  RIO GRANDE                                       STATE OF PARAIBA
:  .) /            t    a                         DO NORTE
{tk /    rww  -g                                               / Sn: e+7_Ttno 
"    "'7t                                                                                                                                                                          OF~E  \'          \    ,     oiodoTro. VT
'o~~~~~:~                    H'$9" ' tA9ER  IRJC                                                    I  -CH       Sobo UN l       4   N\I
TO ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ -
* ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~     ~ ~ ~ ~               REGIONAL OFFCE  PROEC TEHIA UNI                                                                        0Looena LL/     2<
-EL. ~    ~       ~       AIN A    RAINFALL IN58 9J~   MILLIETER                A.g, 's                                                                                                                       /~ Vr    CobReAde1loAi                   a
deCLMAI Pi,E                                                            b,   ?f-,                                                                                                                                    t oLsJ      9-
~~O~O6OASTA FOES /                      LIOALMT                            tRr \   ftEgLLCtwA  
S~~~~ ~            -    -r    MAINso  RO D  'dgm /                                                                                              o-  Ahe lea.au /f _ _  if r  /f  -^ 0rdd3    kGru                            oodroAINA
--oIVeJh~,j -    STATE BOUNDARIES                                                                                          v.cepPon6e oPifit6.
J8  3S7~ Tovosee  /                                                                                                                                                                }URtGU;              OC       1997
doi5.Mogio'0".            F       /     vWe
/6-'c'                (yioeo  f 
U  HEADQUARTERS, PROJECT TECHNICAL UNIT 
*  RGIOINAL OFFICES PROJECT TECHNICAL UNIT
AREA EXCLUDED FROM THE PROJECT                                                                                       P E        NNoM,SUooO 
AlIJNLJAL RAINFALL IN MILLIMETERS                      -                                                                                                                                                                     .p' BB
CLIMATIC ZONES                                                                                                                                                                  1~ -
COASTAL FODREST / LITORAL-MATA                                                                                                                                                                        R~,,
INTERMEDIATE ZONE / AGRESTE-BREJO                                                                        5          20        40    ~     o          ES        105 
SEMI-ARID ZONE / SERTAO-CARIRIS                                                                                                  KILOMETERS'                                            /-I
mAIN RIVERS                                                                                                                                                                         ,-r'05S5
®  STATE CAPITAL                                                                                                                    6,'~ . D- -,o'  d, rb    06- 40                  1 - 
MAIN ROADS                                                                                                       d'--'ARGENT NA
-STATE BOUNDARIES                                                                                                  ooOloOloIb-Odo.-1 
3SR                                                       37'
OCTOBER 1997



IMAGING
Report No.:       16757  BR
Type:    SAR



