Report No. PID8503
Project Name                     Sierra Leone-Economic Rehabilitation(*)
and Recovery Credit
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Macroeconomics
Project ID                       SLPE35637
Borrower(s)                      Republic of Sierra Leone
Implementing Agency              Department of Finance
Secretariat Building
Freetown, Sierra Leone
Environmental Category           C
Date PID Prepared                December 2, 1999
Projected Appraisal              January, 2000
Projected Board Date             January, 2000
BACKGROUND
1.      Post-independence Sierra Leone has had a troubled history characterized
by ethnic strife, civil war, institutional instability and poor governance.
After witnessing a growth rate of nearly 4 percent per annum during the first
decade after independence in 1961, Sierra Leone saw its economic and social
conditions deteriorate sharply in the 1970s and the first half of the 1980s.
While external developments were a factor underlying this trend, the more
fundamental reason for this decline was inappropriate government policies and
poor governance. The corrupting influence of Sierra Leone's diamond wealth,
and the increased politicization of the armed forces (to the great detriment
of military professionalism and ethics) contributed to poor governance. The
wealth, created by illicit diamond trade and diverted profits and assets from
state enterprises, most notably rice and petroleum marketing, encouraged
patronage networks. Misuse of public resources and general economic decline
in the early 1980s led to the erosion of public sector wages. Public
services deteriorated, an outcome which hit the rural and urban poor very
hard. General poverty deepened and a perceived policy of exclusion bred
frustration and discontent among the youth.
2.      Attacks by the Revolutionary United Front (RUF) that started out
sporadically in the south-eastern part of the country in early 1991 quickly
spread throughout the country. Since 1991, successive governments have been
unable to completely defeat the rebel forces of the RUF, and a coup d'etat
led by disgruntled junior army officers in May 1997 ousted the democratically
elected government of President Ahmad Tejan Kabbah after only 14 months in
office. Though the President was reinstated to power in February 1998 by the
regional military forces of the Economic Community of West African States'
Monitoring Group (ECOMOG), the security situation deteriorated towards the
end of the same year culminating in an attack on Freetown in January 1999,
leading to considerable property damage and loss of life.
3.      After eight years of a rebel war that left more than 20,000 people dead



and about 1.5 million displaced and caused major economic disruptions and a
significant worsening of poverty, a peace agreement was signed in July 1999,
presenting an opportunity for Sierra Leone to rebuild itself. National and
international support for the accord has been unprecedented. In addition to
President Kabbah and the Revolutionary United Front (RUF) leader, Foday
Sankoh, the agreement was co-signed by the Presidents of Liberia, Nigeria and
Togo. The moral, political and legal endorsement of the peace agreement by
President Taylor of Liberia is particularly important since he is known to be
a close ally of Foday Sankoh. A fragile peace continues to hold since the
cease-fire was first announced in May 1999.
4.      After a waiting period of about two months, the "rebel" leaders, Foday
Sankoh and Johnny Paul Koroma, have returned to Sierra Leone and are
participating in a government of national unity. The RUF has registered
itself as a political party. A 6,000 men strong UN peace-keeping force have
begun to arrive in Sierra Leone. However, despite such encouraging
developments, the security situation in the country remains fragile, as
demonstrated by the recent fighting between the troops of the former rebel
allies. The implementation of the DDR program has also been slower than
expected.
OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
5.      The proposed ERRC is a quick-disbursing credit in the amount of US$30
million that would help finance the 2000/01 slice of the NRRP by providing
critical balance of payments and budgetary support to finance part of the
foreign exchange and budgetary costs associated with establishing peace and
socio-political stability; restoring basic public services; and relaunching
of the economy in a transparent and inclusive governance framework. The
credit will support the Government's policy framework briefly described in
paragraphs 7-11. The proceeds of the Credit will allow the import of
essential commodities, including food products, petroleum products, and raw
materials and intermediate goods required for relaunching the economy. The
local currency funds thus generated will enable the Government to provide
basic services, including law and order and the rehabilitation of necessary
social and economic infrastructure that will allow communities to return to
normalcy. The funds will also contribute to the transitional safety net
allowance for adult ex-combatants and the settlement plan of domestic arrears
to the private sector. It will complement similar support provided by DFID,
the EU and the IMF and will be implemented in parallel with the IDA-assisted
Community Reintegration and Rehabilitation project.
6.      The Government's rehabilitation and recovery program for the transition
period addressing immediate needs has three components centered around
sustaining peace and restoring security in its protective and material
dimensions. The program is built around the agenda of restoring and
sustaining security in its three dimensions: (i) protective security,
focussed on individual safety and human rights; (ii) social and economic
security, emphasizing access to basic services and to income opportunities to
achieve sustainable livelihoods; and (iii) transparent and inclusive
governance which comes from fighting corruption and social exclusion.
7.      The Government intends to implement its NRRP, to be supported under the
credit, within a sound macroeconomic framework. The strategy adopted by the
Government centers on ensuring the provision of critical services to the
- 2 -



population in the context of a macroeconomic framework that will reduce
domestic and external imbalances and pave the way for the adoption of a
medium-term reform program. In view of this, their near-term strategy
includes restoration of macroeconomic stability. To that end, they have
elaborated a macroeconomic program in collaboration with the IMF and the
World Bank. The key objectives for the year 2000 are to significantly reduce
the annual rate of inflation while allowing for the recovery of economic
activity, and some reconstitution of gross external reserves from the
existing low level of less than one month of imports. Consequently, the
program will aim to reduce end-period inflation from 31 percent in September
1999 to 15 percent by end-December 2000. Given the large humanitarian
requirements for humanitarian needs and reconstruction, the external current
account balance is expected to rise from 9 percent in 1999 to 19 percent in
2000. The program will also seek to maintain gross external reserves
equivalent to 1.6 months of imports by end-December 2000.
8.      Fiscal Policies.   During the transitional period, fiscal policies will
ensure budgetary provision of key services to enhance social security while
lowering the domestic primary from the current unsustainable level and
improving the quality of expenditure. The domestic primary deficit will be
reduced from 7.4 percent of GDP in 1999 to 4.2 percent of GDP in 2000. This
will be achieved through adoption of measures to enhance government revenue
and to contain domestically financed expenditures within prudent limits.
However, owing to increased outlays on social services, reconstruction and
the establishment of institutions mandated under the Lome Peace Accord, the
overall budget deficit is projected to rise from 17.4 percent of GDP in 1999
to 22 percent in 2000.
9.      Public expenditure reform will seek a more productive use of resources
as funds are redirected to social and economic sectors aimed at
rehabilitation and reconstruction. Total expenditure outlays are targeted to
grow from 20 percent of GDP in 1998 to about 30 percent of GDP in 2000.
10.     Monetary and Financial Sector Policies.   In order to relieve the
pressure on prices and make basic commodities affordable for the vast
majority of poor Sierra Leoneans, the Bank of Sierra Leone (BSL) will pursue
a contractionary monetary policy aimed at lowering inflation. This will also
contribute to the establishment of a stable environment for the recovery of
economic activity and, thereby of improving income opportunities. This will
be facilitated by the fiscal policy that targets a substantial reduction in
domestic bank financing. Growth of broad money is projected to decline to 23
percent in 2000 from an estimated 41 percent in 1999. The BSL will control
domestic liquidity through the weekly treasury bill auction. The financial
sector has suffered extensive damage caused by the rebel war. As a result,
virtually all the bank branches outside Freetown have been closed, further
limiting access to the banking sector by a vast majority of the population.
With the recovery of economic activity, a resumption of bank lending to the
private sector is expected, providing a boost to private, especially small
businesses.
11.     External Sector Policies.   While import demand is expected to be high,
prospects for mineral exports remain poor in 2000 as the rutile and bauxite
mines remain closed and official diamond exports will only pick up slowly.
In addition, the scheduled external debt service is large, amounting to the
equivalent of about 10 percent of GDP or about 52 percent of exports of goods
-3 -



and non-factor services in 2000. Government efforts during 2000 will be
aimed at containing the external current account deficit to a level that can
be financed by available external balance of payments assistance. To correct
price distortions that have emerged during the crisis period in Sierra Leone,
the Government has changed the method of calculation of the official exchange
rate to better reflect exchange market developments. Pending the
introduction of weekly auctions of a pre-determined amount of foreign
exchange reserves (provided the reserve targets are met), the official
exchange rate will be calculated as the weighted average mid-rate of
purchases and sales of foreign currency by the commercial banks and exchange
bureaus for the last five business days. Thereafter, the official exchange
calculation will also include the auction rate. Auction participation, which
will be open to commercial banks, bureaus and importers, will augment supply
as well as modulate exchange rate movements.
FINANCING
12.     The proposed IDA credit of an equivalent of US$30 million is expected to
be disbursed in three tranches - two fixed and one floating - over a period
of about one year. The first tranche of US$15 million equivalent will be
released upon effectiveness. The second tranche will be released after a
satisfactory review of performance in the area of social and economic
security and in the area of transparent and inclusive governance. The
floating tranche will be released after satisfactory review and performance
of policies related to the public enterprise sector. The policy package
draws on the earlier work done in 1997 and 1998 which could not be reviewed
by the Board as a result of the coup d'etat in May 1997 and the deterioration
of the security situation in January 1999 respectively.
IMPLEMENTATION
13.     The Government's reform effort, supported by the proposed ERRC, will be
managed under the overall supervision of a Steering Committee chaired by the
Minister of Finance. A Technical Committee comprising of high level staff
from various line ministries and the Bank of Sierra Leone will assist the
Steering Committee and will be responsible for monitoring the program,
including policy indicators and coordinating the activities of all Government
agencies involved in program implementation. The Committee will prepare a
quarterly progress report for the attention of the Cabinet. This report will
be shared with the Bank. The overall reform effort will be reviewed by the
Government in close coordination with regular Bank and IMF missions to ensure
continued implementation of program, with particular attention to the
macroeconomic framework, progress on peace and impact on poverty alleviation.
SUSTAINABILITY
14.     The Credit would make possible the financing of foreign exchange and
budgetary costs associated with establishing peace and socio-political
stability and economic recovery. By supporting policies aimed at pacifying
the nation, restarting the provision of key social and economic services and
resuming macroeconomic and structural reforms, the Credit will help lay the
foundations for the return of an appropriate environment for achieving the
Government's broad objectives of stable growth and poverty reduction. The
proposed operation will also help increase Sierra Leone's creditworthiness
and ensure continued flow of development resources.
- 4 -



LESSONS LEARNED FROM PAST OPERATIONS IN THE COUNTRY/SECTOR
15.     Lessons learned from past operations experience are that (i) program
design should be simple and address few but priority issues, and should be
revised midstream; (ii) floating tranche arrangements should be used for
particular elements of the reform program with significant uncertainty with
regard to the timing of implementation; and (iii) design of the program must
address the risks inherent in its implementation.
POVERTY CATEGORY
16.     The proposed Credit will contribute to revive basic public services in
providing reintegration assistance to build and operate education and health
facilities to the population. Emphasis will be on supporting the restoration
of social and economic services in communities affected by the war.
ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS
17.     The proposed Credit is not expected to have any negative environmental
impact. The credit has been placed in Category C, which does not require an
environmental assessment.
Contact Points:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Task Manager
Preeti Arora
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 473-8275
Fax:        (202) 473-8136
Note: This is information on an envolving project. Certain components may not
be necessarily included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending December 17, 1999.
- 5 -



