Document of
the World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: P 7355 SL
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 21.9 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
FOR AN
ECONOMIC REHABILITATION AND RECOVERY CREDIT
January 26, 2000
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       =      Leone (Le)
US$1                =      Le 2276.28 (as of
Dec. 31, 1999)
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB                      African Development Bank
AFRC                     Arned Forces Revolutionary Council
AFSL                     Armed Forces of Sierra Leone
AGD                      Accountant General's Department
BOP                      Balance of Payments
BSL                      Bank of Sierra Leone
CAS                      Country Assistance Strategy
CDF                      Civil Defense Forces
CG                       Consultative Group
DDR                      Disarmament, Demobilization and Reintegration Program
DFID/UK                  Departnent for International Development/United Kingdom
ECOMOG                   Ecowas Military Observer Group
ECOWAS                   Economic Community of West African States
ERRC                     Economic Rehabilitation and Recovery Credit
EU                       European Union
GDP                      Gross Domestic Product
GOSL                     Government of Sierra Leone
IBRD                     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA                      International Development Association
IDPs                     Internally Displaced Persons
IFC                      International Finance Corporation
IMF                      International Monetary Fund
MOHS                     Ministry of Health and Sanitation
NGOs                     Non-Governmental Organizations
NRRP                     National Rehabilitation and Recovery Program
PEs                      Public Enterprises
RUF                      Revolutionary United Front
RRR                      Resettlement, Reconstruction and Rehabilitation
SAC                      Structural Adjustment Credit
SC                       Steering Committee
UN                       United Nations
UNDP                     United Nations Development Program
UNHCR                    UN High Commissioner for Refugees
UNICEF                   UN International Children's Education Fund
WHO                      World Health Organization
Vice President            Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director          Mamadou Dia (to Jan. 10, 2000)
Brian Ngo (acting)
Sector Manager            Emmanuel Akpa
Task Team Leader          Preeti Arora



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
ECONOMIC REHABILITATION AND RECOVERY CREDIT
CONTENTS
CREDIT SUMMARY .............................................................i
I. INTRODUCTION AND BACKGROUND                                                       .1
II.   IMPACT OF THE CONFLICT ............................................................                              2
A.   SOCIAL AND HUMAN COSTS .............................................................2
B.   EFFECT ON ECONOMIC ACTIVITY .............................................................3
C.   INSTITUTIONAL AND HUMAN CAPACITY .............................................................4
III.  NATIONAL REHABILITATION AND RECOVERY PROGRAM  ...........................................................5
A.   PROTECTIVE SECURITY .............................................................5
B.   SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC SECURITY ............................................................6
C.   TRANSPARENT AND INCLUSIVE GOVERNANCE .............................................................9
IV.  BANK ASSISTANCE STRATEGY TO SUPPORT THE PROGRAM ..................................................... 11
V.   MACROECONOMIC CONTEXT ............................................................                              12
A.   FISCAL POLICIES ............................................................                                 13
B.   MONETARY AND FINANCIAL SECTOR POLICIES ............................................................          1 5
C.   EXTERNAL SECTOR POLICIES ............................................................                         15
VI.  ECONOMIC REHABILITATION AND RECOVERY CREDIT (ERRC) ............................................... 16
A.   OBJECTIVES TAND.TIMING.16
B. FEATURES OF THE CREDIT .17
C. COLLABORATION WITH THE IMF AND OTHER DONORS .19
D. IMPLEMENTATION, MoNoRING AND SUPERVISION. .19
Indicators and Benchmarks .20
E. BENEFITS AND RISKS .20
Benefits.20
Risks.21
VII. RECOMMENDATION .22
ANNEXES
A.  Timetable of Key Processing Events
B.  Policy Matrix
C.  Letter of Development Policy
D.  Project Description Summary
E.   Sierra Leone Social Indicators
F.   Sierra Leone at a Glance
G.  Sierra Leone - Key Economic Indicators
H.  Status of Bank Group Operations
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
ECONOMIC REHABILITATION AND RECOVERY CREDIT
CREDIT SUMMARY
Borrower:  Republic of Sierra Leone
Amount:   SDR 21.9 million (US$30 million equivalent)
Terms:     Standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity
Credit
Description: The proposed Economic Rehabilitation and Recovery Credit (ERRC) is a quick-
disbursing credit in the amount of US$30 million that would help finance the 2000/01
slice of the Government of Sierra Leone's National Rehabilitation and Recovery
Program (NRRP) centered around sustaining peace and restoring security in its
protective and material dimensions. The ERRC would provide critical balance of
payments and budgetary support to finance part of the foreign exchange and budgetary
costs of the program to establish security in all three dimensions (protective security,
social and economic security and transparent and inclusive governance). The proceeds
will allow the import of essential commodities, including food products, petroleum
products, and raw materials and intermediate goods required for relaunching the
economy. The local currency funds generated will enable the Government to provide
basic services, including the restoration of law and order and rehabilitation of
necessary social and economic infrastructure that will allow communities to return to
normalcy. The funds will also contribute to the iransitional safety net for adult ex-
combatants as they begin their re-insertion into civilian life.  The Credit will
complement similar support provided by DFID, the EU and the IMF, and will be
implemented in parallel with the IDA-assisted Community Reintegration and
Rehabilitation project.
Benefits:   The proposed Credit is an integral part of the Bank's interim strategy to assist Sierra
Leone in the transition from war to peace. It will support a program that would help
consolidate peace and restore protective and material security, through the
implementation of the NRRP. It will help to revive basic public services and restore
credibility to public sector performance by supporting mechanisms that ensure the -
delivery of these services in a transparent and accountable manner. It will contribute to
economic recovery and growth by providing foreign exchange resources for imports of
essential commodities and by providing financial resources to the national budget to
finance priority public expenditures. By helping to close the financing gap in the year
2000 in an orderly manner, it will also contribute to curbing inflation and maintenance
of macroeconomic stability, which have both been areas of concern in the recent past.
Risks:     The operation faces three risks: (i) possible deterioration of the security and political
situation; (ii) failure of the government of national unity (formed in October 1999,
which includes the leaders of ex-rebel groups), to follow through with the recovery



ii
program; and (iii) delays in program implementation owing to weak implementation
capacity. First, security is likely to remain an issue for some time, due to the time it
takes to disarm totally as well as the possibility of cross-border destabilization from the
rest of the region. There are, however, reasons to believe that this risk is diminishing:
(i) the recent return to Sierra Leone of rebel leaders Foday Sankoh and Johnny Paul
Koroma to assume their respective responsibilities as defined in the Peace Accord is a
promising sign that the political will of these two parties to end the conflict is in place;
(ii) contributions of both the Revolutionary United Front (RUF) and the Armed Forces
Revolutionary Council (AFRC) representatives to start-up the disarmament and
demobilization activities lend further hope that the accord will be fully implemented;
(iii) the ongoing strengthening of the police force (with the assistance of bilateral
donors) is improving the maintenance of law and order, and (iv) the UN Peace Keeping
Force has begun deployment throughout the country.
Secondly, there is the risk of a reversal on the commitment to peace and national
reconstruction owing to pressures from some of the members of the national unity
Government. The desire to see quick rewards for their followers may prompt actions
that could block progress on the program, especially on fighting corruption and
improving governance. Three factors attenuate this risk. The progress made so far in
implementing the DDR Program (about 11,000 ex-combatants have been disarmed, of
which 1,402 have already been discharged and the remaining are in camps receiving
transitional assistance) is giving ex-combatants a viable and attractive alternative that
is linked to disarmament and peace. Also, the rehabilitation and recovery program to
be supported by the proposed Credit is the result of an extensive and intensive program
of national consultation conducted by the Government in November 1996, and
resumed in May 1998. The implied buy-in by the majority of Sierra Leoneans
constitutes some assurance that it will be implemented. Further, continuing efforts to
raise public awareness about the expected social benefits will strengthen the support
for the program.
Thirdly, weak institutional capacity could cause delays in implementing some aspects
of the rehabilitation and recovery program. This risk is being mitigated in three ways:
(i) the design of peace-building activities incorporates necessary institutional support;
(ii) in the area of economic management, the IDA-supported Public Sector
Management Support Project is being strengthened (with a supplementary credit) to
continue to provide capacity building support; and (iii) technical assistance is being
reinforced by partners such as the African Development Bank, European Union and the
Department for International Development of the United Kingdom.
Project
Appraisal
Document: There is no separate project appraisal document.
Estimated
Disbursements:The Credit will be disbursed in two fixed tranches and one floating tranche over a
period of 12-15 months.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED ECONOMIC REHABILITATION AND RECOVERY CREDIT
TO THE GOVERNMENT OF SIERRA LEONE
1.    I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Economic Rehabilitation and Recovery Credit (ERRC) to the Government of Sierra Leone
(GOSL) for SDR 21.9 million, the equivalent of US$30 million. The ERRC would provide
urgently needed quick-disbursing funds to finance near-term activities that are critical for support
to the consolidation of peace and socio-political stability, revival of the economy and the
restoration of basic public services. The foreign exchange would finance eligible imports of
essential commodities, including food, petroleum products and raw materials and intermediate
products required for relaunching the economy. The local currency funds generated will enable
the Government to provide basic services, including the restoration of law and order and
rehabilitation of necessary social and economic infrastructure that will allow communities to
return to normalcy. The funds will also contribute to the transitional safety net for adult ex-
combatants as they begin their re-insertion into civilian life.
I. INTRODUCTION AND BACKGROUND
2.    Post-independence Sierra Leone has had a troubled history characterized by ethnic strife,
civil war, institutional instability and poor governance. After witnessing a growth rate of nearly
4 percent per annum during the first decade after independence in 1961, Sierra Leone saw its
economic and social conditions deteriorate sharply in the 1970s and the first half of the 1980s.
While external developments were a factor underlying this trend, the more fundamental reason
for this decline was inappropriate government policies and poor governance. The corrupting
influence of Sierra Leone's diamond wealth, and the increased politicization of the armed forces
(to the great detriment of military professionalism and ethics) contributed to poor governance.
The wealth, created by illicit diamond trade and diverted profits and assets form state enterprises,
most notably rice and petroleum marketing, encouraged patronage networks. Misuse of public
resources and general economic decline in the early 1980s led to the erosion of public sector
wages. Public services deteriorated, an outcome which hit the rural and urban poor very hard.
General poverty deepened and a perceived policy of exclusion bred frustration and discontent
among the youth.
3.    Attacks by the Revolutionary United Front (RUF) that started out sporadically in the
south-eastern part of the country in early 1991 quickly spread throughout the country. Since
1991, successive governments have been unable to completely defeat the rebel forces of the
RUF, and a coup d'etat led by disgruntled junior army officers in May 1997 ousted the
democratically elected government of Ahmad Tejan Kabbah after only 14 months in office.
Though the President was reinstated to power in February 1998 by the regional military forces of
the Economic Community of West African States' Monitoring Group (ECOMOG), the security
situation deteriorated towards the end of the same year culminating in a well-coordinated attack



2
on Freetown by RUF and former Sierra Leonean anny forces in January 1999, leading to
considerable property damage and loss of life.
4.    A peace agreement signed in July 1999 now creates an opportunity for Sierra Leone to
rebuild itself. While this is not the first agreement of its kind reached between rebel forces and
the GOSL, the conditions necessary for the success of such an accord are gradually falling into
place. The level of national and international support for the accord is unprecedented. The entry
into implementation of a comprehensive disarmament, demobilization and reintegration program,
which was lacking in previous peace efforts, starts the concrete step of dismantling the forces.
5.    The return to Sierra Leone (in October 1999) of rebel leaders Foday Sankoh and Johnny
Paul Koroma to assume their respective responsibilities as defined in the Peace Accord is a
promising sign that the political will of these two parties is in place. A Government of National
Unity has been named. The contributions of both the RUF and the AFRC representatives to the
effective start-up of the disarmament and demobilization activities lend further hope that the
accord will be fully implemented. Further, a first contingent of a UN peace-keeping force of
6,000 soldiers arrived in Sierra Leone in mid-November 1999 and began their deployment
throughout the country. These additional steps towards consolidating the peace hold out good
hope for successful implementation of the NRRP.
-I. IMPACT OF THE CONFLICT
A. SOCIAL AND HUMAN COSTS
6.    Since 1991 more than 20,000 lives have been lost as a direct result of the conflict, and
related insecurity has caused the internal displacement of an estimated 1.2 million people --
approximately 25 percent of the population. Thousands of Sierra Leoneans, including small
children, have had limbs cut off by machete. The lUN High Commissioner for Refugees
(UNHCR) estimates that more than 500,000 people have fled the country for neighboring
countries since 1991, and while many have been repatriated or returned by themselves prior to
the coup, it is estimated that about the samne number still remain in Liberia and Guinea.
According to UNICEF estimates there are approximately 5,000 children enrolled with Sierra
Leone's various armed groups, including the Kamajors. Another 10,000 children have been
registered as being separated from their families.
7.    The war has taken its toll on the physical infrastructure, including schools and health care
facilities. Many of the institutions were being used to house surrendered soldiers and the
displaced persons. Of the 1,900 primary schools in the country, an estimated 30 percent were
completely destroyed and another 30 percent require significant rehabilitation or reconstruction
work. Of the 240 secondary schools in existence in January 1996, 25 percent were totally
destroyed and another 40 percent require major rehabilitation. Similar damage has been done to
the tertiary institutions. In addition to the destruction of physical infrastructure, furniture and
teaching materials were vandalized or stolen, making the resumption of teaching difficult. The
loss of livelihood of many people has also made it difficult for parents to pay school fees and
cover the daily expenses of uniforms and textbooks and other supplies. In all, pupil and students



3
lost a whole academic year of schooling and now face a school year with nearly one-third of the
facilities in need of major repair or rehabilitation.
8.    The limited information available indicates that the health status has deteriorated
considerably. In 1998, according to a WHO report, the under-five mortality rate was 277 deaths
for 1,000 boys and 248 for 1,000 girls, making the country the worst ranked for this indicator.
In addition to increases in the incidence and prevalence of common communicable diseases (like
malaria, acute respiratory infections, diarrhea, AIDS and sexually transmitted infections) drug
addiction and war-related physical and psychological traumas have also increased considerably.
Concurrently, the capacity of the Ministry of Health and Sanitation (MOHS) and especially of
district health administrations remains weak; the public health care system cannot meet the
demands for services from war victims, displaced persons and a growing number of poor
population; the private sector development has been considerably slowed down; and, to a large
extent, international and national NGOs are the main health care providers.
9.    Currently, an estimated 75 percent of health facilities are not functional either because of
destroyed buildings, vandalized equipment and supplies, or lack of staff. The lack of staff is
mainly due to insecurity, which has made many areas inaccessible to MOHS staff as well as to
those of the international humnanitarian organizations. Emergency health services are mostly
being delivered from temporary facilities, especially in camps for the displaced set up in the
major urban centers.
B. EFFECT ON ECONOMIC ACTIVITY
10.   The conflict has also caused widespread economic disruption. The negative impact on
agricultural and mining activities was particularly profound. Real GDP has declined by an
average of over 6 percent per annum since 1995. Agriculture recorded a brief recovery in 1996
over 1995 but has generally declined thereafter. Modern mining activities (i.e. excluding small-
scale diamond mining) have come to a virtual standstill, with rutile and bauxite mines being
closed since the rebel attacks in that area in January 1995. Private business has also been
severely affected by the upheavals caused by the unstable security situation in the country. Total
losses sustained by private businesses (excluding the hotel and tourism sector) have been
estimated at about Le 65.5 billion in the aftermath of the coup d' etat in May 1997. About 80
percent of the losses occurred in Freetown alone. Some 2,500 villages and towns are estimated
to have been devastated throughout the country.
11.   Govenment finances have deteriorated along with the security situation. Government
revenues declined steadily from a high of about 14 percent of GDP in 1994 to about 5 percent of
GDP in 1997, recovering somewhat to about 7 percent of GDP in 1999. With declining
revenues, and mounting expenditures on defense', the budget deficit on a commitment basis
(excluding grants) increased steadily from 6.8 percent of GDP in 1996 to an estimated 17.4
percent in 1999. In the absence of significant external budgetary assistance, the deficit was
funded largely by central bank financing. Consequently, broad money growth and inflation rose
I Military expenditures were about US$19 million in 1991/92, increasing to US$42 million in 1994/95 and further to over
US$60 million in 1995/96 (including the arrears accumulated with the military contractors).



4
strongly, while usable external gross reserves fell to less than one month of imports in 1999. The
exchange rate depreciated by 30 percent between January and September 1999.
12.   The disruptions suffered by the financial sector from the protracted conflict have affected
the general public and the private sector. Reliance on bank financing of the deficit (as mentioned
above) has resulted in a sharp increase in the growth of broad money from about 28 percent in
1996 to an estimated 41 percent in 1999. As a result inflation soared to about 35 percent in 1998
and is estimated to be about 33 percent for 1999, up from about 15 percent in 1997 on an annual
basis. The closure of all but one commercial bank following the May 1997 coup deprived people
from accessing their savings and also created difficulties for small businesses. Net loans and
advances have declined and non-performing loans and advances account for almost 60 percent of
the total banking sector gross loan portfolio as of June 1999. The ratio of loan loss reserves to
non-performing assets has also increased progressively to over 40 percent as of June 1999. In
addition, the spread between deposit and lending rates remains wide, reducing further the
incentives to save. Furthermore, in the absence of investment opportunities, the idle balances of
commercial banks rose sharply resulting in excess liquidity in the banking system.
13.   The conflict has undermined the Government's economic reform program. The evolution
of the economy and its finances traced out above reflect the reversal of earlier gains from
program implementation, most of it under the short period of nine months of junta rule in 1997-
98. While the Government stays committed to reforms, the setbacks imply that a major effort
will have to go into reestablishing the pre-conflict conditions.
C. INSTITUTIONAL AND HUMAN CAPACITY
14.   Eight years of civil unrest and the insecurity created by the conflict have weakened Sierra
Leone's capacity - both in terms of institutions and human resources. Following the coup in
May 1997, the Ministry of Finance was completely burnt down. Not only were all the records
lost, the newly installed and revised budgeting system that would improve the budget preparation
and monitoring was lost as all the computers were destroyed in the fire. There was a heavy loss
of vehicles belonging to the Government as well as the civilian population, which were
vandalized during the intense fighting in Freetown. The telecommunication services were also
disrupted, making communications almost impossible. Over the course of the war, but especially
during the last two years, many professionals, including doctors, lawyers and educators have left
the country leaving a vacuum in critical service delivery areas.
15.   The judicial system cannot function properly because of the need for more professionals
to handle the higher case load resulting from the conflict while their numbers have gone down.
Several in the Government's economic management team, that was for so long able to undertake
economic reforms under difficult conditions, also left the country. There are concerns that the
Government does not have enough technical staff left who will be able to handle all the
externally-funded rehabilitation and reconstruction activities. To overcome some of these
problems, the donors are relying increasingly on the NGOs to implement their programs. There
is now a critical need to re-establish sound institutions and create an environment for the
professional classes to come back to Sierra Leone to rebuild the country.



5
III. NATIONAL REHABILITATION AND RECOVERY PROGRAM
16.   The Government's rehabilitation and recovery program  for the transition period
addressing immediate needs has three components2 centered around sustaining peace and
restoring security in its protective and material dimensions. The program is built around the
agenda of restoring and sustaining security in its three dimensions: (i) protective security,
focussed on individual safety and human rights; (ii) social and economic security, emphasizing
access to basic services and to income opportunities to achieve sustainable livelihoods; and (iii)
transparent and inclusive governance which comes from fighting corruption and social exclusion.
A. PROTECTIVE SECURITY
17.   The authorities seek to bring about protective security by fully implementing the Lome
Peace Accord. This comprises implementation of the Disarmament, Demobilization and
Reintegration (DDR) program and improving law and order situation nationwide. The DDR
program is targeted at approximately 45,000 ex-combatants, including adult and child ex-
combatants from the Armed Forces of Sierra Leone (AFSL), RUF and the Civil Defense Forces
(CDF). The program is estimated to cost about US$50 million over three years, with about
US$36 million required over the first 18 to 24 months. Program costs include the payment of a
transitional safety net allowance of US$3003 per ex-combatant and the payment of pensions and
gratuities of former members of the Sierra Leone army that will not be part of the new
reconstituted army. A National Committee on the DDR (NCDDR)4, chaired by the President of
Sierra Leone, has been set up and is providing overall policy guidance on the DDR program.
Actual implementation of the DDR program has been delegated by NCDDR to its Executive
Secretariat. The latter is an independent, professionally-staffed body, reporting to the National
Committee. It receives technical assistance and works with all key stakeholders, including
NGOs. The actual implementation of the DDR program has begun.
18.   The actions on security and law and order are in the areas of reconstituting a national
army, strengthening the police and improving the judicial processes and the law courts. The
Government has already started the process of reconstituting the army with the help of bilateral
donors including the United Kingdom and Nigeria. The new army is being created with the
principles of ethnic neutrality and adherence to high professional standards (new codes of
conduct including avoidance of outside interests).  To help along, the Department for
International Development (DFID) has put at the disposal of the GOSL three resident advisors: a
military advisor and a civilian advisor to the Ministry of Defense and a security advisor to the
National Security Council. Their two main areas of support include strengthening the Ministry
of Defense to create the capacity to control and hold accountable the armed forces, and building
up the new National Security Council and its secretariat to provide effective policy management
2  These are detailed in two program documents, the National Resettlement, Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Program
(NRRRP) and the National Disarmament, Demobilization and Reintegration Program (NDDRP).
3 To be paid in Leones
4 It comprises respresentatives of the Government, RUF, AFRC, as well as the UN, ECOMOG and DFID as the donor
representative-



6
and coordination of security policy. The police force is also being strengthened with bilateral
support. A Commonwealth Police Development Task Force set up by DFID is playing a critical
role in this regard. An expatriate Inspector General of Police has been appointed by the President
of Sierra Leone. Efforts are underway to improve the judicial processes in the areas of
commercial law and handling of civil cases.
B. SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC SECURITY
19.   With the signing of the peace accord and the initiation of steps towards gradual
restoration of security, the Government now faces the challenge of providing basic services
effectively under severe resource constraints and strong competing claims, particularly those
related to security considerations. Social security will be pursued through reintegration of ex-
combatants, internally displaced persons (IDPs) and refugees and through the revival of basic
public services. The Government's Resettlement, Reconstruction and Rehabilitation (RRR)
program based on an extensive needs assessment of war-affected areas carried out in mid-1996
and validated in 1998, highlights needed action. It is currently being re-evaluated to incorporate
the needs of previously inaccessible areas that have now been opened up. Reintegration
assistance in the form of seeds, tools and basic implements as well as training programs being
provided to IDPs, refugees and other vulnerable groups with the assistance of donors will
provide opportunities for sustainable livelihoods.   The Government is also providing
reintegration assistance to host communities to enable them to build and operate education and
health facilities to the returning population. The ongoing program of humanitarian assistance
provided by the UN, other donors and NGOs to displaced people in refugee camps within Sierra
Leone and in neighboring countries has provided key transitional security to a large segment of
Sierra Leone's population.
20.   Revival of basic public services requires the rehabilitation of service centers and
infrastructure in the near term. It also requires that public expenditures be managed with
enhanced rigor and allocative efficiency. On the public expenditure front, since the beginning of
reforms in 1991, whenever it could, the Government has striven to keep budgetary allocations in
line with the declared priorities for providing basic social and economic services. It succeeded
largely in protecting expenditures in the social sectors, but the economic sectors have suffered
due to the lack of resources. Public expenditures will be focused on the provision of basic social
and economic services, such as education, health and sanitation, and basic infrastructure,
especially in the rural areas. Particular emphasis will be on supporting the restoration of social
and economic services in communities affected by the war, rebuilding infrastructure, and
reintroducing basic services in health and education.
21.   A key aspect of the education policy is to improve access to schooling for the children of
poor parents, especially the displaced. Increased allocation to the sector will include the
provision of free schooling (including textbooks) to children in classes 1-3 and provision of free
textbooks for children in classes 4-6. Increased allocation for the health sector will provide for
free consultations and drugs for all school children at all levels. It will strengthen the health care
delivery system by the provision of a decentralized network of sound facilities at the primary,
secondary and tertiary levels. Increased allocations for the health sector will provide free
preventive and curative health care and medicines for all children at all levels.



7
22.   Allocations to the economic sectors, especially agriculture, water and energy and power
will also be increased. In the agriculture sector, the national focus will be on achieving food
security and food self-sufficiency by restoring food production capacity through the distribution
of seeds, fertilizers and tools to displaced farrners as well as resettlement of farmers and the
rehabilitation of agricultural infrastructure.
23.   Achieving economic security requires the creation of growing income opportunities to the
population. This is especially important as the transition is made from short-term reconstruction
and recovery programs to longer-tern development and poverty reduction. The Government
proposes to do this by reactivating its institutional and policy reform agenda in the areas of
macroeconomic stabilization; public resource management; and the creation of conditions to
allow a greater private sector role in the economy. The reforms aimed at macroeconomic
stabilization will focus on fiscal discipline and revenue mobilization. Improvement in revenue
mobilization will come from (i) an improvement in tax administration through the establishment
of an independent revenue authority that would be remunerated on the basis of performance;
stricter enforcement in the customs and excise department; greater monitoring of freight levy;
and better collection of revenues from fisheries; and (ii) changes in the tax structure to improve
compliance through introduction of new and equitable income tax structure with lower tax rates,
and the introduction of new sales tax regime in 2000.
24.   In public resource management, the reforms aim at further improving public expenditure
management, ensuring the quality of basic services whose volume rises to match the needs of the
population, and strengthening budget implementation, monitoring and expenditure control. The
authorities intend to resume according priority to basic services in the social and economic
sectors. There is a particular commitment to providing key services to the regions outside
Freetown and the Western area, areas which have been neglected in the past. Budget allocations
and actual expenditures to the key sectors will be carefully monitored. To reintroduce financial
integrity and accountability of government finances, a new Vote Controller's Vote Service
Ledger system  has been introduced in the Accountant General's Department.   Once
Parliamentary appropriations have been made, this computerized system allows commitment
control, pre-audit of vouchers received, cash management, payment of approved vouchers as well
as preparation of expenditure monitoring reports.
25.   The authorities also plan to revive the public enterprise reforn program, which was
initiated in 1992 and which slowed considerably during the conflict, as a way to reinforce the
reforms of public resource management and also create the scope for a greater private sector role
in the economy. The Government's policy for reform of the PE sector called for the privatization
of PEs - or some of their functions - which could be managed more efficiently by the private
sector, thereby relieving some of the administrative and financial pressures from the
Government, while at the same time giving a boost to the private sector. Specifically, the design
of the program took into consideration three criteria: (i) efficiency considerations. The
Govermment proposed to disengage itself from those activities that can be better managed by the
private sector (e.g., the hotels, flour milling -- Seaboard West Africa, and insurance -- National
Insurance Company). It also considered that the reduction in the number of enterprises in which
the Govermment has an ownership interest would reduce the pressures on its scarce
administrative resources and help it focus on priority tasks such as the provision of essential



8
public services; (ii) fiscal burden. While there have been no direct financial transfers from the
budget to these enterprises, the Government was concerned about the fiscal burden of some
enterprises in the form of tax arrears, financial obligations to other entities, e.g. unpaid utility
bills or cross debts, or foregone revenue due to poor performance (e.g., National Diamond
Mining Company, Precious Minerals Marketing Company); and (iii) revenue generation. The
sale of PEs was expected to make available resources to finance basic social and economic
services. The latter set included the following companies: National Petroleum, Palm Kernel Oil
and Feed Mill, and Spring Water Company.
26.   In view of the disruptions to the PE reform program during the conflict years, the
Government will begin the reactivation by first preparing an updated strategy for the remaining
enterprises in the portfolio. This strategy is expected to cover implementation modalities,
timetable and institutional arrangements. After receiving it's Cabinet's approval, it will then
launch a program  of restructuring the sector, including privatization or liquidation, as
appropriate. The Government also plans to develop mechanisms to ensure adequate follow-up
from the Ministry in charge of each public enterprise. The legal and institutional framework
required to ensure improved performance and adequate supervision of public enterprises,
including the public utilities taking into account considerations of efficiency, fiscal burden, and
revenue generation will be strengthened.
27.   In the meantime, the Government will initiate the monitoring of financial performance of
public enterprises on a quarterly basis. To start with, the public utilities - Guma Valley Water
Company, National Power Authority, Sierra Leone Telecommunications Company, Sierra Leone
Postal Services - as well as the Sierra Leone Ports Authority, Sierra Leone Housing Corporation
and Sierra Leone Lottery will prepare and submit to Government financial and performance
indicators of service delivery for the first quarter of FY2000.
28.   To encourage private sector development, the Government will: (i) maintain a stable
macroeconomic environment; (ii) streamline the legal requirements for investment, including the
development of an investment code for Sierra Leone and introduction of institutional
arrangements to provide for quick adjudication of commercial cases and expeditious execution of
decrees; (iii) simplify procedures for the registration of businesses; and (iv) strengthen the
financial system by gradually facilitating the opening of bank branches in the countryside to
improve access to credit, especially to small-scale and rural entrepreneurs, as well as by
improving banking supervision and strictly implementing the prudential guidelines.
29.   Further reforms are planned to create an enabling environment for the development of
private sector activity in the mining sector and small-scale, rural and urban enterprises as much
as the emergence of new private investment. The Government has established a Commission for
the Management of Strategic Resources for Reconstruction and Development.   This
Commission, headed by the RUF leader, is charged with the responsibility of securing and
monitoring legitimate exploitation and marketing of minerals, including gold and diamonds. The
Commission will adopt an anti-smuggling drive consistent with the effective and efficient
monitoring of activities relating to the mining and marketing of precious minerals.



9
30.   The Government recognizes that re-injection of resources will help relaunch enterprises
experiencing financial difficulties as a result of losses suffered during the conflict. It plans to
facilitate this by honoring the private sector claims on it. An initial inventory of such claims that
was carried out in December 1998 puts the total at about Le 20 billion. The Government is now
working closely with the European Union to prepare a comprehensive inventory of verified
outstanding arrears to the private sector creditors. It would then prepare a credible plan for the
settlement of verified domestic arrears in a transparent and equitable manner. A Manual of
Procedures for the implementation of the plan will be prepared with EU support. A Committee
has already been established in the Ministry of Finance to undertake this exercise. The
settlement of the arrears will help restore Government's credibility while assisting to revitalize
the private sector by making available financial resources.
C. TRANSPARENT AND INCLUSIVE GOVERNANCE
31.   Poor governance for over two decades has been one of the main reasons for the general
discontent among the population, especially in the rural areas, and the resulting conflict, hence
the Government's commitment to an inclusive and transparent governance program. Reflecting
this commitment, despite the atrocities commnitted by the RUF and the AFRC, an inclusive
government of national unity has been formed to signal the shared responsibility for the peace
and recovery process. A Commision for the Consolidation of Peace has been established to
oversee the process of reconciliation and peace building. It is chaired by the former leader of
AFRC, Johnny Paul Koroma, and its membership comprises two representatives of the civil
society, one representative each of the Government, RUF and Parliament. Furthermore, in an
effort to involve the whole nation to rebuild itself after the war, the Government has
institutionalized the Strategic Planning and Action Process (SPP) that was launched in November
1996 to (i) forge a consensus on a national strategic vision and medium-term priorities; and (ii)
introduce a results- driven system of governance based on the use of measurable indicators (or
benchmarks). The new national army is being created with the principles of ethnic neutrality and
adherence to high professional standards.
32.   The Government plans to introduce reforms aimed at fighting corruption. It realizes that
fighting corruption requires a clear and coherent strategy which incorporates three key elements
(i) public education about corruption and persuading people to help fight it; (ii) prevention of
corruption by eliminating the opportunities for corruption from the existing systems; and (iii)
effective enforcement of laws and procedures. While the Government is still engaged in
elaborating all the steps that would constitute its comprehensive plan for eradicating corruption,
it has already identified some key first steps and started to implement them. To increase public
awareness and educate and involve the civil society, a workshop was held in October 1999.
Other steps planned in this direction include public perception and attitude surveys, a seminar for
public leaders from all walks of life, and a national conference to raise awareness, build
consensus and community support. The Government is also establishing the commissions on
human rights as well as truth and reconciliation.
33.   The Government is keen to strengthen prevention. Huge sums of money have been
committed to Sierra Leone's rehabilitation and reconstruction efforts and the effective use of
these resources in a transparent manner to achieve the maximum impact is of paramount



10
importance to the Govemment and its donor partners alike. The Govermment intends to use
effective fiscal and expenditure control and sound financial management systems to minimize
corruption by sharpening accountability and reducing the scope for non-transparent budgetary
transactions. In this regard, the Government is instituting new systems to improve budget
management and expenditure control. A financial information system has been installed in the
Accountant General's Department (AGD), with the assistance of the European Union. This
system, which is computerized, comprises a main accounting system, an expenditure
commitment control system, a payroll system, a pension system and a stores accounting and
control system. The expenditure commitment control system is interfaced with the accounting
system for commitment control of the appropriated budget before the issue of orders for goods
and services. A system has also been designed to control and account for salary advances. This
system interfaces with the payroll system. The Government is also starting weekly reconciliation
of the main operating bank accounts. The system now enables the authorities to closely monitor
and report monthly on budget execution. Such monitoring reports have been prepared for the
months of October and November 1999 on the main bank operating accounts reconciliation and
up to December 1999 for all expenditures and for payroll.
34.   These systems in the AGD have become operational and provide assurance that the
Government will use its budgetary resources, including funds provided under the ERRC, in line
with the priorities it has established under the DDR and the RRR programs. Further, the
authorities are establishing accounting procedures and controls for the monitoring of all project
related donor funds. The measures of accounting and control being introduced include the
following: (i) all project funds will be recorded in a ledger with a unique code; (ii) all project
funds will be given a specific code in the development budget; (iii) all government counterpart
funds for development project expenditures will be recorded directly through the budgetary
system using the payment voucher system; and (iv) all disbursement requests for development
projects under loan agreements will be checked and authorized by the Accountant General and
the Financial Secretary.   The AGD  will produce regular monitoring reports showing
commitments and actual expenditures. The virtual absence of ex-post auditing of expenditures
and the absence of audited government accounts makes it impossible to use the results of past
budgets for future expenditure plans. To make the budget a more effective policy tool the
Government accounts for 1998 will be audited and the results will be presented to Parliament
following which necessary actions, including legal actions, will be taken to act upon the
recommendations that have been made.
35.   The AGD has also embarked upon the following activities to rid the payroll system of
corruption: (i) identifying and verifying the correct employees to be paid by assigning special
identification numbers and badges to all civil servants and pensioners5; (ii) implementing a
centralized payroll computer system with a database of all valid employees; (iii) paying valid
employees the correct amount on time directly to them and accurately accounting for the
payment as reflected in the regular accounting reports to be produced by the AGD; and (iv)
reconciling the payroll database with the establishment database regularly. A centralized payroll
5 While the verification exercise has been attempted before, the escalation of the hostilities, the ensuing displacement of a
large percentage of the population and the resultant chaos and disorder have resulted in a bloated payroll through the creation of
ghost workers and duplication of records.



11
is now being operated for the Ministry of Finance and Economic Development, Ministry of
Health, the Police and the Ministry of Agriculture. Remaining Ministries and departments will
be centralized by the end of March 2000. The authorities intend to pursue the refonns firther to
achieve, over the medium term, a changeover from the paymaster system to direct deposit. This
will depend on security nationwide and relatively easy access to banks and post offices where
employees can open accounts.
36.   The Govenrnent has initiated steps to strengthen the legal apparatus for fighting
corruption. It has prepared a Bill entitled the Anti-Corruption Act, 1999. The Bill seeks to
establish a high-level Anti-Corruption Commission as an autonomous body, consisting of a
Chairman and two other members, all highly qualified professionals, appointed by the President
with the approval of the Parliament. Following a review, which was conducted with technical
support from DFID, the Government has revised the Bill. It is currently being discussed by the
Parliament and is expected to be enacted later this year. This is expected to facilitate and
strengthen enforcement. The Government also plans to initiate programs aimed at strengthening
its legal and judicial systems with donor support.
IV. BANK ASSISTANCE STRATEGY TO SUPPORT THE PROGRAM
37.   To be effective in a fragile post-conflict situation, financial resources have to be made
available as soon as conditions on the ground allow. Early support would help to put Sierra
Leone on a reconstruction and development track, and would also facilitate the development of a
framework for mobilization and effective use of donor resources. At the same time, uncertainties
inherent in the current political and security situation show that it is not feasible to define an
overall strategy, as nornally outlined in the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). A pragmatic
approach, building on what is urgent and what is feasible has been adopted for Sierra Leone. A
two-track assistance strategy has been approved and was discussed by the Board on December
21, 1999 and it comprises of (i) an interim transition program to provide short-term emergency
assistance and to articulate a better linkage between humanitarian and early reconstruction
activities; and (ii) a full CAS when security, capacity and institutions are stabilized enough to
permit medium to long term assistance.
38.   The Bank's proposed interim strategy of support to Sierra Leone in the next 12 months
reflects the country's urgent need for: (i) up-front resources during the transition to peace and
sustainable security; (ii) preserving the nexus between security, humanitarian and early
reconstruction/development assistance; and (iii) an integrated donor partnership based on mutual
complementarity.  To ensure the availability of resources for urgent rehabilitation and
resettlement activities and relaunching of the economy, we will: (i) maximize the impact of our
existing portfolio by resuming those activities that address immediate needs; and (ii) provide the
necessary new resources to finance the import of essential commodities (including rice and
petroleum products, raw materials and intermediate goods) and to support the social and
economic reintegration of ex-combatants, IDPs and refugees.
39.   The ERRC is an integral part of this interim support strategy for Sierra Leone. The
Strategy also provides for a Community Reintegration and Rehabilitation Project (approved on
December 21, 1999) to support the social and economic reintegration of ex-combatants,



12
internally displaced people and refugees as well as a supplement to the existing Public Sector
Management Support Project with a focus on strengthening economic management and revenue
mobilization, establishing a procurement agency, instituting the regulatory framework for the
recently liberalized petroleum sector and capacity building for local government. These create
the appropriate synergy with the ERRC.
40.   Toward the end of calendar year 2000, the Board will be updated with a progress report
on: (i) the implementation of the Interim Support Strategy, including disbursements from the
existing portfolio, and results of the portfolio restructuring exercise; and (ii) the transition to
sustainable peace and early reconstruction/development in Sierra Leone.   While some
preliminary benchmarks and triggers have been identified to guide us in assessing progress in the
security situation and economic performance, broad indicators for assessing the performance of
post-conflict countries which could subsequently be applied to Sierra Leone are also being
developed. By December 2000, depending on the outcome of a joint donor assessment, a second
phase of the Interim Support Strategy will be presented for Board discussion. At that time,
support for new operations under the interim strategy will be proposed. Among such new
operations, a Judicial and Legal Reform project6 and a LIL for piloting decentralized service
delivery with community empowerment have currently been identified.
41.   By supporting policies aimed at pacifying the nation, restarting the provision of key
social and economic services and resuming macroeconomic and structural reforms, the Credit
will help lay the foundations for the return of an appropriate environment for achieving the
Govermment's broad objectives of stable growth and poverty reduction. Private sector activity
will get a boost from sound government policies, clearance of domestic arrears to the suppliers as
well as accessibility of foreign exchange made available under the Credit in the critical early
phase of the relaunch of the economy when the main export activities are just restarting.
Improved public expenditure management and transparent and inclusive governance will
contribute significantly to better service delivery and poverty alleviation.
42.   In the absence of the ERRC and other foreign financing, heavy reliance on central bank
financing to meet the immediate needs of the NRRP would result in further depreciation of the
Leone and an increase in inflationary pressures. This is all the more so as exports would be
expected to recover only slowly. As well, the proposed operation will help increase Sierra
Leone's creditworthiness and ensure continued flow of development resources; and more
importantly, would make possible the purchases of critical imports necessary to political stability
and economic recovery.
V. MACROECONOMIC CONTEXT
43.   The Government intends to implement its NRRP within a sound macroeconomic
framework which is also critical for building business confidence and eliciting a strong private
sector supply response. The strategy adopted by the Government centers on ensuring the
6  This project was first prepared in 1997 and subsequently revised in 1998 but could not be presented to the Board because of
the coup d'etat in May 1997 and the deterioration of the security situation in January 1999. The project will be revised to reflect
the changed country circumstances and prevailing needs.



13
provision of critical services to the population in the context of a macroeconomic framework that
will reduce domestic and external imbalances and pave the way for the adoption of a medium-
term reform program.  In view of this, their near-term strategy includes restoration of
macroeconomic stability. To that end, they have elaborated a macroeconomic program in
collaboration with the IMF and the World Bank.
44.   The key objectives for the year 2000 are to significantly reduce the annual rate of
inflation while allowing for the recovery of economic activity, and some reconstitution of gross
external reserves from the existing low level of less than one month of imports. Consequently,
the program will aim to reduce end-period inflation from 31 percent in September 1999 to 15
percent by end-December 2000. Implementation of the NRRP to consolidate peace and address
the immediate resettlement and rehabilitation needs of the ex-combatants and displaced people
and to begin the reconstruction of basic infrastructure will require huge financial outlays. The
impetus to recovery and growth provided by the implementation of the NRRP is expected to
result in a modest GDP growth of about 4 percent in 2000 after declining by about an estimated 8
percent in 1999 (real GDP declined by an average of 6 percent per annum since 1995). Growth
is expected to be around 7 percent between 2001 and 2003 provided the security situation is
firmly under control and leads to a pick-up in business activities, including mining. Given the
large financial requirements for humanitarian needs and reconstruction, the external current
account deficit is expected to rise from 9 percent in 1999 to about 23 percent in 2000. The
program will also seek to maintain gross external reserves equivalent to 1.6 months of imports by
end-December 2000. The Government and the IMF and Bank staff recognize that there are
significant uncertainities about these magnitudes owing to the uncertainities inherent in the
country's situation.
A. FISCAL POLICIES
45.   During the transitional period, fiscal policies will lower the domestic primary deficit from
the current unsustainable level and improve the quality of expenditure. A draft budget for
FY2000 has been endorsed by the Cabinet and a Bill entitled "The Approriation Act 2000", is
being debated by the Parliament at the Committee level. It reflects the public expenditure
priorities of the NRRP (paras. 20-22) and is consistent with the macroeconomic framework
adopted in consultation with the IMF and the Bank. The domestic primary deficit will be
reduced from 7.4 percent of GDP in 1999 to 4.2 percent of GDP in 2000. This will be achieved
through adoption of measures to enhance government revenue and to contain domestically
financed expenditures within prudent limits. However, owing to increased outlays on social
services, reconstruction. and the establishment of institutions mandated under the Lome Peace
Accord, the overall budget deficit is projected to rise from 17.3 percent of GDP in 1999 to 22.4
percent in 2000.
46.   Given the projected recovery in economic activity, the re-establishment of revenue
offices in previously inaccessible areas and the expected improvement in tax administration,
domestic government revenue is projected to increase in 2000 to about 8 percent of GDP from 7
percent in 1999. No new major revenue measures are expected to be introduced during 2000,
when the Government will put emphasis on building capacity to improve tax administration.



14
Table 1: Sierra Leone: Selected Macroeconomic Indicators, 1996-2000
1996       1997       1998       1999       2000
Est.       Proj.      Proj.
Growth rates (%)
Real GDP                        5.0        -17.6      -0.8       -8.1        4.2
Consumer prices (average)       23.1       14.9       35.5        33.2       15.0
(In percent of GDP unless specified otherwise)
National Accounts
Consumption                     103.7      104.3       101.9      107.5      108.0
Public                         10.9       9.0        8.9        13.1        14.5
Private                       92.8        95.3       93.0       94.4       93.5
Investment                      11.0       -2.4       5.3         0.3        12.8
Public                        3.3         1.5        4.9        3.0        7.6
Private                       7.7        -3.9        0.4        -2.7       5.2
Gross domestic savings          -3.7       -4.3       -1.9        -7.5       -8.0
Balance of Payments
Trade balance                   -8.5       0.8        -3.0       -3.1        -13.9
Exports                       11.1        10.4       9.7        9.7         13.1
Imports                       19.6        9.5        12.7       12.8       27.0
Current account balance
Including official transfers  -10.8       -1.0       -6.3       -3.1       -11.2
Excluding official transfers  -17.2      -3.2        -9.1       -9.3       -22.6
Public Finance
Total revenue (excl. current grants) 10.1  5.4        7.3         7.0        8.1
Total expenditures and net lending  16.9   13.0       20.1        24.4       30.4
Current expenditure           13.6        11.5       15.2       21.4       22.8
Fiscal balance (commitment basis)
Including all grants          -5.1       -7.0        -10.4      -10.3      -13.7
Excluding all grants          -6.8       -7.5        -12.8      -17.4      -22.4
Primary fiscal balance1'        -1.6       -4.1       -3.8        -7.3       -4.1
Domestic financing              2.7        4.3         5.1        6.2        2.4
Other Items
GDP (billions of local currency)   867.1   834.5       1,051.3    1,207.7    1,447.2
Exchange rate (local/US)        920.7      981.5       1,563.6    1,800.0    2,300.0
Source: Sierra-Leone authorities and staffestimates and projections.
1/ Domestic revenue less total expenditure and net lending (excluding interest payments and extemally
financed capital expenditure). ,
47.    Public expenditure policies will seek a more productive use of resources as funds are
redirected to social and economic sectors aimed at rehabilitation and reconstruction. Total
expenditure outlays are targeted to grow from 20 percent of GDP in 1998 to about 30 percent of
GDP in 2000. Out of this, the recurrent expenditures are expected to increase from 15 percent of
GDP to 23 percent of GDP over the same period, while development expenditures, including the
reconstruction expenditures are expected to increase from 5 percent of GDP in 1998 to about 8
percent of GDP in 2000. The shift in resources made possible by the advent of peace will allow
the Government to increase spending on social services, including provisions for a transitional
social safety net for the ex-combatants. This will be monitored through the production of
monthly budget monitoring reports by the AGD at the activity level, including payroll
expenditures (especially for key line ministries and departments, including health, education,
works, agriculture, social welfare, police and prisons). Further, the SPP framework will be used
to conduct a baseline service delivery survey to provide initital conditions and baseline data
against which future improvements in service delivery will be monitored. Following the baseline
service delivery survey, the Government will conduct focus group follow-up on a selective basis



1S
to monitor improvements in service delivery. The results of the survey as well as the focus group
follow-ups will be made public.
B. MONETARY AND FINANCIAL SECTOR POLICIES
48.  In order to relieve the pressure on prices and make basic commodities affordable for the
vast majority of poor Sierra Leoneans, the Bank of Sierra Leone (BSL) will pursue a prudent
monetary policy (limited net bank borrowing) aimed at lowering inflation. This will also
contribute to the establishment of a stable enviromnent for the recovery of economic activity and,
thereby of improving income opportunities. This will be facilitated by the fiscal policy that
targets a substantial reduction in domestic bank financing. Growth of broad money is estimated
to have declined to 23 percent in 2000 from an estimated 41 percent in 1999. The BSL will
control domestic liquidity through the weekly treasury bill auction.
49.   The financial sector has suffered extensive damage caused by the rebel war. As a result,
virtually all the bank branches outside Freetown have been closed, further limiting access to the
banking sector by a vast majority of the population. While fully provisioned for, non-performing
loans are high, and constitute about 55 percent of bank portfolios. With the recovery of
economic activity, a resumption of bank lending to the private sector is expected, providing a
boost to private, especially small, businesses. Claims on the private sector are expected to grow
by about 24 percent in 2000 after declining by about 11 percent in 1999. Financial sector reform
in the near-term will focus on the review of regulatory and supervisory framework for the
commercial banks, limiting their foreign currency exposure and ensuring that prudential limits on
lending are observed. In the medium-term, the reforms aim at creating a more stable and viable
financial system by improving banking supervision and oversight by BSL, expanding available
savings instruments, and promoting growth and competition in the provision of financial
services.
C. EXTERNAL SECTOR POLICIES
50.   The foreign exchange regime continues to be one of managed flexibility. In view of the
rapid depreciation of the Leone during 1998-99 and the emergence of a significant premium
between the "official" rate and the open market rate (owing to the higher preference for notes
over bank transfers as a result of the escalation of fighting in early 1999), the authorities' priority
in the year 2000 is to reinforce the impact of sound macroeconomic policies with an approach to
determining the exchange rate to eliminate this difference. Working with the IMF, the -
Government has changed the method of calculation of the official exchange rate to better reflect
exchange market developments.  Pending the introduction of weekly auctions of a pre-
determined amount of foreign exchange (provided the reserve targets are met), the official
exchange rate will be calculated as the weighted average mid-rate of purchases and sales of
foreign currency by the commercial banks and exchange bureaus for the last five business days.
Thereafter, the official exchange calculation will also include the auction rate. Auction
participation, which will be open to commercial banks, bureaus and importers, will augment
supply as well as modulate exchange rate movements.



16
Table 2. Sierra Leone: External Finance Requirements, 1996 - 2001
(In millions of US$)
1996     1997     1998     1999     2000     2001
Currentaccountgap         135.5     27.5     60.8     62.4    142.5    135.1
Amortization               42.0     24.7     30.3     40.4      47.0     50.9
Reduction of arrears       17.6    -23.2    -36.3    -33.4    212.5       0.0
Increase in reserves       -8.2     11.7      5.0      5.5      -9.0     27.8
Total requirements        186.9     40.7     59.8     74.8    393.0    213.8
Financing                 186.9     40.7     59.8     74.8    393.0    213.8
Grants                     59.8     19.0     18.6     41.6      71.6     81.9
Loans*                     59.4     30.7     44.9     36.2    108.9      75.7
O/w BOP                    33.5     19.4     26.1     22.5      58.5     42.3
Foreign direct investment   -.3       0       3.5      1.7      2.0       3.0
Debt relief                25.5     95.0
Short-term capital         42.6   -103.9     -7.1     -4.7    -33.4    -15.5
Poss. Rescheduling of arrears                                  212.5      0.0
Possible new debt relief                                        20.6     21.5
Unidentified                                                    10.8     47.1
* Includes possible IMF financing for 1999, 2000 and 2001.
51.    While import demand is expected to be high, prospects for mineral exports remain poor
in 2000 as the rutile and bauxite mines remain closed and official diamond exports will only pick
up slowly. In addition, the scheduled external debt service is large, amounting to the equivalent
of about 10 percent of GDP or about 52 percent of exports of goods and non-factor services in
2000. Government efforts during 2000 will be aimed at containing the external current account
deficit to a level that can be financed by available external balance of payments assistance. On
this basis, the external current account deficit (before grants) is expected to rise to 23 percent of
GDP in 2000, while gross external reserves are targeted to grow to about $40 million (to cover
about 1.6 months of imports for 2000). Taking into account the existing commitments, and
potential debt relief, a residual gap of US$11 million in 2000 is expected to be covered by new
commitments.
VI. ECONOMIC REHABILITATION AND RECOVERY CREDIT (ERRC)
A. OBJECTIVES AND TIMING
52.    The proposed ERRC is a quick-disbursing credit in the amount of US$30 million that
would help finance the 2000/01 slice of the NRRP by providing critical balance of payments and
budgetary support to finance part of the foreign exchange and budgetary costs associated with
establishing peace and socio-political stability; restoring basic public services; and relaunching
of the economy in a transparent and inclusive governance framework. The Credit will support
the Government's policy framework as reflected in the Letter of Development Policy (Annex C)
and outlined above. The proceeds of the Credit will allow the import of essential commodities,
including food products, petroleum products, and raw materials and intermediate goods required
for relaunching the economy.  The local currency funds thus generated will enable the
Government to provide basic services, including law and order and the rehabilitation of
necessary social and economic infrastructure that will allow communities to return to normalcy.
The funds will also contribute to the transitional safety net allowance for adult ex-combatants
and the settlement plan of domestic arrears to the private sector. It will complement similar



17
support provided by DFID, the EU and the IMF and will be implemented in parallel with the
IDA-assisted Community Reintegration and Rehabilitation Project.
53.   The Credit is expected to be disbursed in three tranches - two fixed and one floating -
over a period of about 12 - 15 months. The policy package draws on the earlier work done in
1997 and 1998 for proposed operations which could not be concluded as a result of the coup
d'6tat in May 1997 and the deterioration of the security situation in January 1999 respectively.
B. FEATURES OF THE CREDIT
54.   The following conditions of Board presentation have been met.
A.   In the area of protective security/peace-building and reconciliation:
(i)   setting up the apparatus (NCDDR  and its Executive Secretariat) for
implementation of the DDR program (para. 17).
(ii)  establishing the Commission for the Consolidation of Peace and appointing its
chairman and members (para. 31).
B.   In the area of social and economic security:
(i)   implementing the agreed budgetary allocations for the last quarter of 1999.
(ii)  preparing the budget for FY2000 reflecting the needs and priorities of
rehabilitation and recovery of the economy within the budgetary aggregates
agreed in the context of the macroeconomic framework (para. 45).
C.   In the area of transparent and inclusive governance:
(i)   establishing accounting procedures and controls for the monitoring of donor funds
for projects (para. 34).
(ii)  producing a payroll monitoring report for the last quarter of 1999 (para. 33).
(iii)  preparing bank reconciliation reports of the main operating bank accounts and
presenting them for at least the months of October and November 1999 (para. 33).
Credit effectiveness.
The Credit will become effective upon ratification by the Sierra Leone Legislature and IDA's
receipt of a legal opinion of the Attorney General confirming the validity of the Development
Credit Agreement.
Conditions for tranche release.
Release of each tranche will be conditioned on the maintenance of a satisfactory macroeconomic
framework as agreed with the Bank and the IMF. The following indicators will be used to
monitor the macroeconomic policy framework: (i) domestic bank financing for Government
deficit set at a ceiling of Le 15 billion at end-March 2000; (ii) net domestic assets of the central
bank (defined as difference between net foreign assets of the central bank and the reserve money)



18
set at a ceiling of Le 1 .5 billion at end-March 2000; and (iii) domestic primary budget deficit of
the Government (defined as domestic revenue less total expenditure, excluding interest payments
and externally financed development expenditures) set at a floor of Le 24 billion at end-March
20007. The first tranche will be released upon effectiveness.
Conditions for the release of the second tranche.
The second tranche will be released after a satisfactory review of performance of the following
policies.
In the area of social and economic security
(i)   prepare and adopt a Domestic Arrears Settlement Plan. The plan should include
duly validated arrears to private suppliers accrued since March 1998 (para. 30).
(ii)   adopt the Manual of Procedures for the implementation of the above mentioned
plan in consultation with IDA (para. 30).
In the area of transparent and inclusive governance:
(i)    produce a budget monitoring report at the activity level for at least the first quarter
of FY2000 for key ministries and departments including health, education, works,
agriculture, social welfare, police and prisons, including payroll monitoring report
at the same level (para. 47).
(ii)   conduct a national baseline service delivery survey within the existing SPP
framework to provide initial conditions and baseline data against which future
improvements in service delivery will be monitored. (para. 47).
(iii)   following the baseline service delivery survey, conduct focus group follow-up on
a selective basis to monitor improvements in service delivery.
(iv)   adopt a national anti-corruption strategy and enact the Anti-Corruption Bill (paras.
32, 36).
(v)    conclude the validation and verification of personnel roll and finalize the
computerization of the personnel database (para. 35).
Conditions for release of the floating tranche.
The floating tranche will be released after a satisfactory review of performance of the following
policies related to the public enterprise sector. The Government will
(i)    publish the financial and performance  indicators of the following  public
enterprises - Guma Valley Water Company, National Power Authority, Sierra
Leone Telecommunications Company, Sierra Leone Postal Services, Sierra Leone
7  Should the release of the second tranche or the floating tranche be delayed or expected to be delayed beyond June 2000, the
Government and the Association, in consultation with the IMF, will agree on revised targets for end-June for the same indicators
mentioned above.



19
Ports Authority, Sierra Leone Housing Corporation and Sierra Leone Lottery for
the first quarter of FY2000 (para. 27).
(ii)  prepare a strategic plan for the treatment of the remaining public enterprises on
the basis of terms of reference satisfactory to IDA (para. 26).
(iii)  have received its Cabinet's approval for the implementation of the strategic plan
referred in (ii) above, satisfactory to the Association including implementation
modalities, timetable and institutional arrangements (para. 26).
C. ROLE OF THE IMF AND OTHER DONORS
55.   Sierra Leone's donor partners have shown strong support to the Government in its
rehabilitation and recovery efforts as it comes out of the eight year long civil war. Since the
return of the Kabbah Government from exile in Guinea in March 1998, the IMF, EU and the
AfDB have been the active multilateral partners. The IMF approved the use of resources under
its emergency post-conflict assistance facility in November 1998 and the first tranche, in the
amount of SDR 11.58 million, was disbursed. The flare-up of fighting in January 1999 resulted
in an interruption of the facility. A new facility was approved by the Fund Board in December
1999, in the amount of SDR 25.93 million (25 percent of quota). While the AfDB does not have
an ongoing balance of payments support operation, there is an allocation of UA 6.7 million for
policy-based lending under the ADF VIII replenishment and they are considering the possibility
of parallel financing with the ERRC. An agreement on a Fund program will trigger further
budgetary support from the EU and the DFID in the amount of about US$10 million and US$16
million from the EU and the DFID respectively. Sierra Leone's major bilateral partners include
the UK, US, Germany, Canada, Norway, Japan, and they have committed new resources in
addition to the full resumption of their ongoing programs to support the Government's
rehabilitation and recovery program.
D. IMPLEMENTATION, MONITORING AND SUPERVISION
56.   The Borrower will be the Republic of Sierra Leone, represented by the Ministry of
Finance (MOF). Upon approval of the Credit, the MOF will open a deposit account at the Bank
of Sierra Leone. IDA will deposit the proceeds of the Credit in this account at the request of the
MOF. The proposed Credit will be released in three tranches and will follow the simplified IDA
procedures for adjustment operations (February 8, 1996). IDA disbursements will not be linked
to specific purchases and, hence, there will be no procurement requirements. In case the
proceeds of the Credit are used for ineligible purposes (for example, to finance items imported
from non-member countries, or goods and services on IDA's standard negative list), IDA will
require the Borrower to either: (i) return that amount to the account for use for eligible purposes;
or (ii) refund the amount directly to IDA, in which case IDA will cancel an equivalent
undisbursed amount of the Credit. IDA reserves the right to require an audit of the special
account at any time.
Management of Funds
57.   Recognizing the capacity weaknesses as Sierra Leone comes out of the long conflict,
government processes are being reinforced to ensure that funds are used appropriately. To



20
improve overall financial integrity and accountability of government finances, new systems have
been instituted in the AGD (paras.33-34). Further, specific processes have been established to
ensure appropriate use of contributions to the transitional safety net. The Government has
recruited the services of an internationally recognized firm to appropriately and effectively
handle all financial management and procurement issues related to the DDR program, including
the contributions to the transitional safety net. Procedures are being established, with technical
assistance from the EU, to handle arrears settlement in a transparent and cost effective manner.
For the medium-term, further reform of public expenditure processes and procurement processes
are being pursued to build the necessary capacity and systems.
Monitoring
58.   The Government's rehabilitation and recovery effort, supported by the proposed ERRC,
will be managed under the overall supervision of a Steering Committee chaired by the Minister
of Finance. This Committee is composed of key Ministers (including the Minister of Planning
and Economic Development, Minister of Trade, Industry and State Enterprises,  the
representatives of the NCRRR and NCDDR and the Minister of Presidential Affairs) and the
Governor of the Bank of Sierra Leone. A Technical Committee comprising high level staff from
various line ministries and the Bank of Sierra Leone will assist the Steering Committee and will
be responsible for monitoring the program, including policy indicators and coordinating the
activities of all Government agencies involved in program implementation. This Committee will
be chaired by the Financial Secretary. The Committee will prepare a quarterly progress report
for the attention of the Cabinet and the Parliament. This report will be shared with the Bank.
The overall reform effort will be reviewed by the Government in close coordination with regular
Bank and IMF missions to ensure continued implementation of program, with particular attention
to the macroeconomic framework, progress on peace and impact on poverty alleviation.
Indicators and Benchmarks
59.   While the outcome indicators are not monitorable in the short time period for the
implementation of the ERRC, a logical framework which relates the objectives more clearly to
monitorable policy and intermediate outputs has been prepared and is attached as Annex D.
With the support of the Bank, the authorities have worked out intermediate performance
indicators with which to monitor progress towards achieving the goals of their program. Some
of these will be monitored by Bank staff to assess how the Credit contributes to the success of
the Government's efforts.
E. BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benefits
60.   The proposed Credit is an integral part of the Bank's interim strategy to assist Sierra
Leone in the transition from war to peace. The credit would support policies that would help
consolidate peace and restore protective and material security, through the implementation of the
NRRP. It will help to revive basic public services and restore credibility to public sector
performance by supporting mechanisms that ensure the delivery of these services in a transparent



21
and accountable manner. It will contribute to economic recovery and growth by providing
foreign exchange resources for imports of essential commodities and by providing financial
resources to the Government budget to finance priority public expenditures. By helping to close
the financing gap in the year 2000 in an orderly manner, it will also contribute to curbing
inflation and maintenance of macroeconomic stability, which have both been areas of concern in
the recent past.
Risks
61.   The operation faces three risks: (i) possible deterioration of the security and political
situation; (ii) failure of the government of national unity (formed in October 1999, which
includes the leaders of ex-rebel groups), to follow through with the recovery program; and (iii)
delays in prograrn implementation owing to weak implementation capacity. First, security is
likely to remain an issue for some time, due to the time it takes to disarm totally as well as the
possibility of cross-border destabilization from the rest of the region. There are, however, reasons
to believe that this risk is diminishing: (i) the recent return to Sierra Leone of rebel leaders Foday
Sankoh and Johnny Paul Koroma to assume their respective responsibilities as defined in the
Peace Accord is a promising sign that the political will of these two parties to end the conflict is
in place; (ii) contributions of both the Revolutionary United Front (RUF) and the Armed Forces
Revolutionary Council (AFRC) representatives to start-up the disarmament and demobilization
activities lend further hope that the accord will be fully implemented; (iii) the ongoing
strengthening of the police force (with the assistance of bilateral donors) is improving the
maintenance of law and order, and (iv) the UN Peace Keeping Force has begun deployment
throughout the country.
62.   Secondly, there is the risk of a reversal on the commitment to peace and national
reconstruction owing to pressures from some of the members of the national unity Government.
The desire to see quick rewards for their followers may prompt actions that could block progress
on the program, especially on fighting corruption and improving governance. Three factors
attenuate this risk. The progress made so far in implementing the DDR Program (about 11,000
ex-combatants have been disarmed, of which 1,402 have already been discharged and the
remaining are in camps receiving transitional assistance) is giving ex-combatants a viable and
attractive alternative that is linked to disarmament and peace. Also, the rehabilitation and
recovery program to be supported by the proposed Credit is the result of an extensive and
intensive program of national consultation conducted by the Government in November 1996, and
resumed in May 1998. The implied buy-in by the majority of Sierra Leoneans constitutes some
assurance that it will be implemented fully. Further, continuing efforts to raise public awareness
about the expected social benefits will strengthen the support for the program.
63.   Thirdly, weak institutional capacity could cause delays in implementing some aspects of
the rehabilitation and recovery program. This risk is being mitigated in three ways: (i) the
design of peace-building activities incorporates necessary institutional support; (ii) in the area of
economic management, the IDA-supported Public Sector Management Support Project is being
strengthened (with a supplementary credit) to continue to provide capacity building support; and
(iii) technical assistance is being reinforced by partners such the African Development Bank,
European Union and the Departnent for International Development of the United Kingdom.



22
VII. RECOMMENDATION
64.   I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the Articles of Agreement of
IDA and recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfenshon
President
By: Shengman Zhang
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
January26, 2000



Annex A
SIERRA LEONE
ECONOMIC REHABILITATION AND RECOVERY CREDIT
Timetable of Key Processing Events
Time taken to prepare the Credit         4 months
Project Prepared by                      World Bank/Government
ROC Decision Meeting                     December 20, 1999
Appraisal/Negotiations                   January 7-14, 2000
Board Presentation                       February, 2000
Effectiveness                            February, 2000
Project Completion                       June, 2001
The Task Teamn for preparation of the Economic Rehabilitation and Recovery Credit comprised:
Preeti Arora (Task Team Leader, AFTM5), Brian Ngo (Principal Economist, AFTM5),
Charalambos Tsangarides (Consultant, AFTM5), Oliver Campbell White (Senior Public
Enterprises Specialist, AFTPS), Richard Cambridge (Lead Specialist, AFTQK), Aberra Zerabruk
(Senior Counsel, LEGAF), Paula White (Team Assistant). The Quality Assurance Team
consisted of Emmanuel Akpa (Sector Manager, AFTM5), Nat Colletta (Sector Manager,
SDVPC), and Paul Bermingham (Operations Advisor, OCSPS). The Country Director was Mr.
Mamadou Dia (up to January 10, 2000).



ANNEX B
SIERRA LEONE: ECONOMIC REHABILITATION AND RECOVERY CREDIT                                                             Page 1 of 2
Matrix of Policy Actions
Achieving protective security  Implement the Lome Peace   The Government has setup the   Continue the implementation of the DDR   Continuously during the transition
to protect individual safety  Accord, including the       apparatus for DDR program    program.                                   phase.
and human rights.           implementation of the         implementation and about
Disarmament, Demobilization    11,000 ex-combatants have
and Reintegration (DDR)      been disarmed, of which 1,402
Program.                     have already been discharged.
Commission for the
Consolidation of Peace
established and its chairman
and members appointed.
Reconstitute the national army,  The new army is being created
strengthen the police and    with the principles of ethnic
improve the judicial processes   neutrality and adherence to
and the law courts.          high professional standards.
Providing social security    Provide essential services   Implemented the agreed
covering resettlement,       effectively throughout the   budgetary allocations for the
reintegration and access to    country.                   Iast two quarters of 1999 and
basic services and                                        produced budget monitoring
infrastructure.                                           report for the two quarters.
The Government has prepared   Implement the budget for 2000 transparantly    Throughout 2000.
the budget for 2000 reflecting    and effectively
its commitment to provide
basic social and economic
services within the budgetary
aggregates agreed in the
context of the macroeconomic
framework.
Achieving economic security   Revive the economy.         The Government has prepared a  Maintain satisfactory macroeconomic      Throughout the period.
which requires the creation                               sound macroeconomic          framework.
of growing income            Restore macroeconomic        framework within which it will
opportunities to the         stability, with focus on fiscal   implement the NRRP.     Improve public resource management.        Continuous.
population                   discipline and revenue
mobilization.
Improve public resource                                   Prepare and adopt a Domestic Arrears       Before second tranche release.
management.                                               Settlement plan.
Create conditions to allow a                              Prepare and adopt a Manual of procedures for   Before second tranche release.
better private sector role in the                         the implementation of the above plan in
economy.                                                  consultation with IDA.



ANNEX B
SIERRA LEONE: ECONOMIC REHABILITATION AND RECOVERY CREDIT                                                            Page 2 of 2
Matrix of Policy Actions
Ob, ;  __   _: _             Sirateg  and Measure..       Actions Aldy T*        : .   Acions to ie Taken      .: __ __ : __Tin                                  :
Achieving economic security                                                            Publish the financial and performance      Before release of the floating tranche.
which requires the creation                                                             indicators of the following public enterprises
of growing income                                                                      for the first quarter of 2000 - Guma Valley
opportunities to the                                                                   Water Company, National Power Authority,
population (contd.)                                                                    Sierra Leone Telecommunications Company,
Sierra Leone Postal Services, Sierra Leone
Ports Authority, Sierra Leone Housing
Corporation and Sierra Leone Lottery.
Prepare a strategic plan for the treatment of the  Before release of the floating tranche.
public enterprises remaining in the
Government portfolio on the basis of terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank.
Receive the Cabinet's approval for the    Before release of the floating tranche
implementation of the strategic plan referred
above, satisfactory to the Association
including implementation modalities,
timetable and institutional arrangements.
Establish transparent and    Continue to use the SPP      SPP process institutionalized.    Produce a budget monitoring report at the  Before second tranche release.
inclusive governance systems  framework to forge consensus                             activity level for key ministries and
to combat corruption and     on a national strategic vision    A new financial information  departments including health, education,
ensure institutional and social and introduce a results driven   system has been established in  agriculture, social welfare, police, and prisons.
inclusiveness.               system of governance.        the AGD to improve budget    Produce a payroll monitoring report at the
management and expenditure   same level
Introduce reforms aimed at   control.
fighting corruption, building on                          Conduct a national baseline service delivery  Before second tranche release.
three key elements: (i) public    Anti-corruption Act has been    survey within the existing SPP framework to
education; (ii) prevention; and   drafted.                provide initial conditions and baseline data
(iii) enforcement.                                        against which future improvements in service
Accounting procedures and    delivery will be monitored.
controls for the monitoring of
donor funds has been         Conduct focus group follow-up on a selective   Before second tranche release.
established.                 basis to monitor improvements in service
delivery.
Prepare and present weekly
bank reconciliation reports of    Adopt a national anti-corruption strategy and    Before second tranche release.
the main operating bank      enact the Anti-Corruption Bill.
accounts.
Conclude the validation and verification of  Before second tranche release.
personnel role and finalize the computerization
of the personnel database.






Annex C
N       Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Freetown, Sierra Leone
A]WRA Lr4N Ui OVL9VM.Tr
20 January 2000
MF-EA 302/69/01
Mr. James Wolfenshon
President
World Bank
Washington D.C. 20433
Dear Mr. Wolfenshon,
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
I am writing to request that you approve a US$ 30.0 million Economic
Rehabilitation and Recovery Credit (ERRC) to support Sierra Leone's National
Rehabilitation and Recovery Programme (NRRP).
2.    As you may be aware, since the signing of the Peace Accord on 7Th July 1999,
progress is being made in implementing key provisions of the Peace Accord. This
process has been assisted by the return to Sierra Leone of the two former rebel leaders
Corporal Foday Sankoh and Lt. Col. Johnny Paul Koroma. Consistent with the
undertakings made by the Government, a broad-based government of national unity has
been appointed, including representatives from the former rebel movement. Corporal
Foday Sankoh and Lt. Col. Johnny Paul Koroma have each been appointed Chairman
respectively of the Commission for the Management of Strategic Resources for
Reconstruction and Development (CMSRRD) and the Commission for the Consolidation
of Peace (CCP). Plans are also underway for the establishment of a Truth and
Reconciliation Commission to facilitate the healing process for the achievement of
genuine and lasting peace.
3.    Rebuilding our war-ravaged economy as well as addressing the urgent and basic
needs of the population remain our utmost priority. These require substantial financial
resources which the Government is not equipped to provide from its own resources in the
near term. It is for these reasons that this appeal is being made to you against the
background of the deleterious consequences of the rebel war which are described below.



Physical Damage
4.    The eight years brutal armed conflict has caused massive damage to our physical,
economic and social infrastructure in both rural and urban areas. Roads, bridges, schools,
hospitals, telecommunication and power networks have been damaged countrywide.
5.    The devastating impact of the invasion of Freetown, the capital city, in January
1999 aggravated an already desperate humanitarian situation. Nearly one-half of the
population, or about two million people are internally displaced, most of whom are living
in refugee camps in big towns or Freetown while others are refugees in neighbouring
countries. The grossly insufficient social amenities in these towns have been
overstretched. Our rural villages and towns have been deprived of basic education
facilities and proper health care delivery systems while safe urban areas continue to be
overcrowded. The disruption of production activities, especially agricultural activities,
and the destruction of private and public property in these places have impeded progress
in resettling the population. As a consequence, the food security situation in the country
has worsened and human suffering increased.
6.     The business sector was also subjected to extensive looting and destruction of
property including plant, buildings and machinery. The banking sector also suffered with
the closure of their branches in all provincial towns. Mining activities, a major source of
employment, revenue and foreign exchange ceased following the occupation of the
diamond areas by rebels, and the closure of the rutile and bauxite mines since January
1995.
Damage to the Macroeconomy
7.    Economic growth in recent years has been hampered by the adverse security
situation. Real Gross Domestic Product (GDP) dropped dramatically by 20 percent in
1997 and virtually stagnated in 1998. In 1999, real GDP is estimated to decline by 9
percent. These sharp contractions in output have resulted in high unemployment levels
and this has exacerbated the severity and depth of poverty in the country. The adverse
security situation has also completely reversed the gains made earlier in stabilising the
economy and disrupted the implementation of key structural reforms.
8.    The contraction in output and the slowdown in economic activity resulted in
shrinkage in Government's revenue base. Total revenue collected in the first half of 1999
dropped to 2.1 percent of GDP compared to 5.3 percent of GDP in the second half of
1998. Against this weak revenue performance, expenditure pressures to fund security
related expenditures, wages and salaries and external debt service payments have
persisted. The collapse in the revenue base coupled with the absence of external
budgetary support resulted in a sharp increase in the budget deficit, which rose to 11.0
percent of GDP on an annualised basis during the first half of 1999. The overall budget
deficit on a commitment basis is estimated at 17.1 percent of GDP in 1999 from 12.8
percent in 1998. The deficit has been almost entirely financed from domestic sources
2



mainly bank financing. This has led to a sharp increase in money supply and a surge in
inflation. The annual inflation rate rose from negative 5.6 percent in December 1998 to
29 percent in September 1999.
9.    Our export sector remained depressed owing to the occupation by rebels of the
mining and agricultural export producing areas. The need to meet critical debt service
payments to our multilateral creditors and the requirements to fund the importation of
essential commodities has resulted in a depletion of our foreign exchange reserves. Gross
foreign reserves dropped from US$ 45 million in December 1998 to about US$ 16
million in October 1999 or the equivalent of less than a month's import. The drop in
reserves has exerted tremendous pressure on the exchange rate. The nominal exchange
rate of the Leone to the US dollar depreciated by 31 percent between January to October
1999 with the parallel market premium widening to 29 percent over the same period after
narrowing down to 12 percent in December 1998.
The National Rehabilitation and Recovery Programme (NRRP)
10.   While peace has been secured, key challenges lie ahead in building on the
window of opportunity provided by the signing of the Accord. These include
consolidation of the peace, reconciliation, rehabilitation and reconstruction of the social
and physical infrastructure damaged by the war. In this regard, Government has
developed the NRRP to consolidate peace and reconciliation and provide sustained
security in both protective and material terms. The main elements of this programme are:
restoration of security for life and property including the protection of human rights;
improving service delivery as well as access to productive assets for the majority of the
population to alleviate poverty; and promotion of transparent and inclusive governance.
Protective Security
11.   The Government is committed to fully implement the Lome Peace Accord. This
comprises the implementation of the Disarmament, Demobilization and Reintegration
(DDR) programme and improving law and order situation nationwide. A National
Committee on the DDR (NCDDR) , chaired by the President of Sierra Leone, has been
set up and is providing overall policy guidance on the DDR programme. Actual
implementation of the DDR programme has been delegated by NCDDR to its Executive
Secretariat. Since their return to Freetown, efforts by the two former rebel leaders to
promote peace are underway. Both leaders have fornally joined the DDR Committee.
They have also visited demobilisation centres and have followed this with sensitisation
visits to their fighting men in their main bases to acquaint them with the importance of
the Peace Accord and the DDR programme.
12.   The DDR programme was officially launched on October 22 1999. Since its
launching, there are indications that more rebels are voluntarily disarming and reporting
at various demobilisation centres. These developments have led to improvements in the
I  It comprises representatives of the Govemment, RUF, AFRC, as well as the UN, ECOMOG amd DFID as the donor representative
3



security situation countrywide with access to the rural areas also improving. Even though
funding for the DDR programme is largely from donors through the Multi- Donor Trust
Fund established by the Government and managed by the Bank, the Government has in
the past paid for and will continue to provide resources for the reinsertion and safety net
allowances for some ex-combatants.
13.   However, Government recognises that the task of consolidating peace and
security predicates on the overhauling of our entire security apparatus. With the assistance
of the British Government and ECOMOG, a new professional anny that is non-political,
ethnically and regionally balanced is being trained to protect the lives and property of the
civil populace and the sovereignty of the state. Furthermnore, the police force is also being
restructured and retrained to prepare it for its new role in the new society as well as ensure
the observance of the rule of law and the protection of human rights. In this regard, a
Commonwealth Police Development Task Force set up by DFID is supporting our efforts
at strengthening the police force. Furthermore, Government is addressing the weaknesses
in the judiciary, especially in the areas of commercial cases and civil matters. In addition,
the United Nations Security Council has approved the establishment of a 6000-strong
peacekeeping force in Sierra Leone to supervise the disarmament, demobilisation and
.reintegration programnme of ex-combatants.
Social and Economic Security
14.   Poverty is widespread and endemic in Sierra Leone. The eight-year rebel war has
increased the prevalence and severity of poverty in our country. In this regard, a major
challenge facing Government is the fight against poverty, disease and ignorance. With the
war now hopefully behind us, Government has declared the fight against poverty as its
topmost priority.
15.   Government will continue to restructure its expenditure pattern to reflect the
priorities that emerged from the consultations on a national strategic vision held in
August 1999. In this respect, Government will continue to shift expenditures away from
lower priority areas to the social sectors, especially education and health. Given the high
priority to the provision of basic social services, the allocation to the social sectors is
budgeted at about 40 percent of total non-interest, non-salary recurrent expenditures in
2000.
16.   Despite a very tight budgetary situation, our recent efforts to halt the deteriorating
poverty situation are focused on supporting small-scale indigenous businesses through a
micro financing programme. This programme has targeted poor people, mainly women
and youths, to assist them undertake income-generating projects for self-employment in
urban neighbourhoods. The programme will soon be extended to rural communities as
accessibility and the security situation continues to improve.
17.   A key aspect of our education policy is to improve access for schooling for the
children of poor parents, especially the displaced. In this respect, Government has
reduced significantly the private costs of schooling for poor parents and provided further
4



incentives to increase primary school enrollment. These include the provision of free
primary education for children in classes 1-3, the provision of free school materials for
classes 4-6, and a school health programme which provides free medical consultation and
drugs for all school children at all levels.
18.   Government will also establish an integrated shelter base programme aimed at
removing child beggars and children from vulnerable families from the streets in
Freetown and other major urban centres. The programme will include developing a non-
formal basic education system for these children.
19.   Government will strengthen the health care delivery system and will increase its
efforts to drastically reduce the high maternal and infant mortality rates. The focus of
Government's health policy will be the provision of a decentralised network of sound
facilities at the primary, secondary and tertiary levels with sufficient logistics support to
ensure functionality and accessibility.
20.   Environmental health education is also being promoted to ensure a clean
environment, the supply of safe drinking water and the improvement of general sanitation
in both rural and urban areas. The control and prevention of communicable diseases
through the mother and child expanded programme of immunisation (EPI) is also high on
our agenda. The cost recovery and procurement system is also being reformed to make it
more efficient and effective to serve its purpose.
21.   Government Housing Policy in the short and medium  term is to facilitate
opportunities for low-income earners and the under-privileged to have access to decent
housing and sanitation. For the low income and less privileged communities, shelter
packages will be delivered through a training programme aimed at building capacity for
communities and local authorities in effective housing delivery. The project will be
delivered to target groups through an aided-self help mechanism on a revolving basis to
provide improved shelter and sanitation at affordable cost.
22.   Government's agricultural policy will focus on achieving food security and food
self-sufficiency through the strengthening of farmers associations, encouraging private
sector participation and promotion of food diversification programmes. The development
of the agricultural sector will follow closely the Agricultural Master Plan which, has been
recently formulated. Government is urgently taking steps to restore pre-war levels of food
production capacity through the distribution of seeds, fertilizers and tools, resettlement of
farmers and the rehabilitation of agricultural infrastructure.
23.   Government is also implementing measures to increase and expand the income-
earning opportunities for the wider population, especially the youth, aimed at achieving
economic security. In this respect, Government will revive its institutional and policy
reform agenda in macroeconomic stabilisation as well as creating the enabling
environment for private sector operators. The macroeconomic reforms will emphasize
strict fiscal discipline and increased revenue mobilisation. In the short-term, our revenue
mobilisation efforts will focus on strengthening tax administration through the provision
5



of logistics and equipment to the revenue departments. In the area of private sector
development, Government will continue to implement policies to stabilise the
macroeconomic environment and improve the financial system including facilitating the
re-opening of bank branches in the rural towns. Other measures include the introduction
of a new investment code and measures to simplify business registration procedure.
24.   As indicated above, many businesses suffered huge financial losses during the
conflict. Despite appeals from this sector for assistance from Government, our current
resource situation and urgent need to fund basic requirements limits our ability to provide
any form of assistance. Nonetheless, Governnent recognises that reinjection of resources
into the economy will facilitate the re-establishment and rehabilitation of many
businesses or industries looted or burned down during the conflict. Hence, the
Government wishes to minimise the burden on business by honouring obligations owed
to its suppliers, mainly small and medium sized establishments. The aim is to facilitate
re-establishment of these enterprises for employment generation as well as improve the
Government's credibility. All ministries and departments have submitted the schedule of
arrears owed by Government to the private sector. An aggregate schedule of arrears owed
(including wages and salaries, domestic suppliers and international arrears) has been
drawn up. The Government is seeking the assistance of the EU to hire a firm to carry out
an independent audit of these arrears. A draft Manual of Procedures that draws on the
Financial Administration Regulations, 1998 is under preparation and will include an
implementation plan for settling the arrears.
25.   Government policy for the public enterprises sector continues to focus on the
privatisation of public enterprises or some of their functions that could be more
efficiently managed by the private sector. This will eliminate the fiscal burden
Government has had to carry in order to prop up non-performing enterprises that
continually depend on Government subsidies or non-payment of taxes and dividends in
order to survive.
26.   Government is preparing a strategy and a work programme setting the timetable
for the necessary steps towards the privatisation of remaining enterprises. It is pursuing a
two phased approach, with the first phase centered around information gathering and
stocktaking of all public enterprises and the second phase being that of strategy
formulation. In the meantime, the financial performance of public enterprises, especially
the utilities is being monitored on a quarterly basis. In addition, these enterprises have
been requested to submit to Govermnent performance indicators of service delivery,
which will be monitored on a quarterly basis.
27.   Consistent with the provisions of the Peace Accord, Government has established a
Commission for the Management of Strategic Resources for Reconstruction and
Development. This commission, headed by the RUF leader, is charged with the
responsibility of securing and monitoring legitimate exploitation and marketing of
diamonds and gold as well as cater for post war rehabilitation and reconstruction. The
Commission is expected to adopt an anti-smuggling drive consistent with the effective
6



and efficient monitoring of activities relating to the mining and marketing of precious
minerals.
28.   To derive maximum benefits from our fisheries sector, Government is in the
process of resettling and rehabilitating fishing communities along the coastal line
devastated by the upsurge in fighting early this year. Of equal importance, Government is
developing an efficient and cost effective Monitoring Control and Surveillance (MCS)
system to rationalise the use of our fisheries resources.
Transparent and Inclusive Governance
29.   A key aspect of the Government's development agenda is the promotion of a
broad programme of governance and public service reforms. The objective of these
reforms is the restoration of transparency and accountability and the strengthening of
democratic and adrninistrative institutions and processes. The empowerment of civil
society, decentralisation of authority and responsibilities to local authorities and
reforming of the civil service and the judiciary are important elements of this programme.
30.   Given our concerns about the intractable problem of corruption in our society,
wide-ranging consultations are underway to introduce reforms aimed at fighting
corruption. This strategy incorporates three key elements: (i) prevention; (ii) law
enforcement; and (iii) public education. While the Government is still engaged in
exploring all the steps that would constitute its comprehensive plan for eradicating
corruption, it has already identified some key first steps and started to irnplement them.
To increase public awareness and educate and involve the civil society, a workshop was
held in October 1999. Other steps planned in this direction include public perception and
attitude surveys, a seminar for public leaders from all walks of life, and a national
conference to raise awareness, build consensus and community support.
31.   Government is also committed to continue to strengthen public expenditure
management and control to enhance accountability, transparency and efficiency and in
the use of public funds. The Accountant General's Department is being restructured and
reorganised with the recruitment of local professional accountants to improve the
accounting system and strengthen controls. A financial information system with effective
accounting controls and comprehensive audit trails has been designed and is being
implemented. Various types of reports can be generated by the system, which can inform
Vote Controllers about the commitments and outstanding balances as well as monitor
expenditures at those levels at which allocations have been made. For the second half of
1999, monitoring reports at the ministry/department/division level for both wages and
salaries and other charges were compiled. For FY 2000, in addition to the reports at the
department/division level, the monitoring reports will also be prepared at the activity
level for key Ministries/Departnents, including Health, Education, Works, Agriculture,
Social Welfare, Police and Prisons.  This will enhance the transparency and
accountability of the utilisation of public fumds, including donor contributions to our
programmes and the timely reporting of Government revenues and expenditures.
7



32.  In addition to reforms in expenditure management, Government has conmmenced
the benchmarking phase of the strategic process following the relaunching of the
Strategic Planning and Action Process (SPP) and national consultations in August 1999.
This is aimed at identifying and measuring monitorable indicators and targets for poverty
reduction. The benchmarks are expected to constitute effective yardsticks for measuring
the quality of public service delivery in general and will serve as the building blocks of a
performance-based incentive system to improve governance and productivity in the
public service. This process will be linked to the major challenge of restructuring
expenditures to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of service delivery to rural
communities in particular.  The key challenge will be to identify and reorient
expenditures to obtain optimum gains in terms of service delivery to rural communities.
33.   The Government has initiated steps to strengthen the legal apparatus for fighting
corruption. It has prepared a Bill entitled the Anti-Corruption Act, 1999. The Bill seeks
to establish a high-level Anti-Corruption Commission as an autonomous body, consisting
of a Chairman and two other members, all highly qualified professionals, appointed by
the President with the approval of the Parliament. This Bill with wide ranging measures
to make corruption unrewarding and punishable is currently being discussed by
Parliament.
Economic Management
34.   Despite a difficult environment, Government is committed to maintaining and
implementing prudent macroeconomic policies. Government considers it imperative that
implementation of the NRRP, including the DDR programme, would be done within a
macroeconomic framework that would reduce both domestic and external imbalances. In
this regard, Government has drawn up and agreed upon a macroeconomic framework
with the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the World Bank for the financial year
2000. The IMF is supporting our efforts in the context of a post-conflict facility recently
approved by their Board.
35.   The key objectives of our fiscal programme for 2000 are to significantly slow
end-period inflation from 31 percent in September 1999 to 15 percent by end-December
2000, reduce the primary budget deficit from 7.4 percent of GDP in 1999 to 4 percent of
GDP in 2000 and to rebuild our foreign exchange reserves to 1.6 months of imports.
However, due to the higher outlays projected for social services, the reconstruction and
rehabilitation of school and health facilities in the rural areas and the establishment of the
Commissions agreed under the Lome Peace Accord, estimated to be about 30 percent of
GDP in 2000, the overall budget deficit is projected to rise substantially from 17.4
percent of GDP in 1999 to 22 percent of GDP in 2000. However, despite these outlays,
the implementation of the NRRP which is expected to consolidate the peace and address
the immediate needs of the displaced population and ex-combatants during the early part
of resettlement and the rehabilitation and reconstruction of basic social infrastructure will
require substantial resources far beyond what our domestic resources can provide.
8



Conclusion
36.   Finally, Government appreciates the support it is receiving from the Bank and
look forward to your continued support. Your assistance to support the implementation
of these policies and programmes will be a significant input in our peace building,
reconciliation and national reconstruction efforts.
Please accept, Mr. President, the assurances of my highest consideration.
Yours sincerely,
JAMES 0. C. JONAH
MINISTER OF FINANCE
Copy: Secretary to the President



Annex D
1 of2
Sierra Leone: Economic Rehabilitation and Recovery Credit
Project Description Summary
Narrative Summary      Key Performance Indicators  Monitoring and       Assumptions/Risks
Evaluation
Development
Objectives
Peace consolidated,    1. Ex-combatants re-inserted   Monitoring reports  Technical and
economy revived and    into civilian life.                              financial assistance
reforms resumed                                                         continues
2. Income relief to public  Monitoring reports
sector pensioners through
settlement of arrears due.
3. Reduction in the number    Media reportsUN
of factional military violent    reports
clashes.
4. Reduction in crimes     Media reports
reported in major cities.
5. Turnover and employment  Survey
in a sample of businesses
owed arrears.
6. Accurate and timely     Monthly reports
reporting of public finances.
7. Macroeconomic program    Document evaluation
on track.                                       
Outputs
Contribution to        1. NCDDR and its Executive  Physical evidence    Technical and
Disarnament,           Secretariat set up.                              financial assistance
Demobilization, and                                                     continues.
Reintegration program    2. Transitional safety net for   Monitoring reports
the ex-combatants delivered.
Basic services         1. Higher enrollment rates in   User benefit surveys    Security improves
relaunched             classes 1-3.                                     countywide
2. Number of primary health   User benefit survey  Health and
care centers in full operation.  and Bank-financed  education resources
Health Sector        disbursed in a timely
Investment Project   manner
assessment
Economic activity      1. Availability of basic   User surveys and
revives                commodities like rice and  physical evidence
petroleum.
2. Availability of foreign  Bank of Sierra Leone
exchange and narrowing of    reports
the gap between official and
parallel market rates.



Annex D
2 of -2
Sierra Leone: Economic Rehabilitation and Recovery Credit
Project Description Summary
Narrative Summary      Key Performance Indicators   Monitoring and      Assumptions/Risks
Evaluation
Outputs (contd.)
Public resource        1. Improvement in revenue   Document evaluation
management             mobilization by at least I
strengthened           percent of GDP over the 1999
level.
2. Public expenditure control   Budget monitoring
at the commitment level.    reports
3. No new accumulation of   Document evaluation
arrears.
4. Settlement of social security  DDR progress report
arrears to demobilized soldiers.
Business environent    1. Decree establishing a    Decree by Cabinet
improved and private   Committee to prepare an     establishing the
sector revitalized     arrears settlement plan for  committee
private sector claims on the
Government.
2. Credible plan for the    Document evaluation  Technical assistance
settlement of these arrears.                     from the EU
3. Manual of procedures for    Document evaluation
implementation of the plan.
4. Simplified procedures for    Document evaluation
registration of businesses.
5. Updated strategy for the  Cabinet approval,   Technical assistance
remaining public enterprises in  Document evaluation  from the World
the Govermment's portfolio.                      Bank
6. Financial performance of    Quarterly monitoring
public enterprises monitored.   reports prepared by
the PEs
Corruption in the public  1. Adoption of the overall  Parliament's      Political
sector lowered         strategy to fight corruption.  approval, document   commitment at the
evaluation          highest level
2. Enactment of the Anti-   Parliament's approval
Corruption Act.
3. Well functioning financial   Monthly budget
information system in the AGD  monitoring reports



Annex E
Sierra Leone Social Indicators
Latest single year             Same regionlincome group
Sub-
Saharan          Low-
1970-75      198045       1992-97             Africa       income
POPULATION
Total population, mid-year (millions)              2.9          3.6          4.7             612.4        2,035.6
Growth rate (% annual average)                   2.0          2.0          2.1               2.2            1.7
Urban population (% of population)                21.4         26.9         34.6              32.3           28.4
Total fertility rate (births per woman)            6.5          6.5           6.1               5.5           4.0
POVERTY
(% of population)
National headcount index                            ..           ..
Urban headcount index                             ..           ..
Rural headcount index                             ..           ..
INCOME
GNP per capita (US$)                              250          330           160               510           350
Consumer price index (1995=100)                     0             1          142               118           122
Food price index (1995=100)                         ..           ..
INCOMEICONSUMPTION DISTRIBUTION
Gini index
Lowest quintile (% of income or consumption)       6.0           ..
Highest quintile (% of income or consumption)     53.0           ..
SOCIAL INDICATORS
Public expenditure
Health (% of GDP)                                 ..           ..          1.6               2.5            1.0
Education (% of GNP)                             3.3          1.9           ..               4.3
Social security and welfare (% of GDP)            ..           ..
Net primary school enrollment rate
e/o of age group)
Total                                             ..          47
Male                                                        55
Female                                          ..          39
Access to safe water
(% of population)
Total                                            12            24           34                47            69
Urban                                          75           58            58                74            80
Rural                                           1            8            21                32            66
Immunization rate
(% under 12 months)
Measles                                           ..          66            28                58            74
DPT                                               ..          21            26                53            76
Child malnutrition (% under 5 years)               28            ..
Life expectancy at birth
(years)
Total                                            35            35           37                51            59
Male                                           34           34            36                49            58
Female                                         37           37            39                52            60
Mortality
Jnfant (per thousand live births)               193           189          170                91            82
Under 5 (per thousand live births)              363          336           286               147           118
Adult (15-59)
Male (per 1,000 population)                   552          540           544               428           274
Female (per 1,000 population)                 534          527           483               375           255
Matemal (per 100,000 live births)                 ..           ..          800
1999 World Development Indicators CD-ROM, World Bank



Annex F
1 of 2
Sierra Leone at a glance
Sub-
POVERI  and SOCIAL                                 Sierra  Saharan      Low-
Leone    Africa  income       Development diamond'
1998
Population, mid-year (mniflons)                       4.9      628     3,515                 Life expectancy
GNP perapita (Aas nmod, S$)                          150       480       520
GNP (Alas rnelho, USS billIons)                      0.73      304      1,844
Average annual rowth, 1392-98
Population (%)                                        2.5       2.6       1.7                    /  \
Labor force (%                                        2.5       2.6       1.9      p    I                     I       5
Most recent estirate (latest year available, 19S2-48)                             rapita                      enrollment
Povery (% OfPoalon boewnatonaD povay l/ne)
Urban popuaton (% of tax population)                  35        33        31
Life expectancy at birth (yeer)                       37        51        63
infant mortality (per 1,000 Ihe birts)               170        91        69
Child malnutrition (% of chilAden undbr 5)             ..        ..        ..              Access to safe water
Access to safe watr (% of populon)                    34        47        74
lliteracy (% ofpopidaton age 15+)                      ..       42        32
Gross prirary enrollment (% of school-agepopulation)   ..       77       108                S/ena Leone
Mal                                                  ..       84       113                  Low-Income group
Female                                               ..       69       103
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977    1987       1997     1998
Economic ratiose
GDP (US$ bi/ilons)                          0.70     0.85      0.85      0.67
Gross domestic investmenVGP                    ..     8.0      -2.4      5.3                     Trade
Exports of goods and serviceslGDP           23.6    20.5       13.2      14.1
Gross domestic savingstGDP                     ..     5.5      -4.3      -1.9
Gross national savings/GDP                     ..     2.0      -5.7      -3.7
Current account balance/GDP                   ..    -S.9       -3.2      -9.0     Domestic
Interest payments/GDP                        0.7      0.1       0.8       1.2                                  Investment
Total dottGDP                               41.7   122.1      134.5    184.7      Savings
Total debtsenvice/exports                   10.4    10.4       15.3      21.8
Present value of debt/GDP                     ..       ..      8S.2
Present value of debt/exports                 ..       ..    694.4
Indebtedness
1977-87  1988-98    1997      1998   1999-03
(avege annua giowth)
GDP                                 0.8    -3.7   -17.6        -0.8       6.4              S/i7a Leone
GNP per capita                     -1.2    -5.4   -19.4        -3.7       3.8            -Low-ncome grop
Exportsofgoodsandserces           -12.2      1.9   -25.3       83.5      15.8
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977    1987      1997      1998      Growth rates of output and lnvestnt (%)
Agriculture                                 37.2    52.7       50.2      45.1     10
Industry                                    19.9    17.4       20.9      24.3      0
Manufacturing                              5.5      4.2       4.4       4.1    -lao 1        9s
Services                                    42.9    29.9       28.9      30.6    *200
Private consumption                           ..    86.4       95.3      93.0   -300
General govemment consumption               10.1      8.1       9.0       8.9               -     GD1      0   GDP
lmportsofgoodsandserices                    30.1     22.9      15.1      21.3   I
(average annual growth)                  1977-87  1988-98     1997      1998      Growtt ratrs of exports and Imports (%)
Agricuiture                                  5.2      0.0       0.1      -8.8    ISO
Industry                                    -1.0    -5.1      -43.3      17.2    1io .
Manufacturing                                ..    s5          ..          ..   s
Services                                    -0.4    -5.1       46.0       9.0
Private consumption                           ..    -2.1      -16.7      -5.5    -0Da44                             as
General government consumption                ..    -0.1      -15.8    -13.4
Gross domestic investment                     ..   -11.2    -183.8   -225.5   -100
importsofgoodsandservices                  -15.8      4.9     -50.3    112.1                 Exports   -0-Imports
Gross national product                       0.8    -3.1      -17.4      -1.3
Note: 199S daa are preliminary estimates.
^The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Annex F
2 of 2
Sierra Leone
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
DOMesucpigces                               1977    1987        1997     1998      Inflation%
(96 chang)                                                                        8  
Consumer pfics                               33.3   178.5       14.9      35.5    90
ImplicitGDPdelalor                           17.4    80.1       16.8      27.0    4o
Govemment finance                                                                 20
(% of GDP, Includes cuent grants)                                                  a
Current revenue                                ..      6.8       6.0       9.7            93   94   es   96   97   Os
Current budget balance                                -8.4      -5.5      -5.4             -     GDP deflator    o  CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                        ..   -14.2       -7.0    -10.4
TRADE
(US$ nWilons)                               1977    1987       1997      1998      Export and Import levels (USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                           164     121         88       65    324
Rulile                                       ..       40
Diamonds                                      ..      20         8         2
Manufactures                                  ..
Total Imports (ci)                           230      154         92       97    162
Food                                         ..       45        41        36
Fuel and energy                               ..      24        15        25
Capital goods                                         34        12         9 
E-xpcrt price index (1995=100)                 ..       ..       89        88          92   93  94   95  9o   97  98
Impot price index (1995=100)                   ..       ..        93       87              OExports      Dimports
Terms of trade (1995-100)                      ..       ..        96      101
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1977    1987       1997     1998      Current account balance to GOP ratio t%)
(USS nv/lios)
Exportsofgoodsandservices                    164      173        112       95       a  _   _
Imports of goods and services                268      194        128      143      -2  92  93  94   ss   98         98
Resource balance                             -104     -21        -16       -48                         _
-9-
Net income                                    -24     -31        -18      -17      -8             _
Noetcurrenttranafers                           ..       2          6        5     -10n
Current account balance                        ..    -50         -28      -61    -14
Financing items (net)                          ..      52         32       50      10
Changes in net resertves                       11      -1         -5       11    -20
2Jemo:__                                                                             _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _  _
Reserves including gold (US$ mIllions)        33        1         38       43
Conversion rate (DEC. locaYUSS)               1.1    32.0      981.5   1,563.6
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977    1987       1997     1998
(USS millions)                                                                     Composlton of total debt. 1998 (US$ mUlons)
Total debtoutstanding and disbursed          290    1,032      1,144     1,242
IBRD                                        11       11          2        1                  G. 10A4 1
IDA                                         14       80       270       298              FP5                  29
Total debt service                             17      18         16       20
IBRD                                         2        0          0        1
IDA                                          0        0         2         6
Composition of net resource flows                                                     E: 414
Official grants                              ..
Offrcial creditors                           7        8         33       23                                    C: 191
Private creditors                            8        -2        0         0
Foreign direct investment                    ..
Portfolio equity                              .       ..        ..        ..                      D: 224
World Bank program
Commitments                                  8        0          0        0      A- IBRO                      E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                2        2        28        21      B - IDA    D - Other muttilateral   F - Pivate
Principal repayments                         1        0          1        4      C -IMF                       G - Short-tern
Netflows                                      1       2         27       17
Interest paymenrts                           1        0          1        3
Net transfers                                0        2        26        14
Development Economics                                                                                              1U24/00



- Annex G
1 of 3
Sierra Leone - Key Economic Indicators
Actual               Estimate             Projected
Indicator              1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002
National accounts
(as % GDP at current
market prices)
Grossdomesticproduct                    100     100      100     100     100      100     100      100     100
Agriculture"                           37       42      39      47       42      42       41      40      40
Industry8                              25       22      28       19      23      23       22      22      22
Services8                              29       28      26      27       28      30      31       32      31
Total Consumptibn                        88      98      104     104     102      108     108      105     102
Grossdomesticfixed                        8       5       11      -2       5        0      13       14      14
investment
Govenmuentinvestnent                   4.0     2.4      3.3     1.5     4.9      2.9     7.6     7.1      7.1
Private investment                     3.8     2.7     7,7    -3.9      0.4    -2.7      5.2     6.4      6.8
(includes increase in
stocks)
Exports (GNFS)b                          29      22       17      13       14      14      19       21      22
Imports(GNFS)                            25      25       32      15      21       22      40       39      38
Gross domestic savings                   12       2       -4      -4       -2      -8       -8      -5      -2
Gross national savmgsc                   -I       0       -6      -6       -4      -3       2        6       6
Memorandum items
Gross domestic product                  927     866     942      850     672      671     629      690     758
(1JS$ million at current
prices)
Grossnationalproductper                 170     170     200      160     150      140     130      140     140
capita (US$, Atlas method)
Real annual growth rates
(calculated from 1990
prices)
Grossdomesticproductat               3.5%  -10.0%    5.0%  -17.6%   -0.8%   -8.1%    4.2%    7.0%    7.0%
market prices
Gross Domestic Income                8.40/   -5.5%    2.0%  -16.7%   -4.9%   -9.2%    2.7%    6.2%    5.7%
Real annual per capita
growth rates (calculated
from 1990 prices)
Grossdomesticproductat               1.0%  -12.2%    2.3%  -19.7%   -3.2%  -10.2%       1.9%    4.6%    4.2%
market prices
Total consumption                   -0.4%    3.1%    6.4%  -18.7%   -8.7%    4.9%      3.0%    0.1%   -0.2%
Privateconsumption                  -1.3%    2.6%    9.4%  -18.8%   -7.8%   -9.6%       1.4%    3.8%    2.1%



Annex G
2 of 3
Sierra Leone - Key Economic Indicators
(Continued)
Actual               Estimate             Projected
Indicator               1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002
Balance of Payments
(USSm)
Exports(GNFS)b                         269      188     164      112      95       96      123     142     167
Merchandise FOB                      194      102     105       88      65       65      82       99     120
IMpDts (GNF Spb                        234     214      303     128      143     148      253     269      291
MerchandiseFOB                       131      120     185       81      85       86     170      179     195
Resourcebalance                         35      -26    -139      -16      48      -52    -131    -127    -124
Net cunrent transfers                    0       24       0        6        5       7        7      17       17
(including official current
transfers)
Current account balance                 -54     -13    -102       -9      -42     -21     -71      -53      -60
(after official capital grants)
Net private foreign direct              17       -5       0        0        4       2        2       3        3
investment
Long-termloans(net)                     38        0       6       -1       -2      39      134     105      128
Official                               47       68      31       33      23       44       19      -1      -17
Private                                -9      -68      -25     -34      -25      -S      115     106      145
Othercapital (net, including            -8        0      77       14      29       -5      -34     -12      -16
errors and omissions)
Change in reservesd                      7       18      20       -5       11     -15      -32     43       -55
Memorandum items
Resource balance (% of                 3.8%   -3.0%  -14.7%    -1.9%   -7.2%   -7.7%  -20.8%  -18.4%  -16.3%
GDP at current market
prices)
Real annual growth rates
(1990 prices)
Merchandise exports                  59.5%  -52.4%    6.4%   -8.5%  -25.1%    0.5%   24.0%    18.6%   19.8%
(FOB)
Prinary                             -2.3%  -80.4%   46.7%  -68.8%  -79.8%   21.0%  272.0%  318.6%   52.9%
Mnufacotures                            .        .       .        .       .        .        .        .       .
Merchandise imports                  -1.6%  -16.4%   53.4%  -52.7%   11.7%    1.3%   93.9%    2.8%    6.3%
(CIF)
Public finance
(as % of GDP at current
market prices)'
Cunrentrevenues                        12.7     9.5    11.8      6,0      9.7    14.0    16.7    18.2    17.2
Current expenditures                   14.5    16.8    13.6    11.5    15.2    21.4    22.8    19.0    17.3



Annex G
3 of 3
Sierra Leone - Key Economic Indicators
(Continued)
Actual                Estimate             Projected
Indicator               1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002
Current account surplus (+)              -2       -7       -2      -6       -5      -7       -6       -1       0
or deficit (-)
Capital expenditure                       4        3       3        1       5        3        8       7        7
Foreign financing                         5        7       4        1        1       6        5       4        5
Monetary indicators
M2/GDP(atcurrentmarket                   10       10      10       15       13      16       17       19      23
prices)
GrowthofM2(%)                            10      20       34       47      11       41       26      29       35
Private sector credit growth             43      29        1       11       5        4      -19      -6       11
total credit growth (%)
Price indices( 1990 =100)
Merchandiseexportprice                  100      110     107       98      97       96       98     100      101
index
Merchandise import price                 96      105     105       98      92       94       96      99      101
index
Merchandisetermsoftrade                 105      105     102      101     106      102      102      101     100
index
Real exchange rate                      117      105     106      123     104       95      109      109     109
(US$/LCU)w
Real interest rates
Consumer price index                 24.2%   26.0%   23.1%   14.9%   35.5%   24.9%    16.8%   10.0%    5.2%
(% growth rate)
GDP deflator                         20.1%   33.6%   26.3%   16.8%   27.0%   25.0%   15.0%   10.0%    5.0%
(% growth rate)
a. If GDP components are estimated at factor cost, a footnoote indicating this fact should be added.
b. "GNFS" denotes "goods and nonfactor services."
c. Includes net unrequited transfers excluding official capital grants.
d. Includes use of IMF resources.
e. Should indicate the level of the government to which the data refer.
f. "LCU" denotes 'local currency units." An increase in US$/LCU denotes appreciation.



Annex H
Status of Bank Group Operations In Sierra Leone
Difronce Between
B3oard                                           Expeted and Actual      Last PSR
Date          Orlignal Amount In USS Ml llons      DlsbuQ mnbj j     Supervision Ratng
Fiscal                                                              DMve1o1me LuMn ntIiin
Project ID        Prolect Name                            Year        IBRD       IDA    Cancel.    Undlsb.      Orig. Frm Revd    nt      tlon
Oblecfties Proarms
P002411     POWER REHABILITATION PROJECT                1992           0.00    20.95       0.00       9.44      8.81     8.81    HU        U
P002433     FREETOWN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT             1993           0.00    25.29       0.00       3.64      3.41     0.00    U         U
P002427     PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT SUPPORT            1993           0.00     9.47       0.00       0.59      0.68     0.00    U         U
P002407     ROADS REHAB & MAINTENANCE                   1993           0.00    43.91       0.00       4.89      4.02     2.68    U         U
P002428    URBAN WATER SUPPLY                           1995           0.00     0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00     0.00    U         U
P002422    HEALTH SECTOR INVESTMENT                     1996           0.00     18.61      0.00      14.12      9.41     0.00    U         S
P002420    TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT                     1996           0.00    33.41       0.00      29.66     25.24    1-1.68    U        U
P040649    COMMUNITY REINTEGRATION&REHAB PROJECT 2000                  0.00    25.26       0.00      25.26         0     0.00
Total                                                                        176.90        0.00      87.60     51.57    23.07
Total Disbursed for active and closed projects(IBRD and IDA)  331.876
Of which has been repaid                        32.6
Total now held by IBRD and IDA                            299.72
Amount sold                                                 0.54
Of which has been repaid                        0.54
Total Undisbursed                                         109.23
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.



IBRD 27219
The boundaries, colors,
denominations and any               G    U   I  N   E   A                                                                                    1 8
other information shown                                                       10
on this mop do not
imply, on the port of
The Wor  BakrGru,                    \               '                                     Falaba       
any judgment on the legal                                                                O
status of any territory,
or any endorsement
or acceptance of such
boundaries, 
(,oH   ,4                          e~~~~~~~~~~~Kabala                         G U I N E A
K o
rr&:                Kmckwie                 dK O INJA DLUG U    K 
S         ts9ifo          C,                       *, O~~~~~~~~~~Fadugu K                        _        J
BOM  BALI
j     KaKc'flbia     ) *'}   sPendembu
9   8   i  '  e. d  <                              /   B~~~~~        ~      ~      ~~~~         ~       ~~~~~~~umbuna '.     9.
Mcsnbolo      /\
- / ix\? v k * i /4 ,.J ~~~~~~~~~~~~Worodu 5 
Kot  lb                  PortLoko              aMakeni                                                           Scloma0)
Knoktridee                                                                                  Bkd
PO~~R T LOKO C                             agua                                1
2  LunsarO.t                                                 I         K 0  N  G'  Kainkordu
Lungt0         atW       RokeO                                           Mosingbe0       ' ,           i)Sefadu   0
a   \Ta   r                  >            ,    K O  L I L I            j X~~~~~~        ~      ~      ~~~oJalama  f
:  OWN                         ,               )   ~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~Yeleo--                               t              O 
w        R OK   O/-'--4o        akonkario       Yonibana          0 /
A RE   .R                                                           ,             ,     )                                 )Kailahun\ 
Kent                                 Moyamba        iTalma                              oDod   Ponguma   \   AHUJ\!    .. -
( B O i / ~~~~~~~Pendnb ')
MOYAMBA                         I,    B                                      n  b 
OSemnbabun     /                   < Bo               KENEMA  /S           !m,cst
>               2 (                ,~~~~~~~J  8 ~~Kenema >                            
Gbangbotoko       S              /                  Kn          a                     j
$ __aw6Nttti           \                                        0, y t r - -} / OJoru
of 0S A S = Matru                                                i
-ta  (  B ON TH E SOrormom                                              ' 
;       P      < >  ZPieh mmun    .
ATLANTIC                                                                                                             LIBERIA
-        m         ? ~~~~~Fairoog                 2
-7                                       OCEAN
SIERRA  LEONE                                                                                 sSE                       M A L I
o     SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS    -
o      DISTRICT CAPITALS                                                                             GU GINE E A
*      NATIONAL CAPITAL
-    -ISTRT   B3UNDARISTPCT BOUNDARIES                                            .                    I ERA            c
Letssn    EONE    
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                              -                                           'TNOIE
.~~~                                       ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .,j '  'VO{I 
so  wo                                   Att~~~~~~~~~~~ntjo  tMnrsn~~~~~~~~~~In BERIA
O         50                  lJ0-~~~~~~~~~~io                            A t c n rt i;r  c    no^ ,LIE2
KILOMETERS '   '                                                           a f
-6                                          .r17                                         6                     5 
13A 129
AUGUST 1995



