Document of
THE WORLD BANK
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 23402
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-33210; IDA-3321 1)
ON A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$30.0 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
FOR THE
ECONOMIC REHABILITATION AND RECOVERY CREDIT
December 27, 2001
Macroeconomics 5
Country Department 10
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank
authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  =  Leone (Le)
US$1  =  Le 2,147.3 (2/24/00)
=  Le 1,837.5 (6/30/01)
Le I  =  US$0.00046 (2/24/00)
=  US$0.00054 (6/30/01)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB             African Development Bank
AFRC             Armed Forces Revolutionary Council
AGD              Accountant General's Department
CAS              Country Assistance Strategy
CRRP             Community Reintegration and Rehabilitation Project
DCA              Development Credit Agreement
DDR              Disarmament, Demobilization and Reintegration
DflD             Department for International Development (U.K.)
EPCAP            Emergency Post-Conflict Assistance Policy
ERRC             Economic Rehabilitation and Recovery Credit
EU               European Union
GOSL             Government of Sierra Leone
HIPC             Heavily Indebted Poor Countries
ICR              Implementation Completion Report
IDA              International Development Association
IMF              International Monetary Fund
IPRSP            Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
ISS              Interim Support Strategy
LDP              Letter of Development Policy
LPA              Lome Peace Accord
NRRP             National Rehabilitation and Recovery Program
PE               Public Enterprise
PR               President's Report
PRGF             Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
RUF              Revolutionary United Front
TA               Technical Assistance
Vice President:   Callisto Madavo
Country Director:    Peter Harrold
Sector Manager:    Emmanuel Akpa
Task Manager:    Preeti Arora



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
ECONOMIC REHABILITATION AND RECOVERY CREDIT (CREDIT NO. 3321-SL)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Contents
Page
1. Project Data .............................................................1
2. Principal Performance Ratings .............................................................I
3. Assessment Of Development Objective And Design, And Of Quality At Entry ............                                        ............2
4. Achievement Of Objective And Outputs ..................                                ..........................................7
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation And Outcome ........................................................... 11
6. Sustainability ............................................................                                                       12
7. Bank And Borrower PerforTnance ............................................................                                       13
8. Lessons Learned ............................................................                                                      15
9. Partner Comments ............................................................                                                     16
10. Additional Information ............................................................ 18
Annex  1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix ........................................................... 20
Annex 2: Project Costs And Financing ............................................................                                    21
Annex 3: Economic Costs And Benefits ............................................................                                    22
Annex 4: Bank Inputs ............................................................ 23
Annex 5: Ratings For Achievement Of Objective/Outputs By Components                                                  . .    24
Annex 6: Ratings Of Bank And Borrower Performance ............................................................ 25
Annex 7: List Of Supporting Documents ............................................................ 26
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
perforrnance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
ECONOMIC REHABILITATION AND RECOVERY CREDIT
(Credit 3321-SL)
Project ID: P03 5637                              Project Name: ECONOMIC REHAB.& RECOVERY (ERRC)
Team Leader: Preeti Arora                         TL Unit: AFTM5
ICR Type: Core ICR                                Report Date: December 26, 2001
1. Project Data
Name:  ECONOMIC REHAB.& RECOVERY (ERRC)               L/C/TFNumber:  IDA-33210
IDA-33211
Country/Department:  SIERRA LEONE                                          Region:  Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector:  KN - Macro/Non-Trade
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:   11/09/1999                               Effective:  02/24/2000          02/24/2000
Appraisal:  01/17/2000                                  MTR:   11/01/2001           11/01/2001
Approval:  02/17/2000                                Closing:  06/30/2001           06/30/2001
Borrower/lImplementing Agency:   Republic of Sierra Leone/Ministry of Finance
Other Partners:   Multilateral: EU, UNDP, AfDB, IMF. Bilateral: United Kingdom.
STAFF                 Current                             At Appraisal
Vice President:       Callisto Madavo                     Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Manager:      Peter C. Harrold                    Mamadou Dia (to Jan.10 2000); Brian Ngo (acting)
Sector Manager:       Emmanuel Akpa                       Emmanuel Akpa
Team Leader at ICR:    Preeti Arora                       Preeti Arora
ICR Primary Author:    Karen Hendrixson
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Suslainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Perfornmance: S
Borrower Performance: HS
QAG (if available)         ICR
Quality at Entry: S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1   Original Objective:
The Economic Recovery and Rehabilitation Credit (ERRC) was designed to provide
quick-disbursing funds to finance the Government of Sierra Leone's (GOSL) National
Rehabilitation and Recovery Program (NRRP). The NRRP focused on sustaining peace and
restoring security in both its protective and material dimensions after eight years of rebel war
that left more than 20,000 people dead and approximately 1.5 million displaced out of a
population of 4.9 million. There was widespread destruction of essential infrastructure, and
virtually all major economic activity was disrupted by the war, leading to the collapse of
agricultural, mining, and manufacturing production, and a massive worsening of poverty.
The signing of the Lome Peace Accord (LPA) in July 1999 between the Government and
the Revolutionary United Front (RUF) created a window of opportunity for Sierra Leone to
rebuild itself. To take advantage of this opportunity, the ERRC provided a quick-disbursing
credit of US$30 million (SDR 21.9 million) to support the NRRP through the provision of
balance of payments and budgetary support to help finance the foreign and budgetary costs
associated with establishing peace and sociopolitical stability; re-launching the economy; and
restoring basic public services. As explained in the President's Report (PR), such early support
would help put Sierra Leone on a reconstruction and development track, as well as facilitate the
development of a framework for the mobilization and effective use of donor resources.
The Credit helped to finance the 2000/1 portion of the Government's NRRP. As set forth
in the Government's Letter of Development Policy (LDP), the NRRP had three components:
(1) Promote protective security/peace-building and reconciliation:  The objective of this
component was to reinforce security and the rule of law. It had two key elements: fully
implementing the LPA, including implementation of the Disarmament, Demobilization and
Reintegration (DDR) Program targeted at approximately 45,000 ex-combatants on all sides; and
strengthening the police, improving judicial processes and law courts, and reconstituting the
national army as a highly professional institution.
(2) Promote social and economic security: Social security was to be achieved through the
reintegration of ex-combatants, internally displaced persons, and refugees through the revival of
basic public services, particularly education and health. Economic security was to be promoted
by the creation of growing income opportunities by reviving economic activity, restoring
macroeconomic stability, improving public resource management and undertaking public
enterprise reform.  As explained in the PR, improved public resource management also
contributed to strengthened social security by enabling the Government to better monitor budget
allocations and actual expenditures to improve the delivery of basic social services.
(3) Promote transparent and inclusive governance: Key elements in this component included
the introduction of reforms to fight corruption and measures to strengthen public expenditure
management to improve accountability and transparency.
2



The proceeds of the Credit allowed the import of essential commodities, including food
products, petroleum products, and raw materials and intermediate goods needed to relaunch the
economy. The local currency funds generated as a result enabled the GOSL to provide basic
services, including law and order and the rehabilitation of the social and economic infrastructure
needed to allow communities to return to normalcy.
The Government's position on policy measures to be carried out under the Credit was set
forth in its LDP specifying both up-front actions and measures that were to be enacted under the
Credit. Six measures were identified in the DCA as second-tranche conditions, and three were
identified as conditions for the floating tranche release.  In addition, maintenance of a
satisfactory macroeconomic policy framework was a general requirement for all tranche releases.
3.2   Revised Objective:
Revised Objectives and Amendments: Program objectives remained unchanged and the
project design was not modified. The DCA was amended, however, to provide a supplemental
credit in the amount of SDR 7.9 million (US$10 million equivalent), as approved by the Board
on December 14, 2000. This supplemental credit was made available to cover the increased cost
of imported oil and to further support the Government's reconstruction and rehabilitation needs
as more of the country became accessible.
3.3   Original Components:
Assessment of Objectives and Design: The ERRC was scheduled to be disbursed in
three tranches - two fixed and one floating - over a period of 12 to 15 months. The DCA was
signed on February 18, 2000 and the Credit became effective on February 24, 2000. The first
tranche of SDR 11 million (US$15 million equivalent) was released upon effectiveness and
disbursed on March 20, 2000 to help the Government's financing needs in the early part of 2000.
The second tranche of SDR 7.3 million (US$10 million equivalent) was released on October 16,
2000 after a successful review of the macroeconomic framework and satisfactory performance in
the areas of social and economic security, arrears settlement, and transparent and inclusive
governance. The Credit's floating tranche of SDR 3.6 million (US$5 million equivalent) was
released for disbursement at end-June 2001, prior to the Credit's closing date, after a satisfactory
review of policies related to the public enterprise sector.
The Credit directly reflected the Government's priorities and development strategy as
outlined in its NRR.P and set forth in the LDP, and was mutually designed by the Bank and the
Borrower. Tranche conditions listed in the DCA were cross-referenced with specific paragraphs
in the LDP, reflecting the close mutuality of purpose between the Credit and the Government's
program.
The policy package supported by the ERRC drew on earlier work done in 1997, and in
1998; these proposed operations could not be concluded as a result of the coup d'etat in May
1997, and the deterioration of the security situation in January 1999, respectively'. Although the
IA brief chronology of key political and economic events is provided in Section 10.
3



Credit was not part of a broader medium- to long-term approach as typically outlined in a
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), it was part of an integrated program of short-term Bank
assistance, as well as a key element in a broad and comprehensive multi-donor assistance
strategy. Owing to the uncertainty characterizing the political and security situation at the time
of the Credit's design, it was sensibly judged that it was not feasible to develop a CAS outlining
an overall strategy for the country. Rather, a pragmatic "two-track" approach was adopted
comprising (i) an interim transition program providing short-term emergency assistance and
articulating a linkage between humanitarian and early reconstruction activities; and (ii) a full
CAS when security, capacity, and institutions were stabilized enough to enable medium- to long-
term assistance.
The ERRC was a key component of this Interim Support Strategy (ISS), which was
approved by the Board in December 1999. The ISS reflected the Bank's participation in an
integrated and cooperative multi-donor approach led by the United Kingdom, the United
Nations, and the World Bank, and supported by other multilateral and bilateral donors, for short-
term security, humanitarian, and early reconstruction assistance to Sierra Leone. In this
approach, each of the key partners assumed responsibility for different areas of assistance based
on their respective comparative advantages.
The other two components of the ISS were (i) resumption of activities under the ongoing
portfolio to ensure the prompt availability of funds linked to the rehabilitation of basic economic
and social services; and (ii) a US$25 million IDA-assisted Community Reintegration and
Rehabilitation Project (CRRP, Cr. 3312-SL) to support the social and economic reintegration of
ex-combatants, internally displaced people and refugees, as a complement to the Government's
DDR program and its Resettlement, Reconstruction and Rehabilitation (RRR) program. The
CRRP was complemented by similar support by the United Kingdom's Department for
International Development (DflD) and the AfDB. The Bank also supported the DDR process via
its administration of the Multi-donor Trust Fund financing the DDR program.
Additional synergy was provided through the IDA-supported Public Sector Management
Support Project (PSMSP) which was strengthened with a follow-on project of US$3 million (Cr.
3462) to continue to provide capacity-building support. The PSMSP -- which focused on, inter
alia, strengthening economic management capacity and revenue mobilization, establishing a
procurement agency, and improving local government capacity building - was an important
corollary to facilitate implementation of the ERRC. Similarly, ongoing sector projects in the
portfolio with undisbursed balances of $51.5 million were subsequently restructured to better
2
respond to Sierra's Leone's emergency reconstruction needs . Complementary actions, primarily
involving reallocations and extensions of closing dates, were taken on three other projects in the
portfolio. There was a close complementarity in approach and focus between the ERRC,
PSMSP, CRRP, and the restructured portfolio.   Finally, the macroeconomic stabilization
objectives were supported by a loan from the IMF under its Emergency Post-Conflict Assistance
2 ln October 2000, the Board approved amendments to the DCAs for four projects covering power, water and sanitation, and
health and transport. Disbursement percentages were raised to 100 percent of foreign expenditures and 100 percent of local
expenditures, net of taxes, for a maximum time period of two years, on an exceptional basis. This restructuring was undertaken to
speed project implementation and enable the Bank to respond to meet priority Government needs in a flexible manner.
Complementary actions, primarily involving reallocations and extensions of closing dates, were taken on three other projects in
the portfolio.
4



Policy (EPCAP) of SDR 25.9 million (US$35.5 million equivalent), approved in December
1999.
Policy objectives and related measures were clearly stated in the PR and were easily
monitorable in the accompanying matrix of policy actions. The Credit was designed to be
released in three tranches to ensure transparency and regular cash flow, as well as to provide
some safeguard on the use of the funds. Conditionalities for tranche release were directly related
to the three objectives of the NRRP: protective security, social and economic security, and
transparent and inclusive government. Indicators for measuring macroeconomic performance
were identified, in accordance with Bank guidelines, and the specific targets selected were
identical to those agreed with the IMF. The timetable and conditionalities for the second and
floating tranches release were realistic and the number of conditionalities, while limited, were
appropriate, given the Credit's short length and the Government's weak implementation
capacity. Selection of a floating tranche for the PE reform component was based on the lessons
learned from the Bank's 1996 Structural Adjustment Credit to the GOSL, whose disbursement
was slowed due to delays in the PE reform component. Accordingly, a floating tranche was
utilized in order to enable the ERRC's key reforms to proceed, while preventing undue delays in
disbursements.
Disbursement of the second tranche was delayed until mid-October 2000, rather than the
June 2000 date as originally anticipated in the PR. This delay appears largely attributable to the
May 2000 collapse of UN peacekeeping efforts in Sierra Leone (see below), however, rather than
to the GOSL's failure to satisfy tranche criteria; in fact, most indicative macroeconomic targets
were met during the second quarter ending June 2000. This delay did not negatively affect the
Credit's outcome.
Outcome indicators were not defined in the PR; however, this omission was justifiably
deliberate owing to the difficulty of monitoring such indicators in the ERRC's short
implementation timeframe. In order to relate objectives to monitorable policy and intermediate
outputs, a logical framework was prepared and annexed to the PR.
In light of the Government's history of poor governance and substantial capacity
weaknesses after eight years of conflict, a number of measures were relied upon to ensure the
appropriate use of the Credit's funds. These included: the ongoing introduction of a new
accounting systems and methods in the Accountant General's Department (AGD), with EU
assistance, to improve the financial integrity and accountability of government finances,
including the use of specific accounting procedures to monitor all project-related donor funds.
In addition, an internationally recognized accounting firm was recruited by the Government to
handle all financial management and procurement issues related to the DDR program, and
procedures were developed, again with EU technical assistance, to handle arrears settlement in a
transparent and cost-effective manner.
A supplemental credit of SDR 7.9 million (US$10 million) was approved in December
2000. The rationale for the additional funds was based on the fact that public expenditures for
social sectors, particularly health and education, were higher than anticipated as improved
security enabled larger areas of the country to be opened up to Government access. This need
5



was reflected in a supplemental budget prepared by the Government and presented to donors at a
conference in Accra in June 2000. The revised budget received strong support from other donors
as well; the AfDB provided additional budgetary resources of US$5 million in 2000, while other
donors made additional commitments for 2001. The decision to grant the supplement is
supported by the fact that at the time of the supplement's request, the main elements of the
Government's NRRP as outlined in the LDP were still valid, and program implementation and
macroeconomic performance were satisfactory. In fact, owing to greater than anticipated
discipline in revenue administration, domestic revenue collections were 40 percent greater than
program levels, while expenditures had been kept within limits3.
3.4    Revised Components:
There were no revisions made to the original program.
3.5    Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry was satisfactory.  As noted, the program  objectives were entirely
consistent with the Government's NRRP, and program design was based on earlier Bank and
Government technical work. Four donor meetings, undertaken in 1998-99, identified Sierra
Leone's needs and discussed modalities for coordinating the work programs of the various
donors4.   Multilateral and  bilateral donors such  as the  EU, AfDB, and  UK  provided
complementary and closely integrated support to the scope and objectives of the Credit, and
other elements of the Bank's portfolio were adopted or modified in support of the ERRC's
objectives. Measures were included to offset the Government's capacity weaknesses, including a
follow-on credit to the PSMSP, restructuring of the Bank's portfolio to increase focus on
capacity building, and use of NGOs to deliver health and education services, in addition to the
capacity-building efforts provided by other donors. As noted, the ERRC dovetailed with the
Fund's emergency post-conflict assistance arrangement, thereby increasing the likelihood that
the macroeconomic stability objectives could be achieved. Consistency with Bank safeguards
was not an issue for this Credit.
While there were major uncertainties and security concerns at the time of entry, the ISS -
of which the ERRC was a major part - set forth four scenarios for assistance, including an "exit
option" under which the Bank would suspend all operations and dialogue in the event of a full
resumption of fighting and serious deterioration of economic performance. Each of these
scenarios delineated specific action triggers corresponding to possible levels of attainment in
security and economic performance, thereby clearly specifying the conditions under which the
Increased levels of external assistance, in combination with increased revenues, helped the macroeconomic program to stay on
track by enabling the Government to significantly lower the ceiling on domestic bank financing of the budget deficit. Resources
provided under the supplement were used to cushion the impact of the oil price increase, while the counterpart resources
generated were used to finance key reconstruction and recovery activities that were part of the supplementary budget approved by
Parliament in July 2000.
4These took place in London (July 1998), New York (April 1999), London (July 1999), and Washington, DC (September 1999
Annual Meetings).
6



Bank would proceed to the development of a CAS, continue with a transitional approach,
selectively implement the portfolio, or fully suspend operations5.
The PR correctly identified the three major risks to the program. These were: (i) possible
deterioration of the security and political situation; (ii) failure of the Government of national
unity (which was formed in October 1999 and included the leaders of the two ex-rebel groups),
to follow through with the recovery program; and (iii) weak capacity, leading to significant
delays in program implementation. The latter risk of weak implementation capacity was
mitigated by substantial and coordinated technical assistance by the Bank and other donors. It
was anticipated that the risk of the failure of the government follow-through with the recovery
program would be overcome by both successful implementation of the DDR process and the fact
that the NRRP's design was based on an intensive program of national consultation conducted by
the Government in November 1996 and May 1998. In fact, although the DDR process faltered in
May 2000 (see below), the Government's commitment to the reform and rehabilitation process
remained consistently high.
It was assumed that the risk of the deterioration of security conditions would be mitigated
by the DDR process, return of rebel leaders Foday Sankoh and Johnny Paul Koroma to
participate in the Governrnent, and deployment of UN peace-keeping forces (UNAMSIL).
Ultimately, however, this risk was borne out as the peace process unraveled and UN troops came
under attack in May 2000 by RUF forces facing disarmament and fearing loss of control over
diamond areas as UNAMSIL extended its operations. As a result, the DDR process suffered a
substantial setback as considerable numbers of ex-combatants were remobilized to defend
against the RUF's new offensive. While this risk was not successfully mitigated as anticipated,
this risk assessment was shared by the international community, and does not signify Bank
miscalculation. Moreover, this disruption did not deter the Government's commitment to the
reform program, and the subsequent resumption of the peace process and DDR program
prevented the reform program's derailment.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1    Outcome/achievement of objective:
Assessment:  The project successfully achieved its development objectives and is
expected to maintain them after project closing. This assessment is based on the following
factors: (i) satisfactory outcomes of the main components, as summarized below; (ii) sustained
Government commitment to the reform program, despite the security breakdown in May 2000,
through project preparation and implementation; and (iii) continuing Government commitment
to, and donor assistance in, carrying out completion of the DDR program, which is essential to
the maintenance of the project's security objectives and a critical underpinning of the project's
social and economic achievements.
5 The ISS was revieAed one year after its implementation. At that time, it was decided that conditions warranted continuation of
an interim approach as outlined in the Transitional Support Strategy approved by the Board in December 2000.
7



4.2    Outputs by components:
(1) Promote protective security/peace-building and reconciliation6: The Sierra Leone
Army (SLA) and the Sierra Leone police force were restructured and retrained to improve their
capacity to maintain security and ensure law and order. By end-April 2000, over 24,000, or 54
percent, of ex-combatants had been disarmed and demobilized under the DDR program.
Although this progress was disrupted by the events of May 2000, the program was revised and
re-implemented and was beginning to gain positive momentum by the Credit's closure. Under
the revised DDR program, about 5,900 RUF and CDF combatants were disarmed and
demobilized by end-June 2001, and the DDR program is scheduled to be completed by end-
2001 7. The proceeds of the ERRC complemented other resources available to the Government
and enabled it, among other things, to fund the transitional safety net allowance paid to ex-
combatants. By the Credit's closure, over 1,000 child soldiers were released; governrnent
control and services were being restored to most parts of the country, including some of the
diamond-mining and other mining areas; and displaced people had started to return to their
homes in large numbers.
(2) Promote social and economic security: With regard to promoting social security,
allocations to social sectors, particularly education and health, were substantially increased. This
was an important component of the Government's NRRP because the provision of key social
services outside of Freetown had virtually stopped, owing to the large-scale destruction of
education and health infrastructure. During the Credit period, the health care delivery system
was strengthened with assistance from the Bank, WHO, UNICEF, and other donors, and there
was an increase in the number of equipped primary health care centers in full operation. Free
primary health care was extended to all school children in accessible areas and HIV/AIDS
information programs were introduced. Beginning in September 2000, textbooks and teaching
and school materials were provided to all primary and secondary schools in rural areas, and a
policy of universal free primary education commenced in academic year 2000. This policy, plus
increased accessibility in rural areas, led to a 39 percent increase in primary enrollment under the
Credit. Counterpart funds generated by the Credit facilitated the provision of key social and
economic services.
Income relief was also provided to public sector pensioners in all accessible areas of the
country through settlement of arrears due. Finally, the Government also conducted focus groups
and a national baseline service delivery survey, within the context of the existing Strategic
Planning and Action Process (SPP) frameworks, to provide baseline data for monitoring
improvements in service delivery and to establish meaningful benchmarks and accompanying
strategies  for benchmark  implementation.   These  measures  satisfied  second  tranche
requirements.
In the area of promoting economic security, the following actions were undertaken under
the Credit:
6 Further detail on these outcomes can be found in the second and floating tranche reports. In addition, Annex 1 on Key
Performance Indicators provides greater detail on specific outcomes relating to each development objective.
7This phase has targeted an estimated 28,000 ex-combatants, drawn from the RUF, Civil Defense Forces, and ex-SLA personnel.
The SPP was initiated during the preparation of the 1997 CAS and has remained operational and active.
8



Reviving economic activity: Foreign exchange provided by the Credit enabled the
importation of essential commodities and there was an increased availability of essential
consumer items and basic commodities such as rice and petroleum during the Credit period9.
The improved macroeconomic environment enhanced business and consumer confidence and a
number of new businesses started up, while industries such as the brewery, soft drinks, and paint
and cement underwent rehabilitation and resumed productionl0. Extension services and input
delivery were extended to safe agricultural areas in order to expand agricultural output.
The settlement of private sector claims on the Government was identified in the LDP as a
key step in stimulating private sector activity. Under the ERRC, the Cabinet approved the
establishment of a committee for private debt; formulated, and began implementing, a plan for
domestic arrears settlement; and developed a manual of procedures for classifying claims and
undertaking  verification.   These  measures  satisfied  conditions  of the  second  tranche.
Repayments to participating businesses commenced in late 2000, using counterpart funds
generated from the ERRC.
Restoring macroeconomic stability: Consistent with the conditions of all three tranche
releases, the Government maintained a satisfactory macroeconomic framework throughout the
Credit period, despite the upsurge in hostilities in May 2000. During 2000, most targets and
objectives supported by the Fund's EPCAP were broadly attained and overall economic
performance improved significantly over 1999. Real GDP growth rose to an estimated 3.8
percent, reflecting a broad recovery in most sectors, with the exception of agriculture and
mining. The 12-month inflation rate fell from nearly 37 percent in December 1999 to -2.7
percent in December 2000, owing to the substantial improvement in the supply situation,
particularly of imported commodities, appreciation of the exchange rate, and tighter
macroeconomic policies. The Government's fiscal stance remained prudent despite strong
pressures for increased outlays. The level of bank financing, targeted at 2 percent of GDP,
actually ended up as a repayment to the banking system, as a result of higher than programmed
revenues, external budgetary support, and non-bank financing"1. Revenue generation was
strengthened and revenues exceeded targets by 1.4 percent of GDP, while expenditure
management improved due to the implementation of the computerized expenditure and
commitment control system and completion of the verification of payroll exercise (see below).
Following introduction of a foreign exchange auction in February 2000, there was a
significant reduction in exchange market segmentation, and the gap between average annual
official and parallel market rates narrowed significantly from 32.7 percent in 1999 to 10.3
percent in 2000. The exchange rate also appreciated significantly against the dollar following
the auction's introduction and higher aid flows, reversing the sharp deterioration that occurred in
9Petroleum imports rose from an estimated US$8.1 million in 1999 to a projected US$42.1 million in 2001. Rice imports
increased from an estimated US$14.3 million to a projected US$24.8 million in the same period.
10 Preliminary data indicate a sharp increase in gross private investment in 2001, to 5 percent of GDP, up from 1.7 percent in
2000 and -2.1 percent in 1999.
1 lBy helping to close the Government's financing gap in 2000, the ERRC contributed to macroeconomic stability by enabling
the Government to avoid resorting to domestic bank financing to offset slow donor commitments to the DDR program in the
early months of 2000. As a result of increased external budgetary support, domestic bank financing of the budget deficit was -0.2
percent of GDP, down from nearly 7 percent of GDP in 1999.
9



1999. The average real effective rate depreciated by about 10 percent in 2000, in contrast to an
appreciation of over 30 percent in 1999.
Balance of payments support provided under the Credit proved critical owing to the
collapse of major exports. Bauxite and rutile production had been suspended since 1995, while
delays in the DDR process meant that the country's main diamond areas remained under
effective rebel control. Establishment and operationalization of an UN-sponsored certification
system to reduce the flow of illegal diamonds led to an eightfold increase in official diamond
exports in the first six months of 2001 over the previous year's level.
In the first six months of 2001, economic activity continued to increase, and according to
the Fund, budget implementation was also generally on track. Inflation remained low, and all
indicative macroeconomic targets and financial benchmarks for end-June 2001 were met, except
to those relating to the wage bill. Sierra Leone's macroeconomic management was favorably
assessed by IMF missions undertaken in April, June, and October 2000, and April 2001, and was
judged sufficiently positive to warrant moving the Fund's support from the Post-Conflict Fund to
a Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF) Program, approved in July 2001.
Improving public resource managemeni: Accurate and timely reporting of public finances
continued to improve through the Credit period. The AGD began to prepare financial reports on
revenue and expenditure status for key ministries and departments on a quarterly basis; this was
improved to a monthly basis by the end of the Credit. Reports on net domestic financing and pay
expenditures were also prepared. Revenue mobilization as a percent of GDP was increased from
7.1 percent in 1999 to 11.7 percent in 2000. The AGD also began monitoring the budget to
ensure public expenditure control at the commitment level.
Public enterprise (PE) reform: The PE reform program was a continuation of the
Government's previous reform program which had been disrupted due to the escalation of
conflict. The Government published financial and performance criteria for seven PEs for the
first quarter of 2001, and prepared a strategic plan, based upon the findings of a public
consultative workshop of stakeholders, for dealing with the remaining PEs in the Government's
portfolio. The objective of this plan, which was approved by the Cabinet in June 2001, is to
reduce the size of government participation in the economy in order to allow wider private sector
activities. Introduction of these measures satisfied release of the floating tranche.
(3) Promoting transparent and inclusive governance: This was a key element in the
Government's NRRP because poor governance for over two decades was one of the main
reasons for the general discontent of the population, especially in rural areas, and for the
resulting conflict. Parliament approved an overall anti-corruption strategy focusing on (i)
investigation and effective enforcement; (ii) corruption prevention through the elimination of
opportunities; and (iii) public education and prevention. An Anti-Corruption Act putting into
effect this strategy was passed into law, becoming effective in February 2000, and an Anti-
Corruption Commission was established and is functioning. Operationalization of the new
computerized accounting system and the introduction of new systems to improve budget
management and expenditure control facilitated greater transparency, efficiency, and
accountability in the use of public funds. The Government also completed a validation and
10



verification exercise of the Personnel Roll to establish a "ghost-free" payroll and eliminate the
payroll of corruption. These measures were all second tranche conditions.
4.3    Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/A
4.4    Financial rate of return:
N/A
4.5   Institutional development impact:
N/A
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1   Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Program implementation was negatively affected by the near collapse of UN peace-
keeping activities in May 2000, leading to the suspension of the DDR program and the rearming
of many former SLA soldiers. Although most macroeconomic targets were attained at end-June
2000, the target relating to wages and salary outlays was exceeded owing to the unbudgeted
payments to the ex-SLAs. A second factor outside of the Government's control was the increase
in world petroleum prices.
Accordingly, the Government was forced to revise the budget to accommodate the
increased wage bill, as well as oil price-related and other expenditure pressures, thereby making
additional donor assistance necessary, including the Bank's US$10 million supplemental credit12.
Nonetheless, the revised budget accommodated these demands while maintaining the program's
overall fiscal process.
5.2   Factors generally subject to government control:
Despite substantial capacity and resource constraints, and the violence and increased
insecurity beginning in May 2000, record keeping by Ministry of Finance staff continued, and
the Government commendably continued to produce high quality policy documents.
5.3   Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
None.
5.4   Costs andfinancing:
12 Larger oil import bills necessitated the granting of supplemental credits to a number of Bank borrowers around the same time.
11



6. Sustainability
61    Rationale for sustainability rating:
The recurrence of violence and political instability that has occurred in Sierra Leone over
the last decade - interspersed with periods characterized by the enactment of significant
economic and structural reforms - underscores the difficulty of predicting the sustainability of
the ERRC Credit. In order to comply with Bank guidelines, however, a tentative assessment is
made that the prospects for sustainability are likely, based on the following:
(i) The Government's long-term and strong commitment to the reform process: Sierra
Leone has demonstrated sustained - despite interruptions due to political and security
breakdowns - commitment to economic reform since the mid-1990s. The current Government
remains committed, as stated in its Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (I-PRSP) to
implementing sound economic policies to attain macroeconomic stability within an overall
framework of good governance, and to continuing to address the immediate postwar needs
addressed by the ERRC: strengthening security and law and order; prioritizing the needs of the
most vulnerable; rebuilding social and physical infrastructure; and strengthening institutional
capacity. Continued macroeconomic stability will be aided by Fund supervision under the three-
year PRGF program, and possible debt relief under the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC)
Initiative. The Credit's gains in health and education, among other areas, will be strengthened
and extended by sectoral reforms under the Governments I-PRSP and continued support from
donors.
(ii) Continued capacity building: Sustainability on all fronts will be aided by the more
than thirty institutional capacity-building exercises, across all sectors of government, that are
currently being carried out by the DfMD, UNDP, EU, AfDB, the Bank, and the Fund'3. It appears
likely that local capacity will continue to be strengthened by technical assistance from donors in
the medium-term. Sustained peace will further enable institution building to be enhanced.
(iii) Government utilization ofparticipatory processes and consultation with civic society
to build effective support for its programs: Participatory processes were used to design the
Government's rehabilitation and recovery program; the Government's anti-corruption and public
enterprise strategy; and the sector-specific interventions outlined in the Government's I-PRSP
for 2001-02, among others. The SPP process has been institutionalized and is funded in the
national budget. The use of such fora is no guarantee of sustainability, but by creating consensus
and a sense of inclusion among the population, such processes engender the public support
needed for truly sustainable reform.
(iv) Continued progress under the DDR program: By end-June, Government control had
been extended to most parts of the country, including diamond-mining and rice-growing areas.
There has been an accelerated pace of demobilization since May 2001, and by end-August 2001,
13While the large number of ongoing capacity-building exercises does raise questions regarding the coordination of so many
initiatives, this factor may reduce, but is not likely to negate, the positive contribution that these exercises will make to
sustainability.
12



an estimated 16,000 combatants, or nearly 60 percent, had been disarmed. In addition, further
donor funding continues to be mobilized to support completion of the DDR 4.
Any assessment of sustainability, however, must be qualified by three factors: (i) the
difficulty of maintaining fiscal discipline in light of the extensive social and economic needs of
the country, especially as new areas open to Government control; (ii) upcoming presidential and
parliamentary elections pose the possibility of additional expenditure demands and/or the
emergence of elected authorities less committed to a reform agenda; and (iii) finally, and most
importantly, the potential for security setbacks, either from a slowdown or reversal of the DDR
or from possible cross-border destabilization, remains real, potentially threatening the social and
economic gains achieved under the Credit15. According to the electoral commission, elections
could be held during the first half of 2002. Accordingly, the continued uncertainties of the
security situation must temper any assessment of sustainability16
6.2    Transition arrangement to regular operations:
There are no specific transition arrangements for this project.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1    Lending:
Bank performance in identification, preparation, and appraisal was highly satisfactory.
Concept meetings addressed the appropriateness of the quick-disbursing lending instrument vis-
a-vis an Economic Reconstruction Loan. As noted, loan design was based on work completed in
1997 and 1998, thereby enhancing the likelihood of the Credit's successful implementation. The
loan design was highly compatible with the Government's NRRC and did not change
significantly from conception to Board approval, indicating sound preparation. The ERRC was
an integral part of the Bank's ISS for Sierra Leone, which was proceeded by extensive
groundwork, including Bank-led multi-donor and multi-sector assessment missions in Sierra
Leone in September 1999, and an informal donors meeting in that same month to apportion
responsibilities between the participating donors. Finally, the Bank correctly assessed the
Borrower's commitment to the project, the Government's implementation capacity, and the
amount of reform that could be realistically implemented within the Credit period.
14 By end-August 2001, approximately US$20 million of the projected DDR funding gap for 2001-02 (US$31.5 million) was
mobilized.
'5 Elections have been postponed from December 2001 to allow for the completion of the disarmament and demobilization
exercise, and the resettlement of the displaced population. According to the electoral commission, elections could be held during
the first half of 2002.
16 In addition, it should be acknowledged that maximization of the longer-term benefits of the reforms supported by the ERRC
may well be dependent on the Government's ability to gain control of the illicit diamond trade. The UN-sponsored diamond
certification scheme has resulted in a significant increase in the proportion of diamond exports through official channels;
nonetheless, this is still a small proportion of the estimated diamond trade, and illegal exports not only undermine Government
revenues, thereby constraining further social and economic gains, and but pose a significant challenge to effective governance.
13



7.2   Supervision:
Bank supervision was very thorough and focused on monitoring the implementation of
reform measures and progress towards the release of the second and floating tranches. Bank
supervision was carried out through two missions, held in October 2000 and February 2001, and
was undertaken on a selective basis by the Bank's field office in Guinea. Supervision was also
aided by frequent donor consultations on Sierra Leone. Close macroeconomic supervision was
carried out by the Fund, in close cooperation with the Bank, through four missions between
February 2000 and April 2001, including one concurrent Bank-Fund mission. Key bank staffing
on the Credit, including the Economist as Task Leader, remained consistent through the design
and life of the Credit, thereby aiding implementation and monitoring.  Finally, project
implementation involved no significant deviations from Bank policies and procedures.
7.3    Overall Bank performance.
Overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4   Preparation:
The Government's preparation of its NRRC, which the ERRC supported, was based on
an intensive and extensive program of national consultation launched in May 1996 and resumed
in May 1998. The Borrower was fully committed to its reformn program during project
preparation and appraisal and remained so during implementation. The GOSL authorities
developed four broad sets of intermediate performnance indicators, with the help of the Bank, by
1 7
which to regularly monitor the progress towards the program's goals
7.5   Government implementation performance:
Despite the upheaval of May 2000, the Government continued to implement its recovery
and reform program within a sound macroeconomic framework, and carried out fully its other
commitments as outlined in the LDP.
Reforms were undertaken in a transparent fashion, and frequently were based on
participatory exercises, including surveys, workshops, and focus group discussions, to ensure
broad public consensus. Policy documents prepared by the Government were of high quality;
this is particularly noteworthy given the capacity constraints of the Government. Monthly
monitoring reports on Govermnent finances, including the use of donor funds, were made
available to donors. Finally the Borrower implemented the program with vigor, at times
exceeding the required conditions for tranche releases, and there were no deviations from any of
the agreed-upon policy measures.
17These were: security indicators (e.g., movement of goods upcountry); policy indicators (e.g., expenditure levels); intermediate
indicators (e.g., timely release of quarterly allocations, enrollment rates); and outcome indicators (e.g., overall budgetary
outcomes, higher domestic revenues).
14



7.6   Implementing Agency:
The Government's reform effort was managed under the overall supervision of a Steering
Committee chaired by the Minister of Finance. The Committee was comprised of key Ministers
and the Governor of the Bank of Sierra Leone to maintain a dialogue at a high level on the
reform agenda. Equally important, a technical committee, comprised of high-level staff from
various ministries and the Bank of Sierra Leone, was responsible for day-to-day monitoring of
the program and coordinating program implementation. This Committee produced a quarterly
report on implementation progress, which was shared with donors.
7. 7   Overall Borrower performance:
Overall borrower performance is rated highly satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
This IDA Credit enabled the Government of Sierra Leone to provide critical services to
its population in the context of a macroeconomic framework that reduced domestic and external
imbalances and paved the way for a medium-term reform program. The key lesson to be learned
from this Credit is that short-term, post-conflict operations, while not without risk, can address
near-term recovery needs, as well as lay the foundation for growth and structural reform in the
medium-term, when (i) an overarching and well-conceived interim strategy is in place; (ii) donor
assistance is undertaken in a comprehensive and integrated fashion within the context of that
strategy; (iii) there is close complementarity between the Government's economic recovery
program  and demobilization and reintegration efforts; and (iv) the authorities are firmly
committed to the program's objectives and policies. Similar operations should also take into
consideration the following lessons:
The security conditions characterizing a post-conflict situation will be a predominate -
and unpredictable -- factor affecting implementation: Sustaining the peace proved to be much
harder than envisioned under the LPA, as demonstrated by the events of May 2000. In Sierra
Leone's case, this security breakdown was overcome through a concerted international response.
Nonetheless, the need for continued vigilance, bolstered by a clearly defined exit strategy with
specific triggers and guidelines specifying a reduction or cessation of Bank activities, is a
paramount requirement before undertaking such operations.
The need for lending flexibility:  The fragility of the post-conflict environment
necessitates maximum flexibility in the design of operations, portfolio restructuring, the design
of follow-on operations, and transition to a medium-term framework. Lending operations are
always subject to risk, but the potential for disruption is greatly magnified in post-conflict
situations. Adjusting to factors such as internal security breakdowns, slowdowns in
demobilization and/or reintegration, cross-border violence, and the speed with which areas
become accessible to government control are all factors that cannot be fully anticipated on an a
priori basis and can only successfully be dealt with by flexibility in the Bank's response.
15



The need for realistic development objectives:  The fragility of the post-conflict
environment also reduces the scope for far-ranging reforms and requires pragmatism by the Bank
as to what can feasibly be achieved within a short timeframe.
Close donor cooperation and collaboration: The enormous challenges facing post-
conflict countries makes it essential that Bank operations maintain an effective complementarity
with other donors in bridging the gap between security, humanitarian assistance, and
reconstruction/development.   Under this collaborative framework, effectiveness will be
maximized if donors undertake different activities based on their respective areas of comparative
advantage.  Such an integrated approach, however, entails a higher degree of operational
interdependence than is characteristic of other lending operations, thereby increasing the
likelihood of setbacks if some donor assistance is not provided on a timely basis.
An effective partnership with the IMF: Macroeconomic stability is clearly an important
requisite of a successful transition from near-term recovery to medium-term growth, and the
assistance and supervision available under the Fund's EPCAP can an important contributor to
this transition. A final lesson is that an effective partnership between the Bank and the IMF -
undertaken in the context of each institution's expertise, as was effectively used here - greatly
strengthens post-conflict project design and implementation.
9. Partner Comments
(a)   Borrower/implementing agency.
Following the signing of the Lome's Peace Accord in July 1999 and the accompanying
improved security situation, Government developed a National Recovery and Rehabilitation
Programme (NRRP) to build on the peace, and reconciliation as well as sustain security in both
protective and maternal terms. The main elements of the programme were the restoration of
security for life and property, improving service delivery as well as access to productive assets
for the majority of the population to alleviate poverty and the promotion of transparent and
inclusive governance.
To support the NRRP, Government entered into negotiations with the World Bank and
requested an original credit in the sum of US$30 million and a supplemental credit of US$10
million. The Credit became effective in February 24, 2000 and was disbursed in two fixed
tranches and one floating tranche. Disbursement was completed in June 2001, before the closing
date of the Credit. The objectives of the Credit were consistent with the NRRP and include: (a)
promoting protective security/peace building and reconciliation; (b) promote social and
economic security; and (c) promote transparent and inclusive governance.
Overall, the program was implemented successfully without any major difficulty or
constraints. Government fulfilled all the conditionalities for tranche releases including the
implementation of structural reforms and the maintenance of a stable macroeconomic
environment before the expiration of the Credit. The staff of the Bank provided adequate and
excellent supervision through out the implementation of the program. In this respect, we share
16



the views expressed in the Banks overall assessment of performance including assessment of
benefits and lessons learned.
The Economic Recovery and Rehabilitation Credit (ERRC) facilitated the attainment of
the objectives of the National Recovery and Rehabilitation Programme (NRRP) articulated in the
Letter of Development Policy.
The proceeds of the Credit enhanced budgetary allocations to the social sectors, and
thereby enabled Government to implement the Critical Poverty Reduction activities particularly
in health and education defined in the government transition phase of the I-PRSP. During
2000/01 teaching, learning materials and textbooks were provided to all Government and
Government assisted primary and secondary schools nationwide. School children were also
provided with subsidized transportation and free basic health care services. Free primary
education was introduced for classes 1-3 in 2000 and made universal in September 2001. In
addition, the resources of the credit facilitated the enhancement of the provision for the
reintegration of a significant number of street children into communities. Pregnant women and
nursing mothers were provided with free medical consultations and basic drugs, made possible
by the enhanced resources provided to the health sector.
The foreign exchange resources generated by the Credit augmented Government's
foreign reserves. These resources, which were channeled through the foreign exchange auction,
financed the importation of consumer goods, as well as intermediate goods, raw materials and
machinery for industry, which facilitated the resumption of manufacturing activity. This resulted
in increased manufacturing output and supply of basic consumer goods, both domestic and
imported. In addition, the exchange rate of the Leone to the US dollar appreciated considerably
in 2000 reversing the massive depreciation that took place in 1999.
The countervalue in Leones complemented Governments domestic revenue and enabled
Government to finance its huge expenditures without recourse to borrowing from the banking
system. In fact, Government made substantial repayments to the banking system during the
period. The resultant reduction in money supply growth combined with the appreciation of the
exchange rate and the increased supply of basic consumer items led to a sharp decline in the
inflation rate. In this respect, the Credit played a significant role in restoring macroeconomic
stability.
Proceeds from the Credit were also used in the funding of the domestic debt reduction
programme in respect of overdue arrears owed to domestic suppliers. The repayment of the
discounted value of the arrears facilitated commerce and the revival of activity in the private
sector activity and strengthened business confidence during 2000 and 2001.
(b) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
17



10. Additional Information
Late 1989 - The Government of Sierra Leone initiates a comprehensive economic recovery
program.
Early 1991 - Attacks by the Revolutionary lJnited Front (RUF) begin and quickly spread
throughout the country.
1992 - Economic recovery program is broadened and deepened with support from Bank and
Fund under the rights approach and ESAF. Policy execution through most of 1993 and 1994 is
generally good, with marked progress in stabilizing the economy and introducing structural
reforms.
Mid-January 1995 - Rebel forces mount attacks on key economic installations, including rutile
and bauxite mines. Government forces retake the mines in April, but mines remain closed and
there are considerable negative economic repercussions. GDP falls by 10 percent in 1995, down
from growth of 3.5 percent in 1994.
March 1996 - Leaders of rebel forces enter into face-to-face talks with the Government for the
first time since the start of the civil war and negotiate a temporary cease-fire. National elections
lead to the first democratically elected government in nearly 30 years. Government resumes
peace talks with rebel leaders and cease-fire holds through the year. New economic reform
agenda is adopted by the government, supported by the Fund with a second annual arrangement
under the ESAF.
May 1997 - Coup d'etat by the Armed Forces Revolutionary Council (AFRC) overthrows the
government and interrupts economic reform. RUF is invited to join the new government.
February 1998 - Economic Community of West African States Monitoring Group (ECOMOG)
drives military junta from power.
March 1998 - Government returns to power.
November 1998 - Sierra Leone granted access to use IMF resources under the Emergency Post-
Conflict Assistance Facility. First tranche of SDR1 1.58 million is disbursed.
January 1999 - AFRC/RUF rebels attack Freetown. Fighting between ECOMOG troops and
large-scale atrocities committed by rebels puts an end to the modest economic recovery that
started during the second half of 1998.
July 1999 - Lome Peace Accord (LPA) brokered by the UN is signed.
October 1999 - Rebel leaders return to Freetown and government of national unity is formed in
accordance with LPA. DDR program is launched, and UN Security Council approves sending
peacekeeping force (UNAMSIL) of 6,000 soldiers to Sierra Leone.
December 1999 - World Bank Executive Board approves Interim Support Strategy (ISS) for
Sierra Leone. Community Reintegration and Rehabilitation Project (CRRP) is also approved, as
a key element of the ISSS. IMF Board approves emergency post-conflict facility of SDR 25.93
million.
February 2000 - ERRC approved. CRRP becomes effective.
May 2000 - RUF disrupts peace process by launching a major offensive, including seizing UN
hostages. DDR program is halted and many demobilized SLA soldiers and Civil Defense Forces
18



are re-armed. Strong international response, including expansion of UN forces, repulses attack
and results in arrest of Foday Sankoh, the RUF leader. UNAMSIL forces are subsequently
strengthened.
November 2000 - Informal cease-fire is agreed to in Abuja, Nigeria.
December 2000 - World Bank Board approves a second Transitional Support Strategy for Sierra
Leone.
March 2001 - Government's mandate expires, but is extended by Parliament for an additional 6
months. Presidential elections re-scheduled for December 2001.
May 2001 - Representatives of the RUF and Government meet in Abuja and agree to further
steps to advance the peace process. Agreement is reached on starting the third phase of the DDR
process. Government agrees to help RUF transform itself into a political party.
June 2001 - Donors' conference in Paris re-affirms support for the DDR process.
19






Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                     Projected in last PSRI                Actual/Latest Estimate
]. Ex-combatants re-inserted into civilian life   22,456 combatants disarmed (end-April   7,785 ex-combatants disarmed. 19.824
2000).                               and 6,653 ex-combatants demobilized
and reintegrated, respectively. Under
Phase III of DDR, additional 5,900
demobilized by end-June 2001.
2. Income relief to public sector pensioners  n.a.                              Verification and settlement done
through settlement of arrears due.                                              simultaneously. Accomplished in all
acccssible areas of the country.
3. Reduction in the number of factional   Sporadic factional military violence  LPA signed in 1999. Abuja Ceasefire
military violent clashes.                 reported in 1999 (pre-LPA).           Agreement signed in 2000. Improved
security situation, less violent clashes and
less reported crimes.
4. Reduction in crimes reported in major cities. 1,672 armed robberies in 1999. Other    Crime statistics reduced in Western Area
crimes in 1999 were 760,160.         to 18,200. Assault most common crime.
5. Turnover and employment in a sample of    n.a.                               n.a.
businesses owed arrears.
Output Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                     Projected in last PSRI               Actual/Latest Estimate
Contribution to Disarmament, Demobilization
and Reintegration Programme.
1. NCDDR and its Executive Secretariat set up. Executive Secretariat established.  Executive Secretariat established and
functioning after LPA signing; houses
offices of NCDDR.
2. Transitional safety net for the ex-combatants  Preparation for payment started in 1999  ERRC proceeds and other resources
delivered.                                (post-LPA).                          available to the Government enable funding
of transitional safety net allowance to ex-
combatants.
Basic services relaunched.
1. Higher enrollment rate in classes 1-3.  In 1999/2000, primary enrollment was  In 2000/2001, primary enrollment
221,839.                            increased by 39% to 308.026. Increase due
to free primary education for grades 1-3
and increased accessibility in rural areas.
2. Number of primary health care centers in full In 1997, there were 730 facilitics.  Number of facilities increased by 9% to
operation.                                                                     795 in March 2001. Of these, 43% are
fully functional.
Economic activity revived.
1. Availability of basic commodities like rice   In 1999, rice imports were S14.3 million Rice imports increase to a projected $24.8
and petroleum.                             and petroleum imports were $8.1     million, and petroleum imports increase to
million.                            a        projected $42.1 million, in 2001.
2. Availability of foreign exchange and    In 1999, annual average official and  In 2000, annual averagc official and
narrowing of the gap between official and  parallel exchange rates to US$1 were    parallel exchange rates to US$1 increased
parallel market rates.                     1,818 and 2,400 respectively, with a gap to 2,097 and 2,313 respectively, narrowing
of 32.7%.                           the gap to 10.3%.
I End of project
20



Annex 2: Project Costs and Financing
Not Applicable
21



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Not Applicable
22



Annex 4: Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle              No. of Persons and Specialty               Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)
Implementation  Development
Month/Year                 Count                 Specialty                Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
12/1999                 6           Economist, Lead Economist,          n.a            n.a
Participation Specialist, Public
Enterprise Specialist, Lawyer.
Research Assistant
Appraisal/Negotiation
01/2000                 10          Economist, Sector Manager,           n.a            n.a
Lead Economist, Lead
Counsel, Disbursement
Officer, Operation Advisor,
Private Sector Specialist,
Senior Sector Public
Management Specialist,
Participation Specialist,
Language Team Assistant
Supervision
10/2001                 2          Economist, Participation              S              S
Specialist
02/2001                  4          Economist, Participation             S              S
Specialist, Private Sector
Specialist, Macroeconomic
Framework Specialist
ICR
Economist
*Appraisal and negotiations took place in Washington, DC.
(b) Staff
Stage of Proect Cycle     |                  Actual/Latest Estimate
.___________________  No. Staff weeks             US$ ('000
Identification/Preparation                 10                          34.7
Appraisal/Negotiation                      7                           24.2
Supervision                                16                          52.2
ICR                                        7                           22.8
Total                                      40                          133.9
23



Annex 5: Ratings for Achievement of Objective/Outputs by Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA--Not Applicable)
Rating
Macro policies                                    H
Sector Policies                                   NA
Physical                                          NA
Financial                                         NA
Institutional Development                         NA
Environmental                                     NA
Social
Poverty Reduction                         NA
Gender                                     NA
Other (Please specify)                    NA
Private sector development                        SU
Public sector management                          SU
Other (Please specify)                            SU
Improved protective security               SU
Improved economic/social security          SU
Improved government transparency
and inclusiveness                          SU
24



Annex 6: Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance          Ritin2
Lending                                    S
Supervision                                HS
Overall                                    S
6.2 Borrower performance                    RatXng
Preparation                                HS
Government implementation performance     HS
Implementation agency performance          HS
Overall                                   HS
25



Annex 7: List of Supporting Documents
"Sierra Leone:  Economic Rehabilitation and Recovery Credit," Minutes of the Concept Review
Meeting," November 9, 1999.
"Interim Support Strategy for the Republic of Sierra Leone," President's Memorandum (IDA/R99-191),
December 2, 1999.
Sierra Leone, Economic Rehabilitation and Recovery Credit, Project Identification Document, December
2, 1999.
"Sierra Leone: Economic Recovery and Rehabilitation Credit," Minutes of the ROC Meeting held on
December 20, 1999.
"Republic of Sierra Leone: Proposed Economic Rehabilitation and Recovery Credit," Draft Concept
Paper, February 8, 2000 (file copy date).
"Republic of Sierra Leone: Appraisal Mission for a Proposed Economic Rehabilitation and Recovery
Credit," Aide-M6moire, January 6-12, 2000.
"Republic of Sierra Leone: Economic Rehabilitation and Recovery Credit," Minutes of Negotiations,
Washington, DC, January 19, 2000.
"Republic of Sierra Leone Economic Rehabilitation and Recovery Credit," President's Report (Report
No: P 73555 SL), January 26, 2000.
"Credit to Sierra Leone: Economic Rehabilitation and Rehabilitation Credit," Summary of Discussion at
the Meeting of the Executive Directors of the Bank and IDA, February 17, 2000.
Development Credit Agreement, Economic Rehabilitation and Recovery Credit, February 18, 2000.
"Sierra Leone - Economic Rehabilitation & Recovery Credit (Credit No. 3321-SL), Release of the
Second Tranche - Full Compliance," President's Memorandum (IDA/SecM2000-586), October 16, 2000.
Minutes of Regional Operations Committee (ROC) Review Meeting, "Sierra Leone - Update of Interim
Support Strategy and Proposed Supplemental Credit to the Economic Rehabilitation and Recovery
Credit," November 14, 2000.
"Sierra Leone: Transitional Support Strategy," President's Memorandum (IDA/R2000-209), November
21, 2000.
"Republic of Sierra Leone: Economic Rehabilitation and Recovery Supplemental Credit," Minutes of
Negotiations, Washington, DC, November 22, 2000.
"Sierra Leone: Economic Rehabilitation and Recovery Project - Supplemental Credit," President's
Report (IDA/R2000-216), November 27, 2000.
"Minutes of the Informal Donors Meeting on Sierra Leone, Freetown, 26-27 February 2001."
ERRC Project Status Report, June 14, 2001.
26



"Sierra Leone - Economic Rehabilitation & Recovery Credit (Credit No. 3321-SL) Release of the
Floating Tranche - Full Compliance," President's Memorandum (IDA/SedM2001 -0434), June 25, 2001.
"Sierra Leone: Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper and Joint IDA-IMF Staff Assessment of the
Interim PRSP," (IDA/SecM2001-0483), July 17, 2001.
IMF, "Sierra Leone - Use of Fund Resources - Request for Emergency Post-Conflict Assistance; and
Exchange System," (EBS/99/217), December 3, 1999.
--, "Sierra Leone - Back-to-Office Report," February 25, 2000.
--, "Sierra Leone - Use of Fund Resources - Request for Emergency Post-Conflict Assistance; and
Exchange System," (EBS/00/1 80), August 24, 2000.
Sierra Leone - Recent Economic Developments and Selected Issues," (SM/01/10), January 8, 2001.
--, "Sierra Leone - Request for a Three-Year Arrangement Under the Poverty Reduction and Growth
Facility and for the First Annual Program," (EBS/01/1 18), July 1, 2001.
, "Sierra Leone - Request for a Three-Year Arrangement Under the Poverty Reduction and Growth
Facility and for the First Annual Program," (EBS/01/1 18 - Correction 1), July 19, 2001.
--, Sierra Leone -- Request for a Three-Year Arrangement Under the Poverty Reduction and Growth
Facility and for the First Annual Program," (EBS/01/1 18- Correction 2), September 10, 2001.
--, "Sierra Leone - Request for a Three-Year Arrangement Under the Poverty Reduction and Growth
Facility and for the First Annual Program," (EBS/01/1 18 - Supplement 2), September 12, 2001.
27



