Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3321-1-SL
(Amendment)
Agreement Amending
Development Credit Agreement
(Economic Rehabilitation and Recovery Credit)
between
REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated December 18, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 3321-1-SL
(Amendment)
AGREEMENT AMENDING
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 18, 2000, between REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower and the Association have entered into a Development 
Credit Agreement (Economic Rehabilitation and Recovery Credit) dated February 18, 2000 
(the Development Credit Agreement), for the purpose of providing support during the 
execution of the Borrower’s program designed to achieve structural adjustment of the 
Borrower’s economy;
(B)
the Borrower has requested the Association to provide additional 
assistance in support of the Program by increasing the amount made available under the 
Development Credit Agreement by an amount in various currencies equivalent to seven 
million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 7,900,000) the supplemental 
Credit; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to provide such additional assistance to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions 
set forth in this Agreement;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Amendments of the Development Credit Agreement
Section 1.01. Section 1.02 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended as 
follows:
(a)
a new paragraph (i) is added reading:
“(i)
‘Amending Agreement’ means the Agreement Amending the 
Development Credit Agreement (Economic Rehabilitation and Recovery 
Credit) 
between the Borrower and the Association, dated December 
18, 2000.”
Section 1.02. Section 2.01 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to 
read as follows:
“Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the 
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in 
the 
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to 
twenty nine million eight hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 
29,800,000) (the Credit), which includes: (a) 
an original amount in various 
currencies equivalent to twenty one 
million nine hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 
21,900,000) (the Initial Financing); and (b) 
an additional amount 
in various currencies equivalent to seven million 
nine hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 7,900,000) (the Additional 
Financing).”
Section 1.03. Paragraph (b) (i) of Section 2.04 of the Development Credit 
Agreement is amended by adding after the term “cancelled” the following proviso 
reading:
“and that any commitment charge on the Additional Financing 
shall 
accrue from a date sixty days after the date of the Amending 
Agreement.”
Section 1.04. Schedule 1 of the Development Credit Agreement is hereby revised 
as indicated in the Annex to this Amending Agreement.
ARTICLE II
Effective Date; Termination
Section 2.01. This Amending Agreement shall not become effective until evidence 
satisfactory to the Association shall have been furnished to the Association that: (a) 
the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is satisfactory, as measured on the 
basis of indicators agreed between the Borrower and the Association; and (b) the 
execution and delivery of this Amending Agreement on behalf of the Borrower have been 
duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental action.
Section 2.02. As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to Section 2.01 
of this Amending Agreement, there shall be furnished to the Association an opinion or 
opinions satisfactory to the Association of counsel acceptable to the Association 
showing, on behalf of the Borrower, that this Amending Agreement has been duly 
authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and 
is legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance with its terms.
Section 2.03. This Amending Agreement shall come into force and effect on the 
date upon which the Association shall dispatch to the Borrower notice of its 
Page  3
acceptance of the evidence required by Section 2.01 of this Amending Agreement.
Section 2.04. If this Amending Agreement shall not have come into force and 
effect by a date ninety (90) days after the date of this Amending Agreement, this 
Amending Agreement and all obligations of the parties hereunder shall terminate, 
unless the
Association establishes a later date for the purposes of this Section.  If 
this Amending Agreement shall terminate under the provisions of this Section, the 
Development Credit Agreement shall continue in full force and effect, as if this 
Amending Agreement had not been executed.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Amending Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year 
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
By /s/ John Leigh
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Callisto Madavo
Regional Vice President
Africa
Annex
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit and Excluded Expenditures
1.
Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this Schedule, the table 
below sets forth the amounts allocated to specific Tranches to be withdrawn from the 
Credit Account:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
First Tranche    11,000,000
100%
(2)
Second Tranche   15,200,000
100%
(3)
Floating Tranche  3,600,000
100%
TOTAL
    29,800,000
