Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID)           
29892
Project Name:
PAKISTAN: Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC I)
Region:
South Asia
Project ID:
P078806
Borrower(s):
Government of Pakistan
Implementing Agency:
Ministry of Finance
Gover
nment of Pakistan
Contact Person:
Mr. Abdul Wajid Rana
Joint Secretary
Ministry of Finance
Environment Category:
U (Not required)
Date PID Prepared:
             April 13, 2004
PID Revised:
August 23, 2004
Projected Appraisal Date:
May 4, 2004
Projected Board Date:
September 2, 2004
1.  Country Background
For Pakistan’s poor, the 1990s were a lost decade with little progress made in reducing poverty 
and improving social indicators.  Per capita growth declined to 1.2% per year, down from 3% p
er 
year in the 1980s.  Prospects for sustaining faster growth, reducing poverty, and improving social 
indicators  are  now  brighter.    Over  the  past  4  years,  the  Government  of  Pakistan  has  made 
remarkable  progress  in  stabilizing  and  reviving  the  economy,  laun
ching  an  ambitious  and 
comprehensive program of reforms to modernize Pakistan and its institutions, and demonstrated 
its  determination  to  tackle  difficult  reforms:  achieving  fiscal  balance,  privatization  of  public 
sector  enterprises,  public  and  corporate  g
overnance  improvements,  liberalization  of  external 
trade, reform of the banking sector, and reduction in untargeted subsidies. It also launched an 
ambitious  devolution  program.    These  reforms  have  continued  after  the  transition  to  a 
democratically  elected 
government  in  2002.    M
acroeconomic  performance  has  continued  to 
strengthen,  with  growth  accelerating  to  above  6%  in  2003/04,  inflation  remaining  low,  and 
external balances continuing to improve. These developments bode well for Pakistan’s future 
economic  a
nd  social  development.   
The  next  few  years  pose  the  challenge  of  maintaining 
macroeconomic stability and the reform momentum, attracting domestic and foreign investment 
to  sustain  a  higher  growth  path,  finding  ways  of  translating  this  higher  growth  into  lo
wer 
poverty, and mobilizing additional domestic and external resources to accelerate improvements 
in  education,  health,  basic  infrastructure,  and  other  indicators  of  living  standards.    The 
government’s Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PSRP), finalized in 
December 2003, entitled 
Accelerating Economic Growth and Reducing Poverty: The Road Ahead
, provides the policy 
framework for consolidation of reforms in a number of critical areas, which the Government has 
deemed a priority to accelerate growth and develop
ment in Pakistan.  
2.  Objectives and Description
Page  2
2
The  PRSP  presents  a  broad
-
based  strategy  for  addressing  poverty  in  its  various  dimensions  and 
emphasizes policies to sustain growth as the main vehicle for poverty reduction.  The reform program to 
be su
pported by the proposed PRSC will be aligned with the Government of Pakistan’s PRSP, along its 
four pillars: (i) achieving sustained high and broad
-
based economic growth, focusing particularly on the 
rural economy, while maintaining macroeconomic stability
; (ii) improving governance and consolidating 
devolution, both as a means of delivering better development results and ensuring social and economic 
justice; (iii) investing in human capital, with renewed emphasis on effective delivery of basic social 
servi
ces; (iv) targeting the poor and vulnerable, to bring the marginalized sections of the population and 
backwards  regions  into  the  mainstream  of  development,  and  to  make  marked  progress  in  reducing 
existing inequalities.  PRSC I would be the first of a serie
s of three one
-
tranche programmatic operations 
that would support the next phase of the Government of Pakistan’s medium
-
term reform program, as laid 
out in the PRSP. The reforms the proposed credit will support include: 
Reforms to accelerate growth and m
aintain macroeconomic stability
The PRSP recognizes that a stable macroeconomic environment, with low inflation, a low fiscal 
deficit,  sustainable  debt,  and  no  major  external imbalances,  is  a 
sine  qua  non
  for  economic 
growth  and  poverty  reduction.    It  als
o  recognizes  that  growth  and  poverty  reduction  are 
conditional  on  increased  revenue  mobilization  and  improved  effectiveness  of  expenditures. 
Pakistan has one of the lowest tax/GDP ratios in the developing world, and reforms in both tax 
policy  and  tax  admin
istration  are  key  areas  in  the  government’s  reform  program.    The 
effectiveness of expenditure also needs to improve, through improvements in public expenditure 
management,  such  as  the  development  of  a  Medium  Term  Budget  Framework  (MTBF)  and 
improvements in
 monitoring and evaluation of development projects.  
The government has initiated significant structural reforms to improve the business environment and 
encourage  foreign investment through  deregulation  and  privatization.  The  government  is  seeking  to 
im
prove  the  business  environment  so  as  to  reduce  the  compliance  and  regulatory  costs  imposed  on 
businesses, in particular small and medium enterprises.  In this regard, it is in the process of amending 
labor regulations with the aim of creating a more flexib
le labor market and reducing the costs of doing 
business.  T
he
 banking sector has undergone extensive restructuring, with the privatization of major 
financial institutions and the strengthening of banking regulation.  In addition, a number of privatization
s 
in the oil and gas, and power sector are planned during the upcoming year.  The PRSP recognizes that the 
power sector is a huge drain on the budget, absorbing resources that could instead be made available for 
poverty
-
related expenditures, and that limit
ed progress on reforms has taken place to date.  Reforms to 
improve the performance of the power sector will be supported under the PRSC.  The telecommunications 
sector is being deregulated, with the government having recently approved new mobile and fixed
 line 
policies that will introduce further competition in both these sectors and increase the penetration of fixed 
line and cellular coverage.  The petroleum products market has also been deregulated, allowing free 
imports and promoting competition.  .  Mo
st distortions in agricultural output and input markets have also 
been  removed,  and  accelerating  growth  in  the  sector  will  now  depend  critically  on  improving  the 
management of water resources, so as to reduce vulnerability to shocks and provide for more ef
ficient and 
equitable use of water.  
Improving governance
The PRSP recognizes that economic growth and poverty alleviation are conditional on improved 
governance, specifically entailing reforms in procurement and financial management, in civil 
service ref
orm, and in the strengthening of the devolution initiative.  A new set of procurement 
Page  3
3
rules, conforming to international best practices, have been developed, and the government has 
embarked  upon  wide  ranging  reforms  to  improve  accounting  systems,  and  inter
nal  control 
arrangements.  A broad civil service reform strategy has been developed, focusing on the areas 
of  devolution,  recruitment  and  promotion  reforms,  pay  and  pensions  reform,  professional 
development, and monitoring and evaluation.  The PRSP also re
cognizes that while there are 
early signs that devolution is beginning to yield positive results in terms of more responsive 
government, local governments face significant obstacles as a result of incomplete administrative 
and fiscal devolution.  Strengthe
ning devolution will require transferring a significant portion of 
emerging  fiscal  space  to  provincial  and  local  governments,  as  well  as  further  administrative 
reforms.       
Investments in human capital 
Improving Pakistan’s poor human development indic
ators is a priority of the government, and the Federal 
government,  in the  context  of  devolution, has a  key  role  in policy  formulation,  and  monitoring  and 
evaluation.  The improvements in levels of financing for key PRSP expenditures, including on health 
ed
ucation, and water and sanitation, will be monitored under and supported by the PRSC program.  Other 
specific  reforms  the  program  would  support  will  fall  in  the  areas  of  strengthening  monitoring  and 
evaluation of education outcomes, and improving quality o
f teaching. The government will also explore 
the possibilities of federally funded demand
-
side interventions in health and education, such as vouchers 
and  grants,  to  improve  outcomes.    In  Health,  in  addition  to  policy  formulation  and  monitoring  and 
evaluat
ion, the Federal government plays a key role in preventing the spread of communicable diseases, 
through preventive health care programs and communicable disease control programs.  The PRSC will 
support the development of a disease surveillance system, stre
ngthening of the immunization program, 
improvements in access to family planning and primary health care services, and expanded provision, 
through public
-
private partnerships, of preventive and curative health services in malaria, HIV/AIDS, and 
TB.  
Refo
rm of social safety nets
The Government has instituted a number of safety net programs that have as their objective 
improving the welfare of the poor and vulnerable groups.  These programs use different sources 
of financing, different levels of benefits, 
methods of targeting, and program administration.  A 
comprehensive  review  of  these  programs  is  being  initiated  so  as  to  identify  ways  of  better 
reaching the poor, and other target groups.  Next steps that the PRSC program could support 
include the reform o
f safety nets, to implement the recommendations of the review according to 
a mutually agreed program.
3.  Rationale of Bank’s Involvement
The proposed PRSC is in line with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) objectives of (i) strengthening 
macroeconomi
c  stability  and  government  effectiveness,  (ii)  improving  the  business  environment  for 
growth, and (iii) improving equity through support for pro
-
poor and pro
-
gender equity policies.  The 
design of the PRSC builds on the findings of several pieces of analyt
ical work completed by the bank in 
the last few years that included a Public Expenditure Review (2004), Country Financial Accountability 
Assessment I and II (2001, 2003), Development Policy Review (2002), Poverty Assessment (2002), the 
Country Procurement 
Assessment Report (2000), a Provincial Finances Report (2001), a PER for Punjab 
(2001), and an Oil and Gas Sector Review (2003)
.
  A CAS Progress Report was presented to the Board on 
Page  4
4
April 20, 2004.  
In 2004, a policy note, Power for Pakistan, served as the
 basis for high level dialogue on 
power sector reforms.  Key additional analytical pieces of work are under preparation, namely a Devolved 
Service Delivery report, a Strategic Country Environmental Assessment, a Rural Factor Markets study, 
and a Gender Ass
essment.
4.  Financing
The  borrower is  the  Government  of  Pakistan. The amount  of  the  proposed  PRSC  I  is  $300  million 
equivalent, to be disbursed in a single tranche upon credit effectiveness. This will be the first slice of a 
three
-
year program of suppo
rt for the PRSP, to be aligned with the Government’s budget cycle.  
5.  Risks and Mitigating Measures
Risks to implementing the Government’s program remain, but have diminished over the past three years, 
particularly due to the recent political accords 
and recent improvement in relations with India.  The main 
risks include i) lack of sustained implementation stemming from insufficient institutional capacity; (ii) 
downside risks to the fiscal outlook; and (iii) exogenous shocks.  Technical and institution
al capacity has 
been augmented by substantial capacity building programs, but weaknesses remain, particularly in the 
local governments.  The main downside risks include failure to curb losses of the SOEs, in particular 
continued budget support to the power
 sector, and lower than projected growth in non
-
tax revenue if 
dividends fall on account of privatization.  Most importantly, political or security concerns could suppress 
investment 
–
 in particular foreign investment 
–
 thereby reducing growth.  These risk
s have diminished 
somewhat  as  a  result  of  the  demonstrated  ownership  of  the  PRSP’s  reform  program  by  the  elected 
government and the continuity of economic and social policies over the past four years.
The Bank is 
mitigating these risks by sustaining and d
eepening its policy dialogue, supporting capacity building of key 
government institutions, and disbursing against a set of prior actions.
6.  Monitoring arrangements
A PRSP Secretariat has been established in the Ministry of Finance, Government of Pakista
n for 
the overall coordination and monitoring of the reform program laid out in the PRSP.   The 
secretariat  has  institutionalized  a  mechanism  for  the  quarterly  tracking  of  anti
-
poverty 
expenditures, and in collaboration with donors and civil society, ident
ified a set of intermediate 
and outcome indicators in Education, Health, and Population Planning sectors.  The government 
is  also  launching  the  Core  Welfare  Indicators  Questionnaire  (CWIQ)  household  survey  to 
provide  yearly  social  sector  intermediate  data 
representative  at  the  district  level.    Regular 
supervision of the PRSC will also be carried out by the Bank in partnership with the Government 
of Pakistan.  
7.  Contact Points
Ms. Manuela Ferro
Lead Economist
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washing
ton, D.C., 20433  
Telephone: 202
-
 473
-
8290
Fax: 202
-
522
-
0356
Page  5
5
Mr. Zahid Hasnain
Economist
World Bank Pakistan Country Office
20
-
A Shahrah
-e-
Jamhuriyat, G
-
5/1
Islamabad, Pakistan
Telephone: (9251) 9090207
