Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER  3974 - PAK 
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Poverty Reduction Support Credit) 
 
between 
 
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated September 8 , 2004 
 
Page  2
2
Page  3
CREDIT NUMBER  3974 - PAK 
 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
 
AGREEMENT, dated September 8, 2004, between ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF 
PAKISTAN (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received from the Borrower a letter dated  
July 30, 2004, (the letter of Development Policy or “LDP”) describing a program of 
actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve growth and poverty reduction of the 
Borrower’s economy  (hereinafter called the Program), declaring the Borrower’s 
commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the 
Association in support of the Program during the execution thereof;  
 
(B) 
the Borrower has, consistent with its Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper 
and the Program, carried out the measures and taken the actions described in Schedule 2 
of this Agreement to the satisfaction of the Association and has maintained a 
macroeconomic policy framework satisfactory to the Association; and 
 
(C) 
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Association has decided in 
support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Credit 
in one tranche as hereinafter provided; 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, (as amended through October 6, 
1999) with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement: 
 
(a) 
Section 2.01, paragraph 12, is modified to read: 
 
“‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the 
Development Credit Agreement, in support of which the Credit is 
made.”; 
 
Page  4
-
2
-
(b) 
Section 4.01 is modified to read: 
 
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made in the currency of 
the deposit account specified in Section 2.02 of the Development Credit 
Agreement.”; 
 
(c) 
Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
 
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit 
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of the 
Development Credit Agreement and of these General Conditions”; 
 
(d) 
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted; 
 
(e) 
Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read: 
 
“(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association a 
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request, on the execution of the Program referred to in the 
Preamble to the Development Credit Agreement, the performance by the 
Borrower and the Association of their respective obligations under the 
Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes 
of the Credit.”; and 
 
(f) 
Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified above), 9.07 
and 9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 
9.07.  
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional term has the following meanings:  
 
(a) 
“AIDS” means the Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome; 
 
(b) 
“CGA” means the Borrower’s Controller General of Accounts or any 
successor entity thereto; 
 
(c) 
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
 
(d) 
 “DOTS” means Directly Observed Treatment Short-course, a strategy 
promoted by the World Health Organization to control tuberculosis; 
Page  5
-
3
-
(e) 
“Fiscal Year” means the fiscal year of the Borrower beginning on July 1 
of a calendar year and ending on June 30 of the next following calendar year; 
 
(f) 
“HIV”  means the Human Immuno-Deficiency Virus; 
 
(g) 
“NEAS” means the Borrower’s National Education Assessment System; 
 
(h) 
“PTCL” means the Pakistan Telecommunications Company Limited, a 
company incorporated, registered, and carrying on business under the Borrower’s 
Companies Ordinance, 1984 (XLVII of 1984); and 
 
(i) 
“PRSP means the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper of the Borrower 
dated December 31, 2003. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Credit 
 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to two hundred six million eight hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 206,800,000).  
 
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit from the 
Credit Account in support of the Program. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the first 
request for withdrawal from the Credit Account, and thereafter maintain in its central 
bank, a deposit account in United States dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Association. All withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the 
Association into the Deposit Account. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Credit shall not be 
used to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. If the Association shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the 
Credit shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (i) deposit into the Deposit 
Account an amount equal to the amount of said payment; or (ii) if the Association shall 
so request, refund such amount to the Association. Amounts refunded to the Association 
upon such request shall be credited to the Credit Account for cancellation. 
 
Page  6
-
4
-
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 21, 2004, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the 
rate set as of June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as 
may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of 
June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 
2.06 of this Agreement. 
 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
March 15 and September 15 commencing September 15, 2014 and ending March 15, 
2039. Each installment to and including the installment payable on March 15, 2024, shall 
be one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment 
thereafter shall be two and one half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.  
 
(b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by the Association of 
Page  7
-
5
-
the development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the repayment of installments under 
paragraph (a) above by: 
 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit 
shall have been repaid; and 
 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal 
amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date 
referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more 
after the date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that 
the events set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, 
however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five 
years on such repayment of principal. 
 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the 
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate 
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned  
repayment modification. 
 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further 
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in 
paragraph (a) above. 
 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Particular Covenants
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at 
the request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program.  
 
(b) 
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request. 
 
Page  8
-
6
-
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be 
taken after the disbursement of the Credit which would have the effect of materially 
reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, including 
any action specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.02. Upon the Association’s request, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association; 
 
(b) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than four months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a certified 
copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
 
(c) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall have reasonably requested. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Remedies of the Association 
 
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which shall 
make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
 
Section 4.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
 
(a) 
the event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall have 
occurred; and  
 
(b) 
any action shall have been taken or any omission shall have been made 
which would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the Program or any 
action taken under the Program, including any action specified in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Page  9
-
7
-
Effective Date; Termination
 
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
 
Section 6.01. The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan, Economic Affairs 
Division or any Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Deputy Secretary or Section 
Officer of that Division of the Borrower is designated as the representative of the 
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan 
Economic Affairs Division 
Islamabad 
Pakistan 
 
Cable 
address: 
   Telex: 
 
 Facsimile: 
 
ECONOMIC 
  ECDIV-05-634  (9521) 
9205971 
 Islamabad 
     (9251) 
9210734 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association  
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
  248423 
(MCI) 
or 
(202) 
477-
6391 
Page  10
-
8
-
Washington, D.C. 
   
  64145 (MCI) 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Islamabad, Pakistan as of the day and year first above written
.
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN 
 
By /s/ Waqar Masood Khan 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ John Wall 
 
Country Director 
Pakistan 
Page  11
-
9
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Excluded Expenditures
 
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Credit 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
 
1.  
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods, works, or services 
supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
 
2. 
expenditures for goods, works, or services supplied under a contract which any 
national or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance under another grant, credit, or a 
loan; 
 
3. 
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any 
successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the 
Association by notice to the Borrower: 
 
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112 
  -   Alcoholic 
beverages 
 
121 
  -   Tobacco, 
unmanu- 
 
factured, tobacco 
 
refuse 
 
122 
  -   Tobacco, 
manufactured 
 
 
(whether or not 
 
containing tobacco 
 
substitutes) 
 
525 
  -   Radioactive 
and 
 
 
associated materials 
 
667 
  -   Pearls, 
precious 
and 
 
semiprecious 
 
stones, unworked 
 
or
worked 
Page  12
-
10
-
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
718 
  718.7 
  Nuclear 
reactors, 
and 
 
 
parts thereof; fuel  
 
elements (cartridges), 
 
non-irradiated, for 
 
nuclear reactors 
 
728 
  728.43 
  Tobacco 
processing 
 
machinery 
 
897 
  897.3 
  Jewelry 
of 
gold, 
 
 
silver or platinum 
 
group metals (except 
 
watches and watch 
 
cases) and 
 
goldsmiths’ or  
 
silversmiths’ 
 
wares (including  
 
set gems) 
 
971 
  -   Gold, 
non-monetary 
 
(excluding gold 
 
ores and concentrates) 
 
4. 
expenditures for goods, works, or services intended for a military or paramilitary 
purpose or for luxury consumption; 
 
5. 
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this 
paragraph the term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, 
use or import of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party;  
 
6. 
expenditures: (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the 
Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) on 
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment or 
import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under 
Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and 
 
7. 
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association determines that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a 
beneficiary of the Credit during the procurement or execution of such contract, without 
the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Association 
to remedy the situation. 
Page  13
-
11
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Actions Referred to in Recital (B) of the Preamble to this Agreement 
 
1. 
The Borrower has prepared and submitted to its National Assembly a Fiscal 
Responsibility and Debt Limitation Bill whose objective is to: (a) reduce the revenue 
deficit to zero by June 30, 2008; (b) reduce total public debt to 60% of Gross Domestic 
Product (GDP) by June 2013; and (c) protect social and poverty-related expenditures.  
 
2. 
In order to improve access and reduce the cost of telecommunication services, 
the Borrower has: (a) approved a new telecommunications policy that permits private 
operators to compete with PTCL; and (b) approved a new mobile policy that promotes 
increased competition in the telecommunications sector by licensing new mobile 
operators. 
 
3. 
The Borrower has approved an action plan to improve the performance of the 
power sector, including measures to: (a) improve the governance of the sector; (b) reduce 
costs; (c) rationalize tariffs; and (d) implement more targeted and transparent subsidies, 
aiming at improving the financial viability of the sector and the cost and reliability of 
power supply.  
 
4. 
In order to improve the efficiency and transparency of public procurement, the 
Borrower has adopted national procurement rules that are in line with international best 
practices. 
 
5. 
In order to improve the timeliness and accuracy of financial statements, the 
Borrowers’ CGA has, beginning with the quarterly reporting period that ended December 
31, 2003, achieved certain agreed-upon reconciliation benchmarks for expenditures, 
receipts, suspense accounts, and intergovernmental accounts, as specified in paragraph 19 
of LDP. 
 
6. 
In order to improve access to and the quality of education, the Borrower and the 
provincial governments have, consistent with the PRSP, taken necessary measures to 
increase the consolidated budget allocation on education for Fiscal Year 2003-04 to at 
least two percent (2%) of its gross domestic product. 
 
7. 
In order to improve the monitoring and evaluation of education outcomes, the 
Borrower has taken steps to implement the NEAS in accordance with an approved 
schedule, and has completed the first pilot assessment of grade-four education. 
 
8. 
In order to improve access to and the quality of healthcare, the Borrower and the 
provincial governments have, consistent with the PRSP, taken necessary measures to 
Page  14
-
12
-
increase the consolidated budget allocations on health for Fiscal Year 2003-04 to at least 
seventy basis points (0.7%) of its gross domestic product. 
 
9. 
In order to expand the provision of preventive health services, the Borrower has 
engaged non-governmental organizations to provide preventive and curative health 
services focusing on, among other things, tuberculosis, DOTS, malaria, and HIV/AIDS. 
 
10. 
In order to improve the monitoring and public oversight of public expenditures, 
the National Assembly of the Borrower has established the Standing Committee on 
Public Accounts (PAC). 
 
