Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID)       
28921
 
 
 
Project Name:
 
PAKISTAN: Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC I) 
Region:
   South 
Asia 
    
 
 
Project ID: 
 
P078806 
Borrower(s):
 
  Government 
of 
Pakistan 
Implementing Agency:  
Ministry of Finance 
    Government 
of 
Pakistan 
 
  
Contact Person:
 
 
Mr. Abdul Wajid Rana 
    Joint Secretary 
    Ministry 
of 
Finance 
Environment Category:
 
U (Not required) 
Date PID Prepared:
 
             April 13, 2004 
Projected Appraisal Date: 
May 4, 2004 
Projected Board Date: 
 
July 1, 2004 
 
 
1.  Country Background 
 
For Pakistan’s poor, the 1990s were a lost decade with little progress made in reducing poverty and improving social 
indicators.  Per capita growth declined to 1.2% per year, down from 3% per year in the 1980s.  Prospects for 
sustaining faster growth, reducing poverty, and improving social indicators are now brighter.  Over the past 4 years, 
the Government of Pakistan has made remarkable progress in stabilizing and reviving the economy, launching an 
ambitious and comprehensive program of reforms to modernize Pakistan and its institutions, and demonstrated its 
determination to tackle difficult reforms: achieving fiscal balance, privatization of public sector enterprises, public 
and corporate governance improvements, liberalization of external trade, reform of the banking sector, and reduction 
in untargeted subsidies. It also launched an ambitious devolution program.  These reforms have continued after the 
transition to a democratically elected government in 2002.  Macroeconomic performance has continued to 
strengthen, with growth accelerating to above 5% in 2003/04, inflation remaining low, and external balances 
continuing to improve. These developments bode well for Pakistan’s future economic and social development.  The 
next few years pose the challenge of maintaining macroeconomic stability and the reform momentum, attracting 
domestic and foreign investment to sustain a higher growth path, finding ways of translating this higher growth into 
lower poverty, and mobilizing additional domestic and external resources to accelerate improvements in education, 
health, basic infrastructure, and other indicators of living standards.  The government’s Poverty Reduction Strategy 
Paper (PSRP), finalized in December 2003, entitled 
Accelerating Economic Growth and Reducing Poverty: The 
Road Ahead
, provides the policy framework for consolidation of reforms in a number of critical areas, which the 
Government has deemed a priority to accelerate growth and development in Pakistan.   
 
2.  Objectives and Description 
 
The PRSP presents a broad-based strategy for addressing poverty in its various dimensions and 
emphasizes policies to sustain growth as the main vehicle for poverty reduction.  The reform program to 
be supported by the proposed PRSC will be aligned with the Government of Pakistan’s PRSP, along its 
four pillars: (i) achieving sustained high and broad-based economic growth, focusing particularly on the 
rural economy, while maintaining macroeconomic stability; (ii) improving governance and consolidating 
devolution, both as a means of delivering better development results and ensuring social and economic 
justice; (iii) investing in human capital, with renewed emphasis on effective delivery of basic social 
services; (iv) targeting the poor and vulnerable, to bring the marginalized sections of the population and 
backwards regions into the mainstream of development, and to make marked progress in reducing 
existing inequalities.  PRSC I would be the first of a series of three one-tranche programmatic operations 
Page  2
 2
that would support the next phase of the Government of Pakistan’s medium-term reform program, as laid 
out in the PRSP. The reforms the proposed credit will support include:  
 
Reforms to accelerate growth and maintain macroeconomic stability
 
 
The PRSP recognizes that a stable macroeconomic environment, with low inflation, a low fiscal deficit, sustainable 
debt, and no major external imbalances, is a 
sine qua non
 for economic growth and poverty reduction.  It also 
recognizes that growth and poverty reduction are conditional on increased revenue mobilization and improved 
effectiveness of expenditures. Pakistan has one of the lowest tax/GDP ratios in the developing world, and reforms in 
both tax policy and tax administration are key areas in the government’s reform program.  The effectiveness of 
expenditure also needs to improve, through improvements in public expenditure management, such as the 
development of a Medium Term Budget Framework (MTBF) and improvements in monitoring and evaluation of 
development projects.   
 
The government has initiated significant structural reforms to improve the business environment and 
encourage foreign investment through deregulation and privatization.  The 
government is seeking to 
improve the business environment so as to reduce the compliance and regulatory costs imposed on 
businesses, in particular small and medium enterprises.  In this regard, it is in the process of amending 
labor regulations with the aim of creating a more flexible labor market and reducing the costs of doing 
business.  The banking sector has undergone extensive restructuring, with the privatization of major 
financial institutions and the strengthening of banking regulation.  In addition, a number of privatizations 
in the oil and gas, and power sector are planned during the upcoming year.  The PRSP recognizes that the 
power sector is a huge drain on the budget, absorbing resources that could instead be made available for 
poverty-related expenditures, and that limited progress on reforms has taken place to date.  Reforms to 
improve the performance of the power sector will be supported under the PRSC.  The telecommunications 
sector is being deregulated, with the government having recently approved new mobile and fixed line 
policies that will introduce further competition in both these sectors and increase the penetration of fixed 
line and cellular coverage.  The petroleum products market has also been deregulated, allowing free 
imports and promoting competition.  In the natural gas sector, the reforms will focus on the elimination of 
cross-subsidies and the consistent implementation of the gas price adjustment mechanism so as to reduce 
the revenue losses of the sector.  Most distortions in agricultural output and input markets have also been 
removed, and accelerating growth in the sector will now depend critically on improving the management 
of water resources, so as to reduce vulnerability to shocks and provide for more efficient and equitable 
use of water.   
Improving governance 
The PRSP recognizes that economic growth and poverty alleviation are conditional on improved governance, 
specifically entailing reforms in procurement and financial management, in civil service reform, and in the 
strengthening of the devolution initiative.  A new set of procurement rules, conforming to international best 
practices, are in the process of being finalized, and the government has embarked upon wide ranging reforms to 
improve accounting systems, and internal control arrangements.  A broad civil service reform strategy has been 
developed, focusing on the areas of devolution, recruitment and promotion reforms, pay and pensions reform, 
professional development, and monitoring and evaluation.  The PRSP also recognizes that while there are early 
signs that devolution is beginning to yield positive results in terms of more responsive government, local 
governments face significant obstacles as a result of incomplete administrative and fiscal devolution.  Strengthening 
devolution will require transferring a significant portion of emerging fiscal space to provincial and local 
governments, as well as further administrative reforms.        
Investments in human capital  
 
Improving Pakistan’s poor human development indicators is a priority of the government, and the Federal 
government, in the context of devolution, has a key role in policy formulation, and monitoring and 
Page  3
 3
evaluation.  The improvements in levels of financing for key PRSP expenditures, including on health 
education, and water and sanitation, will be monitored under and supported by the PRSC program.  Other 
specific reforms the program would support will fall in the areas of strengthening monitoring and 
evaluation of education outcomes, and improving quality of teaching. The government will also explore 
the possibilities of federally funded demand-side interventions in health and education, such as vouchers 
and grants, to improve outcomes.  In Health, in addition to policy formulation and monitoring and 
evaluation, the Federal government plays a key role in preventing the spread of communicable diseases, 
through preventive health care programs and communicable disease control programs.  The PRSC will 
support the development of a disease surveillance system, strengthening of the immunization program, 
improvements in access to family planning and primary health care services, and expanded provision, 
through public-private partnerships, of preventive and curative health services in malaria, HIV/AIDS, and 
TB.   
 
Reform of social safety nets 
 
The Government has instituted a number of safety net programs that have as their objective improving the welfare of 
the poor and vulnerable groups.  These programs use different sources of financing, different levels of benefits, 
methods of targeting, and program administration.  A comprehensive review of these programs is being initiated so 
as to identify ways of better reaching the poor, and other target groups.  Next steps that the PRSC program could 
support include the reform of safety nets, to implement the recommendations of the review according to a mutually 
agreed program. 
 
3.  Rationale of Bank’s Involvement 
 
The proposed PRSC is in line with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) objectives of (i) strengthening 
macroeconomic stability and government effectiveness, (ii) improving the business environment for 
growth, and (iii) improving equity through support for pro-poor and pro-gender equity policies.  The 
design of the PRSC builds on the findings of several pieces of analytical work completed by the bank in 
the last few years that included a Public Expenditure Review (2004), Country Financial Accountability 
Assessment I and II (2001, 2003), Development Policy Review (2002), Poverty Assessment (2002), the 
Country Procurement Assessment Report (2000), a Provincial Finances Report (2001), a PER for Punjab 
(2001), and an Oil and Gas Sector Review (2003)
.
  A CAS Progress Report is currently under preparation 
and was presented to the Board on April 20, 2004.  In 2004, a policy note, Power for Pakistan, served as 
the basis for high level dialogue on power sector reforms.  Key additional analytical pieces of work are 
under preparation, namely a Devolved Service Delivery report, a Strategic Country Environmental 
Assessment, a Rural Factor Markets study, and a Gender Assessment. 
 
 
4.  Financing 
 
The borrower is the Government of Pakistan. The amount of the proposed PRSC I is $350 million 
equivalent, to be disbursed in a single tranche upon credit effectiveness. This will be the first slice of a 
three-year program of support for the PRSP, to be aligned with the Government’s budget cycle.  
 
 
5.  Risks and Mitigating Measures 
 
Risks to implementing the Government’s program remain, but have diminished over the past three years, 
particularly due to the recent political accords and recent improvement in relations with India.  The main 
risks include i) lack of sustained implementation stemming from insufficient institutional capacity; (ii) 
downside risks to the fiscal outlook; and (iii) exogenous shocks.  Technical and institutional capacity has 
been augmented by substantial capacity building programs, but weaknesses remain, particularly in the 
local governments.  The main downside risks include failure to curb losses of the SOEs, in particular 
Page  4
 4
continued budget support to the power sector, and lower than projected growth in non-tax revenue if 
dividends fall on account of privatization.  Most importantly, political or security concerns could suppress 
investment – in particular foreign investment – thereby reducing growth.  These risks have diminished 
somewhat as a result of the demonstrated ownership of the PRSP’s reform program by the elected 
government and the continuity of economic and social policies over the past four years.  The Bank is 
mitigating these risks by sustaining and deepening its policy dialogue, supporting capacity building of key 
government institutions, and disbursing against a set of prior actions. 
6.  Monitoring arrangements 
 
A PRSP Secretariat has been established in the Ministry of Finance, Government of Pakistan for the overall 
coordination and monitoring of the reform program laid out in the PRSP.   The secretariat has institutionalized a 
mechanism for the quarterly tracking of anti-poverty expenditures, and in collaboration with donors and civil 
society, identified a set of intermediate and outcome indicators in Education, Health, and Population Planning 
sectors.  The government is also launching the Core Welfare Indicators Questionnaire (CWIQ) household survey to 
provide yearly social sector intermediate data representative at the district level.  Regular supervision of the PRSC 
will also be carried out by the Bank in partnership with the Government of Pakistan.   
 
7.  Contact Points 
Ms. 
Manuela 
Ferro 
     
Lead Economist 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C., 20433   
Telephone: 202- 473-8290 
Fax: 202-614-1005 
 
Mr. Zahid Hasnain 
Economist 
World Bank Pakistan Country Office 
20-A Shahrah-e-Jamhuriyat, G-5/1 
Islamabad, Pakistan 
Telephone: (9251) 9090207 
 
