                                   Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                  Report No: ICR2671



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IBRD-48580)



                                     ON A

                                     LOAN

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF 92 MILLION EURO
                      (US$ 130.3 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                    TO THE

         TURKEY ELECTRICITY DISTRIBUTION COMPANY (TEDAS)

           WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF TURKEY

                                    FOR AN

          ELECTRICITY DISTRIBUTION REHABILITATION PROJECT



                                  June 26, 2013




Sustainable Development Unit
Turkey Country Department
Europe and Central Asia Region
            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

        (Exchange Rate Effective April 30, 2013)

           Currency Unit = Turkish Lira (TL)
                  1.00 TL = US$ 0.56
                 US$ 1.00 = TL 1.80

                   FISCAL YEAR
               January 1 – December 31

        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

EIB            European International Bank
ERR            Expected Rate of Return
EUAS           Electricity Generating Company
EMRA           Energy Market Regulatory Authority
GDP            Gross Domestic Product
IBRD           International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR            Implementation Completion Report
MENR           Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources
MW             Mega Watts
NPV            Net Present Value
PA             Privatization Administration
PAD            Project Appraisal Document
PDO            Project Development Objective
PPF            Project Preparatory Facility
SCADA          Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition
TEAS           Electricity Generating and Transmission Corporation
TEDAS          Turkish Electricity Distribution Corporation
TEIAS          Turkish Electricity Transmission Company
TEK            Turkish Electricity Authority
TETAS          Turkish Electricity Trading and Contracting Company
TOR            Transfer of Operating Rights
TSS            Share Sale model


              Vice President: Philippe H. Le Houerou
            Country Director: Martin Raiser
             Sector Manager: Ranjit J. Lamech
        Project Team Leader: Yesim Akcollu
           ICR Team Leader: Fan Zhang
                                                Turkey
                            Electricity Distribution Rehabilitation Project


                                                       CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 4
  3. Assessment of Outcomes ............................................................................................ 11
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome........................................................... 14
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ....................................................... 15
  6. Lessons Learned ......................................................................................................... 16
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ............ 17
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing ............................................................................ 18
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................... 19
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................... 20
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes .............. 21
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ............................................................................. 23
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results..................................................... 24
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ....................... 25
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ......................... 32
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ....................................................................... .33
  MAP ...............................................................................................................................34
A. Basic Information
                                                                Electricity
Country:            Turkey                 Project Name:        Distribution
                                                                Rehabilitation Project
Project ID:         P096801                L/C/TF Number(s):    IBRD-48580
ICR Date:           04/30/2013             ICR Type:            Core ICR
                                                                TURKIYE
                                                                ELEKTRIK
Lending Instrument: SIL                    Borrower:
                                                                DAGITIM AS
                                                                (TEDAS)
Original Total
                    USD 269.40M            Disbursed Amount:    USD 116.11M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:     USD 130.30M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 TEDAS- Turkish Electricity Distribution Corporation
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                       Revised / Actual
Process         Date             Process           Original Date
                                                                       Date(s)
Concept
                08/03/2005       Effectiveness:    03/21/2008          03/21/2008
Review:
Appraisal:      06/21/2006       Restructuring(s):
                                 Mid-term
Approval:       04/19/2007                         12/15/2010          05/13/2011
                                 Review:
                                 Closing:          12/31/2012          12/31/2012

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                  Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:               Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                          Moderately Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance:                      Unsatisfactory
C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
Bank                Ratings            Borrower            Ratings
                    Moderately                             Moderately
Quality at Entry:                      Government:
                    Satisfactory                           Unsatisfactory
Quality of          Moderately         Implementing
                                                           Unsatisfactory
Supervision:        Unsatisfactory     Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank        Moderately         Overall Borrower
                                                           Unsatisfactory
Performance:        Unsatisfactory     Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
Implementation                          QAG Assessments
                         Indicators                        Rating
Performance                             (if any)
 Potential Problem
                                        Quality at Entry
Project at any time      No                                None
                                        (QEA):
(Yes/No):
 Problem Project at any                 Quality of
                         Yes                               None
time (Yes/No):                          Supervision (QSA):
 DO rating before        Moderately
Closing/Inactive status: Unsatisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                 Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Transmission and Distribution of Electricity     100




Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
 City-wide Infrastructure and Service Delivery   67
 Infrastructure services for private sector
                                                 33
development

E. Bank Staff
Positions               At ICR                        At Approval
Vice President:         Philippe H. Le Houerou        Shigeo Katsu
Country Director:       Martin Raiser                 Ulrich Zachau
Sector Manager:         Ranjit J. Lamech              Peter D. Thomson
Project Team Leader:    Yesim Akcollu                 Ranjit J. Lamech
ICR Team Leader:        Fan Zhang
ICR Primary Author:     Fan Zhang
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
To help improve the reliability of power supply to consumers in Turkey by supporting the
implementation of the electricity distribution network rehabilitation and expansion
program.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving
authority)



(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                         Original Target Formally       Actual Value
                                         Values (from       Revised     Achieved at
Indicator       Baseline Value
                                         approval           Target      Completion or
                                         documents)         Values      Target Years
                Percentage reduction in number & duration of interruptions faced by the
Indicator 1 : consumers in project areas of the 8 regional comp:Ayedas, Uludag,
                Meram, Gediz, Toroslar, Menderes, Osmangazi, Akdeniz
                                         Ayedas- 10900
                                         intrps - 3710 hrs              (Reduction from
                                         Uludag- 24500                  baseline)
                Ayedas- 10900 intrps -
                                         intrps - 9310 hrs              Ayedas - 50%-
                3710 hrs Uludag-
                                         Meram- 9000                    25%; Uludag -
                24500 intrps - 9310 hrs
                                         intrps - 2890 hrs              50%-25%; Meram
                Meram- 9000 intrps -
                                         Gediz - 9800                   - 50%-25%;
                2890 hrs Gediz - 9800
Value                                    intrps - 9410 hrs,             Gediz - 50% -
                intrps - 9410 hrs,
quantitative or                          Toroslar - 11500               25%, Toroslar -
                Toroslar - 11500 intrps
Qualitative)                             intrps - 8502 hrs,             50% - 25%,
                - 8502 hrs, Osmangazi
                                         Osmangazi                      Osmangazi -20%
                10114 intrps - 7512 hrs,
                                         10114 intrps -                 -13%, Akdeniz
                Akdeniz 9216 intrps -
                                         7512 hrs,                      25% - 9%,
                3512 hrs, Tredas 12166
                                         Akdeniz 9216                   Osmangazi -20%
                intrps - 8660
                                         intrps - 3512 hrs,             -13%, Akdeniz
                                         Tredas 12166                   25% - 9%
                                         intrps - 866
Date achieved 12/31/2006                 12/31/2008                     12/30/2012
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                New loadserved in the project areas of the 8 regional companies: Ayedas,
Indicator 2 :
                Uludag, Meram, Gediz, Toroslar, Menderes, Osmangazi, Akdeniz
Value                                    Ayedas - 25MW                  Ayedas - 7MW,
quantitative or                          Uludag - 10MW                  Uludag - 15MW,
Qualitative)                          Meram - 13.5                   Meram - 2.5MW,
                                      MW Gediz - 28                  Gediz - 4 MW,
                                      MW, Toroslar -                 Toroslar - 20
                                      70 MW,                         MW, Osmangazi -
                                      Osmangazi - 16                 8MW, Akdeniz -
                                      MW, Akdeniz -                  12 MW
                                      15MW
Date achieved                         12/31/2008                     12/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                       Original Target Formally         Actual Value
                                       Values (from       Revised       Achieved at
Indicator       Baseline Value
                                       approval           Target        Completion or
                                       documents)         Values        Target Years
                Improvement in collection efficiency in the 8 regional companies funded
Indicator 1 :
                under the Project
                                       Ayedas - 103%                    Ayedas - 99%
                Ayedas - 97% Uludag - Uludag - 102%                     Uludag - 98%
                95% Meram - 76%        Meram - 92                       Meram - 81%
Value
                Gediz - 94% Toroslar - Gediz - 105%                     Gediz - 97%
(quantitative
                88% Menderes - 94% Toroslar - 100%                      Toroslar - 92%
or Qualitative)
                Osmangazi - 91%        Osmangazi -                      Menderes - 97%
                Akdeniz - 92%          109% Akdeniz -                   Osmangazi - 94%,
                                       102%                             Akdeniz - 95%
Date achieved 12/31/2006               12/31/2008                       12/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %        Menderes was dropped as sub-project
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                    Actual
      Date ISR
No.                 DO                      IP                      Disbursements
      Archived
                                                                    (USD millions)
1     06/28/2007    Satisfactory            Satisfactory            0.00
2     03/24/2008    Satisfactory            Satisfactory            0.00
3     02/22/2009    Satisfactory            Satisfactory            6.48
4     03/06/2010    Satisfactory            Satisfactory            36.90
5     12/24/2010    Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory 62.86
6    06/27/2011    Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory 79.31
                   Moderately              Moderately
7    04/13/2012                                                    92.90
                   Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory
                   Moderately              Moderately
8    12/26/2012                                                    115.30
                   Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable


I. Disbursement Profile
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country and sector background, rationale for Bank assistance)

Country Background: Until the global financial crisis in 2008, Turkey experienced a long
period of rapid growth dating back to the recovery from the 2001 banking crisis. During the
period of 2002-2007, economic growth was nearly 7 percent on average; inflation was brought
down to single digit levels, and public debt fell to below 40 percent of GDP. Turkey’s strong
economic growth was largely attributable to sustained stabilization, strong fiscal discipline, and
the Government’s ambitious structural reform agenda. The prospect of Turkey’s European Union
accession had remained a key anchor of the ongoing political and economic reforms.

Sector Background: Since 1984, the Turkish Government had embarked on a comprehensive
electricity reform program that aimed to establish a competitive electricity market with the goal to
increase private investment, improve supply- and demand-side efficiency, and ensure energy
supply security in an environmentally sustainable manner.

At project appraisal, important progress had been made in reforming the power sector, with
advisory and investment lending support from the Bank. In 1994, the originally vertically-
integrated state owned electricity monopoly (TEK) had been split into two state-owned
companies: a generation and transmission company (TEAS) and a distribution company
(TEDAS). In 2001, the Government passed the Electricity Market Law (Law No. 4628) which
inter alia further split TEAS into three companies: the Turkish Electricity Transmission Company
(TEIAS), the Turkish Electricity Trading and Contracting Company (TETAS) and the Electricity
Generating Company (EUAS). It established the Energy Market Regulatory Authority (EMRA)
as an independent regulatory commission which sets tariffs and provides licenses for all energy-
related activities. The law also laid the basis for the establishment of a wholesale electricity
market and gradual opening of the retail electricity market.

Electricity Distribution Privatization: Privatization of electricity distribution had been on the
government’s agenda since 1995. The first round of privatization from 1995 until 2002 was,
however, poorly structured and failed. In 2004, the issuance of an Electricity Market Strategy
Paper by the High Planning Council marked the beginning of a new phase of privatization. Based
on principles laid out in the strategy paper, the electricity distribution network was divided into
21 distribution regions based on geographical proximity, managerial structure, energy demand
and other technical/financial factors. TEDAS, which owned 20 of the 21 regions, was included in
the privatization program in 2004, and a separate distribution company was established in each of
these 20 distribution regions. The only distribution region then operated by a partially-private
company was Kayseri.

Privatization of distribution companies would be executed using a Transfer of Operating Rights
(“TOR?) backed Share Sale model ("TSS model"). According to this model, the investor would
purchase the shares of a distribution company and hold the operating rights of distribution assets
for 30 years together with the obligation to undertake the necessary investments. The ownership
of the existing assets and the new assets arising from investments to be carried out by the investor
would remain with TEDAS. Under the envisaged market structure, privatized electricity
distribution companies would operate as regional monopolies with distribution licenses granted
by EMRA.



                                                 1
Rationale for Bank Involvement: At project appraisal in 2006, the electricity distribution
network in Turkey was in poor condition and system reliability was declining. Due to government
fiscal constraints, more than 50 percent of the investment needs for upgrading and rehabilitating
existing distribution capacities were not met during 1994-2003. The failed privatization attempt
during 1995-2002 also exacerbated system inefficiencies as the sector remained in limbo with
very little attention being given to the physical condition of the system. As a result of the
investment shortfall, consumers suffered from increased electricity supply interruptions.

The main rationale for the Bank’s engagement in the Turkish electricity distribution sector was to
assist TEDAS to implement long-delayed investment in critical areas in order to reduce
interruptions in supply, expand capacity, enhance the attractiveness of the distribution business
for private investment, and to enable the distribution network to become more compliant with
safety regulation. By directly engaging with TEDAS, the Bank also expected to play a policy-
support role in the process of reform and privatization of the electricity distribution sector.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) stated that the project development objective (PDO) was
“to help improve the reliability of power supply to consumers in Turkey by supporting the
implementation of the electricity distribution network rehabilitation and expansion program.?

The key results indicators identified at approval are:

    (a) Reduction in number and average duration of annual interruptions in power supply to
        consumers in the areas served by the eight regional distribution companies where
        investment projects are funded by the Bank project.
    (b) New load served in the project areas of the eight regional distribution companies funded
        under the Project.
    (c) Improvement in collection efficiency in the eight regional distribution companies.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

Neither the PDO nor the Key Indicators were revised.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The main beneficiaries of the project were households and businesses in the project areas whose
welfare was to be improved through safer and more reliable electricity supply. The distribution
companies including private investors were to be the immediate beneficiaries. The project would
improve their revenues by reducing distribution system losses, operation and maintenance costs,
and the potential of accidents. The conversion of overhead lines to underground cables would
also improve the environment and aesthetic quality of their locations.




                                                  2
1.5 Original Components (as approved)

Component1: Distribution Network Rehabilitation and Expansion (Euro 200 million). This
component would finance two groups of investment subprojects to support distribution network
rehabilitation and expansion in eight distribution regions. These investment projects focus on:

     replacing overhead lines in densely populated areas with underground cables;
     constructing new distribution substations and feeders; and
     eliminating non-standard medium voltage lines.

Component2: Technical Assistance for supervision consultants (Euro 5 million). This
component would finance consultants to assist in managing and supervising the implementation
of the investment projects. These consultants would:

     provide monitoring support for the implementation of the investments;
     ensure that the project activities are well coordinated between TEDAS, the regional
      companies and the contractors as well as with other relevant agencies (i.e. municipalities,
      local infrastructure utilities); and
     ensure that the supplied equipment and civil and installation works are in compliance with
      the project design and work schedule.

1.6 Revised Components

The subproject grouping was changed during implementation. Some of the subprojects in Group
II experienced procurement delays. These subprojects were regrouped into two new groups –
Group III and Group IV in order to expedite the procurement process.

1.7 Other significant changes

The project was restructured on December 21, 2012 to reflect:

(1) Partial loan cancellation. On July 27, 2012, TEDAS requested the Bank to cancel Euro 113
    million from the Loan which was allocated for financing Groups III and IV subprojects.
    TEDAS indicated that these subprojects would not be completed before the Project’s closing
    date on December 31, 2012 (even with an acceptable extended closing date) due to persistent
    implementation delays. The original loan amount was revised down from Euro 205 million to
    Euro 92 million after the cancellation.
(2) The removal of one subproject due to the transfer of the relevant regional distribution
    company (Menderes) to the private sector just after the appraisal stage.
(3) The introduction of a disbursement grace period of four months after the loan closing date
    until April 30, 2013.




                                                 3
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their
mitigations identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)

Soundness of Background Analysis. The project was technically well prepared. Detailed
feasibility studies were developed for each proposed investment. The Bank and the TEDAS
design and planning team also visited sites in 15 provinces in 7 distribution regions to assess and
improve project scope and design criteria. However, at project preparation, the difficulties of
conducting public investment in a sector that was also going through privatization were
underestimated. As it turned out, by project closure six out of eight regional distribution
companies originally included in the project were privatized; 1 the other two were in the final
stage of the tender processes2. The transition and uncertainties related to privatization not only
affected the morale and capacity of TEDAS but also led to a lack of adequate contract
management and project monitoring.

Assessment of the project design. One key decision in project design was that project
procurement and implementation should be based on supply-and-installation contracts. It was felt
at the time that this approach would minimize the risks related to any lack of coordination and
implementation capacity of TEDAS. Supply-and-installation contracts also worked well for
projects implemented by another Turkish utility company, i.e. TEIAS. However, in hindsight, the
alternative contract method - unit-price contracts - may have worked better for this project for the
following two reasons:

(1) Unit-price contract offers more flexibility to adapt to changing conditions in the process of
    privatization. Under a supply-and-installation arrangement, a contractor is responsible for
    completing the entire work at a certain cost. The project design has to be clearly specified
    before work begins. This had caused extensive delays when there was disagreement over
    technical design of certain parts of the project within TEDAS or between TEDAS and the
    privatized distribution companies. Whereas, under a unit-price contract, the work is broken
    into parts and the contractor is paid for each completed unit of work item. So construction
    plans can be modified and different segments of the work can be started without the need to
    wait for the entire project design to be finalized.

(2) Unit-price contracting is the common practice of TEDAS. Introducing a new and more
    complicated contracting method appears to have been counter effective when TEDAS
    suffered from high staff turnover and capacity constraints during privatization. In fact,
    TEDAS staff had often confused unit price contracts with supply and installation contracts,
    the latter of which were established on lump-sum basis. Instead, TEDAS would issue


1
  Among the six privatized companies, Menderes was transferred to private investors in August 2008,
Meram in October 2009, Osmangazi in May 2010 and Uludag in August 2010. Akdeniz and Gediz went
through two tendering processes in 2011 and 2012. Their transfer contracts were finalized in November and
December 2012, respectively.

2
  These two companies are Ayedas and Toroslar. The tender for privatization of Ayedas and Toroslar
started in 2010. The winning bids were determined but the sales collapsed when winning bidders failed to
complete their purchase by the deadlines and runners-up decided to opt out. Tenders for the two companies
were opened again in 2012 and completed in March 2013.


                                                    4
    payments based on the number of work segments completed even though there was no need
    for final measurement of each item done under supply and installation contracts

Adequacy of government commitment. The Ministry of Energy (MENR) had supported the
project in order to improve supply security and support market liberalization. However, since
TEDAS was transferred to the Privatization Administration (PA) under Ministry of Finance,
MENR had since played a very limited role in the management of TEDAS. For PA, the oversight
agency of TEDAS, issues related to energy security, and the cost and reliability of electricity
supply were of secondary importance. The main priority and concern of PA was “selling? the
regional distribution companies. The commitment of PA to the project was not as strong as it
would be under MENR management.

The government was strongly committed to the PDO of improving the reliability of power supply.
However, the government’s commitment to the PDO was manifested in its support to
privatization rather than to project implementation. To attract private investors, the government
introduced three substantial tariff increases in 2008 raising the residential tariff by more than 50
percent to reach cost-recovery levels. A cost-based pricing mechanism was also approved to
ensure automatic price adjustment to cover future increases in supply costs on a quarterly basis.
Additionally, the government had passed legislation and allocated budget to clear municipality
arrears for street lighting amounting to US$3.5 billion in 2005. Both cost-based pricing and the
clearance of arrears were essential to foster private entry and to strengthen the financial position
of TEDAS so as to facilitate network investment. However, in the midst of these advances in the
reform agenda, the government and the Bank did not take the strong stance needed to improve
project implementation, failing which, suspension and/or cancellation would have been an
appropriate course of action.

TEDAS’ ownership and commitment to the project was weak from the beginning as the decade-
long privatization had already eroded staff morale. Project initiation appears to have been driven
largely by MENR, with the support of Treasury and the World Bank. TEDAS perceived the
project as supply-driven despite it addressing the sector’s fiscal constraints. Over the course of
the project, commitment to the project by TEDAS further declined due to (1) disconnect and
distance between TEDAS and the regional distribution companies and the confusion over their
responsibilities although ownership remained in TEDAS’ hands; (2) capacity constraints in
procurement and project management due to loss of qualified staff to the private sector; (3) staff
concerns of their own fate after privatization; (4) contradiction between Bank’s procurement
policy and the country’s procurement system which caused confusion and dissipation of effort.

Assessment of risks. Two project implementation risks were identified at appraisal. The first
concerned the Borrower’s inadequate institutional capacity. The risk was rated as Moderate. The
proposed mitigation measure was to engage qualified consultants in the field to assist TEDAS and
the regional companies in project supervision. The second risk related to the Borrower’s limited
experience with World Bank procurement guidelines. The risk was considered High for the
procurement of the first group of projects and Moderate for subsequent procurements. The risk
was proposed to be mitigated through staff training and was expected to become less of an issue
when TEDAS gained more exposure to international procurement from working with the Bank
and European Investment Bank (EIB) under a parallel project.

Both risks were correctly identified. However, the Moderate rating appears to have
underestimated the actual risk and the mitigation measures were not adequate. TEDAS was
reluctant to work with outside consultants and was not receptive to procurement training. The
issues were further exacerbated by the high staff turnover during a period of restructuring and


                                                 5
privatization. Both risks could be traced to the Borrower’s lack of ownership and commitment,
which was not identified as a risk at appraisal and unlikely to be addressed by technical solutions.

It was not anticipated at project appraisal that land acquisition would be required as most
investments would use existing municipal land. However, during project implementation, the
Bank team found that private land had been acquired at some project locations (more details in
Section 2.4).

Further, the Bank team assumed that municipalities would be willing to issue permits
expeditiously given the ultimate benefits of project investments. Contrary to expectations
however, navigating municipal approval processes proved to be lengthy and difficult. The Bank
team had not considered that the immediate costs to the municipal authorities of issuing permits
(e.g., in the form of traffic disruptions, etc.) would outweigh the longer-term benefits. Given that
the project covered a large and dispersed geographic area and required authorization of multiple
regulatory agencies, these unforeseen factors resulted in significant implementation delays.

2.2 Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and actions
taken, as applicable)

The project was approved by the Bank’s Board on April 19, 2007 and became effective on March
21, 2008. The effectiveness was delayed to include the arrangements required to ensure that the
distribution companies would service all their obligations to TEDAS, including power purchase
and bill collection. The delay in project effectiveness affected the project’s intent to deliver
priority investments in a timely manner.

The project subsequently suffered significant implementation delays. As of the last supervision
mission in October 2012, only five out of six packages of subprojects under Group I, and one out
of five packages under Group II were physically completed. Group III and Group IV were not
physically started and were cancelled just four months before project closure. All completed
subprojects experienced delays ranging from 7 to 19 months with an average delay of 13 months.
Given the originally allocated completion duration of 22 months for each subproject, an average
delay of 13 months shows the poor performance of project implementation.

Various factors contributed to the delay of project implementation. They were summarized below.

(1) TEDAS’ weak capacity in contract management and ineffective use of technical
    assistance.
    TEDAS lacked capacity in managing supply-and-installation contract via competitive
    tendering processes. There was no clear project scoping, planning and proper design prior to
    tenders. Contracts were subsequently signed without project specification fully defined.
    During project implementation, major design modification was introduced and hindered
    project progress. For example, project design for packages 3 and 4 in Group I were not
    finalized until 10 and 25 months after contract signature respectively.

    TEDAS also lacked the capacity to adequately monitor the progress of the various
    construction activities. The project management system was weak and fractured between
    headquarter and the regions. There were very limited oversight on the ground and no
    intermediate milestones against which the contractor’s progress was measured and paid.
    Monitoring was carried out unsystematically and was based on contractor reported incurred



                                                 6
    expenses on labor and material rather than project physical progress. Essentially, TEDAS had
    no control over cost and time overrun.

    The Bank had provided repeating trainings on procurement and contract management. Two
    local supervision consultants were recruited in early 2009 to help TEDAS in procurement and
    project implementation. The two consultants were on board for only a short period time.
    Despite the Bank’s strong urging, TEDAS refused to hire other consultants claiming that the
    company had sufficient control systems and that it was difficult to find consultants of the
    required quality. Bank’s trainings also seemed to be unsuccessful due reportedly to the
    inadequate engagement and follow-through by the Borrower.

(2) Privatization reduced staff and imposed difficulties in coordination.
    After TEDAS was divided into 20 regional companies to prepare for privatization, TEDAS
    operated as a decentralized agency relying on its regional offices to implement the
    subprojects. Since TEDAS was the implementation agency, TEDAS requested its own
    technical approaches to be applied, which did not always match those of the regional
    companies. TEDAS’s lingering approval procedure of the final design submitted by the
    regional companies caused significant delays, sometimes lasting for more than seven months.
    There was also disagreement on technical parameters between TEDAS and privatized
    companies due to different projections on consumption growth. It took months to remove the
    deadlock.

    Furthermore, as a result of privatization, TEDAS and its regional companies suffered from
    discontinuity of managerial staff and shortages of qualified personnel. The transitional period
    for the privatized regional distribution companies also had lasted longer than expected
    affecting routine processes and project supervision.

(3) Delay in obtaining municipal approval and frequent interruption in works on the
    ground.
    Distribution network rehabilitation requested municipality approval for the location and
    timing of excavation works. Delay in getting the permits caused delays in all subprojects
    ranging from 2 to 4 months. In cases where permits were issued, works were frequently
    interrupted due to intervention of other regulatory agencies (highway department, ministry of
    culture) on the selection of cable route and distribution center location, concomitant
    excavation works causing traffic disruptions, compulsory annual winter break for outdoor
    works and an archaeological finding in Manisa. This impacted project progress with delays of
    between 49 days in the least to 155 days in the most affected case.

(4) Contractual disputes held up project progress. Over the course of the project, copper
    prices increased beyond the levels allowed under the price escalation clause. Contractors
    postponed the procurement of cables expecting prices to come down in the immediate future.
    When price reduction did not materialize, disputes arose between TEDAS and the contractors
    of two subprojects over monetary compensation. Disputes also arose due to disagreements on
    assumed unit price as described in section 2.1. Finally, one contractor for a subproject in
    Group II went bankrupt and asked for the termination of the contract.

On July 27, 2012 TEDAS requested the Bank to cancel Euro 113 million from the loan which
was allocated for financing Groups III and IV subprojects as they were unlikely to be completed
before loan closing, even if a reasonable extension was granted. In the same letter requesting
partial loan cancellation, TEDAS also requested the Bank to consider extending the loan closing
date for an extra year in order to enable the completion of Groups I and II subprojects. The Bank


                                                 7
reviewed and confirmed the loan cancellation effective on July 27, 2012. Procurement of Group
III subprojects had been initiated, and subsequently cancelled; Group IV subprojects’
procurement process had not been started.

The Bank also noted to TEDAS that the Bank would be prepared to consider the loan extension
request subject to TEDAS undertaking by November 15, 2012 a set of seven actions which were
considered essential for successfully completing the on-going subprojects on time. These
involved finalizing outstanding design modifications and implementation schedules, hiring
consultants for project monitoring and supervision, finalizing Resettlement Policy Framework
due to findings that land has been acquired in project sites and Social Audit Reports, obtaining
agreements with municipal authorities for timely issuance of permits and agreement, and
completing action plans for compliance with a financial covenant. On November 22, 2012, the
Bank informed TEDAS that the project closing date would not be extended because the Borrower
did not fully comply with the seven critical actions. The project was closed on December 31,
2012. The remaining balance of Euro 10.7 million in the loan account was subsequently cancelled.

The midterm review conducted by the Bank during May 2011 identified the following factors
contributing to the implementation difficulties of the project: (1) lack of firmness of permits
issued by the Municipal Authorities and continuous interruptions of the works for which these
permits are issued. (2) TEDAS’s lack of capacity to monitor and control construction activities.
(3) Inconsistencies between the Bank and Turkish procurement criteria caused delays to packages
under Groups III and IV. The midterm review’s recommendations were: (1) TEDAS should
monitor, maintain and process information related to the overall project. The information should
be shared across relevant offices within the organization. (2) TEDAS should continue regular
dialogue with the municipal authorities about planned works to avoid industrial/community
relations issues and to reduce the risk of time overrun. (3) TEDAS should assess training needs
for the project management team and present to the Bank a training plan.

Although the recommendations were not technically incorrect, they ignored the fundamental
project issue of TEDAS and government ownership and commitment. In doing so, the Bank
probably missed an opportunity to tackle the issue head-on by considering suspension and
cancelling rather than allowing the project to continue to languish in a state of unsatisfactory
performance.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

Design. There are three key performance indicators to measure the achievement of the PDO: i)
reduction in the number and average duration of annual interruptions in power, ii) new load
served, and iii) improvement in collection efficiency in the project areas. There is a strong
positive link between the first two key performance indicators and the PDO. Lower frequency
and duration of annual interruptions indicate higher reliability of electricity supply. The new load
served is a clear gauge of network capacity to handle increased electricity demand. However, the
causal link between the third performance indicator and the PDO is weak. Although illegal use of
electricity can be prevented by replacing overhead lines with underground cables, other factors
such as strengthened enforcement after privatization would have a bigger impact on collection
efficiency. In addition to measuring project outcome, the M&E system could have included some
intermediate output indicators, such as project physical progresses to help the implementing
agencies and the Bank focus on key outstanding issues and their timely resolution.

The project M&E would be conducted by TEDAS, using the established functional linkages with
EMRA and TEDAS as well as TEDAS regional companies. Field interruption data would be


                                                  8
collected by regional distribution companies, collated at the TEDAS headquarter and submitted to
EMRA under the Quality of Supply Communiqué. Utilizing government indicators would help
ensure ownership and rationalization of the project M&E. Quarterly progress reports on the
project were to be made to the Bank team to help guide implementation.

Implementation. The baseline data and the targets on the performance indicators were clearly
defined at appraisal for four distribution regions. The baseline data on supply interruptions for
Toroslar, Menderes, Osmangazi, Akdeniz, and the targets of the first two performance indicators
for these four regions were not available at the beginning of the project. Despite some delays,
TEDAS regional distribution companies had regularly provided data concerning the results
indicators. However, the interruption performance indicators were monitored and recorded
manually. An automatic monitoring system was initially proposed to be installed in the project
area to facilitate automatic recording but was not materialized. After project closure in December
2012, TEDAS failed to provide performance indicator data for 2012.

On the monitoring of project outputs, TEDAS had not always been able to provide timely
Quarterly Progress Reports that accurately reflect the implementation progress and outstanding
issues. M&E reporting on project progress was ad hoc and primarily undertaken in response to
the discipline imposed by the Bank through its regular semi-annual reviews of the project.

Utilization. TEDAS lacked a project monitoring and control system to enable a consistent and
systematic update of ongoing project activities. This had compromised TEDAS’ ability to
maintain focus on key outstanding issues affecting project progress and their timely resolution.
Although TEDAS’ own M&E system remained weak, M&E arrangements beyond the project
implementation period is likely to be sustainable. This is because all eight distribution companies
have been privatized. The privatized companies are obligated to demonstrate the achievement of
pre-defined performance criteria such as loss reduction, improved collection efficiency, and
improved customer service. These privatized companies are expected to maintain close
monitoring on these performance indicators and use the M&E system as a management tool.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)

Environmental safeguards. Compliance with environmental safeguards was satisfactory. The
project was rated as “Category B? and did not have any significant environmental safeguard-
related impacts. A sample EMP was prepared and disclosed before appraisal. The sample EMP
was used as the basis for all EMPs of the subprojects which were cleared by the Bank and
included in the bidding documents. Compliance of the EMP by the construction contracts were
monitored by the regional distribution companies and reported in the Quarterly Progress Reports.
Sub-projects were determined to be generally compliant with environmental safeguards
requirements.

Social Safeguards. The social safeguards’ rating was moderately unsatisfactory. At appraisal, the
project did not envisage land acquisition because it was believed that project activities would be
carried out within existing rights of way and publicly-owned property. In addition, when the
project was prepared, the Bank’s approach was not to preemptively trigger the operational policy
on Involuntary Resettlement (OP4.12) in the absence of an identified need to acquire private land.
During implementation, however, the Bank team found that private land had been acquired at
some project locations, without the prior knowledge of the Bank.




                                                 9
Even though TEDAS had acquired land in accordance with Turkish regulation, TEDAS was
requested to carry out “social audits? of the land acquisition that had taken place, and to develop a
Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) to serve as a guide for any future land acquisition so that
potentially harmful impact of land acquisition would be managed in a manner consistent with
Bank policies. OP4.12 would then be triggered once the RPF was completed. However, it took
TEDAS much longer to finalize the RPF, which was one of the conditions for loan extension. As
the decision not to extend the project was made, the draft RPF submitted by TEDAS was no
longer relevant and was not finalized. OP 4.12 was not triggered for this project retroactively.

TEDAS had submitted the draft Social Audit Reports for the sub-projects in three of the seven
distribution regions involved. These draft reports indicate that there was no relocation of
households; the amounts of land acquired were small and the landowners were compensated
adequately and promptly as per the national legislation requirements, and that no remedial
measures are required. TEDAS did not provide the Social Audit Reports for the other four
distribution regions. The Bank team undertook (as part of ICR preparation) its own assessment of
the social impacts of the land acquisition that was carried out under the project. In the sample of
project sites that the Bank visited, it was discovered that small land acquisition had taken place
and TEDAS had followed national law to provide market value-based compensation.

Procurement: Issues related with procurement had been a constant source of interaction
between the Bank and TEDAS throughout the project. Considerable technical support was
required on the part of the Bank to better acquaint TEDAS staff with the concept of supply-and-
install contracts. While deficiencies were corrected in due course under Groups I and II
subprojects, the procurement procedures and process TEDAS followed for Group III was not in
accordance with the procurement procedures set forth in the Loan Agreement, nor the World
Bank’s Procurement Guidelines. TEDAS did not arrange the bid opening at the deadline for
receipt of the bids or promptly thereafter. Instead, the bids were opened publicly four days later.
Such delayed bid opening was not in accordance with either the Bank’s or Turkish national
procurement guidelines. TEDAS also rejected all bids without the prior approval of the Bank. The
procurement experience reflected TEDAS’ considerable lack of familiarity with competitive
bidding process and inadequate capacity in procurement management.

Another procurement issue dealt with the conflicts between the eligibility principles to be applied
in Bank-financed procurements and Turkish public procurement law. A prospective bidder for
Groups III and IV packages was debarred under Turkish law, but not under the Bank’s
procurement guidelines. The bidder was therefore eligible to bid for the tender under the Bank’s
guidelines but not under the Turkish procedures. The Bank advised TEDAS to inform explicitly
the prospective bidder that it could participate in the bidding process as long as it was not
debarred by the Bank. TEDAS was reluctant to follow the Bank’s direction and the prospective
bidder did not participate in the bidding process.

Financial management: Financial management is rated generally satisfactory. TEDAS recorded
project transactions and prepared corresponding reports on a timely basis. The auditors issued a
clean audit opinion on project financial statements.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

No significant post-completion operational issues are anticipated. Three out of seven distribution
companies included in the project have been transferred to private investors (Uludag, Meram,
Osmangazi). The winning bids have been determined for the four distribution companies still


                                                 10
remaining with TEDAS. Two of them are to be transferred by June 2013 (Gediz and Akdeniz),
with the other two to be transferred by fall 2013 (Ayedas and Toroslar). The private investors will
manage all TEDAS-owned distribution assets, including investment made under the project. As to
be discussed in more detail in Section 4, investors will have strong incentives to properly manage
and maintain these assets. They are also obligated to implement annual investment on network
expansion and upgrade based on projections on consumption growth and predetermined
efficiency improvement targets set by EMRA. Implementation of these investments (i.e.
investment amount and form) will be monitored through investment control and quality
measurement mechanisms set up by the Regulator in collaboration with the distribution
companies. The private sector is expected to play a leading role in Turkey’s electricity
distribution sector. No follow-up project and investment from the government are envisaged.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
The PDO was highly relevant to government strategies at appraisal and remains highly
relevant to current national priorities in Turkey. The project supported the government’s
priorities to secure sufficient and reliable energy to a growing economy. It also supported the
government’s national electricity strategy wherein the third pillar is to attract enhanced private
sector investment. Improvement in the distribution asset would enhance the attractiveness of the
beneficiary regions for their privatization. The PDO is also consistent with current Country
Partnership Strategy for FY12-15 wherein the first pillar is to enhance competitiveness and
employment and the third pillar is to deepen sustainable development. By ensuring reliable
energy supply to end-users, the project contributes to improved investment climate and business
environment, and improved supply of reliable and efficient energy.

The project design remains relevant. The project remained relevant because improvement
made under the project helped enhance the reliability of the distribution region. The public
investment by TEDAS under the project were also notified to the prospective bidders in advance
of privatization and therefore enhanced the attractiveness of the privatizations regions (i.e. the
new distribution assets created by the project would be viewed as part of the privatization
package). In regions where privatization took long, the project also filled the financing gap for
rehabilitating distribution networks.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on
outputs in Annex 2)
Despite the low physical progress of subprojects in four of the seven regions (less than 60%)
under Groups I and II and the cancellation of Groups III and IV, most of the original targets of the
outcome indicators were overachieved by December 31, 2011 as summarized in Table 1.




                                                11
          Table 1 Project Targets and Actual Achievement as of December 2011
               New Load Served       Reduction in        Reduction in                            Project
                     (MW)            number of           duration of                             physical
                                     interruptions from interruptions from                       progress
                                     baseline (%)        baseline (%)                            (%)*
Region       Target     Achieved     Target Achieved Target Achieved                             Dec. 2011
Ayedas       7          25           50        74        25        82                            91
Uludag       15         10           50        78        25        29                            30
Meram        2.5        13.5         50        76        25        80                            100
Gediz        4          28           50        50        25        54                            95
Toroslar     20         70           50        56        25        60                            61
Osmangazi    8          16           20        39        13        37                            50
Akdeniz      12         15           25        57        9         38                            50
Sources: PAD, TEDAS report
Note: * only reflecting the physical progress of Groups I and II subprojects in corresponding regions.

In fact most of the targets were achieved in 2010 when disbursement ratio was even lower.
Figure 1 shows the values of performance indicators over time.

                  Figure 1 Project Targets and Actual Achievement 2008-2011
        100%
         90%
                          Precentage reduction in the number of interruptions
         80%
         70%                                                                                  2008
         60%                                                                                  2009
         50%
                                                                                              2010
         40%
                                                                                              2011
         30%
                                                                                              Target
         20%
         10%
          0%
                Ayedas    Uludag   Meram    Gediz    Toroslar Osmangazi Akdeniz   Tredas


        90%
                          Percentage reduction in the duration of interruptions
        80%

        70%

        60%                                                                                   2008

        50%                                                                                   2009

        40%                                                                                   2010
                                                                                              2011
        30%
                                                                                              Target
        20%

        10%

         0%
               Ayedas    Uludag    Meram    Gediz   Toroslar Osmangazi Akdeniz    Tredas




                                                    12
         80                                    New load served (MW)
         70

         60
                                                                                                          2008
         50
                                                                                                          2009
         40
                                                                                                          2010
         30
                                                                                                          2011
         20                                                                                               Target
         10

          0
                Ayedas      Uludag       Meram        Gediz        Toroslar   Osmangazi   Akdeniz

Sources: PAD, TEDAS report.
Note: The last bar of each clustered columns indicates the target for the project areas in the corresponding region.

The project involves substation upgrading, converting overhead lines to underground cables, and
replacements and extension of medium and low voltage lines, all of which contribute to the
reduction of accidents and interruptions and increase in load served. However, there was a
disconnection between project disbursement ratio and achievement towards targets. There are
three possible reasons:
(1) Project targets on new load served were likely to be under ambitious.

(2) The quality of supply interruption data could be poor given that these results were monitored
and recorded manually.

(3) Factors outside the project contributed to the achievement of the targets on reduction of
interruptions. For example, the achievement may be partially attributable to the parallel European
Investment Bank (EIB) financed distribution rehabilitation project. The EIB project involved the
rehabilitation and expansion of mostly urban low and medium voltage electricity distribution
networks in 20 of the 21 regional distribution areas in Turkey as well as the implementation of
specialized distribution network operating tools (SCADA) in Ankara and Konya (Meram region)
areas. The project cost was approximately Euro 650 million (with EIB financing of Euro 325
million). Implementation started in 2006 and will continue until 2014. Given that the EIB project
could have covered the same project areas, reduction in supply interruptions could potentially be
attributable to the parallel EIB project. On the other hand, the preparation of the EIB project had
largely benefited from the Bank’s efforts in project appraisal and in-depth work in the wider
sector issues. EIB also liaised closely with the Bank during project implementation.

3.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost,
and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)

At appraisal, the economic rates of return (ERRs) of subprojects in four distribution regions were
estimated to be in the range of 11 to 27 percent, with a combined ERR of 19 percent. The
economic net present value (NPV) ranges between TL 2.6 to 40.6 million, with a combined NPV
of TL 91 million. Actual ERRs and NPVs cannot be calculated at project completion as TEDAS
declined to provide information on project actual costs and actual benefits related to reduction in
unserved energy, reduction in operating expenditures, reduction in accidents, and reduction in
losses. However, the persistent delays in project implementation may have resulted in what most



                                                              13
likely are substantial forgone economic and financial benefits. For example, using the same
assumptions about project costs and benefits as those adopted at appraisal, but taking into account
a two- year delay in implementation, the estimated ERRs reduce to 8 to 19 percent, with a
combined value of 13 percent. The NPV reduces to between TL -8.49 and 20.6 million, with a
total NPV of TL 91 million. These simulation results suggest that a two-year implementation
delay would lead to a 32 percent reduction in project ERR and 55 percent reduction in project
NPV.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)

The project was and remains relevant to the Government priorities. The project overachieved all
but one performance targets. However, to what extent the Bank’s intervention had contributed to
the achievement of the project outcome is debatable. The project has also been inefficient in the
use of its resources due to persistent delays. Thus, the overall project outcome rating is
unsatisfactory.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

Poverty Impacts: The project has made positive impact on the reliability of electricity supply in
project areas, and therefore could have contributed to the reduction of poverty by improving the
productivity of households and enhancing the delivery of social services. Additionally, all
subprojects provided employment opportunities for the local communities.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)

The Bank provided extensive professional training and awareness-building on environmental and
social issues which enabled TEDAS to improve its capacity in safeguards compliance, bringing
benefits beyond the project.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

In reducing technical losses from the distribution network, the project would improve the overall
efficiency of the power system and thereby reduce emissions of greenhouse gas emissions from
fossil-fuel fired generating plants.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)
NA.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

The risk to the development outcome is rated low. At the time of ICR, Turkey’s distribution
privatization program, launched in 2008, has been completed. All distribution companies are
expected to be operated by private investors by fall 2013. Under the privatization approach, the
private investors are obligated to make a predefined level of investment in the network, and to
demonstrate the achievement of predefined performance criteria such as loss reduction, improved


                                                14
collection efficiency and improved customer service. The tariff levels approved by EMRA will
factor in the targeted performance criteria and investments required by the distribution companies.
In addition to earning an allowed rate of return, distribution companies can create substantial
profits by outperforming the predetermined performance targets. Such system provides sufficient
incentive for adequate maintenance and expansion of network capacity and the improvement of
service quality. In a broader prospective, Turkey’s transparent regulatory framework and liberal
market structure ensure the development outcomes will be sustained.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

5.1 Bank Performance Rating
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)

The Bank team exercised due diligence in establishing the technical foundation of the project.
Preparation of the project spanned almost one year and included extensive review of feasibility
studies conducted through Bank technical specialists and an experienced local consultant. The
review was supplemented by intensive field visits by the Bank team to several of the provinces
where investment projects were proposed to be financed by the loan. It was apparent that efforts
were made to ensure support and consensus from TEDAS on the scope of the project. Efforts
were also made to put in place onlending arrangements to ensure the continuation of contract
management through privatization. Overall, project objectives and components were well-
defined and consistent with national priorities and CPS objectives.

The project preparation did not anticipate unforeseen land acquisition in some of the project areas
and involuntary resettlement as a risk. However, when the project was prepared, the Bank’s
practice also did not request the operational policy on Involuntary Resettlement to be
preemptively triggered in the absence of an identified need to acquire private land.

In retrospect, it is evident that the Bank may not have read the recalcitrance of TEDAS general
management in advancing the project preparation in a timely manner as a sign of
indifference/lack of commitment to implementation. On the other hand, it would seem that the
Bank’s preparation efforts and the project technical design were comprehensive and done with
due diligence. Bank performance in ensuring quality at entry is rated moderately
satisfactory.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)

The Bank team provided close and responsive supervision of the project. Comprehensive Bank
review missions, including field visits were conducted twice a year. There were also regular
follow-up reviews since the third quarter of 2011 as the project was managed from the Ankara
Office. The Bank’s technical, procurement, financial and safeguards staff throughout the project
provided a very high level of input in ensuring that fiduciary requirements were met and in
providing training for TEDAS staff both in headquarters and in regional distribution companies.
Supervision missions correctly identified and documented the implementation issues, and the
Aide Memoires shared with government highlighted the appropriate remedial responses that
should be taken.




                                                   15
The Bank was however constrained from taking a stronger stance against TEDAS’ mishandling
of procurement, delay in finalizing the RPF and repeated reneging of the remedial action. The
Bank instead attempted to work through the issues in an effort to maintain the overall client
relationship. It was not until the end of the project that the Bank drew a line so that further non-
compliance with mutually agreed actions would trigger a call to cancel the loan. Despite the effort
the Bank team made to turn around the project, the Bank missed opportunities to engage the
Government to address the ownership issues head-on and early, particularly at midterm review, or
to cancel the loan earlier when facing waning commitment and ownership from TEDAS. Bank
performance in quality of supervision is rated moderately unsatisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Given moderately satisfactory ratings for quality at entry, and moderately unsatisfactory rating
for quality of supervision, the overall Bank performance is rated moderately unsatisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance

Although the government’s commitment to the PDO was strong, the government had not fully
committed to the implementation of the project. The government underestimated the effects of
understaffing, the loss of motivation and the reduction in technical and managerial capacity of
TEDAS throughout the protracted privatization process since 1995. While pushing for
privatization, the government could have taken actions to address TEDAS’ concern of
understaffing and capacity constraint. Even though the government was aware of TEDAS’ lack of
ownership, there was lack of a higher level intervention from the oversight agency to trigger a
more active response from TEDAS to address implementation problems. Overall, the
government performance was moderately unsatisfactory.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

As noted in previous sections, a number of TEDAS deficiencies spanning both capacities to
monitor project implementation and capacities to address operational bottlenecks had contributed
to the unsatisfactory outcome of the project. There was a lack of ownership and support of the
project from TEDAS. Although TEDAS was ostensibly communicating and providing guidance
to the regional distribution companies, it was evident from meeting with regional distribution
companies that there was no adequate follow-through by TEDAS. When things were clearly not
progressing well, TEDAS refused to get technical assistance. TEDAS also failed to follow Bank
operational guidelines during the course of the project. For example, TEDAS extended the
contractual project completion dates for as much as 705 days without requesting no objection
from the Bank. TEDAS also failed to follow the Bank’s guidelines on social safeguards and
procurement. The performance of the implementing agency was unsatisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Given moderately unsatisfactory ratings for Government performance and unsatisfactory rating
for implementation agency performance, the overall borrower performance was rated
unsatisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)


                                                16
The lessons emerged from the implementation of this project are:

1. Higher-level and more coordinated communications between the Bank and
   Government, bringing together key government stakeholders earlier on in the project when
   issues arose, could have helped to more effectively and transparently address project issues.
   During implementation, when the implementing agency, TEDAS, was unresponsive to Bank
   recommendations and actions communicated to them during missions and by aide-memoires,
   the Bank should have convened a forum involving key higher-level Government
   stakeholders, particularly the Treasury, for resolving these issues. This would have given
   opportunity to the Government to collectively and in a coordinated manner reassess their
   commitment to the project rather than allowing project issues to languish over a protracted
   period, which ultimately sent mixed signals to the implementing agency, particularly in the
   context of the late-breaking decision not to extend the project closing date.

2. Supply-and-installation contract shifts most of the responsibilities of project implementation
   to the contractors, therefore reduces the complexity of contract management. However, in
   order to effectively implement this type of contract, the following conditions are
   necessary: (1) the implementation agency can carry out project design in a sufficient and
   timely manner, (2) the borrower can assume the risks associated with the design and
   engineering practice, (3) project scope and design are clearly defined before both parties enter
   into the contract, and (4) the implementation agency has sufficient capacity to monitor project
   progress on the ground.

3. Flexibility in Bank’s procurement policies. A prospective bidder was debarred under
   Turkish law, but not under the Bank’s procurement guidelines. This conflict between Bank’s
   and Turkish procurement rule caused confusion regarding whether the prospective bidder is
   eligible to bid and contributed to delays in project implementation. Difficulties like this are
   not unique to this project. Currently, an extensive effort is being carried out by the Bank to
   consult with external stakeholders in order to improve the Bank’s procurement policies. One
   area for consideration is how to reconcile differences between Bank’s procurement rules and
   the country’s procurement system so as to improve efficiency.

4. Social safeguards measures as part of urban infrastructure project. An urban
   infrastructure project in a large geographic area is likely to involve land acquisition or affect
   users of public lands. Even when land acquisition is not envisioned and OP4.12 is not
   triggered, a Resettlement Policy Framework is recommended to minimize risks of potential
   negative effectives under involuntary resettlement.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

(b) Cofinanciers

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                                 17
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in Euro Million)
                                                                    Actual/Latest
                                    Appraisal Estimate                                     Percentage of
           Components                                               Estimate (euro
                                      (euro millions)                                       Appraisal
                                                                       millions)
Distribution Network
Rehabilitation and Expansion
                                               172                      80.08                 45.2%
(for Group I and Group II Sub-
Projects)
Technical Assistance for
                                                    5                    0.03                  0.6%
Supervision Consultants
             Total Baseline Cost               177                      80.11                 46.6%
Physical Contingencies                                                    --
                                                   14
Price Contingencies                                                       --
                                                   14
             Total Project Costs
Front-end fee                                   ---                      0.51
     Total Financing Required                  205                      80.62                 39.3%




(b) Financing
                                         Appraisal           Revised           Actual/Latest
                                         Estimate            Amount              Estimate    Percentage of
          Source of Funds
                                          (USD                                    (USD        Appraisal
                                         millions)                               millions)
 Borrower                                 75.00                75                   75           100%
 International Bank for Reconstruction
                                           266.9              119.8               105.9         39.7%
and Development
                                 Total     341.9              194.8               180.9         52.9%




                                                        18
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Individual subprojects financed under the loan:

    Sub-project      Regional       Contract     Disburseme    Percent     Physical
    area             Distribution   price in     nt amount     Disbursed   Project
                     Company        millions     in millions   (as of      Progress (as of
                                    (euro)       (euro)        October     October 2012)
                                                               2012)
    Completed Sub-projects
    Group 1
    Package 1:       GEDIZ          4.40         3.42          84.27%      100%
    Alasehir
    (Manisa)
    Package 2:       GEDIZ          7.99         6.95          91.04%      100%
    Manisa V
    (Merkez)
    Package 3:       MERAM          7.72         6.74          94.72%      100%
    Kony II and
    Nigde II
    Package 4:       MERAM          5.23         4.76          94.34%      100%
    Nevsehir II
    Package 5:       AYEDAS         12.6         10.22         87.25%      100%
    IAY VI and
    Umraniye II
    Total (Group 1)                 46.85        39.69
    Group 2
    Package 2:       Toroslar       4.96         4.90          98.40%      100%
    Hatay III
    Total (Group 2)                 4.96         4.90

    Incomplete Sub-projects
    Group 1
    Package 6:       AYEDAS         8.91         7.60          93.20%      90.38%
    IAY VII
    Group 2
    Package 1:       Toroslar       11.91        8.50          66.63%      84.66%
    Adana VIII
    Package 3:       Toroslar       6.49         4.06          66.05%      43.82%
    Gaziantep XIV
    Package 4:       Uludag         10.84        7.94          70.68%      65.53%
    Bursa III
    Package 5:       Akdeniz &      9.72         6.60          66.08%      52.24%
    Isparta VI,      Osmangazi
    Isparta VII,
    Afyon III
    Total(Group 2)                  43.92        32.00




                                            19
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)

At appraisal, the economic rates of return (ERRs) of subprojects in four distribution
regions were estimated to be in the range of 11 to 27 percent, with a combined ERR of 19
percent. The economic net present value (NPV) ranges between TL 2.6 to 40.6 million,
with a combined NPV of TL 91 million at 10 percent discount rate. Five types of
economic benefits produced by the rehabilitation and expansion of electricity distribution
network were considered in the analysis:

       Reduction in unserved energy
       Growth in peak capacity and revenue
       Reduction in accidents
       Reduction in operation expenditures
       Reduction in technical losses

Actual ERRs and NPVs cannot be calculated at project completion as TEDAS declined to
provide information on project actual costs and actual benefits. To estimate the forgone
efficiency due to project implementation delays, the ERR and NPV of the subprojects in
the four distribution regions were simulated using the same assumptions on project costs
and benefits as those adopted at appraisal, but taking into account a two-year delay in
implementation. The results are summarized in the following table.

                Economic Rates of Return (ERRs) and Project Economic
                             Net Present Values (NPVs)

       Region             ERR             ERR               NPV               NPV
                     (At appraisal)    (Simulated)      (At appraisal      (Simulated
                                                         TL million)       TL million)
Ayedas                    11%               8%               2.23             -8.49
Uludag                    21%              14%              38.82             18.83
Gediz                     27%              19%              32.18             20.61
Meram                     22%              15%              17.79              9.94
Combined total            19%              13%                91               40.9

These simulation results suggest that a two-year delay would lead to a 32 percent
reduction in project ERR and 55 percent reduction in project NPV.




                                           20
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                          Responsibility/
          Names                           Title                   Unit
                                                                            Specialty
Lending
                     Consultant/Environmental Safeguards
Bernard Baratz                                           EASCS
                     Specialist
Ranjit J. Lamech     Sector Manager                      ECSEG
James Sayle Moose    Consultant                          ECSEG
                     Consultant/Social Safeguards
Stan Peabody                                             ECSSD
                     Specialist
Sameer Shukla        Senior Energy Specialist            SEGES
Sunil Kumar Khosla   Lead Energy Specialist              ECSEG
Husam Mohamed Beides Lead Energy Specialist              MNSEG
Yukari Tsuchiya      Temporary                           ECSEG

Supervision/ICR
Yesim Akcollu             Sr. Energy Specialist                  ECSEG
Ayse Seda Aroymak         Sr. Financial Management Specialist    ECSO3
John Bulter               Lead Social Development Specialist     ECSOQ
Shinya Nishimura          Sr. Energy Specialist                  ECSEG
Sergio Gonzales           Sr. Power Engineer                     ECSEG
Salih Kemal Kalyoncu      Sr. Procurement Specialist             ECSO2
Selma Karaman             Program Assistant                      ECCU6
Iftikhar Khalil           Consultant                             ECSEG
Zeynep Lalik              Sr. Financial Management Specialist    ECSO3
Chukwudi H. Okafor        Senior Social Development Specialist   AFTCS
Zeynep Durnev
                          Social Development Specialist          ECSSO
Darendeliler
Kishore Nadkarni          Consultant                             ECSEG
Ahmet Gurhan Ozdora       Consultant                             ECSPF
Sameer Shukla             Senior Energy Specialist               SEGES
Yukari Tsuchiya           Temporary                              ECSEG
Fan Zhang                 Energy Economist                       ECSEG
Regina Nesiama            Sr. Program Assistant                  ECSSD

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                          Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                         USD Thousands (including
                                        No. of staff weeks
                                                               travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY06                                            45.69                   231.95
  FY07                                            42.67                   207.83
  FY08                                            13.2                     89.83


                                             21
                  Total:    101.56   529.64
Supervision/ICR
  FY09                       19.13   112.98
  FY10                       20.11    93.22
  FY11                       30.26   153.37
 FY12                        20.57    93.25
 FY13                        21.34    98.25
                  Total:    111.41   551.06




                           22
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(if any)




                                      23
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)




                                   24
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR


OPINIONS ON IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULT REPORT TO BE
GIVEN TO TURKISH ELECTRICITY DISTRIBUTION COMPANY (TEDAŞ) FOR
ELECTRICITY DISTRIBUTION REHABILITATION WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE REPUBLIC OF TURKEY (IBRD-48580)

1. C. We do not agree with the rating and evaluations in the C. Rating Summary Section.

2. 1.1 In the Context at Appraisal section, the first paragraph under the heading Rationale
for Bank Involvement should be changed as;

"In 2006 during the preliminary design phase of the project there were some problems ın
the electricity distribution network in Turkey and it was necessary to improve the system
reliability. Due to financial constraints of the State it has not been possible to make more
than 50% of the investment requirement needed for increasing the distribution capacity
and rehabilitation between 1994-2003. Due to the failed privatization attempts between
1995-2002, the system had more shortcomings because of not recruiting new personnel
for those who are retired or who left and also problems in allocation of funds. As a result
of not being able to make investments the consumers suffered increasing power cut-offs."

and that the last sentence in the sub-title Soundness of Background Analysis of the
Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry section, namely: “that there was
insufficient level of project monitoring and tender management? is an incorrect and
groundless view and that it needed to be taken out of the report,

3. 2.1 In the subtitle on Assessment of the Project Design in the section on Project
Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry;

Our Company has held many meetings with the World Bank delegation many times
before signing of the Loan Agreement and preparation of the Tender documents and in
these meetings the procedures and principles of our Company related to implementation
of the agreement and construction of the facility have been explained in detail. Our
Company is holding approximately 2000 tenders related to new electricity distribution
facilities and rehabilitation of the old ones in one year and spending approximately
1.000.000.000 TL in total. All these tenders are based on unit prices. Our Company never
held a tender for the facilities with a supply and installation contract; moreover we do not
have such type of a contract. In any case the whole sector knows and accepts that the
work of constructing a fully equipped power distribution facility cannot be realized with
a supply and installation type of contract.

In the meetings held between the Bank and TEDAŞ before the projects have been
incorporated in the loan contract, detailed explanations have been made that the sections
of the work could change in type and amount due to changes in the scope of the required
work and possible project amendments the scope of the work and also structural



                                             25
problems that could be encountered in the realization of the project and their solutions.
As a result of all these evaluations the tender and procurement document has been
prepared with instructions by the Bank.

Moreover, it was stated by the Bank after finalization of all tenders that there was a
separate contract with unit prices.

When we examine the tender documents we see that there is no provision anywhere
stating that the contractor is obliged to complete the whole work for a specific price and
there are provisions in many parts stating that unit prices will be applied (amendments in
the facilities, price charts, payment conditions and methods, etc.).

Therefore the responsibility and the error made in basing the project procurement and
implementation on supply and installation contracts lies completely with the World Bank.
The World Bank is again responsible for all problems arising from this. TEDAŞ has
made and implemented the tenders as unit price contracts. Therefore this is not something
that we could frequently come up with.

TEDAŞ and the contractors went to court regarding the disputes on the new unit prices
however this has not caused any delay in the implementation of the project. We can
therefore understand that the World Bank does not have command of even the basic
issues regarding the project implementation, and makes wrong judgments and reporting,

4. 2.1 While starting the project it was necessary that the related departments should
evaluate the Assessment of Risks subtitle in the section on Project Preparation, Design
and Quality at Entry,

5. We do not agree with the statement in the second paragraph of 2.2 Implementation
section, namely: “When we take into account the 22 months of completion period given
for each sub project in the beginning there is an average delay of 13 months and this
shows a poor performance in the implementation of the project.? It has been explained to
the Bank many times that the delays were inevitable in electricity distribution network
construction works,

6. Regarding the 2.2 Implementation section;

a. (1) Subtitle on TEDAS’ weak capacity in contract management and inefficient use of
technical support;

Examination and feasibility evaluation of the projects in the scope of the loan were
realized with the participation of the Bank. The general scope or purpose of the work has
not been changed during the implementation of the project. We do not agree with the
assessment that a clear project scope, planning and project design were not made in the
beginning related to these projects. Because within the scope of the tender and
procurement document prepared by the Bank related to these projects there is a provision
for “preparing an implementation project? for amendments in the project and work items.



                                             26
Amendments in these projects have not affected the construction so far as much as
indicated.

Distribution of the tasks, authorities and responsibilities of TEDAŞ and the related
distribution companies for the execution of the projects has been determined based on the
experiences TEDAŞ has since long years in similar projects. This determination has not
caused any problems or gaps in the execution of the project, the problems encountered
were structural problems that came up in the implementation of these projects.

It was demanded that two special consultants (engineers) should be hired who would
deliver weekly reports in order to monitor the project and support the implementation
programs and in the meeting held with the World Bank on 15.10.2012 it was stated that
consultancy service was received several times in the past, that most of the work was
completed, that in the remaining period consultants would not be of use taking into
account the tender and adaptation periods, that our Company had sufficient control
organization and did not need any consultants and that there were problems in finding
consultants with the qualifications they requested. The World Bank delegation on the
other hand has indicated that they wanted consultants in order to report and that they
would check about a quicker tender and help us about finding the consultants and do the
necessary research but there has not been any advance in the past period. According to
the decision taken in the meetings held with the World Bank delegation it was indicated
that our Company would work with the consultant to be offered by the World Bank.
Despite all these, it is not possible for us to understand that it is being stated that “no
progress or documentation is present on the issues of hiring consultants for project
monitoring and supervision? in the letter from the World Bank dated 04.12.2012.

The Bank has not realized any trainings and our Company has given the information
related to the progress of the project. It was understood that this did not contribute to
overcoming the problems affecting the performance of the projects mentioned in the
report.

b. (2) subtitle that privatization reduced staff and imposed difficulties in the coordination;

There were some partial differences of opinion in the technical evaluation between
TEDAŞ and the distribution companies in the projects under the contract but this has not
affected the essentials of the work significantly. The time spent for the approval of the
projects has not stopped the progress of the work completely.

c. (3) Subtitle on delay in obtaining municipal approvals and frequent interruption in
works on the ground;

Rehabilitation of electricity distribution network is infrastructure work and it is not
possible to complete it in the date planned. Some structural problems in the field
application of the project are the investments by other infrastructure companies, the
permissions to be obtained from other public institutions (Municipality, Highway
Authority, Telecom, State Hydraulic Works, Natural gas, Museums Directorate, etc.),



                                             27
problems in expropriations, not being able to solve these problems in a short time and
delays caused by 3rd persons. TEDAŞ is not able to interfere with the decisions of the
mentioned institutions.

d. (4) subtitle that contractual disputes held up project progress;

The contract covers how the effect of changes in the prices of cupper on the contract will
be evaluated. The undertaking parties enter the works/projects knowing the contract
conditions. In the works within the scope of the 1. and 2. groups change in the price of
cupper did not cause any dispute between the parties of the contract. However we believe
that the requirement for supply from a single supplier which did not exist in the tender
document for 1. group but included in the tender document for the 2. Group of sub-
projects was a significant cause of dispute between the undertaking parties.

e. In relation to the last part of the section;

In various meetings and correspondences at different dates for time extension for the loan
closing date, information has been given on the progress of the project and the work
undertaken for the procedures requested by the bank. In this scope in all the technical
meetings and field visits realized with the Bank, in the Aide Memorie and Progress
Reports prepared for 3 month periods it has been reported and the justifications for the
time extension were accepted by the Bank and for some facilities for which the contract
period has expired with reasons explained in detail in our various letters time extension
was granted for the facilities and approved by the Bank.

Our Company has requested from the Bank on 27.07.2012 (approximately 5 months
before the closing date) that the closing date should be extended and the Bank with its
response to this request dated 27.09.2012 (two months after the request by our Company)
has notified its conditions for extending the closing date.

The content of the above mentioned requests has been discussed with the Bank in the
meeting held on 15.10.2012 and it was requested that the conditions and the procedures
requested by the Bank should be completed until 15.11.2012. Although no written
notification has been made on this issue the Bank has indicated in its letter dated
22.11.2012 that these conditions were not fulfilled until 15.11.2012 and that conditions
were not met to complete the on-going work and that the loan would be closed as of
31.12.2012.

The procedures requested in the letter from the Bank dated 27.09.2012 were sent to the
Bank on 27.11.2012 (only 12 days after the date indicated verbally and 35 days before
the ending of the closing date).

The Bank has with its letter dated 04.12.2012 concluded that the necessary conditions
were not fulfilled for the successful completion of the project despite our letter dated
27.11.2012 and indicated that our project extension request was not approved and that the
project would be closed at the planned closing date which is 31.12.2012.



                                                  28
Important part of the requests made by the Bank on 27.09.2012 has been fulfilled and it
has been indicated that the others which would take time would also be fulfilled.
Nevertheless although there are sufficient justifications the Bank has unilaterally chosen
not to extend the closing date.

Besides no funds were allocated for the projects which were started to be constructed
with the loan received from the Bank from the equity capital except for asphalt
excavation fee and taxes by our Company and there is no funding planning for the
following years. Not extending of the closing date unilaterally by the Bank before the
completion of the projects has had adverse effects on the investment and fund planning of
our Company.

7. 2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation, Design, Implementation and Utilization section;

a. In the 2. Paragraph of the Implementation sub-title; regarding monitoring of the project
outputs there has been some delays in some three monthly progress reports however no
false information has been given. The Bank has to prove that there are some information
which are false in these reports,

b. In the utilization sub-title; TEDAŞ is checking and monitoring the ongoing projects
together with the related departments. Therefore there is a field control organization for
each project. This organization is carrying out the necessary monitoring and control
careful enough. We do not in any way agree with the opinions on project monitoring and
control system.

8. 2.4 Safeguards and Fiduciary Compliance;

a. In the social safeguards sub-title; in the scope of electricity distribution facilities
construction works new ones are allocated for the existing substation or distribution
buildings and where necessary public ones are allocated or private property is
expropriated. This is how the case was in the project meetings. Therefore expropriation
of private properties is not something that has come up later on. The Bank made a
mistake about this in the initial project meetings but it was not the case that TEDAŞ
shared any insufficient information.

b. With the Group 3 tender implementation mentioned here the issue of prohibited
companies should be evaluated by the related Department,

9. 5.1 Bank Performance Rating section;

a. (a) under the Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry subtitle, the Bank was
insufficiently informed on and could not judge many issues such as knowing TEDAŞ,
contract type determination, places under private property in the beginning,

b. (b) In the Administrative Quality subtitle, the Bank has not given any training either to
the TEDAŞ personnel or the regional distribution companies and gave no input to the



                                             29
project at any level and did not determine the problems related to the implementation and
did not shed any light on the measures that should be taken indicated in the Aide
Memoires,

10. In the 5.2. Borrower Performance section ,subtitle (b) Implementing Agency or
Agencies Performance ,as indicated above, the findings are insufficient, false and
incorrect,

11. Besides;
a. Many issues notified in order to obtain no-objection from the Bank (change of supplier,
giving time extension to the contractor, budget estimate amendment, etc.) were responded
after a very long time and this has caused delays,

b. Due to reasons explained in detail in our letter dated 11.12.2012 and numbered 7176
the fact that the Bank is unilaterally choosing not to extend the closing date is a violation
of the agreement made and the international law, that since the closing date was not
extended TEDAŞ had to allocate funds and that had significant losses,

This is our opinion.

As a result;

1. There were problems due to 1 year of delay in the effectiveness of the project,

2. The Bank was not able to make the necessary findings in the meetings held in the
starting of the project related to TEDAŞ and this caused some troubles and problems,

3. The Bank had misinstructed TEDAŞ in the tender documents,

4. The Bank had caused many legal and administrative problems for TEDAŞ as a result
of the contract that is misinstructed,

5. The electricity distribution facilities construction works have not been contracted out
with the application project and therefore new unit prices came up and the cost estimates
increased or decreased and this was recognized by the Bank during the implementation,

6. In the excavation works constituting a large section of the construction works of the
electricity distribution facilities there were some problems and delays in the permissions
obtained from the Municipality and the Highway Authority and that this also caused
some delays and time extensions,

7. The number of personnel had decreased due to privatization but that this was not to an
extent that could prevent the implementation of the project,




                                             30
8. There was a dispute regarding the project implementation with the distribution
company solely connected and this caused time extension for the project but did not hold
the project,

9. Consultancy service was received at various times after making a tender according to
the tender procedures of the Bank but no tender was held after the last consultant left but
again it was mentioned to the Bank that consultancy service would be received in case
the notice period was extended,

10. The distribution company is responsible to control and monitor the work and there
were no problems related to this control and monitoring,

11. The problems with the contractor related to the new unit price analysis did not cause
any delay,

12. Information was given in the meetings held and the field investigations carried out
with the Bank related to the execution of the contract and no training was given by the
Bank in any way,

13. There have been delays in the submission of the progress reports but no wrong
submission was made,

14. The Bank has made a mistake about not foreseeing any land acquisition from private
property in the scope of the project,

15. The rating by the Bank was partial and a mistake,

16. The Bank was very slow and passive regarding giving the necessary no-objection,

17. Various problems were faced due to the delay in the realization of the project, the
situation the project is in, that time extension was granted to the contractors due to force
major and because the closing date was not extended unilaterally by the Bank,

All these issues should be taken into account and we believe that therefore the
evaluations in the report are defective, unfounded and unjust. Again the criteria for the
performance evaluation of the report are not known and therefore its systematic and
criteria could not be evaluated and we believe that different evaluation results can be
obtained using different criteria.




                                             31
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders




                                    32
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents




                                    33
                                                                                                                                                                                   TU R K E Y
                                                                                                                                                                                        PROVINCE CAPITALS*
                                                                                                                                                                                        NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                                                                                                                                        RIVERS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        TURKEY
                                                                                                                                                                                        MAIN ROADS
                                                                                                                                                                                        RAILROADS
                                                                                                                                                                                        PROVINCE BOUNDARIES*
               This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
               The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information                                                                                                          INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
               shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
               Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
               endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                                                                                                         *Province names are the same as their capitals.


                             26°E                              28°E                           30°E                             32°E                        34°E                              36°E                                      38°E                                                                    R US S I AN FE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           FEDDE      I ON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               E R AT ION
                   BU
                    ULL G ARIA
                    ULG   A R IA
                                                                                                                                          Blac k Sea
                                                                                                                                                                                                          0          50         100      150       200 Kilometers
                                                  To
                               To               Burgas
              42°N          Kurdzhali                                                                                                                                                                     0                  50            100                 150 Miles                                                     GE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             G E OR GI A                                 42°N

                                       Edirne                                                                                                                                        Sinop
                                                  Kirklareli
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          To
                                                                            Istanbul Strait                                   Bartin                                                                                                                                                                    Batumi
                                                                             (Bosphorus)
                                                                                                              Zonguldak                                                       Ku
                                                                                                                                                                                   zey
                     CE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                a
                                        Tekirdag                                                                                                                                                          Samsun                                                                                               Artvin        Kur
                                                                              Istanbul                                                                     Kastamonou                       Ana                                                                                                                                                 To
                 EE




                              To
                            Komatini                      Sea of
                                                                                  Kocaeli
                                                                                   (Izmit)                     Düzce
                                                                                                                                        Karabük
                                                                                                                                                           Devr
                                                                                                                                                               ez
                                                                                                                                                                                                  dolu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Dag                  Ordu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Trabzon                                        Ardahan             Kirovakan               AZER-
            GR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                             lari                                                     Rize
                                                         Marmara
                                                                         Yalova
                                                                                                     Sakarya                                                                                                                                       Giresun                                                                                                         BAIJAN
                                                                                                                        Bolu                                             il                                                                                                                 ruh                                     Kars
                                                                                                     (Adapazari)                                       Çankiri        Kiz           Amasya                                                                                                Ço                                                      AR MENIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ARMENIA
                                                                                                                                                                     Çorum                                                  Kelki
              40°N
                              Çanakkale                                                       Bilecik
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 t                      Gümüshane                                                                                                        40°N
             Çanakkale                                                   Bursa                                                                                                                                      Tokat                                                           Bayburt                          Ara
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         s                          Agri Dagi
               Strait                                                                                            Sakar ya                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (5166 m)
            (Dardanelles)                                                                                                                                                                           erek                                                                                                                                    Igdir
                                            Balikesir                                                Eskisehir                                                                                   Cek                                                                                                                                Agri
                                                                                                                            ANKARA                                                                                                                                       Erzincan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Erzurum
                                                                                                                                                     Kirikkale
                                                                                                                                                                              Yozgat                                         Sivas                      t
                                                                              Kütahya                                                                                                                                                               Fira                                                                                                 To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Maku
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 AZER.
                                                                                                                                                                                                    zil
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Ki
                                                                                                                                                     Kirsehir                                                                                                  Tunceli
                                                                                                    Afyon                                                                                                                                                                       Bingöl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Mus
                               Izmir
                                                Manisa
                                                                            Usak
                                                                                                                                       Tuz
                                                                                                                                       Gölü                 Nevsehir                                                                                      Elazig                         Mu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ra   t                               Lake
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Van       Van
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Salmas
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ISLAMIC
                                                                                                                      Aksehir
              38°N
                                                                                                                       Gölü
                                                                                                                                                Aksaray
                                                                                                                                                                                       Kayseri
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Bitlis                                    REP. OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Malatya
                                                 Aydin                                        Hoyran
                                                                                               Gölü                                                              Nigde                                                                                                               Diyarbakir                      Siirt
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   IRAN
                                                               Denizli                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Batman                                                   To
                                                                                                        Baysehir            Konya                                                                                                                Adiyaman                                                                                                  Oroumieh
                                                                                     Burdur                Gölü                                                                                                    Kahraman                                                                           Tigris                            Hakkari
                                                                                                    Isparta                                                                                                          Maras                                                                                       Sirnak
                                                                                                                                                                                                                an
                                                                                                                                                                                                               yh
                                                                                                                                                                                        n




                                                  Mugla                                                                                                                                                   Ce                                            ates                                  Mardin
                                                                                                                                                                                     yha




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Euph                                                                                  To
                                                                                                                                                                                   Se




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Dahuk
                      GR




                                                                                                                                       Gö      Karaman                                  Osmaniye                                     Gaziantep                 Sanliurfa                                        To Damir
                                                                                          Antalya                                         ks                                                                                                                                                                      Kabu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             To
                                                                                                                                                                ri
                            EE




                                                                                                                                           u




                                                                                                                                                                                    Adana
                                  E                                                                   Gulf of                                          g   la          Icel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Kilis                                                     Al Hasakah
                              C




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                IBRD 33501R2
                                                                                                      Antalya                                   s   Da               (Mersin)                                                                                                                                                                 I R AQ
                                                                                                                                            o
                                                                                                                                       To r
              36°N                                                                                                                                                                                                        To
                                                                                                                                                                               Hatay (Antakya)                          Aleppo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SY RIA N A R AB
JULY 2008




                                                          Mediterranean Sea
                                                28°E                             30°E                                  32°E                            34°E
                                                                                                                                                                                             To Ladhiqiyah
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            REPUBL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            REPUB LIIC                                                                42°E                          44°E
