Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3771-CM
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSE]) LOAN OF US$8.3 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
FOR THE
THIRD HEVECAM RUBBER PROJECT
December 19, 1984
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$         =  CFAF 418
CFAF 1,000  =  US$2.55
The staff appraisal report is based on the exchange
rate of US$1.00 = CFAF 392 prevailing at appraisal.
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilometer (km)    0.621 miles
1 hectare (ha)   =  2.471 acres
1 kilogram (kg)  =  2.205 pounds
1 metric ton. (mt)=  0.984 long ton
ABBREVI:ATIONS
CAMDEV    -    Cameroon Development Corporation
CCCE      -    Caisse Centrale de Coop6ration Economique (France)
(Central Economic Cooperation Agency)
CDC       -    Commonwealth Development Corporation (U.K)
CFA       -    Communaute Financiare Africaine
(African Financial Community)
EIB       -    European Investment Bank
FONADER   -    Fonds National de Developpement Rural
(National Rural Development Fund)
HEVECAM   -    Societe Hevea-Cameroun
IRCA      -    Institut de Recherches sur le Caoutchouc
(Rubber Research Institute)
PAMOL     -    Societe Pamol Cameroun (Unilever Group)
SAFACAM   -    Societe Africaine Forest:iere et Agricole - Cameroun
(African Forestry and Agricultural Company - Cameroon)
SOCAPALM  -    Societe Camerounaise de Palmeraies
(Cameroonian Oil Palm Plantation Company)
UDEAC     -    Union Douaniare des Etats de l'Afrique Centrale
(Customs Union of the Central African States)
FISCAL YEAR
Government and HEVECAM: July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CAMEROON
THIRD HEVECAM RUBBER PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                       Republic of Cameroon.
Beneficiary:                    Soci.te Hevea - Cameroun (HEVECAM).
Amount:                         US$8.3 million equivalent, including the
capitalized front-end fee.
Terms:                          20 years, including 5 years' grace, at the
standard variable rate.
Co-financing:                   CCCE, CDC and EIB, each US$11.8 million
equ:ivalent.
Onlending Interest Rate:        Banlk rate plus one percentage point.
Project Description:            The project would comprise a third
phase of four-and-a-half years in the
development program of a rubber plantation
estate within HEVECAM's Niete concession.
Its main objective would be to complete the
establishment of the planned 15,000 ha of
rubber with its associated industrial and
social infrastructure, bringing the
plantation to a state of commercial
exp:Loitatlon. It would consist of the
fol:Lowing components: (i) maintenance until
production of areas planted under previous
Bank-financed projects and initial tapping of
about 9,400 ha; (ii) continuation of the
program of infrastructure establishment,
including estate buildings, housing for
estate workers, and expansion of crumb rubber
processing facilities (to a total capacity of
64 tons/day for latex and 32 tons/day for
lower grades); and (iii) associated programs,
namely the expansion to 500 ha of the
outgrower program (from the 250 ha achieved
under the second phase), a pilot program of
food crop production aimed at provision of
basic foodstuffs for workers, and studies and
rubber trials (in the areas of Kribi and the
Southern and Eastern provinces).
Benefits and Risks:             The project would continue to be a focal
point for the Government's plans for the
economic development of the sparsely
populated Kribi region. The expansion of
rubber production would help reduce
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otheirwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Cameroon's heavy dependence on cocoa and
coffee for its agricultural export earnings.
At maturity, the HEVECAM development would
provide full-time employment for almost 6,000
workers. The major risk is that HEVECAM
might face the difficulties in maintaining
efficient commercial operation that have been
experienced by other parastatal plantation
companies in Cameroon. The SAFACAM management
and marketing contracts are considered an
adequate! safeguard. The principal technical
risk would be Fomes and Gloeosporium diseases
but promising control measures have been
developed and are being actively refined by
HEVECAM's technical department in association
with the IRCA research institute.
Precautions have been incorporated in the
project design to attain the estimated yields
and to cover reasonable price, exchange, and
financing risks.



- iii -
% of
Estimated Project Costs                 Foreign       Local      Total    Base Cost
---------US$ Million---------
Plantation Development and
Operating Costs                         8.8         15.9         24.7         43
Civil Works, Utilities                    4.4          8.3         12.7         22
Vehicles, Equipment                       2.0          0.5          2.5          5
Experimentation                           0.4          1.0          1.4          2
Social Services, Smallholders             3.3          4.5          7.8         14
Working Capital                           3.7          4.2          7.9         14
TOTAL BASE COST                          22.6         34.4         57.0        100
Physical Contingencies                    1.0          1.2          2.2          4
Price Contingencies                       5.7         18.8         24.5         43
TOTAL COST (Including Taxes)             29.3         54.4         83.7
Taxes                                       -         (8.2)        (8.2)
TOTAL COST (Net of Taxes)                29.3         46.2         75.5
Financing Plan
IBRD                                                                8.3
CCCE                                                               11.8
CDC                                                                11.8
EIB                                                                11.8
GOVERNMENT                                                         29.0
HEVECAM                                                            11.0
TOTAL                                                              83.7
Estimated Disbursements           ---------------------Bank FY-----------------
(in US$ Million)               84/85   85/86   86/87   87/88   88/89   89/90
Annual                               -      1.9      1.9      1.7     1.7      1.1
Cumulative                          -       1.9      3.8      5.5     7.2      8.3
Estimated Rate of Return: 16 percent.
Staff Appraisal Report (Prepared by CCCE): Report No. 5046-CM
Maps: IBRD No. 18249 and 18369.






- 1 -
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUJBLIC OF CAMEROON
FOR A THIRD HEVECAM RUBBER PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Cameroon for the equivalent of US$8.3 million to
help finance a Third HEVECAM Rubber Project, a parastatal rubber
plantation. The loan would have a term of 20 years, including five years
of grace, at the standard variable interest rate. The loan proceeds would
be made available to HEVECAM. The Caisse Centrale de Cooperation
Economique (CCCE), who took the lead in appraising the Project, the
Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC) and the European Investment Bank
(EIB) would participate in the f-Lnancing of the Project with loans
amounting to the equivalent of US$11.8 million each. The terms of their
loans would be: CCCE, 20 years, 5-year's grace, and about 8.6% annual
interest; CDC, 20 years, 7-year's grace, and about 9% annual interest; and
EIB, 15 years, 5-year's grace, and about 8% annual interest.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       A report entitled "United Republic of Cameroon--Economic
Memorandum" (Loan No. 2877-CM), was distributed to the Executive Directors
on April 30, 1980. Since then, several economic and sector missions have
visited Cameroon. Their maior findings are incorporated in the following
paragraphs. Annex I provides basic country data.
Background
3.       Cameroon has a population of 9.3 million (1983) and covers an area
of 475,000 km2. It is one of Africa's most diverse countries with a wide
range of climatic zones, ecological conditions, population-densities,
ethnic groups and traditional cultures. Its main opportunities for
development lie in the expansion of agricultural, livestock, and forestry
production; the exploitation of energy and mineral resources; and the
processing of agricultural, forestry and mineral products for domestic
consumption and export. Cameroon became an oil producer in 1978 and is
estimated to have produced over 6 million tons of crude petroleum in 1983.
In 1981, it also began producing refined petroleum products.
4.       Basically an agricultural economy at independence in 1960,
Cameroon has become increasingly urban, with more than one-third of the
population living in cities in the early 1980s. Douala, the major port and
industrial center, and Yaounde, the capital, together account for about 40%
of the total urban population. The main economic centers are separated by



-2-
large areas of low population dens:Lty, making it costly to develop an
adequate transport network. Despite large investment over the past two
decades, the network remains rudimentary when considering Cameroon's size,
level of development and transit role vis-a-vis neighbouring landlocked
countries. Large areas are still isolated from the rest of the country and
manv major arteries are not passable during the rainy season or need
extensive upgrading to handle rapidly increasing traffic flows.
5.       Cameroon subscribes to a philoscphy of "planned liberalism" and
the country's economic development has been pursued within a five-year
investment planning framework. The Fourth Plan period ended in June 1981,
and the Fifth Plan (1981-86) is nowt in effect. Cameroon's macroeconomic
policies have been prudent with emphasis on balanced regional development
as part of the Government's efforts to foster a sense of national unity.
Thus, while until the second half of the 1970s growth was comparatively
moderate, the country has enjoyed exceptional economic and social
stability.
6.       The years 1982-84 have been a period of transition.  In November
1982, after about a quarter of a century in power, President Ahidjo
resigned in favour of his constitutional heir, Prime Minister Paul Biya.
Ten months later he resigned from the Presidency of the Union Nationale
Camerounaise (UNC), the onlv political party, t:hus ending a bipolar power
structure. In September 1983, Mr. Biya became President of the party and
in January 1984 he was confirmed as President of Cameroon by popular vote.
However, the country was shaken by an aborted cotup in April 1984. Over
this past vear, Mr. Biya has promised a more open style of Government, more
rigor in the management of public funds and greater social justice.  The
new Government is committed to economic liberalization, although still
within the context of "planned liberalism', and to more open and
participatory government. It has endorsed the objectives of preserving a
strong agricultural base, maintaining a high degree of food
self-sufficiency, and building up social and transport infrastructure,
especially highways, via a moderately enlarged investment program. It has
expressed strong interest in improving the efficiency of state enterprises,
possibly, in some cases, through privatization.
Economic and Social Developments
7.       Over the past two decades the Government has managed to establish
favorable conditions for accelerated economic growth and fiscal stability.
Average growth was sluggish in the 1960s at 3.7% per annum, but accelerated
to 6.3% per annum in the 1970s and about 8% in the early 1980s.
Investment, which was at a low 10% of GDP in the early 1960s, grew to an
average of about 20% in the early 1970s and to 25% in 1982. This growth
was made possible by the gradual easing of constraints to absorptive
capacitv, the increase in domestic savings and more recently, oil
resources. Before the surge in oil export:s in 1978-79, Cameroon registered
small trade deficits, though modest surpluses were recorded in 1973-74 and
1977-78. The small deficits on the current account were amply offset by
capital account flows, mainly public borrowing. However, despite a tenfold



-3-
increase in public indebtedness in current terms during the past decade,
the debt service ratio has consistently remained under 12%.
8.       Prior to 1978, Cameroon's economy, apart from a small
manufacturing sector concentrated in heavily protected import substitution
activities, was based essentially on agriculture. Agricultural products
accounted for 72% of 1978 export earnings, with coffee and cocoa alone
accounting for 53%. However, oil production began in 1978 and it rapidly
assumed a dominant position in total exports (63% in 1982) as well as
4          representing an important fraction of total GDP (13% in 1983).
9.       Although steady progress has been made in the well-being of the
population over the past two decades, much remains to be done in the social
sectors. Enrollments increased zonsiderably at all levels of the
educational system, but its quality and efficiency deteriorated.
Health-related indicators are on the low side, considering Cameroon's
overall level of economic development. Life expectancy at birth is a low
50 years, the result of a still high infant mortality rate. Inadequate
health coverage, poor access to water supply, lack of sanitation services
in crowded urban areas, poor nutrition and health practices are the main
reasons for this high rate.
10.      In 1981, about 40% of the rural population was considered to live
in absolute poverty, i.e., with an annual per capita income of less than
US$105 (1981). This explained the heavy rural outmigration to the cities
of Yaounde and Douala. However, conditions there are not much more
favorable, with one quarter of the population in these major cities
classified as absolutelv poor.
Development Prospects and Issues
11.      The basic issue for Cameroon is to adjust to the oil and post-oil
era. Despite a variety of mineral resources, it is unlikely that their
exploitation will make up for the expected slow decline of oil production
in the late 1980s. Oil revenues offer a window of opportunity to meet
pressing requirements for investment and introduce policies aimed at
preparing the economy for the post-oil era. On the other hand, lack of
caution in using these revenues could have highly disruptive effects on the
economic and social fabric of the country.  So far caution has prevailed.
However, pressures for an accelerated improvement of living conditions are
mounting.
12.      In the longer term, the major issue is to cope with a
fast-expanding population. Although its growth rate at 3.2% is not
uncommon in the regional context, it is accelerating. Cameroon's
population of about 9 million is expected to reach 17 million by the end of
the century. Urban population of 3 million would increase to 9 million.
Providing meaningful employment opportunities to a vastly expanding urban
labor force is and will rem'ain the major challenge for the Cameroonian
authorities. At present only 22% of the labor force is employed outside
agriculture, 9% in industry and 13% in services. If large-scale
unemployment is to be avoided in cities, about 2 million jobs would have to



- 4 -
be added to the existing 750,000 outside agriculture. In the meantime,
agriculture should generate employment at a higher rate than the 1%
achieved annually over the past decade to absorb more than one-fourth of
the incremental labor force.
13.      The Government's major objectives in the Fifth Plan are to
maintain food self-sufficiency, improve income and living conditions in
rural areas as a means of slowing down migration to cities, provide health
services and adequate drinking water to a, vastLy expanded portion of the
population and greatly increase the supply of well-trained Cameroonians.
These objectives are consistent with Cameroon's present requirements. The
projected annual GDP growth rate of 7% over the Fifth Plan period appears
comfortably attainable.
External Borrowing and Creditworthiness
14.      Total public external debt outstanding and disbursed rose from
US$513 million at the end of 1976 to US$1.9 billion at the end of 1982.
Debt service payments rose from US$39 million in 1976 to US$264 million in
1982, while exports increased from US$70C million in 1976 to about US$2.3
billion in 1982. However, Cameroon's traditionally modest reliance on
external financing has been followed, during the oil era of increased
financial independence, by diminished recourse to external borrowing and
some prepayment of foreign loans. Gross disbursements against public and
publicly guaranteed external borrowing have declined sharply from a peak of
US$566 million in 1980 to USS181 million in 1982. Net transfers have
fallen from a peak of US$389 millions in 1979 to minus US$83 million in
1982, when debt service payments exceeded gross disbursements. Rising
interest rates, a hardening of average loan terms and the appreciation of
the dollar increased Cameroon's debt service ratio to 11.6% in 1982. The
debt service ratio appears likely to remain below 14% for most of the rest
of the decade, even allowing for a continued descline in external lending to
Cameroon on concessional terms. Cameroon is basically creditworthy.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN CAMEROON
15.      Bank and IDA commitments in Cameroon as of August 31, 1984,
amounted to US$812.6 million equivalent and covered 44 projects:  20 in
agriculture, 13 in transportation, 3 in education, 3 in public utilities, 2
small- and medium-scale enterprise projects, 2 technical assistance
projects and one urban project. Transport and agriculture account
respectively for about 44 and 40% of these commitments. IFC has invested
in six enterprises, with total net loan/equity commitments of US$14.4
million. The country was graduated from IDA in FY82.
16.      Performance in project implementation is, on average, good in the
transport sector, mixed in agriculture and mediocre in other sectors. The
Government has generally shown willingness to collaborate with the Bank in
finding solutions, but implementation delays and setbacks have occurred,



-5-
notably over the last year in the wake of recent political changes. In
particular, the overall disbursement rate, which used to compare favorably
with that of most other countries, has slowed down due to administrative
bottlenecks, notably in the central procurement agency. Discussions on
ways to streamline procurement procedures are ongoing.
17.      The Bank's initial :investment strategy in Cameroon was to support
the Government's development efforts in three main directions: (i)
strengthening and extending the road and rail trunk svstems and improving
the port of Douala; (ii) raising agricultural output and exports; and (iii)
improving education. Until 1975, apart from one water supply project, Bank
lending was concentrated entirely in the transport, agriculture and
education sectors. Since 1975, Bank lending has diversified into forestry,
small- and medium-scale industrv, urban development, technical assistance
and telecommunications. For the immediate future, projects are being
prepared in agriculture to expand rural development and strengthen
agricultural research; in transport to upgrade/expand and maintain the road
system; in education/manpower training to support the demands of an
increasing investment program; and in health for the underserviced rural
areas.
18.      Oil revenues are large enough to finance an expanded investment
program, but are expected to start declining in the late 1980s. The
Government of Cameroon would like the Bank to maintain an active assistance
program as: (i) a way of ensuring a smooth and continued flow of resources
for development; (ii) a vehicle for technical assistance in project design
and implementation; (iii) a guarantee of impartialitv in providing
guidance; and (iv) a source of advice for policy reform. The rationale for
maintaining a sizeable Bank program lies in the need to meet the country's
increased and more complex requirement for development assistance. In
order to ensure productive use of its oil revenues and to prepare for the
post-oil era, the Government must make critical decisions concerning the
size and composition of the domestic investment program and the removal of
the major development bottlenecks. The Bank's major objectives are to
strengthen the Government's policy making, investment planning and
implementing capabilities, promote private initiatives and reduce the role
of the parapublic sector in the economy, develop the country's human
resource base and improve the living conditions of lower income groups.
19.      The Bank's objectives will increasingly be pursued through
sectoral approaches combining lending, intensified economic and sector work
and technical assistance to the central and technical ministries.  The Bank
is in the process of preparing and discussing with the Government strategy
papers for the major sectors with a view to reaching broad agreement on a
macroeconomic and sectoral policy framework. This dialogue is expected to
pave the way toward a more sectoral approach to lending in support of
well-defined Government programs. Key topics for discussion will be the
role of the public enterprise sector, trade liberalization and pricing
policies, the pace and pattern of resource development, skilled manpower
constraints and needs, and Government administration reform. For the years
ahead, the nature of the Bank's involvement is expected to shift towards
fewer but larger sectoral operations.



-6-
Donor Activities
20.      Disbursements of official development assistance during the second
half of the 196Os amounted to about US$45 million a year, mostly in the
form of grants. France provided most of the assistance. In the 1970s,
foreign aid increased to about US$90 million a year, with only one-fifth in
the form of grants. Bank and IDA financinig amcunted to about 23 % of total
disbursements and the Bank Group became the major public donor.
Cofinancing has been featured in 22 of the Bank projects and is being
actively sought for several projects under consideration.
21.      Cameroon's borrowing from private sources accounted for 31.5%
external financing in 1982, from only 11% in 1967-69. Public external debt
outstanding and disbursed as of December 31, 1982, amounted to US$1.9
billion, 8.2% of which was in the form of Bank loans and 8.5% in IDA
credits. Bank loans in 1982 accounted for 6.4% of public external debt
service and IDA credits for 0.7%. IBy 1985, Bank loans and IDA credits are
projected to account for about 26% of debt: outstanding and about 14% of
debt service.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Background
22.       Agriculture has traditionally been the cornerstone of the
Cameroonian economy, directlv accounting, until 1978, for about 75% of
employment, 75% of export earnings, and 35% of t:ax revenues. The sector
exhibits considerable regional variety of outpul:: livestock and Sahelian
crops (cotton, rice, millet and sorghum) in the North; a range of
industrial crops (coffee, cocoa, oil palm, rubber and sugar) and food crops
(maize, manioc, etc.) in the West and South, and large, mainly unexploited
forestry resources in the South-East. Smallholder farming contributed
about 93% to total agricultural output (food crops for local consumption,
coffee, cocoa and cotton for exports) while the remaining 7% is produced by
plantations. Over the last few years, Government has promoted diversifi-
cation and particularly the cultivation of food crops as a complement to
the more volatile export cash crops. As a result, Cameroon is, by and
large, self-sufficient in food.
23.       The advent of oil in 1978 triggered a rapid decline in the
relative share of the agricultural sector in the country's GDP and exports.
Although these trends are expected to continue for some time, there are
good reasons for Cameroon to maintain a strong and diversified agricultural
sector based on both food and export crops. Firstly, the country needs to
feed a rapidly growing urban population while avoiding substantial
escalation of food imports or costs of living; secondlv, for the post-oil
era, it must preserve diversified sources of foreign exchange earnings, as
well as the economic viability of the various agricultural regions.



- 7 -
24.       Conscious of the possible risks which accompany oil exploitation,
the Government in the Fifth Development Plan (1981-86), stresses investment
in the agricultural sector (24% cf total planned expenditures, as against
11% in the previous plan). The focus is on promoting food production and
on slowing down rural exodus by improving smallholder productivity (hence
income) and rural amenities, Fot the tree crop subsector, the Plan aims at
consolidating rather than expanding planted areas, with the emphasis on
modernization for coffee/cocoa, and efficiency improvements for the
parastatal plantations, The! Bank has supported these objectives through
its projects (para 33).  Government success in developing the sector's
potential will depend on the pace at which it can implement the needed
policy reforms (para 34).
The Rubber Subsector
25.       Production of rubber has been supported by Government in order to
diversify agricultural out-put and. the country's export base. To date
development has been mainly in the form of parastatal plantations in the
coastal area. The parastatal platntations were expanded to contribute to
regional development, to foster the establishment of a network of roads,
infrastructure and otner public services in largely underdeveloped areas,
and to serve as nuclei for outgrow-er production. In this context, the Bank
financed five projects for the twro parastatals in the rubber subsector
(CAMDEV and HEVECAI4) for a t:otal, in loans/credits, of US$131.3 million.
26.       The total area urdler rubber in Cameroon at present is about
40,000 ha, some 18,000 ha of which are being tapped. Production is around
20,000 tons per year, The major contribution comes from the parastatal
corporation CAMDEV, with an annual production of 12,500 tons.  Two private
sector plantations produce about 6,000 tons (para 28).  Rubber has
considerable potential as an export crop. Taking into account the
comparative climate and soi:L advantages of Cameroon, the selection of
high-yielding clones and good marnagement could result in natural rubber
production having yields equivalent to that in Asia.  In terms of land
availability, the area under rubber could be increased to several hundred
thousand hectares without jeopardizing other important agricultural
developments, in particular the expansion of staple food production.
27.       However, due to miaagevtent problems in some of the parastatal
plantation companies (paza 28), uncertainties concerning world market
prospects and the potential effects of petroleum on the economy (inflation,
pressures on wages), the Government decided in 1982 that it would be
preferable to limit expansion and to concentrate instead on improving the
efficiencv of present operations. Under the Oil Palm and Rubber
Consolidation Project (Ln 2160-CCMS, the Government agreed that, except for
the completion of HE'T CAMPs 15,000 ha program, there would be no extension
of oil palm and rubber pa-astataL plantations until a subsector strategy
would be submitted to the Bank for review before preparation of the Sixth
Plan begins (June 1985).  The agreed upon recommendations would serve as a
basis to define the Plan's subsectoral objectives and the Bank's future
involvement. Termis of reference to prepare a background paper for this
strategy, which would cover, inter alia, proposals for the long-term



- 8 -
organization and management of the parastatal p:Lantations, including the
possibility of partial or total privatization, were agreed upon, and
consultants have been recruited. These discuss:Lons, as well as the
rehabilitation effort at CAMDEV (para 28), are expected to improve the
operating environment of the subsector, preserve the heavy investments made
by Government and set the conditions for a sound, rational development.
Institutions
28.       The rubber subsector covers a total of :39,500 ha, comprising two
private sector plantations (SAFACAM and PALMOL), two parastatals (CAMDEV
and HEVECAM), and a pilot program for smallholders. The two private firms
which represent 15% (6,100 ha) of the planted area, are efficiently
managed; they have low operating costs and good yields, but no immediate
plans for expansion. CAMDEV, which is a multicrop company covering some
39,000 ha (including 21,000 ha under rubber), has received three Bank loans
totalling US$83.8 million. It has had mixed results, as operating
efficiency has been adversely affected by political interference and lack
of controls. The Oil Palm/Rubber Consolidation Project (Ln 2160-CM signed
on July 1982) set out to resolve these problems with strong remedial
measures which, following a slow start-up, are beginning to bear fruit.
CAMDEV and the Government have just entered into a "Contract Plan" which
provides a sound framework for the company's long term rehabilitation. As a
result, disbursements against the CAMDEV fraction of Loan 2160-CM have now
begun.
29.       HEVECAM (Hevea-Cameroon) so far has avoided the problems faced by
other parastatals. HEVECAM was established by Government in 1975 to
develop a 15,000 ha rubber estate within a 40,000 ha concession at Niete in
the South Province. The concession is about 25 km southeast of Kribi and
250 km from the main port of Douala. Its start--up capital of US$3.3
million was contributed jointly by GDvernment, the National Office for
Marketing of Primary Commodities (ONCPB) and the National Investment
Company (SNI). Further financing totalling US$109.0 million to implement
HEVECAM's development program was provided through two projects supported
by the Bank Group (paras 35 and 36). These projects have been successful
in establishing a well-run companv, about 15,000 ha of rubber plantation, a
250 ha pilot outgrower scheme, a 30 tons/day rubber processing factory, and
associated programs (research, rural infrastructure, food crops).
30.       HEVECAM operates under the auspices of the Ministry of
Agriculture (MINAGRI). Its present cadre 2onsists of 13 expatriates and 30
Cameroonians. During the first two lprojects, the services of SAFACAM
("Societe Africaine Forestiere et Agricole du Cameroun"), a subsidiary of
"Groupe Terres Rouges", an agro-industrial company with worldwide
experience, were retained by HEVECAM to establish the rubber plantations
and to provide the technical expertise and senicr management staff.
SAFACAM makes semi-annual field inspections, and regular visiting
consultants assist in the preparation of amnual work programs and related
budgets. Training programs for the Cameroonian staff are effectively
arranged and implemented, and the company has a precise management
cameroonization plan. In view of the successful experience with the



- 9 -
SAFACAM contract, and HEVECAM's imminent entry into commercial production
and marketing activities, it is considered essential that SAFACAM continues
at least for the execution period of the project to have responsibility for
project management, with the amendments specified in para 43.
31.       The services of MINAGRI at provincial and departmental levels are
hampered by insufficient and inadequately trained personnel, and by the
lack of coherent work programs and the means to implement them. Therefore,
Government has increasingly been relying on the regional development
agencies and parastatal comipanies to execute its infrastructure programs in
rural areas. This reliance has become particularly burdensome for HEVECAM,
which has been mandated to promote the economic development of an
under-populated area. This problem would be addressed under the project
(para 42).
32.       FONADER (Fonds National de Developpement Rural) is an autonomous
Government agency, established in 1973, and funded by annual subsidies and
transfers from the Government. For lack of field staff, it has not played
a major role as a rural development body and is now evolving into an
agricultural credit institution. Its role under the proposed project would
be limited to financing the outgrower credit component (para 41).
Bank Group Involvement and Strategy
33.       Since 1967 the Bank Group has been involved in 20 projects in the
agricultural sector, amounting to a total of US$355 million in loans and
credits. In line with Government objectives of developping an export base
and reaching self-sufficiency in some staple crops, much of the earlier
Bank Group lending was for rubber and oil palm production, undertaken by
CAMDEV, SOCAPALM, and HEVECAM. Since the mid-1970s, smallholder projects
and regional rural development projects, integrating productive and
infrastructural components as well as food and export crops, have been
given prioritv. In the years ahead, lending is expected to follow a more
sectoral approach, with operations aimed at addressing issues identified as
major bottlenecks to achieving productivity growth (e.g., research,
extension, credit).
34.       With the absorptive capacity of Cameroon to implement agricul-
tural projects being increasinglv stretched, and alternative sources of
financing being available to the Government, the Bank strategy is focussing
less on resource transfer than on institution building and policy reform.
The ongoing policy dialogue includes such areas as improvements in
input/output pricing policies, increased beneficiary participation in the
operation and maintenance of Government's rural investments, and the
establishment of a sound institutional framework.
The First Two Projects
35.       The first project (Niete Rubber, Cr. 574-CM, US$16 million,
signed on July 30, 1975, cofinanced by a CCCE loan of US$4.4 million) ran
into financial difficulties due principally to: (i) the underestimation of
land clearing costs at the time of appraisal; (ii) the introduction of new



10 C
labor legislation requiring larger than expected investment for workers
housing; and (iii) difficulties over obtaining adequate supplies of seed
and budwood. Therefore despite a carry forward into the second phase, the
economic rate of return of the first phase was reestimated from 13.6% at
appraisal to 11.7% at completion of the first project.
36.       Implementation of the second project (Second HEVECAM Rubber, Cr.
965-CM, Ln 1791=CM, totalling US$31.5 million, sjigned on April 18, 1980,
cofinanced with a CCCE loan of US$19 million and a CDC loan of US$28.8
million) was fully satisfactory. With the increase in planting (9,821 ha
had been planted by July 1984, compared to 9,300 ha originally estimated),
the installation of two processing lines to starn: operation in 1984,
stabilization of the labor population (encouraged by the social
infrastructure program) and the expected time'y completion of the outgrower
program, the economic rate of return for the 15,000 ha program is projected
to be 16% compared with 111.7% estimated at appraisal. The project
experienced a cost overrun of about 17% in CFA franc terms due mainly to
higher than expected equipment prices, but achieved major cost savings in
US dollar terms due to the depreciation of the CFA franc against major
international currencies. This resulted in US$5.7 million from Loan
1791-CM being unspent at thea initial completion date (June 30, 1984).
Since the start-up of the thlird project has been postponed by six months to
January 1985, the Bank agreed, at Government request, to finance out of
Loan 1791-CM the continuation of HEVECAM's program during this transition
period.  Any funds under Loan 1791CM unconmittedi as of the signing of the
Loan Agreement for the third project would be cancelled.
Project Rationale
37.       At the time of HEVECA-1,'s establishment in 1975, the Government
declared two objectives: W) to creat:e a 15,000 ha rubber production
plantation in three phases, tCo which the donors pledged their support; and
(ii) to promote the economic development of the Niete region.  Following
successful completion of the plantation ob,ectives during the first two
phases, the main goal of the third phase is to bring HEVECAM to the
commercial production stage   At this crucial stage in HEVECAM development
and in view of its good performance under the first two projects, continued
support by the Bank (as well as the other donors) is required to help
the company reach maturity and the Government fully reap the benefits of
past investments. The proposed project aims at making HEVECAM an efficient
and successful producer of rubber for world markets and at the same time a
model for the other companies in the plantaition subsector. In the process,
the project would contribute to foster the development of the region by
creating jobs and establishing a bas-ic infrastructure network (para 54).
PA fRT IV * THE 'PROJECT
38.       The principal objective of the project would be to complete the
development of the planned 139000 ha of rubber with its associated



- 11 -
industrial and social infrastructure (including the expansion of the
outgrower program), and to begin commercial production. The project
preparation report was completed in March 1983. The project was appraised
jointly by CCCE, the Bank, CDC and EIB in September/October 1983, with CCCE
in the lead role. Negotiations were held in Washington on October 30 -
November 2, 1984. The Cameroonian delegation was led by Mr. Zoa Oloa
Secretary General of the Ministry of Plan. The main features of the
proposed project are highlighted in the Loan and Project summary,
supplemented by Annex III. Details of the proposed project are contained
in the Project Appraisal Report prepared by CCCE, of which an annotated
J1          English translation (including a Bank Addendum) is being circulated
separately.
Project Description
39.       To assist Government :Ln achieving its objectives with regard to
the HEVECAM rubber plantation, the project would:
(i) maintain during the pre-production period the rubber trees
planted under the first and second projects;
(ii) carry out the initial tapping of about 9,400 ha in addition
to the 1,000 ha already being tapped;
(iii) construct esatate buildings and social infrastructure for
workers;
(iv)  expand crumb rubber processing facilities, bringing total.
capacity to 64 tons/day of latex and 32 tons/day of lower
grade rubber;
(v) continue the field trials on rubber varieties, disease
control, tapping techniques and the trials on rubber drying,
necessary for the maintenance of production potential and
the improvement of rubber quality; and
(vi) continue to provide technical assistance to HEVECAM under
the recently renewed management contract and the proposed
marketing contract with SAFACAM, which include provision for
the training of Cameroonian staff at all levels of
responsibility.
In addition, to broaden the impact of the HEVECAM development, the project
would:
(i) expand the outgrower pilot program from 250 to 500 ha;
(ii) execute a pilot program of food crop production; and
(iii) initiate studies and trials of rubber in the areas of Kribi,
and the South and East Provinces.



- 1 ,2 -
40.       Technical Aspects.  By December 1984, about 15,000 ha will have
been planted. While about 60% of the area will have been planted with the
internationally proven clone, GTI, the emphasis in the last two years has
been on planting Indonesian and Malaysian cLones characterized by rapid
maturity and higher yield. High-density planting (555 trees per ha) would
maximize production during the early years of tapping, while the use of
yield stimulants (Ethrel) would both enhance yield and keep down labor
costs. Production is expected to comnence in year seven after planting,
with a yield of 800 kg of dry rubber per hectare rising to 2,250 kg at full
maturity, in about year 14.  Over an expected tapping life of 30 years,
this would give an average production of just under 2,000 kg per hectare
per year. These yields are being regularly achieved on well-managed
plantations in the Ivory Coast, and it is expected they will be reached by
EEVECAM.  The most important technical concerns are the root disease Fomes
and the young leave disease Gloeosporium. Adequate provision for
prevention and control has been made under the project and further research
into control techniques are included in the project research program.
Following an in-depth study on rubber-processing techniques, involving
consideration of capital and operating costs and of production and selling
prices, the factory is geared toward the production of crumb rubber.
41.       Outgrower Production.  Under the second project, a pilot program
was successfully implemented to develop 250 ha oi- village rubber
plantations, in line with Government policy emphasizing smallholders.
Establishment and maintenance of these young plantings are adequate. To
allow a more meaningful test of outgrower response, a further area of 250
ha would be developed under the third project. (Credit would be granted by
FONADER for 20 years with a 10 year grace period at an interest rate of
11.25%. Because Government and the Bank have not vet reached an agreement
on credit policy and because of the small size oE the credit component
(US$0.6 million), no external financing would be allocated to this
component. However, assurances were received at negotiations that: (i) by
June 30, 1985, HEVECAM would enter with FONADER into a credit adminis-
tration agreement, acceptable to the Bank, defining each party's
responsibilities; and (ii) the Government would make adequate funds
available to FONADER for financing outgrower credit under the program
(Sections 3.02 of the draft Loan Agreement and 2.02 of the draft Project
Agreement).
42.       Infrastructure.  The number of employees, presently 3,000, will
reach about 5,700 in 1988, when there will be a major increase in
production. The project would finance the construction of housing and the
provision of medical and social services for the additional employees. In
order to attract and retain labor, HEVECAM, located in an underpopulated
area, has provided workers with social amenities (housing, stores,
hospital). In addition, the Government has relied on HEVECAM for other
regional development infrastructure (roads, schools, police stations, post
office). As HEVECAM enters the commercial production phase, it is essential
to establish in its accounts a clear distinction between its productive
function and its regional development: funcltions, to specify the
responsibilities of HEVECAM in carrying oul: the public and social services
activities and to provide for their financing by Government. This would be



- 13 -
done through specific covenants of the financing agreement between
Government and HEVECAM, which is referred to in para 47. The Edea-Kribi
road, which is a key section in the export route to Douala, has recently
been upgraded to all-weather standards. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that Government would ensure regular maintenance of the
Edea-Kribi and the Kribi-N:iete roads (Section 4.03 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
43.       Organization and Management.  The on-going arrangement described
in para 30 has worked efficiently so far.  In order to adapt it to the
transition from plantation development to commercial production, Government
has submitted satisfactory draft amendments to the present management
contract between HEVECAM and SAF1ACAM to: (i) give SAFACAM responsibility
for marketing HEVECAM's rubber output; and (ii) as of 1987, when the
contract is renewed, link SAFACAM's remuneration to its performance.
Assurances were received at: negotiations that HEVECAM would: (i) continue
the present arrangement with SAFACAM, with the above amendments, at least
during execution of the project; (ii) consult with the co-financiers before
any termination, suspension, or amendment of the SAFACAM management and
marketing contracts; and (fii) employ, at all times, a General Manager, a
Deputy General Manager, a Technical Manager, a Financial and Administrative
Manager , an Industrial manager, and a Field Manager, all with qualifica-
tions and experience acceptable to the co-financiers (Sections 2.03 and
3.01(b)(i) of the draft Project Agreement). As part of the dialogue
initiated by the Bank with the Government on the overall management of the
parastatal plantation sector, Government gave assurances that, following
the review of the subsector strategy (para 27), it would submit to the
Bank, by December 1985, satisfactory proposals for the subsector's long
term organization and management, including a timetable for implementation
and, thereafter, would start the implementation of these proposals.
(Section 4.04 of the draft Loan Agreement.)
Staff Training and Development Programs
44.       On-the-job training of skilled labor and intermediate level staff
has proved effective and would continue, particularly to meet the new
requirement for tappers. Most local management recruits have a sound
academic background but lack the experience necessary for the efficient
operation of a large agro-industrial undertaking. HEVECAM, assisted by
SAFACAM, would continue to implement the training and development program
designed to meet the long-term needs of the company, including overseas
training visits to efficient rubber plantation enterprises in other
countries. To maintain HEVECAM's attractiveness as an employer, assurances
were obtained at negotiations that adequate incentives would be provided to
staff responsible for Project execution. (Section 3.01(b)(ii)) of the draft
Project Agreement.)
Project Costs
45.       Total project costs during the four-and-a-half year investment
period are estimated at US$83.7 million, including taxes and US$75.5
million without taxes. The foreign exchange component would be US$29.3



14 -
million or 35% of total project costs. This relatively low figure is due
to the substantial investments already made under the first and second
projects in heavy equipment, vehicles, and materials.  With the plantation
now entering the production phase, local operating costs are corresponding-
ly high in the third project. The cost estimates and financing plans
prepared by CCCE in early L984 have been accepted by Government, HEVECAM,
and the other donors. To retain consistency, the same cost base has been
used here. Adiustments to take account of exchange rate variations since
mid-1983, when project costs were estimated, could lead to savings in the
loan amount of about 5% which, if materialized, would be cancelled upon
project completion.
46.       Total physical and price contingencies amount to 47% of the base
cost and 32% of the total cost. Physical contingencies calculated at
various rates depending on the nature of the operations, average 4%. Price
increases since mid-1983 have been included in the contingencies; they have
been verified through November 1984 and fcund acceptable. Price contingen-
cies for local costs have been calculated at 15% p.a. and for foreign
costs, 7.5% for 1983/84 and 1984/85, 7% for 1985/86, and 6% for the last
three vears of the project. These price escalation factors follow
forecasts of future inflation in Cameroon for local costs and international
inflation for foreign supplied goods and services.
Financing Plan
47.       Total external financing would amount to US$43.7 million,
equivalent to 52% of project costs, the remainder being provided by
Government (US$29 million) and HEVECAM (U';$11.0 million). The Bank would
provide a loan of US$8.3 million (11% of t:he net-of-tax project costs,
including a capitalized front-end fee of about US$20,000) and the other
three external cofinanciers would each provide US$11.8 million (15.5% of
the net-of-tax project costs). The terms of the IBRD loan would be 20
years with a five-year grace period at the standard variable interest rate.
The terms of the other loans would be: CCCE, 20 years, 5-years grace, and
about 8.6% annual interest; EIB, 15 years, 5-years grace, and about 8%
annual interest; CDC, 20 years, 7-years grace, and 9% annual interest.  The
CCCE and EIB loans were approved in July 1984. All four external loans
would be made to Government and passed on to HEVECAM under a financing
agreement agreed upon in draft form at negotiations.  The CCCE, CDC and EIB
loans would be passed-on to HEVECAM at the rate charged to Government;
however, in line with Bank policy, Bank loan proceeds would be passed-on at
a rate incorporating a premium of one percentage point. The foreign
exchange risk would be borne by HEVECAM. SignaLture of the financing
agreement to be acceptable to the Bank, would be a condition of
effectiveness (Sections 3001(b) and 6.01(a) of the draft Loan Agreement).
All four loans would be linked by cross-effectiveness clauses (Section
6.01(b) of the draft Loan Agreemernt). Parallel financing totalling US$29.6
million would cover: technical assistance and purchase of light vehicles
and equipment (US$3.1 million, 100% CCCE); the cost of the factory (US$11.8
million, 100% EIB); indirect plantation labor costs (US$1.2 million, 100%
HEVECAM), and research and social operations (IJS$13.5 million, 100%
Government). Joint financing would be applied to the remainder of the



- 15 -
plantation development program l:otalling US$42.6 million, and would be
shared by the Bank (19%), (CCCE (20%), CDC (28%), HEVECAM (6%), and
Government (27%). Working capit:al amounting to US$11.5 million would be
provided by HEVECAM (63%) and Government (37%).
Procurement
48.       Items financed on a parallel basis (US$29.6 million) would be
procured according to each co-donor's own procurement guidelines (para 47).
Procurement for all other items would follow Bank guidelines. Contracts of
US$150,000 or more for vehicles, equipment, fertilizer would be awarded
through international competitive bidding (ICB). These purchases are
expected to total about US$4.9 million (of which Bank: US$0.8 million) and
would be grouped whenever possible to derive maximum benefits from bulk
procurement.  Contracts worth less than US$150,000 but more than US$50,000
would be awarded through local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures which
are acceptable to the Bank; such contracts are not expected to exceed
US$9.9 million (Bank: US$1.6 million). Because of the remote location of
the estate, civil works would be carried out by HEVECAM on force account
with a limited amount of local sub-contracting. Such works would amount to
about US$7.4 million (Bank: US$1.4 million). The remaining expenditures
(US$31.9 million) represent: contracts under US$50,000 (US$5.0 million, of
which Bank US$4.5 million) and local costs and working capital (US$26.9
million) not financed by the Bank (SAR Addendum, p. 4). For these
contracts, direct procurement on the basis of at least three quotations
would be allowed. (See table on page 16.)
Disbursement
49.       The Bank loan would finance 19% of the following cost categories:
civil works, vehicles and equipment, plantation development costs, and
management and administrative services. Disbursements for vehicles and
equipment would be fully documented. For all other categories, they would
be made against statements of expenditures verifiable from supporting
evidence, which would be made available during project supervision. It is
estimated that the Bank loan would be disbursed over about five years,
three years shorter than the Regionwide historical profile for the tree
crop subsector in West Africa. This shorter disbursement period is
realistic because of the lower probability of delays. First, HEVECAM is an
ongoing operation, not subject to the start-up delays experienced
elsewhere. Second, the planting program has been completed and the project
does not include maior investment items that could be delayed. And
finally, HEVECAM's disbursement department has an excellent track record in
preparing and processing disbursement applications.



- 16 -
Procurement Arrangements
(US$ 000)
Reserved
Procurement Element          ICB       LCB    Procurement   Other       Total
Civil Works                            500                  7,400 a!   7,900
(140)                (1,400)    (1,540)
Vehicles & Equipment       2,200       400       1,100 b/               3,700
(400)    (100)         (0)                    (500)
Plantation Development
Costs                    2,500    3,800       1,200 c/   7,800       15,300
(400)    (740)        (0)      (1,600)    (2,740)
Management & Administrative
Services                          3,500       2,000 d/  14,500       20,000
(650)        (0)     (2,850)    (3,500)
Factory                                         11,800 e/              11,5800
(0)                    (0)
Other Activities f/                             13,500                  13,500
(0)                     (0)
Working Capital              200    1,680          -         9,600 g/  11,480
(0)      (0)                     (0)         (0)
Total                      4,900    9,880        29,600    39,300      83,680
(800)  (1,630)         (0)    (5,850)    (8,280)
a/   Construction of workers' housing and service buildings would be mainly
carried out by HEVECAM on force account with a limited amount of local
sub-contracting. Past experience shows that such work is unlikely to
attract foreign bidders and suitable local contractors are not
available in the area. Civil works in Douala, however, would be
carried out through LCB (US$0.5 million).
b/   Light vehicles and equipment which have been specifically identified
in the agreed equipment list, would be financed by CCCE under its own
procurement guidelines.
c/   Indirect plantation labor costs, financed by HEVECAM.
d/   Technical Assistance from SAFACAM would be financed by CCCE.
e/   Factory construction, machinery and equipmaent would be financed by EIB
under its own procurement guidelines.
f/   Comprises experimentation and operations i-or Government's account
(social services, smallholder program, food crops and studies).
g/   Liquidity provided by Government and HEVECAM.



- 17 -
Accounts, Auditing, and Financial Management
50.       HEVECAM's accounting, financial and management system is
satisfactory. To maintain this favorable situation, a number of assurances
have been obtained at negotiations. The company would continue to submit
to the Government and the Bank quarterly reports and half yearly
inspections reports as well as its proposed annual operating and investment
budgets for review (Section 2.06(c) of the draft Project Agreement). As
under the first two projects, it would appoint independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank for the annual audit of its accounts (Section
4.02(a) of the draft Project Agreement). To ensure HEVECAM's continuing
sound financial management, its liquid assets would at all times have to be
kept at a level sufficient to cover its investment and operating
expenditures (including its tax liabilities for such period) for a
four-month period. In addition, HEVECAM would not, without the Bank's
consent, incur any new debt that would: (i) raise its debt/equity ratio
above 2.8 until 1992 and 2 thereafter; and (ii) increase its annual debt
service to more than half its projected annual revenues (Sections 4.02 of
the draft Loan Agreement and 4.03 of the draft Project Agreement.)
51.       Ideally, HEVECAMTs present tax exemption status should be
extended until 50% of the planted area reaches full production
(approximately in 1993). International agreements among the UDEAC
countries, and the national laws of Cameroon, however, preclude the
adaptation of tax arrangements to the long gestation period of a rubber
plantation. The Government has formally agreed to extend these tax
exemptions until the end of project execution (June 30, 1989). Thereafter,
and depending on HEVECAM's projected cash flow requirements, tax levies
would be either reimbursed ex post, or compensated by operating subsidies
or capital increases so as to maintain an acceptable level of liquidity
(para 50). To that effect, an understanding was reached at negotiations.
Financial Analysis
52.       The financial rate of return for the combined first, second, and
third HEVECAM projects would be just over 10%. These calculations are
based upon all (investment and operating) costs and benefits during the
34-year life of the 15,000 ha p:Lantation. If the costs of associated
activities in food crop product:ion and rubber experimentation are taken
into account, the firancial rate of return would be just over 9%. For cash
flow analysis purposes, costs and revenues have been computed in current
terms until FY88-89, and in conStant terms thereafter. HEVECAM's
productivity (yield kg/ha) will slowly increase during the first ten years
of production during which profits will be negative (FY83-84 to FY88-89) or
slightly positive (FY89-90 to FY93-94). Up to that time, HEVECAM will have
to be granted special tax arrangements (para 51). But thereafter, at full
production, over 24 years (1995 until 2018), HEVECAM's self-generated funds
would reach a yearlv average of US$33.0 million, enough to fully cover
taxes (US$16.0 million p.a.), renewal of investments (US$3.0 million p.a.),
and debt service (principal, TJS$4.0 p.a.), leaving an available balance of
US$10.0 million p.a. for dividend distribution or new planting investments.



- 18 -
Market and Prices
53.       Production from the 15,00() ha p:Lanted under the three projects
would reach a maximum of about 33,000 tons around 1997, all to be exported.
From 1950 to 1979, world consumption of natural and synthetic rubber
increased from 2.4 million to 12.2 million tons in 1983. During that
period, the share of natural rubber decreased from 67% to approximately 32%
of the total (3.9 million tons). Bank forecasts indicate a steady growth
in elastomer demand to about 21 milLion tons in the year 2000 and relative
stabilitv in the proportion of natural rubber. Assuming a share for natural
rubber of 30%, the annual demand for natural rubber would therefore be some
6.3 million tons around the year 2000, an increase of 2.4 million tons
(61%) over present production. Provided that HEVECAM rubber remains
competitive, there should be no problem in marketing the relatively minor
annual production of 30,000 tons. Because HEVECAM production and unknown
quality could lead to initial markel: caut:ion, a 10% quality discount on the
price has been prudently assumed for the five-year project implementation
period of the project. It is expected that the average price obtained over
the remaining exploitation period would be the world price, which is
projected by the Bank to slowly increase i-rom its present level of
US$1.1/kg, in constant terms, to US'$1.43 in 1995.
Project Benefits and Risks
54.       The project would continue to be a focal point for the economic
development of the Kribi region. Development of this sparsely populated
forest area is heavily based upon the expansion of industrial scale
plantation agriculture. In this region, ithe depleted, logged-over forest
of little economic value would eventually be replaced by perennial tree
crops, principally rubber and oil palm, pLanted under the HEVECAM and
SOCAPALM projects. The expansion o:F rubber prcduction would reduce
Cameroon's heavy dependence on cocoa and coffee for its agricultural export
earnings.  The continuation of the pilot outgrcwer program, the studies for
wider rubber development in the country and the production-oriented
experimental program under the project, are important forerunners of an
expanded national rubber program in the future. At maturity, the HEVECAM
development would provide full-time employment for almost 6,000 workers.
Ancillary employment opportunities, created by the existence of this large
industrial complex, would also make a contribution to the future
development and economic prosperity of the region.
55.       The economic rate of return for the three projects combined
(excluding the costs of social services, food crop and research programs)
is estimated at about 16%. Completion of the 15,000 ha estate would
provide an economically sound investment that could withstand considerable
increases in costs or shortfalls in benefits while remaining viable. A
sensitivity analysis shows that costs would have to increase by 24% or
benefits drop by 19% for the rates of return to decline to 12%, which is
the estimated opportunity cost of capital in CaLmeroon. The economic rate
of return of the pilot outgrower program is 15%.



- 19 -
56.       Until recently, the supply of adequate labor was a problem.  This
has been resolved through the provision of appropriate incentives and
amenities, and prospective laborers now actively apply for work on the
plantation. The major risk is that following the transition from the
development to the exploitation stage, HEVECAM becomes beset with
inefficiencies encountered by other parastatal plantation companies in
Cameroon.  The SAFACAM management contract is considered an adequate
safeguard, provided the operating environment remains reasonably free from
political pressures. For the longer term, the ongoing dialogue between
Government and the Bank on the rehabilitation of parastatals and on the
scope for increasing the role of the private sector in the management of
these companies is expected to result in the continued efficient operation
of HEVECAM and an improvement in the management of the subsector. The
principal agricultual risk would be the Fomes and Gloeosporium diseases.
Control techniques for both diseases in the susceptible young plantations
have been developed in cooperation with IRCA. The precautions incorporated
in the project design are considered adequate to attain the estimated
yields and to cover reasonable price, exchange, and financing risks.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
57.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Cameroon and the
Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and HEVECAM, and the
Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the
Articles of Agreement, are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
58.       Special conditions of the Project are referred to in this report
and in Annex III. Special conditions of effectiveness would be: (i)
signature of an acceptable financing agreement between Government and
HEVECAM; and (ii) fulfillment of conditions precedent to disbursements of
the loans made by CCCE, CDC and EIB (Section 6.01 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
59.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.



- 20 -
PART VI - RECOMM-ANDATIONS
60.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
A.W. Claussen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
December 19, 1984



- 21-                                                           ANNEX I
TA BL E  3A                                        Page  1  of  7
CAMEROON                   - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
CAMEROON                                  REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                  (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
RECENT         MIDDLE INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
1960/b        1970/b    ESTIMATE/b   AFRICA S. OF SAHARA    N. AFRICA & MID EAST
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. RM)
TOTAL                                    475.4           475.4          475.4
AGRICULTURAL                             143.9           142.8          152.4
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                         160.0          260.0          890.0           1112.9                       1149.6
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF OIL EQUIVALENT)             61.0            84.0          122.0            529.0                        622.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATIUN,MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)         5332.0          6506.0         9266.0
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)              13.9           20.3           37.3             29.7                         48.2
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILL)                                         17.2
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                                           64.8
POPULATION MOMENTUM                                                     1.9
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                             11.2            13.7           18.9             55.8                         36.3
PER SQ. KM. AGRI. LAND                  37.0            45.6           58.9           111.5                         461.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (X)
0-14 YRS                               38.9            40.5          41.4             45.4                          43.6
15-64 YRS                               57.0            55.5          54.3             51.7                          53.1
65 AND ABOVE                             4.1             4.1            4.4             2.9                           3.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                    1.5             2.0            2.9              2.8                          2.8
URBAN                                    5.0             5.8            8.0              5.2                          4.5
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)              38.2            43.0           46.3             47.0                         40.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)              21.2            18.5           14.7             15.2                         11.5
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                    2.4             2.8            2.8              3.2                          2.8
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUS)                  ..
USERS (Z OF MARRIED WOMEN)                 ..             ..            2.0 Ic            ,,                         22.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71=100)                             89.0           101.0          102.0             91.6                         97.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (X OF REQUIREMENTS)            97.0            97.0         102.0             98.2                         110.8
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)                52.0            55.0          58.0              56.7                         70.1
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE             12.0            15.0          16.0 /d          17.0                          17.8
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE               28.0            23.0           16.0             18.7                         14.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)             43.0            47.5           53.3             51.7                         57.5
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER THOUS)            134.0           117.0           92.0           102.7                         101.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (%POP)
TOTAL                                      ..             ..           26.0 /e          35.6                         59.7
URBAN                                      ..             ..           35.0 7e         54.1                          84.5
RURAL                                      ..             ..           22.0 7eh         27.3                         38.4
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(% OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                      ..             ..
URBAN                                      ..             ..
RURAL                                      ..             ..
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN               45230.0         28920.0       13990.0 /f       11948.3                        4345.1
POP. PER NURSING PERSON                 3080.0 /gh   2610.0            1950.0 7        2248.9                        1831.1
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                  500.0           540.0 /i       370.0 /d        986.9                         632.9
URBAN                                  480.0 /g,h    300.0 7         200.o 7          368.7                         545.5
RURAL                                  500.0 /g,h    650.0 11         610.0 Id       4012.1                        2513.5
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED                  ..             ..             ..               ..                         26.2
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                      .               ..           5.2 /e
URBAN                                      ..             ..            5.1 7..
RURAL                                      .               ..           5.2 7I
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                                      .              ..             ..
URBAN                                      ..             ..             ..
RURAL                                      .               ..            ..
ACCESS TO ELECT. (Z OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                      ..             ..            6.7 Ie            ..                         46.2
URBAN                                      ..             ..           22.6Th             ..                         77.7
RURAL                                      ..             ..            0.5 Ie            ..                         16.1



- 22 -                                                    ANNEX I
TA BlIE  3A
Pa'ze 2 of 7
CAMRROON                 - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
CAMEROON                                 REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /
MOST                  (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
RECENT        MIDDLE INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1960Lb       1970L    ESTIMATE/b   AFRICA S. OF SAHARA    N. AFRICA & MID EAST
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED) ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIDMRY:   TOTAL                       65.0           91.0        107.0             91.0                         88.3
MALE                       87.0          106.(        117.0             90.5                        102.5
FEMALE                     43.0           77.0         97.0             73.6                         73.6
SECONDARY: TOTAL                        2.0            8.0         19.0             17.4                        43.0
MALE                        4.0           11.0         25.0              23.7                        52.3
FEMALE                      1.0            4.0         13.0              14.8                        33.0
VOCATIONAL (% OF SECONDARY)              23.0           22.8         26.9 LL           5.3                         10.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRLMARY                                  ..           48.0)        52.0 If          38.6                        30.3
SECONDARY                                ,,           21.0         25.0 77          24.3                        23.1
ADULT LITERACY RATE (%)                  18.9 /h        12.0         40.5 /e          35.6                         43.5
CONSIMPTION
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP               1.8            5,1          9.0 /C          20.7                         17.8
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP              1.9           32.6         87.3            100.8                        138.8
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP                  ..             ..           ..              18.5                        46.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION                 1.3            2.6          3.3 If          17.2                         31.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA           0.1            0.9 /i        *-              0.3                          1.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)              2728,0         3165.0       4173.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                       43.0           42.7         4:..2            33.8                         10.8
AGRICULT1URE (PERCENT)                 87.0           85.0         83.0             57.1                        42.4
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                      5.0            6.0         ;'.0             17.4                        27.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                  51.2           48.7         45.0             36.3                         26.2
MALE                                   59.9           57.0         53.8             47.6                         46.4
FEMALE                                 42.9           40.6         3t.5             25.1                          5.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 0.8            0.9          1.0               1.4                         1.8
INC(RKE DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5% OF HOUSEHOLDS                 ..             ..
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS                ..             ..
LOWEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS                 ..             ..
LOWEST 40% OF HOUSEHOLDS                 ..             ..
POVERTY TARGET GROIUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                    ..             ..        238.0 /c         525.3                       274.8
RURAL                                    ..             ..        105.0 7W         249,0                       177.2
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                    .              ..           ..            477.4                       402.6
RURAL                                    ..             ..           ..            186.0                       284.9
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (%)
URBAN                                   ..              ..         15.0 /c
RURAL                                    ..             ..         40.0 7/c
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N C, T E
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uiniform,
/b   Unless otherwise noted, "Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and data for "Most Recent Estimate" between 1980 and 1982.
/c   1978; /d 1977; /e 1976; /f 1979; /R Including ex-South Cameroon under British administration; /h 1962; /i 1968;
/j 1972.
JUNE 1984



- 23-                                      .ANNEX I
Page 3 of 7
tItFItitITSO Of SOIl~ tttiCJCTORS
Aore    fftoogh fit  data art drao  tots sooros  goraraltp )udgsd rtha soar sahtttt   n    eIb                     I,I   to         tth   oedl.    t       hats,a sayto  haftest al
ro.srbts b-r-c  of fislr   fesdadtdifnoo.   and okcpts oss   by different  .o..tr.s  totitrtron   data.  lTs data ar, othl-.s. asfol ft
de...ribs oresOf eagltdo, todit.ts trends,tr   icretre   rar-i  aaJor diff-r -ta   hosnrootras
lbs rfersoo  arofo ae  Illtitaace  rttorSgrou  o rIta  -bja-  to-to  and C2) * rontty gro,op  1 ith sossba  hittfrs    sr                   I-n    fits  at.   asty 27      e   of tlb.
sabj.tttooofty (so.pt for -toigh Inro.o  I              . fo ...es  group aior  'Middlo  terts  forth Aflft  And MLtddla Seat  1a  h-.os  her-s  of et                Xto    etrntaP
II- Total orfao-  are   -osyrtoto  too0 eoaad   ad                  atr;INC,                             piytitoqotfe    re   saftflettola  otraeO                             en.-I
1870 aod tgot  df a..                                                                                    yeocronpo  Norit  Prao    PtProtatio  dlirds   by oashsr ofprrlt
:971 an ~ ~ ~ ~         ~         ~        ~         ~        ~         ~        ~       ~        . d   Ito   c.  te ttnarO-t ad-ttl   rtt  toM r-ra   - PoslstooItat
urts,  n  rra}itlddby rhoir rspotta  oeo   of hspLIlttbd
INMP Pt! CAPIT,A C,            t   o    aIt   sioc    torrr               ia    rcs                              ar-ttabta  tot poblio  td prtosre goSr-lco  spootoLias  haptel1 and
'ZTl :ri   L ss   corr .r oitod asWorld rutk Attn  (19n0-82 b.itss;                                   rsitbl!  iittctto     raIsr.   Ostasresulsospettol    tffsd
lO6t, 1970, cr4  lif2 dot,.                                                                                   by  tlarto.hcoa.fohttstcjrrdo    rorct   otdo
trttf  CCttiUWTION PER CAITA -    -olafro    octptoo                          ooo                                aedIhtsrr    t   osort    tfadb       hsra    btb       oia
prisat   soary  Cr0.  and  tintfa   rorrtets,   etoro   ga   o                                   -r-    trsrseea    toso   sdofa   et-.bI sithf  ffs  re-orieso  aortdottoo _and
Total Poroli-on   Wtd-PeaFr0_(tosode)   do oF J-1y I; lO6t, lilt, nod I ff2                               fit
trita  Po... -ton  Croato   otl--ai   f  oortrlpooatfl                                                                 Sitosit.   roIif  aoatro   of.bld...   - otfat  Ototr hob    qaeter
diffsstot   effoitone        rotr ares-es  afoc  otepotitotyofdr a-od oAiret h                                     soals.       A boade  or lo2dge  sp  r  opto   h  t-        lde t
ssoogooftias;   ihI,li    .. ao   ltl   ca.rtelorehl  fr   tottto    ar'es
portato  PooottotArror  ushr1f  aror  fo-rtstoal o2e' cd  url cergenoho
total PoPuIarioo  by oo cod eeood thetc  oottltty eodfetlit                                             dIlf     o,Oeetotr                 slosatdoopeenoerro                                n
ros.    Proj-rir   Peroor   o    coliytrooate  of otra.                                                  rororpied .et....I    ,
ceoOodotlos. to fst,tilty, arcordiIt   toIo               _1otcd Ira  fo
rats-to  slotooorf         C. rsood c-iltyi.d r       Iosso    plerelloti-I-...                      A pr.iecr   irto-g           ooolt;traifiros    ild                          tdhI
,tarrodttlo    rat .i          . Ireurt    rootct-o  ole it..rt. roEts.. ttooorcr                            ror   o    dotdfr   tfrrdeo                       f  rsr    droo  for
greet   rot IsOt.Th.frorlota.ry Pootott  lt 1-srers   o   he                                               stor   e       -o urlo  are heo  or  bhet  theI  ffItota   solol  oa
lcee  of the 0ro)ectd  hr..r.sotrltira  ofole po            IcIo It ..l y.a.                             tscoodaryo-ho -ooi  sle an  feat   - Cosp-dsiaeho-;ssodr
lOll. soritlerats  oldeclIrsoffattltorreoolaoottIt                                                 ooator0trettator    rreoaprfiotartsr.rbt
2000,ood    hIo flee  fla   rorloroo-lclIrrllt    la   lot-c-or Ir- or                                      Irooel    f0  00t  ysa00e                        crep....       e oroa   r
te, efeofoaroltet  roororctioort_leJ"erlednir.  rot                                             fenerollfoIoorudafd..                                               -.1     E
fosulo       ... Oooctt                                                                               rttI_otIend.sopoderI lialaIIorded  If oIheSI              00 IsariaI   If th
Per oo. As. -MId-year popoootro  per atore hlloeroso110    stra   of-                       oorsodld,          _srote
Pehs.  it...   I-t fsrlrttor lit'ood       -tto td so ah"oos  to  oriofoo   lood                          a  forsoag    oftftaol   orltoros                        yar   o    ro
001  98f0   dllt eot1991ldato.
Poolto   a    trruopocr  C-fldo    tCotoo     o't:iatCI                                                   O i         :TftdrrrCoi.dH .
orotlot;   1960, 1970, aod lift  data,                                                                   rard     as  otls   Ie    ih   proe   eotdos,  asioit.te.,-  heres  atii
-  ro.ttrbot  tt    Iror dntC -    totl-Anolgot  ree o                             -orlod-                     P` l   -8trcryoslllclea... I..
.er. ootI,    ofr;90-i1960-l,sd 9,-1                                                                    ti1970trr  trtioosd  ordooo       AlIIceo rdfor  frrai
6otoytaftof   for 09t-I, 1910-70, urd  Jl-C                         Iflrcidryetotrre  t th;                                                 of2  rto sod i. ff.r  ois  rgstato    f  s
foor foti tlo;   lift,  lil,   q. ho 99    af.tooortlolfd   teolo
poptror ..k..   97,cd 90doe.                                                                             got`ost9poltto  per tho..aodAlltltot   r    to ds  oloIfe               It ossleer
ho    oetopooto    otdifoetotto                              rat    r-yoil                                oser   toltltCotItoeotoittol-Oo   t                                      Iterg
P., llrraooreil    fooyer  of-io   odhiIt197,lit   ord                                                       blrdoolrtoo  of  daIly.. gotrtOIfrs              o paprldfte             I- aprtta
987                                                                                                        rotlloso19tot .d  9782  '   _:   _iore   ptrIoy  to roding  gs.a..  teM ,   to Istfadsre
faotloPia htt         ...Adtort   ... I IIlClor bodl-AtrP-rtho--d Ifriot-trttti                                               dortddtltItftt.tr..... leoetforbloaesoth
oflrl-oorod 1too9doarplsefooodlttIyyoott                                                        Orotlrol rotlre   orarooroOsr-osdoi-teh-o
t,    I:I~~~~p_  t~~~..  Id) - -.   1 d~loheo  aod;d.loPthe ehr....odtn ddIsfttedt  d-ts-t   oto..s
fcooyrettAo-oea   ovooo   tsorIIItn-   obonoi   or-tld                                                          rllools
I.... 0000--y., -ft- dl n                                                                                     to960era9tle;dlIft dlfty  ood IfOI  defo.
bitt  tf fod   .ro Ittlt dto     bol. ICiii-l-t)    - tndo         y ofptoptaP-asisoot      f                                            Color fo -t or ferttd of  hot.  -tao   fore
aonrot. rodttno  olfn   ondklt.rdttootrotolo                                                              atorusCeco) .Iadlor t              tort   Orfdl    tog     foery dIottogi  cod
toe    rdI  0   aloor 0  ha2o-to    Ooolttraoi                o   rrP..y.     ood .  og.flitIo0   etoaeo   oa   ao   ot;11,17   n    91dt
hard- 00tottg     urrfetodot  ro   ortlto    ff-it, 170I                     er   it-                      aod libt  daE.--    t-ad)-E1tIl-.i
doto.                                                                                           rarotrlrettoo. d&  I   lat  IroroorCd   total  sol,  sod- fesotsrttiaoo r
do.t.  lotIsho nTI rttorlrdse1960tttt,opr,lot16,190   o   lit:   .dto   ton9                                                                          r   has2o Od.sotlptorreo
erood os  ooF.d  tld--iPs     Cpotot .to  toy19o6           oo9ool  ed   te',otett1oeeeor100                                                    o   I  pplalt  aod-      I loop fOes trend.
qoontlotet~~~~~~~~~~                        ~~~~~~~~ rodtboo    ototo,silootthtt-ttoo  tOO-  eeteoa    0   ot   atot   to
cr1cn do  otsot  1                   di,tAt   -aod0  rytoo lto Ired   for1 t Ido                    Itont    oooeo  fto-   ot  o   ooro   odr05sd60adotrt
lo-    oloi~ -oel 1-d-it   Ottan           _190     .at.  __1OCt90 rli_ro                                                        ..Il.f1IrrIf_of90,190m I:"Idl
rotgo-rltoffodredy    hietthriyoItfols lodl                                oor -I   ..to-                   psroeoo,tttleat)  lb.frrr, E. ooted -tO  trrnt   odorrrAf                     eeto
qutroatofefor ol rororIs   eolllPt   pr Otd  .r...d   fo  st.....                                                   --loroololgla                         ..t1 b,  .--
ofanealtro tIoioo   drrai            _otoordtrooolflitooordeloopeattlredrhltolo
ThrdOolirod   orly   lfIit,   il  od  i"  dte                                                      te--te    ittit  Po-t OooI so IdnoJ; 11Sf re . Itero -1 toetsn  rra
Per eott  rooolo  rtol   fot  tta   aol o Pest  P:rlortl6f od                                           holo Ioooertt  ooobTel te                     -ds irs   tooo ILO be p ehltrlatotss
deirdSonotel   oodrbet  toOfOOls   let  1961ks,   ittd   lit                                                  fotttoL  tod ad9ot1 dito    l.550  a    o-fo.eoososI   o
fit .dl dia   -A    frt d Mote . Coo dto_ocd I.. dooit letotooooao                                   sittdOloo  fooi__e_Lol19   rooool-uhe   n   ua
::i0t00011fas   ooh  ot    nti                    d   Otc   "   atIoto                                      More  Otl -to         tor iro  -oos  tetet le ot -old-o sooan  too 65   dtat
totnor  .  .oorito  too  100       g rlor -an     ,) Anorldotto  of      l Ieto Po dot-000
eooo   ate  or ohotoodtloo Irtply; 1910,  il  ro df 199  dat.,b    .E                                           IIlI    _:!   ..       0p                -       dp..       0       -t.
Acet  foe   co MIro-on   oftblIhlty)-Ooe   o_itn    androrol-
tootaoooo   uf I  tortdoreh  at h lof      t ttloroso      acen  of tort                                                                .    P
rhodaytofeOhtf Oe  etrlI           tttor nooydofdtb.-P.1Y 1.                                                                         a    .2w.                              i
- oobooof  eoto  Ctorl, rps,   so ..d)  -r      -It d.oored pI ato  -dtntIe doepooitat                                                                                    I..Id-11
of 0110o_lotoeoooatto       tortod ao__tohbrld
oletlletOo   oo  dirtti,_ttIor  :tloo  ttPror..or.o-,It,et
aod tste-tterto oOor-ooootyatso 9o th   oat ofI   ptle  ard



24
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 7
Pcpulation:        9.3 million  (mid-1983)
GDP per Capita:   US$880  -  (1982)
UJITFD REPU!LIC Oi' CAKERODN
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
(Killiona US$ at current prices)
Calendar Years
1975   1976   1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982
FXTw.RRL PUBLTC A.D PUBLICLY
GUAR-':1BZD BCUCII;G ANiD DEBT a/
Crosn disbursements
Official granta                               20      24      23      11    18      a.a.   n'.a.   n.a.
concensional loans                            49      56     123    135   178    133    127         86
DAC                                        17     32       40      53    83      70     68       51
OPZC                                        6      3       13       6    20      24      2        1
IDl                                        16     18       21     19    20       19     32       32
Other                                      10      3       49     57    54       20     24       2
Xon-concessienal loans                        77    122      183    171   344    433    234         95
Official export credits                     1      7       19      12    75     82    102        21
ILlD                                       17      8       15     35    27      24      14       17
Otbqr multilateral                          4      1        3     21    11       18     14       10
Private                                     6    105      146    104   232    309    104         47
kxtornal Debt
Dsbt outstaading and disbursed               372    51t      824   1136  1636   1999   2021        1912
Official                                  293   '345      510    725  101t   11B8   1294        1310
of which: IB8D                         50      57       72    102   1[30    152    167       182
I DA                        50      68       88   C10S   127    146    173        204
Private                                    79    168      314    411   618    811    727        602
Undisbursed debt                             321    496      544    787  1072    612    544        680
Debt Service
Total service payments                        36      39      57    104   133    183    200        264
Interest                                   15     19       28     42    60    103    115        121
Peyments as % of exports b/                   5.8    5.6      6.8    8.4   9.2    9.3    8.6   11.6 cl
Average intereat rate on now loans (S)          4.5    6.3      5.6    6.8   9.2    6.0    6.4    9.2
Official                              2.5    3.9 ,   4.6    4.3   6.4    4.9    5.1         9.2
Private                               9.2    7.6      7.5   10.3  12.5   16.4    9.3    8.5
lverrge maturity of new loans (years)          25.5   17.0    17.6   21.5  16.2   24.9   20.9    18.4
Official                                     32.0   32.5    23.0   28.9  21.0   26.6   26.3    19.3
Privat                                       10.1    9.0      6.9   11.1  10.6    8.3    8.5       9.0
As   of Debt Outatsding
at E-d of l'ost Receint
Yedr (1983)
Naturity structure of doubt outstanding
flaturities due within  5 years                        35.7
Kturities due withln 10 Tears                          63.3
Interest ctructure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                           4.2
a! In-period or end-of-period figures are shown
bi Export data on fiscal year basis
e/  Rise in debt service ratio partly reflects decline in the value of the French .Franc via-e-via the US dollar wbich
depresses Crnerooa'a export earnings expressed in US dollars.



- 25 -
UNITED RPUBLIC OF ClYEROOf                                   AWTEX I
ECONOMIC INDICATORS(D) /a                                    Page 5 of 7
1971     1972      1973      1974      1975      1976      1977      1978      1979      1910      1981      1982
NATIONAL ACCOWTS
(IN CURRENT CFAF BILLIONS)
SDW  at Market Prices              321.3    355.9    400.5    492.6    579.9         6S7.2    789.8    966.1  1,131.7  1,365.4  1,744.0  2,155.8
Gross Domestic Savinrs              46.2      45.3    .59.6    115,3       103.8    101.1    162.6    278.6    271.3    359.4    576.2    723.3
Gross National Savinss              46.2      47.5      62.4    116.8       90.4      91.4    154.7    267.7    254.1    336.2    525.5    643.3
Current ccount Balanre 7b            0.0    -30.1      -31.4      12.7    -30.2    -31,1    -26.4         28.1    -18.6       40.0      45.0    114.1
Exports of Goods and NFS             0.0      73.7      89.7    137.9    145.6    150.5    202.6    296.1    308.8    449.9    549.9    715.8
Imports of Goods and WFS             0.0    -97.3   -114.4   -111.3   -162.5   -171.1   -221.8   -256.3   -310.1   -386.4   -462.1   -531.2
(As Z of GWD at Market Price)
GD at sarket Prices                100.0    100.0    100,0       100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100,0    100.0
Gross Domestic Savings              14.4      12.7      14.9      23.4      17.9      15,4      20.6      28.8      24.0      26.3      33.0      33.6
Gross National Savinss              14.4      13.3      15.6      23.7      15.6      13.9      19.6      27,7      22.5      24.6      30.1      29.8
Current Account blance               0.0      -8.5      -7.8       2.6      -5.2      -4.7      -3.3       2.9      -1.6       2.9       2.6       5.3
Exports of Goods and WFS             0.0      20.7      22.4      28.0      25.1      22,9      25.7      30,6      27.3      33.0      31.5      33,2
Isports of Goods and WFS             0.0    -27.3    -28.6    -22.6    -28.0    -26.0    -28.1    -26.5    -27.4    -28.3    -26.5    -24.6
(hnnual Real Rates of Growth)
GDP at Market Prices                 8.2       4.0       4.1       9.2      -1.9       2.4       9.9      10.6       4.S       7.2      10.3       4.9
GROSS VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR
(In Current CFAF Millions)
Agriculture incl.Livestock etc      97.7     111.7    126.7    154.7    193.7    220.8    259.7    305.3    359.2    404.4    488.1    586.7
Mlining                              2.1       0.8       1.2       1.8       2.3       2.0       3.2       5.2      19.5      61.8    154.5    259.5
tmuacturins                         35.2      38.3      40.4      45.6      56.2      67.5      74.7      86.7    101.9    123.0    171.7    241.7
Construction                        12.0      13.7      15.9      19.4      21.6      28.6      42.2      40.7      68.0      84.4    103.3    125.0
Electricity, Gast Water              4.8       4.8       4.8       5.3       5.7       6.7      10.1      11.0      14.3      16.8      14.2      15.0
Transport an  Communicatims         21.2      26.4      31.9      40.1      49,3      55.1      57.7      75,6      77.6      90.0    103.6    119.3
Trade                               70.0      77.3      81.0      89.1      93.9    107.1    126.9    154.6    163.5    202.3    232.3    249.3
Public Administration               32.5      32.6      33.0      34.4      43.6      45.1      56.3      74.3      84.3    100.1    110.3    135,3
Other Services                      33.4      37.6      51.9      84.7      85.3      91.4    115.8    141.9    159.0    206.1    263.4    298.6
Import Duties                       12.4      12.7      13.7      18.5      28.3      32,9      43.1      70.8      64.4      76.5    102.6    126.4
(As I of Total)
Agriculture incl.Livestock etc      30.4      31.4      31.6      31.4      33.4      33.6      32.9      31.6      31.7      29.6      28.0      27.2
Mining                               0.7       0.2       0.3       0.4       0.4       0,3       0.4       0.5       1.7       4.5       8.9      12.0
lanufacturing                       11.0      10.8      10.1       9.3       9.7      10.3       9.5       9.0       9.0       9.0       9.8      11.2
Construction                         3.7       3.8       4.0       3.9       3.7       4.4       5.3       4.2       6.0       6.2       5.9       5.8
Electricity, Gas and Water           1.5       1.3       1.2       1.1       1.0       1.0       1.3       1.1       1.3       1.2       0.8       0.7
Tramnort and Cowinications           6.6       7.4       8.0       8.1       8.5       8.4       7.3       7.8       6.9       6.6       5.9       5.5
Trade                               21.8      21.7      20.2      17.9      16.2      16.3      16.1      16.0      16.2      14.8      13.3      11.6
Public Administration               10.1       9.2       8.2       7.0       7.5       6.9       7.1       7.7       7.4       7.3       6.3       6.3
Other Services                      10.4      10.6      13.0      17.2      14.7      13.9      14.7      14.7      14.0      15.1      15.1      13.9
Import Duties                        3.9       3.6       3.4       3.8       4.9       5.0       5.5       7.3       5.7       5.6       5.9       5.9
US 61.00= CFAF                     277.7    264.8    241.0    230.1    222.4    225.1    247.8    238.6    216.6    209.2    235.3    296.7
(Period Awrage)
SOUCE:Caeroonian authorities. Ban staff estimates,
/a Fiscal Year (July 1- June 30) is used with End Year shown in the table,
/b Data on current account balance come from the Ministrs
of Finrance BP data.
NEST FRICA CP2B
09/10/84



- 26 -
UNITED REPUJ.IC OF CAIEROON                             ANNEX  I
ECONOMIC INDICATORS(2)                               Page  6 of 7
1973      1974      1975      1976      1977      1978       1979      1980      1981      19B2      1983
GOERNMENT FINANCE SUMMARY /a /c
(In CFAF Billions)
Current receipts                         53,1      62.1       78.9      99.6    121,1      164.1    152.2    210.6    279.3         348.9       N.A
Current Expenditure                      50.6      58.6       73.4      77.7      95.9    124,4      133.9      151.7     223.6    256.4        N.A
Current surplus                           2,5       3.5        5.5      21.9      25.2      39.7      18.3      58.9       55.7      92.5       N.A
Capital Expenditure                       9.6      10.2       28.?      44.9      46.8      48.8      55.1       73.2    153.9      189.1       N.A
External Borroins (Net)                   0.9       0.5        7.8       9.3    -19.4        0.2      -5.2       30.7      27.7      18.3       N.A
(As Percentage of GDP)
Current Receipts                         13.3      12.6       13.6      15.2      15.3      17.0      13.4      15.4       16.0      16.2       N.A
Current Expenditure                      12.6      11.9       12.7      11.8      12.1      12.9      11.8       11.1      12.8      11,9       N.A
Current Surplus (or deficit)              0.6       0.7        0.9       3.3       3.2       4.1       1.6       4.3        3.2       4.3       N.A
Capital Expenditure                       2,4       2.1        5.0       6,8       5.9       5.1       4,9        5.4       8.8       8.8       N.A
External Borrowing (Net)                  0.2       0.1        1.3       1.4      -2.5       0.0      -0.5       2.2        1.6       0.8       N.A
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES /a
_____ ___ _____ _ _ _____
(In CFAF Millions-end Period)
_____________________ _____
Monei and Quasi-monei                  59,530    78,550    94,720   117,780   155.420   194,808   221,831   288391   362700   445,600   477,200
Bank Credit to Government               3,470     3,860     5,510      6.551     9,853    14,149    16,731    21,149    28.500    40,380   5.0760
Bank Credit to the Economy             60,760    78,930   101.510   119r970   169,740   236,502   297,918   361,647   479.400   603,59O   746,180
Government deposits with banks          5.060     7Y860      B,080    19Y500    30.400    42,430    59,930    73,320   126,180   153.700   195,430
Percentages or Index Nusbers
ftnEt t Ouasi-soneg as X of SGP /b       14.9      15.9       16.3      17.9      19.7      19.9      19.3       20.7      20.4      20.4     N.A
Yaounde Consumer Price Index /a
(1968=100)               124.8     143.3     168.5      185.0    206.8    237.4    259.1    279.1         306.6     346.9    393,8
Arwal Percentage Changes in:
Yaounde Consumer Price Index              7.3      14.3       17.6       9.8      11.8      14.8       9.1       7.7        9.9      13.1      13.5
Bank Credit to Government                 0.0      11.2       42.7      18.9      50.4      43.6      18.2      26.4       34.8      41.7      25.7
Bank Credit to the Economy                0,0      29.9       28.6      1B.2      41.5      39.3      26.0      21.4       32,6      25.9      23.6
Government deposits with banks           -6.6      55.3        2.8     141.3      55.9      39.6      41.2      22.3       72.1      21.8      27.2
SOURCE:Cameroonian authorities; Bank staff estimates.
la  Fiscal Year (Julg 1-June 30) is used. Year indicates the end year ror each
fiscal year.
/b 61P is for Fiscal Year.
/c Public finance figures for 1982 are from the budget.
WEST AFRICA CP2B
09/10/84



- 27 -
UNITED REBLIC OF CMEROON                              ANNEX  I
ECONOMIC INDICATORS(3)                             Page 7 of 7
1973      1974      1975      1976      1977      1978      1979      1980      1981      1982
- ----------- ----------- ------------ --------- -- --------_ -- -----__ ----- --__------- ----------- -- - --------- ----------- ------ - ----
BALANCE OF PAYPENTS
(IN MILLIONS CFAF)
Exports ot Goods and NFS                  89,700   137Y900   145,600   150,500   202,600   296,100   308,800   449,900   549P900   715,800
Imports of 6oods and NFS                -114,400  -111t300  -162,500  -171,100  -221,800  -256.300  -3109100  -386,400  -462,100  -531,200
Resource Ga  (deficit  -)               -24,700    26,600   -16,900   -204600   -19t200    39.800    -1,300    63S500    87,900   184,600
Interest Payents (net)                    -2,243    -5,835    -8,572   -10,196   -9s292   -13,319   -18,584   -21,883   -47,161   -57,019
Workers' Remittances                      -79333    -9,514    -7,606   -7,381    -6,709   -3,257   -1P691    -2,345         1,815      -405
Net Transfers                              2,857     1,503     2,848     7,103     8,761     4,858     3,011       692     2,537   -13,033
Balance of Current Accoumt               -31,420    12,753   -30,229   -31,074   -26,440    28,082   -18,564    40,023    44,991   114,142
Net Direct Foreign Investment             -1,804     3,487     5443      50718    1,503      3,091     9,755    14,165    29,214    29,160
Total Net Medium and Long-
Term Borrowing                          21,552     9,188    13,978    28,613    32,016    24,773    35,928   49,575    94,576   50,238
:Disbursements                       25,O71    13,749    20,988    36,458    43,093    51,5?5    58S180    65,704   149,060   131,886
:Amortization                       -3,519    -4,561    -7,010    -7,845   -11,078   -26,802   -22,252   -16,129   -54,485   -81,649
Trade Credit (net)                          -37      2,343     3,768     2,290    -3,532     2.991       610   -1,802   -10,871    30,461
Other Short Term Capital                     -54    -4,*51    -4,984   -1,200   -2,287    -2,789   -11,225   -7,204    -3M902    13,423
Other Capital n.e.i.                      -1.176     2,772    -3,?55    -5,677    -3.365    -1,828      -215      -569       919   -3,198
6ross Official International Reserves     11,196    20,522    11,116    11.706    13.798    25,358    18,235    41.279    12,989     8,527
Net Foreign ssets                          9,970    18,760     8,110     6,680      -160    14,890    -9,300    22,760    10,230   -28,150
IIE Vt.W  CFAF  (Period Avera*e)          241.0    230.1    222.4    225.1    247.8    238.6    216.6           209.2    235.3      296.7
SDR 1.00= CFAF  (Period Averawe)          272.1    277.5    271.4    263.4    286,3         286,1     277,6     272.2    294.5    337.2
SOURCE'Cameroonian authorities. 8ank staff estimates,
Fiscal Year (july-June) is used with end vear shown in table.
WEST FRICA CP2B
09/10/84



- 28 -                                     ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
THE SrATUS OF BANK GROUP aPERAIONS
IN THE UNITED REEUEhLC OF CAMEROCN
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of September 30, 1984)
Loan or
Credit                                                                    Amount (less cancellations)
Number       Year      Borrower         Purpose                       Bank          IDA        Undisbursed
UR ma 3iLln.
Twenty Credits and seventeen Loans have been                          167.94       195.72         -
ftOlly disbursed
1245T-CM      1976     Cameroon       Education III                   17.0                        2.87
673-CM       1977     Cameroon       Technical Assistance                          4.5          0.49
723-CM       1977     Cameroon       Rural Develop ent Fmad                         7.0          0.51
1494-CM       1977     Cameroom       Feeder Roads                     4.6                        2.81
15(01-CM      1977     Cameroon       CAMDEV II                       15.0                       0.52
776-CM       1978     Cameroon       Zapi East Integrated
Agriculture                                 8.5          2.18
784-CM       1978     Cameroon       Western Highlands
Rural Development                          13.0          0.05
1723-CM       1979     Cameroon       Hi&way IV                       3.0                        11.36
1734-CM       1979     Regifercam     Railway IV                      27.0                       14.24
1753-CM       1979     Cameroon       Second Water Supply             21.0                       15.24
1791-CM       1980     Cameroon       Hevecam II                      16.5                        6.20
1010-CM       1980     Camroon        Livestock II                                  16.0          9.42
1919-CM       1981     Cameroon       Northern Province
Rural Development             25.0                      22.16
1920-CM       1981     Cameroon       SmalL- and Medium-
Scale Enterprises II          15.0                      15.00
11-68M        1981     Cameroon       Technical Cooperation TI                      10.CO a/     7.49 b/
2G73-CM       1982     Cameroon       Post and Telecomminica-
tion Assistance                7.50                      5.49
2092-CM       1982     Cameroon       Forestry                         17.00                     15.87
2160-CM       1982     Cameroon       Oil Palm/Rubber
Comsolidation                 50.8                      46.41
2180-CM       192      Cameroon       Highway V                       70.0                       51.74
2244-CM       1983     Cameroon       Urban Development               20.0                       19.64
2259-CM       1983     NPAC           Third Douala Port               22.5           -           18.97
2406-CM c/   1984      Cameroon       W. Province RD TI               21.5                       21.50
TOTAL                                                556.34       254.72       290.16
of which has been repaid                            40.83         7.69
TOTAL now outstanding                                515.51       247.03
Amount sold                   7.72
of which has been repaid    7.72            -            -
TOTAL now heLd by Bank
and IDA b/                                515.51       247.03
TOTAL UNDISBURSED                           270.02        20.14       290.16
a/ Ccmputed at the rate of the approval dates.
b/ Begini  with Credit 1 T5-CM, credits have been denorinated in Special
Drawing Rights. The dollar amunts in these colums represernt the
dollar equivalent at the time of creLit negotiations for the IDA amounts
and the dollar equivalent as of September 30, 1984, for the Lndisbirsed
amounts.
c/ Not yet effective.



- 29 -
ANNEX  I
B. S]AT2MNT OF IFC IXNVESD=:PRS  (as of SptEmber 30, 194)                                    Page 2 of 2
Investment      Fiscal
Number         Year      Obligor       TT e of Business     Loan       Fqlity      Total
       U$ million
311-CM           1975      BATA          Shoe Factory           -         0.13       0.13
355-CM           1977      SAFACAM I     Rubber Plantation      -         0.81       0.81
430-CM           1979      SAFACAM II    Rubber Plantation     -          0.41       0.41
452-CM           1979      AIUCAM        Non-ferrous metal   7.00         0.93       7.93
551-CM           1981      SCM           Food and Food
Processing         1.12       0.19       1.31
578-CM           1931      SOCAVER       Glass Bottle
Thctory             -         0.12       0.12
579-CM           1981      SAFACAM III   Rubber Plantation     -          0.17       0.17
633-CM           1982      SOSUCAM       Fbod & Food Proces.  1.50         -         1.50
681-CM           1934      SAPICAM       Food & Food Proces. 0.87         0.34       1.21
1985 a/   SPFS          Food & Food Proces.  1.62       0.56       2.18
TYOTAL gross cennitments                                      12.11       3.66      15.77
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                                         -         -           -
TOAL cominatments now held by IF                              12.11       3.66      15.77
TOMAL UNDISBURSED                                             2.49        0.90       3.39
1/ Not yet signed.



- 30 -
Annex III
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
THIRD HEVECAM RUBBER PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare the project: 6 months
(b) Project prepared by: HEVECAM
(c) Date of first Bank mission to consider the project: May
1983
(d) Date of appraisal mission: Septzember 1983
(e) Date of completion of negotiations: November 1984
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness: 90 days after loan signing.
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
Assistance in reviewing contracts for management and marketing
services to be provided by SAFACAM.
Section III. Special Conditions
I.  The Government would provide assurances on the following principal
conditions:
(a) with regard to smallholders, to make adequate financing
available to FONADER (para 41).
(b) to ensure regular maintenance of the Edea-Kribi and the
Kribi-Nifte roads (para 42);
(c)  to submit for the Bank's review, before December 31, 1985,
proposals toward the long--term management and organizational
arrangements for the plant:ation subsector, satisfactory to
the Bank, and a timetable for their implementation (paras 27
and 43); and
(d)  to ensure that adequate working capital would be available
to HEVECAM to maintain its liquid assets at a level
sufficient to cover its investment and operating
expenditures (including tax liabilities) for a four-month
period (para 50).



II.  HEVECAM would provide assurances on the following principal
conditions:
(a)  with regard to outgrowers, to enter into a credit agreement
with FONADER, acceptable to the cofinanciers, by June 30,
1985 (para 41);
(b)  to employ at all times, a General Manager, a Deputy General
Manager, a Financial and Administrative Manager, a Technical
Manager, an Industrial Manager, and a Field Manager, with
qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank (para
43);
(c) to continue the present arrangements for the management and
marketing contractS; and consult with the cofinanciers
before any terminaticn, suspension or amendment of the
SAFACAPf management and mnarketing contracts (para 43);
(d)  to provide adeqtuate incentives to staff (para 44);
(e)  to submit the proposed annual investmnent and operating
budgets to the co-fi-nanciers for review (para 50);
(f)  to continue the present arrangements for accounting,
reporting and e.ternal audit, modified to take account of
the entry into production (Para 50); and
(g)  not to incur wit-hout the Bank's prior consent any debt which
would:
(i) raise the debtiequitv ratio above 2.8 until 1992 and 2
thereafter; or
(ii) increase its annual debt service to more than half its
projected annual revenues (para 50).
III.  Special conditions of effect'w7eness ufould be:
(a)  signature of an acceptable financing agreement between
Government a-d HEVECAM1 specifying on-lending conditions as
well as arrangements for the financing and execution of the
public service and social service activities (paras 42 and
47); and
(b)  fulfillment of zoyitieons prcedenu to disbursements of the
loans made by CC.VE9 CDC and BEI (Para 47) .






NMA                      ,,       AD7~                           ,1    I'4X
K.    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~                 ) & ~~~~~~IDAN                It,-
F       I ~~~~           /     2         ',,eerdD- I- T
I,    -,    ,, '~~~~~~~~~~                     err~-  -ererrrrr,
0         'I  G~O     A I                            A    >.cV       ,, AD -C Re ,
C  ENTRAL~ A"R -AN                       IN,iCC  F', Nr!                           \                                         deeUn
CAMEROONJ,
A7CFA)VFC'
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
THIRD HEVECAM RUBBER PROJECT 
POPULATION, RAINFALL, TRANSPORTATION, AND  PROJECT AREA                                                                                      D~
27.2  elAlenprA,r   re
20  - DO        bfeeteris per
50 1-10 l    ner      ee
100 1-150
Mere the- 50
NINeI Fi,eb~,rE,I., Pree,, A-e
E-fi,,rq Penner erd Oil PA A' E,AIte
-   - -de,Fe,
-900tRe-,errrIM,1 rie-
Ad                  -. -~~~~~~~~~~i -vr,ICrE,I -eede-
K,LOMETI5P
N I GER I A                                                                                            .7
N  7        MeeRg~~~~~~~~~~27,                                                                                                        -
/  C,d~Ae  A~e~,,Mb.,-                                                                                                   \C NT A            A RIA
4      . 5 
M-d-b.    Nk-.-b.~~~~pe                                                                                      ) 
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~ ~ ~ A,,
Id.                   S         r~~~~~~~~~0                                Fe'11



A



IBRO 18369
J..e 19534
CAMEROON
THIRD HEVECAM RUBBER PROJECT
NIETE RUBBER ESTATE
PLANTING PROGRAM, 1975-1985                                                                                                                              -- -    --/        -
Planting Year  Hectares
1976            26717160
1977            667   Fil.t Foo-ool,
AV-<(   1978            1,340 J   4,229 h.
1979           2,032
1990           2,31|
1991           2,254
1992           2110 ,o  P, o,,)
r 10,517 h,
.. 19,3     -        S00ffg2,137                                                                 ',
1985            759    T1.,cdP,oro-l
~~~J,j9yMaoe Q  xnsertor do
\ ;>zz\'>.'!'>,o    v .i.io !achbar
.......*   . - ,b-d.,y
A\                                                                                                                  M  E                        : 2     . '
li.g..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~cin a 80ooc04b
h-~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TCRtlbcel#ocol
m+~~~~~~~~~~~~c                                                                                                                                              0b00,8o78VoB0
0                                                                                                                                                              .ccclcFI   0008,c
------------ -A, 0001
p8,10l nO WOIlO back 803 lObJ
N   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EaclObThbOc AOqOcalOO
CrHAD   -
NIGERIA    /             /
CENTRAL
ARICAN RFPUJBLIC
\GABON      F~ cr,   ANFI
KILOMETERS
o                                                             AN0GOLANTC 
--                                               ~~~~        ~         ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~MILES  AT   NOS       L



+ - 



