OFFICIAL              9169-2
DOCUMENTS
STATUTORY COMMITTEE REPORT
TO: The President, International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
Report of the Committee under Section 4 (iii) of Article III of the Articles of Agreement
on the Proposed Loan (Belo Horizonte Municipality Inclusive Urban Development Policy
Loan) to the Municipality of Belo Horizonte to be guaranteed by the Federative Republic
of Brazil.
The undersigned Committee constituted under Section 7 of Article V of the Articles of
Agreement of International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) hereby
submits its report pursuant to Section 4 (iii) of Article III of said Articles in respect of the
proposal that the Bank grant to the Municipality of Belo Horizonte a loan in an amount of
$200,000,000 of Dollars which loan is to be guaranteed by the Federative Republic of Brazil.
The purpose of said loan is to promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty.
1.   The Committee has carefully studied the merits of the proposal to grant such a loan, and of
the purpose to which the proceeds of the loan are to be applied.
2.   The Committee is of the opinion that the Program toward the financing of which the
proceeds of such loan are to be applied comes within the purposes of the Bank as set forth in
Article I of said Articles of Agreement, and that said Program is designed to promote the
development of the productive facilities and resources of the Federative Republic of Brazil and is
in the interest of the Federative Republic of Brazil and of the members of the Bank as a whole.


﻿-2-
the Federative Republic of Brazil                (Belo Horizonte Municipality Inclusive
Urban Development Policy Loan)
3.    Accordingly, the Committee finds that said Program merits financial assistance from the
Bank, and hereby recommends said Program for such assistance.
COMMITTEE
Senior Vice President and Group General Counsel
Expert Selecte by Governor for
the Federati   public of Brazil
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
Vide President
Corporate Finance and Risk Management
e or Vice President
Development Economics an Chief Economist
Dated at Washington, D.C.


