FILE COPY                                Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2354-GU
REPORT AND RECOMNENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
INSTITUTO NACIONAL DE ELECTRIFICACION
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA
FOR
THE CHIXOY POWER PROJECT
June 15, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Quetzal (Q)
Q1.00 = 100 centavos = US$1.00
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS
CABEI                           Central American Bank for
Economic Integration
EEG                             Empresa Electrica de Guatemala, S.A.
EXMIBAL                         Exploraciones y Explotaciones
Mineras Izabal, S.A.
FIV                             Fondo de Inversiones de Venezuela
INDE                            Instituto Nacional de Electrificacion
ICB                             International Competitive Bidding
IDB                             Inter-American Development Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






GUATEMALA
CHIXOY POWER PROJECT
PROJECT SUMMARY
BORROWER:                Instituto Nacional de Electrificacion (INDE).
GUARANTOR:               Republic of Guatemala.
AMOUNT:                  US$72.0 million equivalent.
TERMS:                    17 years including 4 years of grace with interest at
7.5 percent.
PROJECT DESCRIPTION:    The project consists of:
A.  Generation
(1) Construction of a 108 m high rockfill
dam near the confluence of the Chixoy and
Quixal Rivers;
(2) Constr-uction of a concrete lined, 25.6 km
long power tunnel; and Construction of a
surface powerhouse with 5x60 MW generating
units.
B.   Transmission
Construction of a step-up substation;
construction of a double-circuit trans-
mission line at 230 kV to Guatemala City
(120 km), and 69 kV and lower voltage
subtransmission lines and substations.
C.   Consultants' Services for:
(1) a study of the structure of sector tariffs;
and
(2) a study of an extension of the transmission
system.



ESTIMATED COST:
Million of US$ and Q
Foreign     Local      Total
Generation                          134.99     102.30    237.29
Transmission and Subtransmission   23.29         4.03      27.32
Engineering and consulting
services                           7.61       21.43     29.04
Sub-total                        165.89      127.76    293.65
Physical contingencies               18.77      23.68      42.45
Price contingencies                  19.42      17.16      36.58
Total Costs                      204.08      168.60    372.68
Financing charges during
construction /1                   41.40         -       41.40
Financing requirements             245.48      168.60    414.08
/1   Interest and other charges on Bank, CABEI, IDB, and
other loans.
FINANCING PLAN:
Foreign   Local   Total  Percentage
--- millions of US$ --
Central American Bank for
Economic Integration (CABEI)               9.0       --      9.0       2.2
IBRD proposed loan                          72.0       --    72.0       17.4
Inter-American Development Bank (IDB)    105.0         --   105.0       25.3
Suppliers' Credits                          25.9       --    25.9        6.3
Venezuelan Investment Fund (FIV)
to be passed on to INDE as capital
contribution by Government                 --      70.0    70.0       16.9
Additional Government capital
contribution                              10.6     31.9    42.5       10.3
INDE's internal cash generation              --      66.7    66.7        16.1
Private financial institutions
(and, possibly, Government loans)          23.0       --    23.0        5.5
Total                                 245.5    168.6   414.1      100.0



- iii -
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENTS:
1979     1980      1981      1982
--Millions of US$ by Bank FY---
Annual                          16.7      25.3     21.4       8.6
Total Accumulated               16.7      42.0     63.4      72.0
SPECIAL RISKS:           A special risk of the project is that it involves
construction of a 25.6 km tunnel in an area containing
heterogenous geological and karstic formations.
Although extensive geological investigations have been
carried out, there remains a risk of substantial
delays and cost overruns. Also, Guatemala is subject
to occasional strong earthquakes; however, the project
has been designed to withstand severe seismic shocks.
RATE OF RETURN:           13.0 percent (on 1978-1982 investment program).
APPRAISAL REPORT:        Report No. 1709b, dated June 15, 1978.






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO
INSTITUTO NACIONAL DE ELECTRIFICACION
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA
FOR THE CHIXOY POWER PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
for the equivalent of US$72.0 million to Instituto Nacional de Electrificacion
(INDE), with the guarantee of the Republic of Guatemala, for the Chixoy Power
Project. The loan would have a term of 17 years, including 4 years of grace,
with interest at 7.5 percent per annum. Co-financing for the project will be
provided by the following loans: US$105.0 million from the Inter-American
Development Bank; US$70.0 million from the Venezuelan Investment Fund (FIV)
which would be passed on to INDE as capital contribution by the Government;
US$9.0 million from the Central American Bank for Economic Integration (CABEI);
US$25.9 million from suppliers credits; and US$23.0 million expected to be
obtained mostly from private financial institutions.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Guatemala:  Current Economic and Social Position
and Prospects" (Report No. 1678a-GU) of December 8, 1977, has been distributed
to the Executive Directors. The conclusions of that report, which is based on
a mission in November 1976 and discussions with the Government in September
1977, are incorporated in this section. A new Government will take office on
July 1; no major changes are expected in the social and economic policies
discussed below, except that the new Administration has advised the Bank of
its intention to give greater emphasis to rural development and the Bank has
agreed to a request from the Vice-President Elect to assist in the development
of a program for this sector. Country data sheets are attached as Annex 1.
3.        Guatemala's population now totals about 6.4 million (mid-1977) and
is growing at slightly less than 3 percent per year. The Government has
become increasingly aware of demographic problems and has begun, with Bank
staff encouragement, a series of studies to examine them in more detail.
While population policies are becoming less sensitive, the Government has made
no change in its pro-natal policies. The most significant characteristic of
the population is its sharp ethnic division. The Indians, who make up about
40 percent of the total population, live at the margin of modern Guatemalan
social and economic life. While their separation from the rest of society has
its roots in the cultural and linguistic differences between the two groups,
it has been accentuated by disparities in access to good land, employment,
infrastructure, and public services. Although an inquiry into income distribu-
tion has never been conducted on a nationwide scale, all indicators point to a
sharply skewed distribution. Considering, however, that a large part of the



- 2 -
people live essentially outside the monetized sector, policies must give
emphasis to improving public services to integrate the Indian population into
the economic life of the country and to making their efforts to increase their
meager incomes more productive. The Government's strategy for rural develop-
ment thus stresses the extension of social and productive infrastructure to
the rural areas (see paragraph 8).
4.        Guatemala has the most diversified physical environment of the
five countries in Central America. The rugged central highland area is
marked by continuing volcanic activity and occasional serious earthquakes, the
most recent of which occurred on February 4, 1976. While the mountainous
terrain has helped foster rural isolation, the varied climate and dispersion
of good soils allow cultivation of a variety of agricultural products.
Until recently, Guatemala's limited mineral resources remained relatively
unexploited. Some petroleum deposits have been located in recent years, and
production of nickel began in 1977. Guatemala's natural beauty, archeological
monuments, and proximity to the United States give it a good potential for
tourism development. Because of historical settlements patterns, most of
the country's population, urban centers, and economic activity remain in
the central highlands. Due to population density and poor resouirces in some
of the highland areas, the Government is attempting to encourage the develop-
ment of new areas outside the central highlands, but so far this effort has
not been particularly successful.
5.        The economy grew at an average annual rate of nearly 6 percent in
real terms from 1970 to 1976. Services and agriculture were the main contribu-
tors to GDP over the period, and accounted respectively for about one-half and
one-fourth of GDP in 1976. Although manufacturing was a dynamic source of
growth in the 1960s, with increases averaging over 8 percent per year, the
sector has grown slightly more slowly than total GDP in the 1970s. This
slower growth was caused partly by the world recession of 1974-75, when
manufacturing growth averaged only 1.5 percent per year, and partly to the
slow growth of the Central American Common Market (CACM). Future prospects,
however, appear better since Guatemala has proven its ability to share in CACM
growth, which has been accelerating recently, and since it is beginning to
increase its exports of manufactures to third countries.
6.        In February of 1976, an earthquake spread ruin across about 9,000 sq
km of the most heavily populated part of Guatemala. While the loss of life
was substantial and a fifth of the nation's people were left homeless, the
country's agricultural and industrial production capacity was not heavily
damaged. There was substantial damage to public infrastructure (especially
transportation, communication and water supply), but most facilities, other
than those at Puerto Barrios, were restored rather quickly to their pre-earth-
quake levels. 1/ Consequently, the earthquake had little lasting impact on the
country's productive capacity. Although in 1975 the GDP growth rate slowed to
1/   The facilities at Puerto Barrios are now being rehabilitated with finan-
cial assistance from the Bank under the Earthquake Reconstruction Loan
which the Board approved on July 16, 1976.



1.9 percent (due partly to adverse weather conditions which affected agricul-
ture), growth in 1976 and 1977 was above average. With the impetus of recon-
struction activity, favorable coffee prices and better climatic conditions,
the increase in GDP in 1976 was about 7.6 percent. The growth rate in 1977
rose to about 8 percent; despite the passing of immediate post-quake reconstruc-
tion activity, growth was sustained by continuing rebuilding and upgrading of
damaged infrastructure, and exceptional foreign exchange inflows from coffee,
and, to a lesser extent, cotton exports.
7.        The Government has estimated the cost of earthquake reconstruction
at about US$1.1 billion in current prices over the next ten years, of which
about US$750 million represents expenditures to be made during the first three
to four years. Around US$500 million of the total might be considered as
direct replacement costs excluding upgrading. Details of the damage suffered
by various sectors in the economy are given in the earthquake reconnaissance
report prepared by the Bank (M86-171) and the President's Report for the
Earthquake Reconstruction Project (No. P-1888-GU).
8.        The 1975-79 Development Plan, which has been adjusted to accommodate
reconstruction requirements, calls for a more than doubling of previous public
investment levels and substantial increases in current expenditures. This
program places considerable emphasis on two areas. First, it stresses the
need to increase the productivity of small- and medium-size farmers, the
majority of whom are Indians, so that their standard of living may be brought
more into line with that of the rest of the country. The program proposes
that the Government's rural sector objectives be met through public investment
in infrastructure, in marketing and credi-t facilities and in technological
improvements. This investment, which constitutes about 15 percent of the
planned public capital expenditures, is expected to stimulate widespread com-
plementary investment by the private sector. Mainly because of weaknesses
in planning and project preparation capacity, however, it is likely that
investment will fall short of Plan targets for the 1975-79 period.
9.        Second, the Plan gives high priority to accelerating investments
in the electric energy sector, where rapid action is required to prevent
energy shortages from becoming a bottleneck in the country's development.
This investment in power is critical to Guatemala's future development;
the very low level of investment in eletric power in recent years has left
Guatemala one of the most poorly supplied of all Central American countries.
Moreover, Guatemala is far below the international average for a country with
its current per capita income; a study of 70 developing countries indicates an
expected value for annual consumption of 400-500 kWh per capita instead of
Guatemala's actual 184 kWh.
10.       Unless Guatemala takes steps towards a fuller utilization of her
substantial hydroelectric potential, development in the medium and long term
will be adversely affected by the diversion of foreign exchange resources to
pay for oil. Even though oil has been discovered in the northern part of
Guatemala, present proven and probable reserves would be sufficient to meet
less than one-fourth of the internal demand projected for 1980. Expen-
ditures on imported oil in 1977 are estimated at US$135 million (11 percent
of the merchandise import bill), compared to only US$15 million, or 5 percent



of merchandise imports, in 1970. The Government's policy of accelerated
investment in hydro power, which will lessen dependence on oil-fired thermal
generation, will have a significant impact on Guatemala's future balance of
payments situation. By 1983, both Aguacapa (for which a Bank loan was approved
in May 1977) and the proposed 300 MW Chixoy hydroelectric project should be in
operation. These will reduce the share of oil-fired plants in total generation
capacity from the present 63 percent to about 30 percent when fully operational.
If thermal rather than the proposed hydro projects had been chosen to meet the
projected demand, oil imports by 1985 would have been about US$50 million per
year higher at today's oil prices. This expected import saving is equal to
about one fifth of present capital goods imports.
11.       The Guatemalan Government has traditionally followed conservative
fiscal and monetary policies combined with a relatively limited role in the
economy. Full achievement of the Government's investment targets will require
efforts to improve project preparation capacity. Also, mobilizing the domestic
financing required for increased government investment, including both the
reconstruction effort and normal development expenditure, will probably
require a fiscal reform. Public sector savings and investment have usually
been low; although Central Government savings have increased substantially
since 1973 in absolute value, they remained at or below 2 percent of GDP
throtugh 1976. In 1974, a number of changes were made in export and other
taxes to provide the Government with more adequate revenues. Although these
changes had a favorable effect, the rapid recent inflation and tax-related
investment incentives have eroded the buoyancy of import and other taxes.
Further efforts to mobilize resources for the public sector will therefore be
needed, especially once coffee prices have returned to more normal levels.
(Although Central Government tax revenues are estimated at 10.7 percent of GDP
for 1977, this would have been only about 8 percent if coffee prices had
remained at the average price realized in the period 1973-75.)
12.       Between 1973 and 1976, the trade gap increased dramatically.  The
volume of merchandise imports grew by 9.3 percent per year while that of
exports grew by 6.0 percent. This, combined with import price increases led
by petroleum, resulted in a resource gap in 1976 of US$184.5 million (4.2
percent of GDP), compared to a positive balance of US$15.2 million in 1973.
Even so the deficit on current account was less than US$4 million in 1976;
transfers increased from US$41.6 million in 1973 to US$198.6 million in 1976,
mostly on account of donations in the latter year related to the earthquake.
In addition, private sector capital flows, of which about half were direct
investment, increased substantially over the period. In 1977, real imports
rose about 15 percent and transfers dropped by about US$100 million. Thus,
although coffee export earnings more than doubled, the current account deficit
rose to US$67 million. Continued disbursement of loans related to the earth-
quake and borrowing by the private sector yielded an increase in reserves of
nearly US$160 million; reserves are now equivalent to about five and one-half
months of imports.
13.       Coffee continues to be the leading export of Guatemala and accounted
for about 25 percent of total exports in the period 1973-1976; the exceptional



- 5 -
prices in 1977 pushed this share to about 40 percent. Sugar exports were
particularly profitable in 1975, but the earnings in 1976 and 1977 declined
despite a 50 percent increase in volume because of the sharp drop in the
world price of sugar. Earnings from tourism fell by 16 percent in 1976
because of the earthquake and recovered only marginally in 1977.
14.       Balance of payments prospects are quite promising for the remainder
of the decade. Although coffee prices have begun to decline from their mid-
1977 peak, they are expected to remain well above the long-term trend at least
through the early 1980's. The growth of tourism, which was halted by the
earthquake, should resume; virtually all damaged tourism facilities are back
in operation, and the new hotels which were completed in 1976-77 will relieve
the shortage of first class hotel accommodations in Guatemala City. The new
nickel plant plans to begin trial exports in 1978. The real growth of exports
of manufactured goods could rise from 7 percent per year in 1977 to about 10
percent per year by 1980 if the CACM continues to grow as expected and if
Guatemala can penetrate other export markets for these products.
15.       On the import side, expenditures in 1978 should be only moderately
above the level of 1977 because the exceptional import demand associated with
earthquake reconstruction is virtually over. However, the transfers associated
with the earthquake will also largely cease in the next year or two, so that
current account deficits are likely to continue at 2-3 percent percent of GDP,
which would be consistent with the past ten years.
16.       Beyond 1980, prospects for a continuation of the rate of growth
which Guatemala is currently realizing would be enhanced by successful
efforts to further diversify the nation's exports. Increased exports of
non-traditional products, with an emphasis on expanded trade outside the
Central American Common Market, would help assure an adequate level and
stability of export earnings. The capacity to import the capital and inter-
mediate goods necessary to support such growth would be further enhanced by
limiting net oil imports for power generation through the measures discussed
above.
17.       Because the Guatemalan government has traditionally borrowed little
on commercial terms, there is scope for increasing foreign borrowing without
impairing the country's creditworthiness. Guatemala's public debt service
ratio has been relatively low in the past, averaging 2.7 percent of exports
from 1973 through 1977.  Also, the structure of the external public debt has
improved substantially over the last few years as a result of the increased
share of international financial institutions in Guatemala's external borrowing.
If the Guatemalan economy expands at six percent and if there is a moderate
increase in the level of public borrowing, it is estimated that the public debt
service ratio will increase from its present level of about 2 percent to a
maximum of about 6.5 percent in 1981.
External Assistance
18.       Apart from the Bank, official external financing has been provided
primarily by the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), the Central American



- 6 -
Bank for Economic Integration (CABEI) and the US Agency for International
Development (USAID). IDB funds have carried a substantial concessional
element and in the past often contained significant components repayable in
local currency. The IDB has made loans for agriculture (credit, irrigation
and fisheries), electric power, housing, transportation, water supply and
health services. CABEI has concentrated mainly on projects with a regional
impact in highways, telecommunications, agriculture and industry and, in
recent years, on power and water supply projects. USAID has financed mainly
rural development, rural electrification, housing and health facilities. The
lending of these agencies from 1963 to the end of 1977 is summarized as
follows:
External Assistance to Guatemala /1
(Millions of US Dollars)
Sector                             IBRD    IDB      CABEI      AID      Total
Total (1963-1977)                         170.3   330.3    133.6      98.7      732.9
Cumulative Lending 1963-1970               28.3    63.8      24.6     41.5      158.2
Cumulative Lending 1971-1977              142.0   266.5    109.0      57.2      574.7
Agriculture                             4.0    19.4         -     20.9       44.3
Transport and Telecommunications       42.0    49.1      29.0        -      120.1
Power and Water                        55.0   140.5     34.6       7.0     237.1
Education, Health and
Other Social Services                41.0    50.5      13.4     29.3     134.2
Tourism and Other Trade Services          -     7.0      12.0        -      19.0
Other                                     -       -      20.0        -      20.0
/1   Includes loans to or with the guarantee of the public sector repayable in
foreign or local currency.
19.       In the next few years, IDB is expected to consider financing of
projects in electric power, industry, tourism, agriculture and rural develop-
ment, highways, health and education, and CABEI, power as well as projects
with a regional impact. AID is expected to consider projects principally in
education, and agriculture and rural development.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
20.       Guatemala to date has received Bank loans totalling US$188.5
million for ten projects. Of these, two were for education, three for power,
two for telecommunications, and one each for highways, livestock development



and earthquake reconstruction. The most recent operation was a US$55.0
million loan for the Aguacapa hydroelectric project signed on June 10, 1977.
Other recent operations included loans for earthquake reconstruction (for
US$26.5 million, including US$20 million on Third Window terms, signed on
August 2, 1976) and for a second education project (for US$14.5 million,
signed on March 5, 1976). Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans
and IFC investments as of April 30, 1978, and notes on the implementation
of ongoing projects.
21.       Bank lending to Guatemala in the next 3-4 years will be designed to
(1) support projects in the more traditional sectors where we expect to be
able to make a meaningful contribution to sectoral objectives, particularly
institution building, and to strengthening and diversifying the productive base
of the economy, (2) give increased emphasis to the rural sector, (3) assist
Government programs in education and training, and (4) assist Guatemala to
strengthen institutional capacity to provide low-cost housing in Guatemala
City and secondary urban centers. Given the importance to the balance of
payments of exploiting Guatemala's ample hydroelectric resources, the impor-
tance to industrial growth of a reliable supply of electric energy, the large
resource requirements of the sector, and the fact that there is a major role
for the Bank in the strengthening of sectoral institutions, a substantial
share of Bank lending is planned for electric power. However, as indicated in
the President's Report for the Aguacapa project (No. P-2069-GU), the Bank's
lending for electric power will be concentrated in a one-year period, as the
two projects in the medium-term power sector investment program for which Bank
financing has been requested, Aguacapa and Chixoy, have overlapping construc-
tion periods.
22.       In agriculture and rural development, the Bank has participated in
an analysis of Guatemala's agricultural development plans as part of a joint
IBRD, IDB and AID agricultural and rural survey of the five Central American
countries. A number of projects estimated at a total cost of more than US$130
million have been identified through this process; they include investments in
soil conservation, irrigation and drainage, rural roads, cooperative develop-
ment, rural formal and non-formal education, livestock, marketing, agro-
industries and credit. The Government, however, has not yet advised how it
wishes to allocate the projects among the external lending agencies. In
education, future lending is likely to give priority to expanding educational
opportunities to small towns and rural areas throughout the country. In urban
housing, a sites and services project is being developed in light of the
experience gained under the housing component of the earthquake reconstruction
project.
22a.      Discussions have begun with representatives of the new Government,
looking towards strengthening of our pipeline of projects particularly in the
rural and social sectors. It has been agreed, as a first step, that a Bank
mission will visit Guatemala early in FY1979 to review, and update where
necessary, the findings and recommendations of the agricultural and rural
sector survey and to assist in the development of an investment program for
the rural sector.



- 8 -
23.       It is expected that the Bank's share of total external public debt
disbursed and outstanding will average about 15 percent through 1980; its
share of debt service should average slightly less for the same period.
24.       IFC has made three investments in Guatemala.  The first, a US$200,000
loan in 1958 for a flour mill, has been fully repaid. The second, a loan of
US$15.0 million to Exploraciones y Explotaciones Mineras Izabal, S.A. (EXMIBAL),
a company established in Guatemala to exploit the nickel ore deposit at Lake
Izabal in eastern Guatemala, was approved in July 1973. After some initial
delays in finalizing the project design and in arranging additional financing
made necessary by substantial cost overruns, the plant began operations in
mid-1977. The third, a loan of US$3 million to Cementos Novella S.A., a
Guatemalan enterprise, to help finance an expansion of its existing cement
production facilities, was approved in May 1977.
PART III - THE SECTOR
Energy Consumption and Resources
25.       Gross energy consumption in Guatemala is low by Central American
standards. It amounted to 1.97 million tons of oil equivalent (M.T.o.e.)
in 1973, which converts into 0.34 tons of oil equivalent (T.o.e.) per capita,
a figure well below the regional average of 0.44 T.o.e. per capita. While
consumption of energy derived from petroleum and hydrologic resources has
been growing in importance, a high proportion (estimated at about 46 percent
in 1973) is still derived from wood and bagasse. As shown below, in 1974
Guatemala ranked fourth among the five Central American countries in consump-
tion of electric energy per capita and fifth in terms of installed capacity
per capita.
Consumption         Installed Capacity
Country            KWh per Capita    KW per 1,000 Population
Costa Rica              764                     212
Nicaragua               405                     126
El Salvador             254                      79
Guatemala               184                      43
Honduras                157                      49
26.       Guatemala presently imports all petroleum fuels; exploratory work
in potential petroleum areas is being carried out, with some limited success
so far (see paragraph 10 above). The country has a large, technically exploit-
able hydroelectric potential which is estimated at 4,300 MW. This contrasts
sharply with the 121 MW (less than 3 percent of the potential) in installed
hydroelectric capacity. Guatemala should also have an exploitable geothermal
potential, as the geological characteristics of the country are similar to
those of El Salvador and Nicaragua, where the feasibility of geothermal-based
power development has been established.



- 9 -
27.       Gross consumption of electric energy grew at an average rate of
9.4 percent per annum between 1966 and 1976. In 1976 the industrial sector
accounted for 47 percent of the total power consumption, while residential
consumption amounted to 26 percent. The relative market share of the indus-
trial sector is expected to grow during the project period and reach about
50 percent of the market by the end of the decade. The overall electricity
consumption is forecast to grow at 9.9 percent per annum through 1983. The
geographical distribution of the electricity load is very uneven. While
the average (1976) consumption of electricity by the 1.8 million inhabitants
of Guatemala City and nearby areas (Departments of Guatemala, Escuintla and
Sacatepequez) was 456kWh per capita, the average consumption of electricity
in the rest of the country, with 4.6 million inhabitants, was 33 kWh. Of the
total poulation of the country about 20 percent received electrical service.
This figure is among the lowest in Latin America. The Government is aware
that electricity must be made available to a greater proportion of the popu-
lation and, through INDE, it has initiated a series of rural electrification
programs to meet this objective (discussed further in para. 33 below).
Power Sector Organization
28.       Public electric service in Guatemala is provided by the Instituto
Nacional de Electrificacion (INDE), Empresa Electrica de Guatemala S.A.
(EEG), a few small private enterprises, and numerous municipalities. Some
of the smaller utilities have their own generating capacity and are not in
the interconnected system; the remainder purchase bulk energy from INDE or
EEG.
29.       EEG, a former subsidiary of Boise Cascade (USA), was created in
1922 and received a 50-year concession covering Guatemala City and environs.
Shortly before the EEG concession expired in May 1972, the Guatemalan Govern-
ment bought 95 percent of EEG's common stock. A new Board and new General
Manager were appointed, and a five-year extension to the concession was
granted. Upon termination of the EEG concession, in May 1977, the Govern-
ment declared the company a non-profit public utility of mixed (public and
private) ownership reporting to the Minister of Economy. INDE was created in
1959 by the Government to serve the country outside the EEG concession area
and to assume responsibility for the expansion of power generation capacity.
In 1976 INDE's share of public service generation was 68 percent compared to
30 percent for EEG; in the same year EEG's share of retail sales was 76
percent while INDE's was 10 percent. Of the present total generating capacity
of 492 MW, about two thirds is in the interconnected system served by EEG and
INDE.
Power Sector Development
30.       Although INDE's charter endowed it with ample authority, it was for
many years unable to generate the financial resources or develop the institu-
tional capacity commensurate with its challenging tasks. It was entrusted with
developing and executing a program for expansion of power generation capacity,
requiring heavy capital investment, yet it was unable to raise adequate tariff
revenues, mainly because of resistance by its major customer, the strong and



- 10 -
well-established EEG. Furthermore, inadequate planning and weak project
preparation capacity prevented INDE from exploiting the country's abundant
hydroelectric potential. Between 1962 and 1976, only 40 percent of capacity
additions were hydroelectric compared with 95 percent recommended by the
UNDP-financed power study carried out by Acres International in 1960-62 with
the Bank as Executing Agency.
31.       As a result, installation of new generation capacity has not always
kept pace with growing needs, and there have been periods of service interrup-
tions. Moreover, the failure to develop hydroelectric resources forced the
country to confront the energy crisis with a primarily thermal-based power
system.
32.       The Government that took office in 1974 adopted as a major policy
objective the development of the country's hydroelectric potential and the
overall strengthening of the energy sector. The Government's new emphasis
coincided with the completion of the first phase of a master plan for the
development of the electric system which grew out of discussions between the
Bank and the Guatemalan authorities in 1972 and was financed by a technical
assistance grant from the Federal Republic of Germany. This work enabled
the Government for the first time to base its power investment program on
a comprehensive long-range plan. The medium-term program which had been
developed from individual project studies was confirmed by the miaster plan
and includes the 90MW Aguacapa hydroelectric project scheduled for operation
in 1979 and the proposed 300MW Chixoy hydroelectric project scheduled for
1982. In view of the long lead time required for construction of Chixoy,
it was scheduled to go forward at approximately the same time as Aguacapa.
Upon completion of these projects, the share of thermal generation in total
installed capacity should be down to about 30 percent--the present level of
hydroelectric capacity.  To meet the demand requirements before the Aguacapa
project comes on stream, the program calls for two 25MW gas turbine plants (in
operation since February 1977) and one 53MW steam plant (operating since April
1977).  The program also included development of a first (30MW) geothermal
plant by 1981, but since the first potential field has not proved economically
exploitable for power generation, the Government has pursued an alternative
solution involving the use of new and existing thermal plants in combined
cycle which would add a net of 34 MW to generating capability.
33.       In transmission and distribution, aside from the norma:L expansion
associated with the new generating plants to be constructed, INDE is planning
two important initiatives. The first is an interconnection line to link the
power systems of Guatemala and El Salvador. A study to determine the feasi-
bility of interconnecting the two systems has recently been completed and is
under review by the power entities of both countries. The second initiative
is in the area of rural electrification. To reduce the heavy imbalance in
access to electricity between the EEG concession area and the rest of the
country, INDE early in 1976 began preparing for the first time a national
rural electrification program. Some limited efforts in this area have been
initiated in recent years. In 1971, USAID with a US$7.0 million loan, financed
transmission lines and related substations through the Western Highlands (San
Marcos, Huehuetenango and Quiche) and the Northern Lowlands (Baja Verapaz and



- 11 -
Alta Verapaz). These transmission lines were connected to distribution systems
to serve 61 towns and villages, thereby providing reliable, full-time power to
these areas. The transmission network now in place is adequate to serve a
large number of other villages as well. In addition, INDE has recently built
some substations and distribution networks in the eastern part of the country,
laying the foundation for further expansion in this area. The new rural
electrification program, preparation of which has recently been completed,
is designed to expand the rural system substantially, both in size and in
geographical coverage. Since the construction and operation of rural distri-
bution systems are relatively simple and do not require a large number of
skilled workers, INDE will have the capacity to expand services to the rural
population while construction of large hydro projects is being carried out.
The 69 kV subtransmission works to be financed by the proposed Bank loan would
complement the rural electrification program by providing facilities needed to
link INDE's existing system with new markets and by strengthening existing
lines to support increased transfers and increase service reliability.
34.       When the medium-term power investment program outlined above was
originally developed by the Government in 1975, it was apparent that there
would be need for substantial external assistance for the program, the total
cost of which during the 1978-82 period is approximately US$556.9 million.
The Government, therefore, approached the Bank, CABEI and FIV for financing
Aguacapa and the Bank, IDB, CABEI, FIV, suppliers' and commercial banks for
financing the proposed Chixoy project. CABEI has also been approached for
financing some Chixoy-related transmission facilities and the interconnection
line with El Salvador, and both IDB and USAID for the rural electrification
program.
Improvement of Institutional Arrangements
35.       The arrangements between EEG and INDE, prior to the agreements
reached under the Aguacapa loan, had been one of the principal reasons for the
financial weakness of INDE. Although steps were taken after the Government
obtained control of EEG in 1972 to improve INDE's situation, through an
arrangement whereby Government dividends from EEG were passed on to INDE, the
transfers involved were inadequate to meet INDE's needs. Moreover, EEG's
natural concern for serving its own clients led it to try to assure that
sector investment programs give first priority to its concession area, thus
complicating the sectoral planning process. The Government in order to lay
the groundwork for a strengthening of the institutional framework in which the
power development program is to be carried out, established a Sector
Reorganization Commission in January 1976, to study alternatives for the
future organization of the sector. The Commission completed its work in the
latter part of 1976, with its principal recommendation being that only one
entity be responsible for public electricity service, and that INDE absorb
EEG's operations as well as those of all other private and municipal electric
utilities.
36.       The Government had not acted on the Commission's recommendations
at the time of the Aguacapa negotiations, but a series of agreements were
reached during those negotiations providing adequate assurances that sector



- 12 -
coordination would be substantially improved. Principal among these was
agreement by the Government and INDE that (1) INDE's tariffs to EEG would be
adjusted annually so as to channel to INDE any funds generated by EEG in
excess of the latter's requirements for operations, debt service, working
capital and construction, and (2) the Government would reinvest as equity
capital of INDE all its cash dividends from EEG. It was also agreed that EEG
would obtain Bank concurrence prior to increasing its construction expendi-
tures beyond agreed levels during execution of the Aguacapa project. In
addition, the Government agreed to take all actions necessary to ensure the
economic operation and expansion of the generation and transmission facilities
in the interconnected system.
37.       The Government stated its intention during the Aguacapa negotiations
to make further improvements in the organization of the sector and to communi-
cate its decision on the matter to the Bank by June 30, 1977. Its decision
was delayed, however, because of the complex issues involved.  The most sensi-
tive of these are the need to reconcile the relatively favorable conditions
enjoyed by EEG's unionized employees with INDE's much lower pay scales, and
the treatment of EEG's minority shareholders. In September 1977 the Bank
was informed that Government had decided to preserve INDE and EEG as separate
entities for the present, while moving toward an improved allocation of
responsibilities between them. The principal measure now proposed would be
the transfer of EEG's generating plants to INDE. The Government also
appointed a new high level commission to assess the merits of the establish-
ment of a commission to regulate the sector. This commission will also
prepare the transfer of all EEG's generating plants to INDE. On January 12
of this year, the Bank received the commission's work program and schedule of
activities. The schedule, as amended by May 25, 1978, calls for completion of
two parallel activities by December 31, 1979: transfer of EEG's generating
plants to INDE and a study on the need for a regulatory commission. The
Government has agreed to carry out the above two activities and to use its
best efforts to complete them by December 31, 1979 (Section 3.06(a) (iii) of
the draft Guarantee Agreement).
Prior Bank Projects
38.       The Bank has made three loans for the power sector in Guatemala.
Loan 487-GU of US$15 million equivalent, signed in March 1967, assisted INDE
in financing the construction of the 60MW Jurun-Marinala hydroelectric project
and associated facilities, transmission lines, installation of a 12.7MW gas
turbine, and some dieseL units. The project was completed close to the
original schedule; actual construction costs were 12 percent higher than the
estimates prepared at the time the project was appraised. The investment in
Jurun-Marinala compared with an equivalent thermal plant was found to be the
most economic alternative at discount rates of 10 percent or less; however,
due mainly to the subsequent very large increases in fuel prices, it will be
the most economic alternative even at discount rates higher than 10 percent.
39.       The second power loan, 545-GU of US$7 million equivalent, signed
in June 1968, financed the foreign exchange component of a 33MW steam unit,
and the site investigations, pre-investment studies and design of the first



- 13 -
stage of the Atitlan hydroelectric project. The original Guacalate site
for the unit was flooded in September 1969, after works had already
started. The flood revealed that the proposed site lay in an ancient river
bed, and works had to be restarted at a new site (Escuintla), involving
substantially greater civil works costs. This incident was the main factor
causing a 22-month delay in completion of the unit and a 60 percent cost
overrun. Nevertheless, given the delays in preparing hydroelectric projects
that had occurred, the 33MW steam unit remained probably the best system
addition that could be made at the time. INDE did not achieve the financial
rates of return contained in the tariff covenants under the first two loans.
The poor financial performance has its roots in INDE's weak position vis-a-vis
EEG, as discussed above. The Bank appraised a power project in 1972, but this
project did not go forward as a result of a disagreement between the Bank and
the Government over a proposed bid award for two thermal generating units, the
main components of the project.
40.       Thus almost nine years passed between the Bank's second loan for
electric power in Guatemala, and the US$55.0 million Aguacapa (1426-GU) loan,
approved last year. This latter loan is financing 92 percent of the foreign
exchange component of the on-going 90MW Aguacapa hydroelectric project and
management consulting services to assist in strengthening INDE's organization.
The loan was declared effective in February 1978, about five months later than
planned; the additional time was needed for Congressional ratification of the
loan, for implementation of an adequate tariff increase, and for execution of
an agreement between the Government, INDE and EEG on bulk tariffs and sector
coordination. Project execution is otherwise proceeding well. All contracts
have been awarded, and construction is generally on schedule. Delays have
been experienced in carrying out the studies included in the project but some
of the required consultants have now been hired and others are expected to be
hired soon.
41.       A project performance audit report prepared by the Operations
Evaluation Department on the First and Second Power Projects was di3tributed
to the Executive Directors on February 14, 1975. The main conclusions of
this report were that, although the Bank had played a large part in the
expansion of Guatemala's power supply and in helping to establish INDE as
"the major institution" in the power sector, it could have contributed more
to the solution of the two most serious problems in the sector -- the poor
financial performance arising mainly from the unsatisfactory arrangements
between INDE and EEG, and the lack of development of Guatemala's hydroelectric
resources. Agreements reached with the Government and INDE in connection with
the Aguacapa and proposed Chixoy loans are designed to address both of these
problems.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
42.       A staff appraisal report on the Chixoy Power Project (No. 1709b,
dated June 15, 1978) is being distributed separately. The project was
prepared by INDE with the assistance of consultants and appraised in March
1977. The appraisal was updated in May and November, 1977. Negotiations were



- 14 -
held in Washington on May 10-19, 1978. INDE was represented by Mr. R. Barrios-
Pena, President; the principal Government representative was Dr. F. Villagran-
Kramer, Vice-President-elect.
Project Description
43.       The Chixoy project site is located in the country's central region,
about 100 km north of Guatemala City. The proposed hydroelectric development
of the Chixoy river would be carried out by damming its course and conveying
the impounded waters through a 25.6 km tunnel and a drop of 550 meters to
obtain 300 MW of power. This river is the main tributary of the Usumacinta,
the largest river in the country which also serves for part of its length as
the boundary between Guatemala and Mexico. However, as the project would not
divert any water from the Usumacinta or adversely affect its regime (except
for an insignificant reduction during the six-month period of reservoir fill-
ing), the Chixoy project would not adversely affect the downstream riparian
state (Mexico). The project's principal works are described below, with an
indication of the main external financing source involved for each principal
component:
(a) Generation:
3
-  rockfill dam 108 m high with a volume of 2.8  million m
The dam would be located about 58 km upstream of the
confluence of the Chixoy and Quixal rivers -- IBRD;
-  power tunnel 25.6 km long, concrete lined, 4.8 m in diameter,
to develop a gross head of 550 m -- IDB and Venezuelan
Investment Fund; and
-  surface powerhouse with 5x60 MW generating units driven by
vertically mounted turbines -- IDB and supplier credits.
(b) Transmission
- comprising step-up substation equipped with six three-phase
transformers of 66.8 MVA, a double circuit transmission
line at 230 kV to Guatemala City (120 km) -- IBRD.
In addition to the Chixoy dam and transmission system, the following 1978-1982
expansion program components and services would also be included in the project
and financed with the proposed Bank loan:
-  69 kV and lower voltage subtransmission lines and substations;
-  transmission line consultants to study the possibility of
connecting the Atlantic coastal area to the INDE system
(13 man-months); and
-  consultants for a study of the structure of sector tariffs
(28 man-months).



- 15 -
Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
44.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$372.7 million,
with a foreign exchange component of US$204.1 million. Interest during
construction on foreign loans would add US$41.4 million, bringing total
financing requirements to US$414.1 million, of which US$245.5 million
represents the foreign component. The proposed Bank loan of US$72.0 million
would finance 17.4 percent of total, and 29.3 percent of foreign requirements.
IDB and the Central American Bank for Economic Integration (CABEI) have already
provided loans for the project totalling US$105 million and US$9 million
respectively. The Venezuelan Investment Fund (FIV) has provided a loan of
US$32.8 million equivalent to the Government which has been passed on to INDE,
in the form of a capital contribution, to help finance local costs. An
additional FIV loan of US$37.2 million (also to be passed on by Government to
INDE as a capital contribution) is expected to be approved for the project in
1979. Suppliers' credits are expected to total US$25.9 million, with loans
from private financial institutions expected to add an additional US$23.0 million.
INDE's internal cash generation would provide US$66.7 million, with the
US$42.5 million balance of financial requirements to be provided by further
capital contributions of the Government (Section 3.06(c) of the draft Guarantee
Agreement).
44a.      Satisfactory evidence has been presented to the Bank that financing
will be available on appropriate terms to cover all project components, the
Guatemala Norte-Guatemala Sur transmission line, the Guatemala Norte sub-
station and at least the 1978 requirements of the sector investment program
(including the Aguacapa Project). With regard to the proposed financing by
private financial institutions, the Government requested the Bank to assist in
arranging commercial bank co-financing. Based on previous expressions of
interest, a large number of international commercial banks were contacted and
eight of them have responded with offers for the entire amount at favorable
terms. The Government and INDE are presently evaluating these offers, and
as the US$23.0 million represents amounts required to cover estimated
physical and price contingencies (which may or may not materialize) over the
four-year project construction period, they are also developing a schedule
for the contracting of commercial loans as and when needed during project
implementation. The Government has not ruled out the possibility of lending
some portion of the total to INDE from its own resources, but it is expected
that most of the amount required will be obtained from private financial
institutions.  We have informed the prospective lenders and the Government
that we would be prepared to recommend to the Executive Directors to associate
the proposed Bank loan with the commercial bank's loan if this were to result
in better terms for the Government than it would otherwise obtain in interna-
tional markets. If such a cofinancing operation materializes, we would return
to the Executive Directors with full details regarding the proposed private
loan and appropriate recommendations for amendments to the Bank's loan agree-
ment.
45.       The estimated costs for generation works are based on actual con-
tracts or awarded bids.  For the transmission system, and subtransmission
lines and substations, costs are based on recent (October 1977) estimates
by INDE's staff and consultants.  Allowances for physical contingencies are



- i6 -
5 percent for equipment, 10 percent for minor civil works and 24 percent for
the dam and tunnel. Allowances for price increases are 7.5 percent for
foreign costs and 9 percent p.a. for local costs for 1978 and 1979; the
corresponding figures for 1980-82 are 7 percent p.a. and 8 percent p.a.,
respectively. Foreign consulting services proposed for Bank financing have
been estimated on the basis of an average cost of US$4,750 per man-month
(excluding travel and subsistence). Details of project costs and the financial
plan are contained in the Loan and Project Summary at the beginning of this
report, and the cost items to be financed by the Bank are detailed in the
table below:
Foreign     Local      Total
----million of US$ and Q---
Dam and spillway                     24.76      11.97      36.73
Transmission system                  11.04       1.96      13.00
Subtransmission expansion            12.90       2.30      15.20
Consulting services                   0.30          -       0.30
Sub-total                        49.00      16.23     65.23
Physical contingencies                4.64       5.65      10.29
Price contingencies                   7.56       3.33      10.89
Financial charges during
construction                       10.80          -      10.80
Total                            72.00      25.21      97.21
The Borrower
46.       The borrower would be INDE, the Government-owned autonomous institu-
tion responsible for most bulk electricity supply and for retail distribution
outside the area supplied by EEC. INDE's Board of Directors is composed of
five directors and three alternates, all appointed by the President of Guatemala.
Management is entrusted to a General Manager and four Deputy Managers. INDE
is exempted from taxes and import duties.
47.       At the time of Bank consideration of the Aguacapa project, it was
recognized that INDE needed institutional improvement in .a number of areas.
It was short of specialized and experienced professionals, particularly at
mid-management levels, and it had a high number of operational employees
(1,500) in relation to the number of customers served. It needed to develop
its capacity to plan system expansion to enable it to assume a function which
up to now has been handled by outside consultants; and it needed to strengthen
its financial planning staff and increase the mechanization of accounting
functions. Pursuant to agreements reached during the Aguacapa negotiations,
INDE has taken a number of steps in each of these areas. It has introduced
improved office procedures. It has hired a consultant who is preparing a
program to improve personnel policies and procedures. It has strengthened
the staff of the financial unit of its Planning Department. It has reorga-
nized its planning group into a department incorporating the technical team



- 17 -
trained by the Master Plan group. The reorganized department is expected
to be fully operational by June 30, 1978. It has reorganized its financial
group into a department headed by an experienced financial manager. This new
department is also expected to be fully operational by June 30, 1978. With
respect to the personnel improvement program, INDE has stated the intention to
implement new personnel and salary policies, taking into account the recommen-
dations of the program prepared by the consultant, within the next two years.
The Bank has been advised that (1) INDE's consultant will base his study on
the need to provide remuneration that would be competitive with other potential
public and private employers and (2) that the appropriate Government agencies
will review the program with the Bank and discuss with the Bank the proposals
for implementing the consultant's recommendations.
Financial Position and Future Earnings of INDE and the Sector
48.       The power sector's financial performance in 1971-73 was satisfactory.
It achieved an average rate of return of 10 percent on historically-valued
assets, a high debt-service coverage ratio (4.2 times) and a substantial
contribution to its modest investment program (51 percent).
49.       This satisfactory performance, however, resulted from the high
earnings achieved by EEG, which more than offset INDE's less successful
performance. During the same period (1971-73), INDE's rate of return on
historically-valued assets averaged 5.9 percent only, which in turn resulted
from not charging adequate bulk tariffs to EEG, its principal customer.
50.       The sector's financial performance in 1974-75 was unsatisfactory,
primarily because the sharp rise in fuel costs was not fully passed on to
ultimate consumers. Consolidated net income dropped in 1974 to 58 percent of
the previous year's level and did not again reach the 1973 level until 1976,
following introduction of a fuel adjustment clause into the tariff structure.
During the period 1974-75 the sector's rate of return on historically-valued
assets averaged 6.3 percent; INDE's, 4.2 percent. While debt service coverage
remained satisfactory (2.4 times), the sector was only able to finance
15 percent of its investment program from internal resources despite the fact
that it had not undertaken any major investment. By 1976 the sector rate of
return had improved to 8.2 percent and the internal contribution to investment
was 32 percent.
51.       Under the Aguacapa Loan Agreement it was agreed that sector tariffs
would be adjusted as necessary to enable financing from internally generated
funds of an average of at least 15 percent of Guatemala's electric power
investment program during 1977-79 (16 percent in 1977, 13 percent in 1978 and
16 percent in 1979). Adoption of a tariff increase in 1977 consistent with
this undertaking was made a condition of effectiveness of the Aguacapa loan.
However, because the electric power system was operating without adequate
reserves during the first half of 1977, and the installation of additional
thermal capacity during this period was delayed for a number of reasons outside
of INDE's control, a series of blackouts occurred during the period February
to May of that year. Under these circumstances, the Government was reluctant
to approve tariff increases. Finally, on November 1, 1977, after consultation
with the Bank, the Government increased tariffs by approximately 7 percent.



- 18 -
52.       Sector earnings fell substantially short for 1977 of the amount
forecast for the year in the Aguacapa appraisal report.   However, the 1977
tariff contribution to investment from internally generated funds was actually
21 percent in that year. Thus, in spite of the delay in increasing tariffs,
the covenanted contribution to investment appears to have been achieved,
mainly due to a slower than anticipated rate of payment of accounts due. For
1978, the Government has approved a 10 percent increase effective May I and
declared its firm intention for a further increase of not less than 8.5
percent not later than December 31. This tariff action would be sufficient
to produce the agreed minimum of 13 percent contribution to the investment
program for 1978. During 1979, the Government has agreed to take additional
tariff steps necessary to enable the power sector to meet the agreed minimum
of 16 percent (Section 3.02(a) of the draft Guarantee Agreement).
53.       The Government agreed under the Aguacapa loan that the power sector
should earn a rate of return of at least 9 percent on its average revalued net
fixed assets in operation after the Aguacapa project is completed. INDE
agreed to hire consultants to carry out a revaluation study of all existing
sector assets and to design a procedure by which assets can be revalued
annually by application of standard indexing, though annual application of the
procedure was not required under the Loan Agreement. The terms of reference
for this study have been found satisfactory, and the study is expected to start
shortly. Although the frequency with which revaluations were to be conducted
was not specified in the Aguacapa agreements, it has now been agreed that sector
assets will be valued annually. (Section 3.03(b)(iv) of the draft Guarantee
Agreement.) On this basis, an 8 percent rate of return on revalued net assets
is satisfactory and has been agreed. (Section 3.03 (a) of the draft Guarantee
Agreement.) Finally, in order to provide the basis for implementation of
longer term tariff policy, the Government agreed under the Aguacapa loan to
conduct a comprehensive tariff study which would recommend appropriate changes,
as may be necessary, in the structure and levels of tariffs to all final
consumers. The Bank has reviewed and approved the terms of reference for this
study and, to assist INDE in carrying it out, 28 man-months of consultant's
services would be financed under the proposed loan. The study will be
completed and furnished to the Bank for comment not later than July 31, 1979
(Section 3.02(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
54.       At the end of 1976, INDE's accounts receivable were equivalent to 59
days of sales, while EEG's totalled 83 days, mainly as a result of its excess-
ive accounts receivable from public agencies. Under the Aguacapa loan,
Government agreed to take all necessary measures to reduce the sector's
accounts receivable from public agencies to a maximum of 60 days of billings
by the end of 1977. In an effort to achieve this goal, Government decided to
settle EEG's accounts receivable with EMPAGUA, the Guatemala City municipal
water utility (which accounted for about half the sector's accounts receivable
from public agencies at the end of 1976), through a commitment to pay the debt
in five years, starting in 1978. This improved substantially the status of
accounts receivable from public sector entities, but its benefits will be
partly offset by the fact that several municipalities which buy power in bulk
from INDE for distribution within their jurisdictions have refused to pay a



- 19 -
fuel surcharge applied by INDE in early 1977. The amounts overdue from public
sector agencies, however, are not excessively large: they total US$1.8
million for EEG and US$3.1 million for INDE as of December 1977, and it should
be feasible for the Government to reduce accounts receivables from such
agencies to 60 days within a relatively short period. The Government has
agreed to take all action necessary to assure that such improvement would
occur by December 31, 1978 (Section 3.07 of the draft Guarantee Agreement).
55.       To ensure adherence to the proposed capital investment and financing
plans, agreement has been reached with INDE not to contract any long-term debt
unless its net revenues are at least 1.5 times the maximum debt service require-
ment for any future fiscal year (Section 5.08 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Also, until the completion of the proposed project, INDE will (a) inform the
Bank of any proposed capital expenditure in excess of US$5.0 million for
investment not included in the medium-term expansion program (outlined in
paras. 32-33 above and in Schedule 5 of the draft Loan Agreement), and
(b) furnish to the Bank, within a reasonable period before the proposed date
of such expenditures, a report for its comments showing the economic and
financial justification of such expenditure (Section 5.07 of the draft Loan
Agreement). These latter provisions represent an amendment of the Aguacapa
Loan Agreement in that, under Aguacapa, the Bank had the right to approval of
projects not included in the medium-term expansion program expected to cost
more than US$1 million. The Guatemalans stated that the Aguacapa language had
led to a heated debate in Congress about how far the Government could constitu-
tionally limit its freedom of action to make investments that might be essen-
tial to avoid a disruption of economic activity or a curtailment of growth,
and that it had caused delays in Congressional ratification of the loan. The
Government representative at the Chixoy negotiations, therefore, requested
elimination of the Bank's right of approval of additional investments and an
increase in the US$1 million ceiling to US$5 million. The revised language
was accepted on the basis of the GovernmentIs arguments and in the light of
the fact that the draft Guarantee Agreeement (Section 3.06) provides that the
Government shall (1) take all action necessary to coordinate power sector
expansion and operations in order to prevent waste of energy, duplication of
facilities and unnecessary investment and (2) ensure that power sector expan-
sion is based on economically justifiable programs.
Engineering and Project Execution
56.       All engineering phases of the project will be carried out by LAMI,
a joint venture of three foreign consulting firms, which will also perform
construction supervision. INDE is executing the project by contracting all
major works, as well as the supply and installation of equipment and materials.
During project execution INDE will receive advice from its Board of Consultants
(three well-known US geological, soil and hydraulic structure specialists) on
all phases of engineering final design and construction. The project is
expected to be in commercial operation by June 30, 1982. The Bank has
coordinated closely with IDB in the preparation of the project and will
continue to do so in supervision of implementation.



- 20 -
Procurement and Disbursement
57.       Procurement of equipment, materials, and construction services
for the project to be financed by the Bank is being conducted under inter-
national competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank guidelines for
procurement. In order to meet INDE's construction program for the project,
river diversion works had to be initiated before the 1977 rainy season (June
to October). Although construction of the main dam needed to be started
only a year later, the possibility existed that contractors would tend to bid
lower for the combined works (diversion and main dam) than if they were
tendered separately. On this assumption, INDE requested that advance bidding
for the main dam be allowed. The Bank accepted, under the condition that
contract signing for the dam would only take place after Bank approval of
the proposed loan. INDE, in April 1977, with Bank concurrence, issued a
letter of intent to COGEFAR (Italy), which presented the lowest evaluated bid
for the combined works. The contract for river diversion work has been signed
and the work begun with financing provided by INDE from its own resources. In
order to enable the contractor to prepare for main dam construction, INDE has
given it a mobilization payment for the dam. Retroactive financing in the
amount of approximately US$7.0 million under the proposed loan for the foreign
exchange component of the mobilization payment and initial progress payments
for the dam is recommended. Procurement of all other major project items
(except for the transmission and subtransmission works proposed to be financed
by the Bank) has been completed. 1/
58.       Disbursements from the Bank loan would be made for:
(a) 62 percent of total expenditures for the dam and spillway;
(b) 100 percent of foreign expenditure for imported equip-
ment and materials for the transmission system and for the
subtransmission lines and substations;
(c) 100 percent of foreign expenditure for services of
consultants and transmission line specialists; and
(d) 100 percent of the financial charges on the Bank loan up to
December 31, 1981.
Environmental Effects
59.       Studies performed by INDE's consulting ecologists, covering human
ecology, flora, fauna, hydrology, and archeology indicate that the project's
environmental effects would not be significant. Although the area to be
1/   The contracts for the tunnel and powerhouse were awarded in May 1977 to
Hochtief (Germany) and ICA (Mexico), respectively, after ICB under IDB
procedures. Through ICB under Guatemalan regulations, the contract for
the turbines was awarded in January 1978 to Escher Wyss (Switzerland);
for the generators and transformers in January 1978 to Mitsubishi (Japan);
and for hydromechanical equipment in February 1978 to Sorefame (Portugal).



- 21 -
flooded by the reservoir is sparsely populated, some 1,500 people would need
to be relocated; measures also would have to be taken to ensure adequate
public health conditions in the construction camps, to control erosion in the
area, and to safeguard buried archaeological treasures. INDE has agreed to
prepare a program for a resettlement of the people requiring relocation,
ensuring adequate living and working conditions, and to present it for Bank
review by December 31, 1978 with implementation starting not later than June
30, 1979 (Section 3.06(a) of the draft Loan Agreement). With respect to
public health, INDE has made satisfactory arrangements with the Direccion
General de Servicios de Salud and the Instituto Guatemalteco de Seguridad
Social. In addition, the Bank has requested that for both the Aguacapa and
Chixoy projects' principal construction camp sites, specific areas for squatter
settlement be defined and basic services be provided in these areas. The Bank
has requested that INDE forward for Bank review the plans for the orderly
development of the camp sites and squatter settlements. In order to effectively
control erosion in the watershed contributing to the proposed Chixoy reservoir,
INDE will prepare a suitable program and present it to the Bank for review by
December 31, 1979 (Section 3.07(b) of the draft Loan Agreement) and implement
it by June 30, 1980 (Section 3.10 of the draft Guarantee Agreement). With a
view to safeguarding the project area's archaeological treasures, INDE signed
an agreement in January 1977 with the Instituto de Antropologia e Historia to
carry out all required investigations in this area and take appropriate
action. In addition, IDB has provided a US$1.51 million technical assistance
grant to the Government for the preparation of a program to protect the
environment and a program for the economic and social development of the
project zone of influence.
Project Risk
60.       Geophysicists who have studied the effects of the February 1976
Guatemala earthquake are in agreement that its cause appears to have been
the movement of lithospheric plates producing a massive rupture along the
East-West trending Motagua fault. Geological investigations at the site of
the proposed Chixoy hydroelectric project, which is located about 50 km north
of the Motagua fault have not disclosed adverse effects from the earthquake.
Another major fault, (Polochic-Chixoy-Cuilco), which runs approximately parallel
to the Motagua fault, and about 50 km north of it, passes within 5.5 km of the
site of the proposed Chixoy dam. No relative movements with respect to the
Polochic-Chixoy-Cuilco fault have been observed and INDE's consultants have
confirmed this through precise geologic surveys recently carried out. Never-
theless, the project works and in particular the tunnel have been designed to
withstand severe seismic effects. INDE's Board of Consultants has reviewed
the project's design and found it satisfactory. INDE agreed to cause major
project works (dam, waterways, earthworks, and reservoir banks) to be inspected
periodically from June 30, 1982 onward in accordance with appropriate engineer-
ing practice, in order to determine whether there are any deficiencies or
potential deficiencies in the condition of such structures and earthworks
which may jeopardize safety (Section 4.04 of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 22 -
61.       All bids received for the project have confirmed that INDE's project
construction schedule is attainable, although somewhat optimistic. Under
its present schedule, INDE expects commercial operation of the Chixoy plant by
October 1981. Comprehensive geologic investigations have been carried out and
the tunnel contractor is financially liable if, under normal circumstances,
the tunnel is not completed by August 1981. Nevertheless, considerable risks
are involved in constructing a tunnel of this length (25.6 km) in an area
containing heterogeneous geological and karstic formations, and with only
three headings. Based on a probability analysis performed by Bank staff, it
is more likely that commercial operation will be initiated in June 1982. This
assumption has been incorporated in the cost estimates and the economic
analysis.
Economic Justification
62.       During the Bank appraisal of the Aguacapa power project in March
1976, the least-cost generation expansion program for the sector in the period
1979-1989 was identified as consisting of the Aguacapa and Chixoy hydroelectric
projects and the Moyuta geothermal plant. Since then, the Chixoy project's
estimated cost has increased by 17 percent and the planned Moyuta geothermal
plant has not proved economic because of inadequate steam temperatures. A
combined cycle thermal plant has been added to the program; and construction
of the Chixoy and Aguacapa projects is underway. A least-cost analysis was
made to determine if Chixoy is still part of the least-cost program despite
its higher cost compared to an alternative hydro-thermal program, and it was
found that the proposed program has a lower cost at discount rates below
13 percent. Compared with an all thermal program, the proposed program is a
lower cost alternative at discount rates below 18 percent. Treating the 1977
investment (US$75 million) in Chixoy as sunk cost, the proposed program,
compared to the next best hydro-thermal alternative, has a lower cost at
discount rates below 21 percent.  The Government has informed the Bank that it
is considering two changes in the investment program identified in the course
of appraisal.  These would be the addition of the 50 MW Santa Maria II hydro-
electric plant and the advancement of the next major project which would
follow Chixoy.  The program with these changes might no longer be the least
cost alternative for expanding the system.  However, additional capacity
might be required in the interconnected system if demand grows at a faster
rate than presently assumed or if presently isolated markets, such as the
Atlantic Coast system (see paragraph 43), are connected. As discussed in
paragraph 55 above, assurances have been received that investments additional
to the agreed program would be made only if economically justified.
Return on Investment
63.       The return on investment for the 1978-1982 investment program has
been estimated to be 13 percent. This return has been calculated by equating
the present worth of the stream of incremental system investment and operating
costs associated with projects to be commissioned by 1982 with the present worth
of benefits as measured by forecast revenues from sale of electricity at the
retail level. The main uncertainties which may affect this return are those
associated with large civil works projects (which should be adequately covered



- 23 -
by the physical contingency allowances) and the possibility of lower-than-
expected sales revenues due to insufficient tariffs or lower-than-expected
growth in sales. As noted in the previous paragraph, the Government is
considering additions to the generation investment program. Unless such
additions are justified, they would result in a lower rate of return on the
projects presently envisaged for commissioning by 1982. (In case the Govern-
ment should decide to develop Santa Maria II for commissioning by 1982, the
estimated return on the program would be 12 persent). Should project cost be
10 percent higher than estimated and sales be 15 percent lower than forecast,
the corresponding return would be 11 percent.
64.       The above calculations probably understate the benefits of the
project, as the electricity rates which were used as the measure of benefits
may not fully consider the indirect benefits to industry and commerce, whose
production and employment depend on a reliable electricity supply, or the
benefits of residential and public uses. However, even on the basis used,
the range of rates of return obtained for the program indicate that it is
economically justified. Electricity prices will, on average, be in line with
incremental system costs, suggesting that wasteful use of energy will be
avoided. The tariff structure study referred to in para. 53 above will permit
Government and the utilities to introduce adjustments to eliminate any distor-
tions which may be identified in particular tariff categories.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
65.       The draft Loan Agreement between Instituto Nacional de Electri-
ficacion and the Bank, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Republic
of Guatemala and the Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in
Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately. The draft Loan and Guarantee
Agreements conform to the normal pattern of loans for power projects and their
more important features have been included in Part IV of this report and
summarized in Section III of Annex III of this Report. Pursuant to the
Aguacapa Loan and Guarantee Agreements, the Government, INDE and EEG entered
into a Subsidiary Contract designed to ensure that EEG, not a party to the.
Agreements with the Bank, would take all necessary action as and when required
(paras. 36 and 40 above). In order to assure EEG's compliance with the Chixoy
Agreements, it has been made a condition of effectiveness that the Subsidiary
Contract be expanded to incorporate the Chixoy Agreements (Section 7.01 of the
draft Loan Agreement).
66.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
67.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
June 15, 1978






ANNEX I
Page 1 of 4
TABLE 3A
GUATEMALA           - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)                 --------_ _ __ ----------______
---------------                                  GJUATEMALA                          REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL      108.9                                       MOST RECENT
AGRIC.      45.5                       1960       1970   ESTIMATE           DOMINICAN RE  PERU            COSTA RICA
____ - _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ -------   -_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ -_   _  _ _ ---   __ -_ _ -- - - -- - - -___--- - - - -- - - -
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                    240. 0*   400.0*    790.0/a*             400.0       470.0       580.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
_______________________________
POPULATION (MID-YR, MILLION)            4.0        5.3        6.4/a              4.1        13.3         1.7
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                       37.0       49.0      59.0/a              83.0        10.0       34.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND        88.0     116.0      140.0 /             174.0       45.0        93.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)         49.3       45.1      42.8                47.3        42.9       41.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU.AV)          21.3       16.8      13.7                13.4        14.7         8.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)        91.9      87.1       75.4               103.0       65.1        62.0
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)       44.2       51.1      54.1                52.2       58.0        66.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.4        3.1       3.0                 3.5         2.9         2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)
TCITAL                                2.8        2.8       2.9                 2.9/a       2.8        3.4
URBAN                                 4.9        4.2       4.1                 5.6         4.7         5.2 /a
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)          30.7       34.9      37.3                39.8        52.5        36.5
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                       44.9      45.0       43.3                47.5       45.0 /a    47.4
15 TO 64 YEARS                       52.3      52.2       53.6                49.4       51.9 /a    49.3
85 YEARS AND OVER                     2.8        2.8       3.1                 3.1         3.1 /-a    3.3
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                    0.9        0.9       0.9                 1.0         0.9 /a      1.0
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.7        1.7        1.7                1.7         1.5 /ib    .
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)           ,,       41.3     125.0                36.8          *-       40.2
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)             ..         ..       4.4
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)         1300.0    1600.0    2000.0/a             1100.0     4300.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (%)         63.0      59.0       56.0 /              55.5        45.0/a
UNEMPLOYED (X OF LABOR FORCE)            ..         ..         ..               14.0/b       s. o f/?
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
% OF PRIVATE INCOME REC'D BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..       35.0/a       ..               26.3/C        ..       22.8
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..      60.0/i        ..               54.3/         ..       50.6
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..       5.0/a       ..                 4.3/Z        ..        5.4
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..      13.0                           12.4/C        ..       14.7
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
______________________________
% OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS           76.6 /a    79.0         ..               62.7
X OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS          0.5 /a     0.4         .                 1.8
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN                 ,,    4570.0          .              1710.0      1920.0     1630.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON            ..    1260.0/b       ..             11720.0     3200.0      1690.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED              ..      470.0        ..               350.0      470.0       250.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)         86.0       92.0       91.0               91.0        98.0      110.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)              53.0          ..      52.8               50.0       62.0        63.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         18.0 /b   19.0        20.0               29.0       24.0        35.0
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4            29.0       24.4       25.9               17.0          *-         4.6
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                       45.0       58.0       62.0              107.0      114.0       110.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                      7.0       11.0       13.0               19.0        36.0       28.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)             12.0       12.0      12.0                12.0        12.0       11.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(X OF SECONDARY)                     19.0       15.0        ..                 S.o        I9.o/d     10.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (%)                38.0 /c      ..      47.0                50.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                1.9 /a      ..       1.6
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (X)                      89.0 /ad   .,        83.3/b                ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(X OF ALL DWELLINGS)                 22.0 /a      ..     28.5                                           *-
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (X)                    4.0 /a      ..       5.4                  ,.          ..
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)            ..     43.0       47.0                40.0       134.0        72.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)           7.0        8.0      12.0                10.0        17.0        23.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)           72.0      146.0    184.0                227.0       415.0       594.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)               1.0       1.6        1.3                 1.0         3.7         6.4
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 4
NOTES
Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 sad 1961, foe 1970 between 1969 and 1971. sad for Most Recent Estimate batemen
1973 and 1976.
G GN  per capita data are based on the World Bansk Atlas msethodology (1975-77 basis). The corresponding figures in the lAst Atlas, which were on a
J.i4-7n basis and nobO unrevisesd population dat,  re -as follow' 1970 _ $Jhfh0; 1976 - $630.0. These figures were based on population totals
of 51, and 6.5 million ropentiesly.
00 Costa Rica hba been selected as an objective country for Guatenalsa because it baa attained a higher level of economic and social d-velopment,
while having a similar rosournc baso, onport atrooturo and degreo  of opanoass in its  .onnoey.  Both -onotrien hsve snall populetiona, and both
belong to the Central Anefi-an Comnon Market.
CUATERAILA        1960   /I  1964;    /b  1961-63;    /c  Prifr to 1965;    /d  Inside only.
1970    /a  Partial survey of urban areas only;    /b  Including asbiatant nutsO.
MoST RECENT ESTIhATE:    /.  1977;    /b  Inaid  only.
DOMINICAN REP.   1970    Ia  Due to o-igration population grovth rate is lower than the rats of natural inrease;    /b  Santo Sosligo only;
/c Santo Domingo urbn.
PERU S970    Ia  Eicluding Indian jungle population;    /b  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor for-e;
/c  Uoban only;    /d  Including evening schooln.
COSTA RICA        1970    Ia  1963-70.
R9, June 12, 1978
DiNFTIN9S OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
lfood Ar-2toh .i k.2)                                                                        Po.ulation per norsing person - Population dividsd by nunber of pr-cticnlg
T-tal - rotal sorfae rea comprising land  rs.a and inland waters.                               ale and female graduate nurses, "trained" or "certified" Coreon, and
t  - Moot recant eat mate of  ugritoltoral area used temporarily or p-ono-                     auniliary personnel with training or experienco.
oeotly for coops, past,r-s, market i kitchen gardoen or to lie fallow.                     Popolation per hospital bed - Population divided by mb.er of hospital a       eda
avilable ge publin and private geosral and ep-ialioed bospitat and
CY      NIPpr    i   (vol  - GNP per capita estimates at ncurent markbt pricea,                rehabilitation nenters; excludss nurring hones and eatablilshoeuts for
calculated by sanm  conversion mothod an World Bank Attan (1974-76 baais);                   custodial and preventive care.
;Io6; 1970 and 1976 dabs.                                                                  Per .apit. supply of naoresi  of renoire..onta) - Conputnd fron nnnrgy
equivalent of set food supplies available in co ntry per apita peer dty;
yapulatia  and vital utacisqico                                                               available eupplies rospeise damoatic prodction, imports leen seports, end
n3f7'a;Io- (mid-vear million) - As of July first:  if not available, average                   changos in stock; net supplies ennlude animal feed, seeds, quantities used
of coo e-d-y-ar estniates  1960, 1970 and 1976 data,                                         in food procensing and lossee in distribution; -eqaireents vere ontinated
by FAO baasd on phyaiologittl needs for noroal activity end health -orsid-
ulatiun density - prr square km - Mid-year popolation per uqoare kilometer                  erieg environmtal temperature, body weights, age and sea distribotion=  of
(100 h-ctorno) of total area                                                                 popalation, and allowing 107. for  . ste at household level.
polotcon deco f tv-per square km of anric. land - CCputad u. above for                       Par o.pita sopply of protein (grams por day) - Protnin coetert of per rapito
.igcicu-l.ral land only.                                                                      nt supply of food per day; net supply of food is defined at above; require-
meata fur alI nountrina establiabed by RUSSA Eoonomin Resea.rch fS-insa
viral nctlotiac                                                                                provide far a ninfimu  allowancn of 60 green of torts  protein per day, and
Crodo birth rate per thousand. av-ran - A-oal live births per tbo.eand of                      20 grame of animal and pales protein, of wbhin  10 gras should be animal
mid-year population; too-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970,                   protein; these atandards are lower then those of 75 grams of total protein
atd fiv--yoar aver.ge e-ding in 1975 for most rt.ent estiate.                                and 23 grams of anisal protein as an average for the world, proposed by FAP
crudy drath rate_pr tbouavd  avorone - Annual deaths per thousand of nid-year                  in the Third World Fond Survey
population; tc-year arithbmtit averageb ending in 1960 and 1970 and five-                  Per copite protein supply from geial and Pulse  - Protein supply of fond
ye.ar rcra.e ending in 1975 for mset recnt estimate,                                         deried fran anioals and pulses in grama per day.
Infant morrali;y rote (/dhou) - Annual dsaths of infants under one year of age               Death rate (/thou) agea 1-4 - Annual deaths per thousand in age group 1-4s
per thbosnad live births.                                                                    ysare, to nhildren in thia age group; suggested as an indinator of
lifr eupe-tancy at birth (yrs) - Avrage nanber of yeara of lifa renainig aC                    m1n.ntrition
birth; -aually fi0c-year -v.eges -ndiog in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for develop-
ifg c-c,,trica                                                                             Education
Gross -o-rrductio rate -   -geo number of live dausghters.         na   w ...ill bear        Ad1wtod enrollment ratio - primary sebool - Enrollment of all ages an per-
in her onorma  ro 'rodi,rrIae period if she  xnperionesI present age-apecifir                centage of pri_ssoy atbool-age popul_cioe; includes children aged 6-11 y.ars
f-rtility rates; usally five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975                    bht adjusted for different lengthe of peima-y education; for ce,mtries with
far dec loping ountrivs.                                                                     onivereal edunation, enrollment may eoced 100% *ince  asoe popfil  are below
Pcp,las.pq.orowth rate  'i) - total - Ctmpsoud annual growth rates of mid-year                 or above the official school age.
population for 1950-60, 1960-70 and 1970-75.                                               Adlsted enrollment ratio - uecondary school - Computed  n above; secondary
poProlatian gro-th rate (7_) -  rban - Computed like growth rate of total                      education requires at least fonr years of approved primary inatruction;
poyulatian; different dofinitions of urban oreas nay affect eaparability of                  provides general, vocotional . or ..cebr training inetroctiens for pupils
data -anof countries                                                                         of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence eo. rea- are generally exloded.
Urban poonlotion (%/ of total) - Ratio of urban to total population; diffnrent               Years of sohoolinm prayided (firnt and second levels) - Total yearn of
deficiti-o  of urban ureas nay affect comparobiliry of data among countrioes                 acsoling ;at  secondary level, --otcional in-truotion may be paetially or
nampla rely  cnnlinsed.
age arsoture  (percent) - CiIldron (0-14 year), working-age (15-64 years)                   Vocational enroll_ent (% of senondary) - Vocational institutions include
and retired (65 yeara and over) as parnentagaS  of mid-year popslation.                      teehnical, indr trial or other programs whith operate indepeedeetly or a
A.0 dependencY ratio - Ratio of popal-tian under 15 and 65 sod over to those                   deparetmnts af aecondary institutnon.
of agas 15 through 64.                                                                     Adult literacy rate (%) - Literate adslt- fabln ta read and unite) as per-
tan_aRic dependency rntio - Ratio of pepolatian onder 15 and 65 and ever to                    centage of total adult popslation aged 15 years and aver
the lubor fuoce in s6e group of 15-64 ye-a.
Funi ily uuisi-acceptara (ososlative. thou) - Camulati-e number of acceptors                 Reunisg
of birth-c-ntrcI deaices under aspices of national family planniog program                 Perrens per roam (urban) - Average number of perenan  per room in accupied
sinceno-pr ion.                                                                              _onvational dI elltngo Os urban areas; dwalltngscfudsoon-psraoent
tauly planning -            users (/.i mott=led waene) - Pertentagea of married names of       atroctores and unotcnpied parts.
child-hoarini ago (15-44 yearu) eho ue birth-contrel d-vice-  to all married               0ccupied dwellings without Piped -oter (X) - Occupied -onventional dwellings
w n iL ra ne 000ge griop.                                                                    in urban and rural areas without deaide or ou-aide piped sater facilitisa
as pertentags of all ancupied deellinga.
nvlcantst                                                                                   Aneess te electricity (% of all dellinga) - Cnvesti .o.l dwellinga oith
fatal loico trce (thoussnd) - E-onainally active persans, including armed                   electricity in liviog qurt era as perceet af tatal dwellings in  urban and
forces a.d anenployed  out enolodiog hbuseRivse, atudestr,  t., definitions                 rural - reas
in carion countriea are cat tanperablo.                                                   Rural dvellings connected to eletrieity (R) - Computed as  ha-ve for rural
laoIr force In agriculture 0%) - Agricultural labor farce (in farming, fareatry,               demllinga only.
I,cctsng and fishiog) sa percentage of  tocal labor farce.
uomolaynd (/, of labar forne) - llsamployed are .aually defined as parsons who              Consumption
ore ahle and willing to taske a ob, ear of a job on a given day, remained out             Radio neeivere (pear than pop) - All type- of receivers for redio broadcasts
of a jub  and .a.kiog work fora spec-iffid  nimum perfid soe  sexcoding see                 to general public par thousand of papulstion: e.eludes unli-ened reee.vira
-eok; say net be canporable between conetries due to different definitions                   in  anitries and in years shen registration of radio sets was is offset
,I u.neployed and source of dsta, e.g., employment office statistics, saple                  data far recent years may eot be oemparhble since nost countries abolished
_urapY, copusoery unomployent inscrance.                                                     licnseing.
Paseenear oars feer thou pop) - Pssengear cars tomprise motor cars seating
CPoe distribution - Psr-eetge of private in-sm  (both in c-ah and kind)                     less iban eight persons; e.elodee ambulancea, hearses and nilitary
reoeivod by ciche.t S%, rinhest 204, poorest 20%, and poorest 40h  of house-                vehicles.
no]du.                                                                                     OlExtricity (kwh/vr per cap) - Annual c an.-ptinn of Industrial, coerrtial,
public end private electricity in kilovatt hours per eapits, geuorally
,lstrtlhut.onof iand o-n-rship - Per.estagea of land oaned by wealthiest 107                  based on produtolao data, withoot allowance fur losses in geids but a11o-
cud poor-ot 10i uf land osuctr.                                                              inS fur Laport-  cd eopor-s of electricity.
Smunerint bkm/yr Per cap) - Par capits ana . Io-nsumption in kilgo-ams
leal tIlh antl Nutrito                                                                        estimated fran domestic pr-duntion plus net imports of .eaaprit
oupulation per phvyician - fopolation divided by number of pr-tsicisg
phyalciac. qualified fron a medical aubool et nivr- rity levl.



.00.-,.   0                 0     0~.         0                                                                                                                        o    o------ 
oooo   ~~~~.o.  orpooro    ,o  2                                       o0~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                        .         0=0      0   0000 ~ ~ ~~1 
0-04.0  dUo              000000000           0                                            0       0       1       1       0'.002.*100~*.
oR)2~0       0                                                                          oUo    ~ fl~ 4                            . 0on          00     o00~ 00..o.oooi                       0     0     000        000       00
00    ~~ o  oo-.~~>  olojo..                     ooo..o,o  -. '0        -on        -      0000        .:...-. . .     .                                         . . . . .-
o                                                     0      '000o00                                                       006o100   0                                     -    0         0              0
000000  5   ~~~~~~~  ~       ~                       2"~~~~o'                             0jO0~~~~~000O0*'O  00 ~~~~~~~~~0                                                                    C 
000000  - ~~~~~~~~~~~5s'24p  0 0    0                                                           00000                                     0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.  .    0    
I              '"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~' ~ ~       ~          ~          ~          ~          ~         ~          ~            ......'               
~~~~~w  z  .   IT~, o o- o                                                                              , 00            O OOoo,.o00                                                                                        0     00       0     0     0
0~~~~   0000000 2:;      0000                                                                Zoon    000~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~           .........
w I ~      ~        ~        ~        -                         0         0                                0 0o.o.o0000~
00  000         0'0.   H   0          0..... ......                                            ...                                                  ......
0                      :~~~~~~--.. .. .. ..
0  *o   0                                              0~~~~~~~ .0             ...                  
ku'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                       0               0000
00  -  K-                                                    0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~          ...                                         ....           
10.0 - 0 I - ~ ~       ~ ~ ~ F 
-0)0>00 lao oo~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 



ANNE I
Page 1 of 4
BALANE 0.1PAJIMEEC   EXTERNIAL ASSSTA3C'E AND BTEN
(ejuuntein   illins  .S.  ollas a  curentprices
Actual                          F,ettetd                                     Proj-cted
11972      97         98       1975      196          17             90       17          96        91       16         95        19
uosary of  olance of Paymntao
1.  Exports (isolodloeg 622)            ~~~~391.1    529.5    701.6    792.0    951.8          1320.6        t383.2   1531.1   1679.0   1907.7   2169.4   3236.8   6425.9
2.Ixorts (including 692)                            367.3    5114.3    607.6    656.0   1136.3             1411.9       1571.1   1723.6   1962.6 2200             50.       36.2       709
3 Resource Balance                                     1.1      15.2   -106:0    -66.o   -i64.5            -121.2        -166.2   -189.7   -263.5   -332.3   -370.6   -136.3   -355.0
Net6c  Factor SevceIcoe                             -13.7    -15.7    -17.1    -.69.0    -17.9              -k2.8         -10.1    _h1.4    -15.7    -51.5    -65.2   -126.3   -267.3
.1 Net Interest Poysents                             -13.6       -9.4      -1.2      -9.3      -9.6           -9.2          -6.6      -6.3      -9.1    -16.4    -25.6    -61.9   -214.0
of  htich On pu.  &Alt loans                       -6.7      -6.9       -5.9      -6.1    -12.7           -15.1        -20.7    -27.0    -33.7    -10,.1    -15.0   -101.5   -260.6
.2 Direct Invetment income                           -33.9    -38.5    -19.2    -63.6    -16.3               -143.6       -44.5    -16.6    -16.6    -51.1    -53.6    -61.5    -77.1
.3 Wdorkere Reoitto..c.. (set)                         3.8       2.2       3.0        1.1       6.2          10.0          10.7      11.1.     12.3       13.1      ol.o      17.2       21.1
Coorot Transfers. (net)                           30.0      11.6      51.0      72.6    198.6            97.0         1.1       159        107      115.7      12.       139       179
n  .1. .aaoco  Current Accout                         -9.5      11.1    -99.1    -62.1        -3.6          -67.1       -127.3   -125.2   -218.9   -271.1   -315.1   -42L.7   -150.1.
7.  Pricate Diret Ineut ..ot                            15.1      35.2      15.7      63.1       91.2          90.0          6o.o      66.o       96.6    106.5    117.1    155.9    o51.1
5. Granto  A Grat-Like flmo                              6.6       8.9       2.7        5.7       1.8             .0           .0        .0         .0        .0        .0         .0        .0
?1b1cc MALT lAans                                                                                                                                           5.        51       461        805
9.  Disbur-nsetn                                        32.0      19.9      23.5      56.1       5l.8         131.8         111.3    117.6    11.8.9       15.       131       161       805
RD. A.no-ti-tioo                                       -31.1    -12.2    -21.0        -7.0       -5.7         -11.6         -17.1    -22.6    -28.0    -67.7    -69.9    -96.0   -428.7
10. Net Disbrout                                         2,1       7.7       2.1      51.1      16.1          120.2         127.2    125.0    120.9         81.0      87.2    360.1    371.6
liner MALT Loan  /3                                                                                                                     10       48L        52        586       79       i55
10: .        .isb ...meto                                 .0        .0        .0         .0        .0         103.0          10.0      110        6..       52        5.6       79       155
13. Ao..rtlation                                          .0        .0        .0        .0         .0        -100.0        -103.0    -25.0    -30.0    -35.5    -11.6    -63.6   -102.1
10. Ret Dioburse.netc                                     .0        .0        .0         .0        .0            3.0        -63.0      19.0      18.1,      17.7      17.0      11.4       23.1
15. Roe of IMF Resoures                                 -6.5        .0        .0         .0        .0             .0           .0        .0         .0    ~ .0          .0        .0         .0
16,. Snort-Tens Cacital                                 21.3        .1      20.6      11.1       61.9          -1.O            .0        .0         .0       1.0        .0        .0         .0
17. Oupita1 TrunoatioO  Nen                             13.8       2.7       3.5       15.6      18.1          15.3            .0         .0        .0        .0         .0       .0         .0
15. Chage in Reserve  (--ncr)                          -10.1    -65.7       23.9   -105.7   -221.3           -057.1         -16.9   -106.6    -17.6         62.8      93.7   -10)5. 8   -195.7
19. Net Foregn Eccisgh Resrve                          231.6    200.5    176.6    200.3    513.6              650.3         867.2    771.1      791.6    726.8    635.0    910.0   1695.0
...nt and l-an Oouit ..nts                                                                                                                                        Annta                          Estimated
1972      122_      1971      1975       1976       121
i.Oficia  Grants                                      i.6       1.5         .0        .0        .0
2  'i. T.1al Pblic KALT L.nn                          36.6      31.0      23.9      65.7    276.2    Media and Lone-Ter          ulcDbt(ibre   Ony
.1 IBii                                               16.0         .3        .0      26.0      11.0
.2 :DA                                                   .0        .0        .    .0             .1    Total Debt   utstanding (DOD2
U   tier, Mu1tlrontcf1                                2.a      03.6      19.1       25.9'   131.2        End of Period)                       106.6    112.2    114.6    165.6    211.7           336.5
.L cG.-,-ento                                          .3       u.7       1.5       37.4      86.0    Incloding Undisborsed                  162.7    195.6    198.5    280.6    551.0            723.3
.5 if Whi ch OCotraily Plannd Re. /0                     .0        .0        .0        .0         .0    Public Debt Service                    -411.     -19.1    -26.9    -13.4    -16.1           -07.0
.1 . Gppli-e                                             .0        .0        .0        .0         .0       lateflet                             -6.7      -6.9       -5.9      -6.4    -12.7        -15.1
.7 Ols-ocll Institution                                18.3       0.6        .3         .5     15.0
.4 Rondo                                                 .0        .0        .0         .0        .0
.9 Public Loot NEI                                       .0       .0         .0        .0 
,Ohoor MALT Loy(Where Available)                        .0        .0        .1         .0 O             Debt Buden  (Public Debt)
Debt Service Ratio                     10.1        3.6i      3.6       1.7        1.9        2.1
Out.tonig Dso. 31, 1976              Debt Service/GDP                         0.0         .0        .9        .4         .1        0.1
Lotersal Debt (Dinbursed Oray)                                         _F    i      pe8rcn                Pub. Debt Sevice/Gov. R-evenu           11.8       5.9       6.9        2.6       2.8         3.1
IEAD                                                                        12.1      20.0                Tern  (Public Debt)
Sac  Groop                                                                  12.1       20.0
otber maltiiaterao                                                          48.1       22.9               Tot. ono Total DOD/Total DOD             6.3       6.1        5.2       3.9       6.0        1.5
G.-crn-entn                                                                111.1       53.9               Total Debt Servio/Tota1 DOD             36.5      17.0      23.5        8.1       8.7        8.3
Of dhiobC Octrally PI.srd Eos.io/2                                          .0         .0
S-coiern                                                                     1.7        2.2               Dependency Ratios for Pub:lic MALT
cicancla  Onotir.ttocs                                                       1.7         .8
Rondo                                                                          .4        .2               Goss Dlob./Dp.crts (imd. 995)            8.2       3.5       2.9        6.8       1.6        9.1
oiiiic Debt Ret                                                               .1        .1               Net Tra...fer/DIoorts (Rodl. 690)   -2.3             .2       _L1       5.0       2.9         7.3
_.tra   Pui1ic MALT Debt                                                   211.7    100.1                Net Tran..fer/Oro.s Disbureevets  -28.3             1.7    -41.9       76.9       61.5       79.5
Oihle  Public MALT Debt                                                        .0        .0
Dther MALIT Debt                                                               .0        .0              Eposure  on Public Debt
Total Public Debt (including  ndisb-rud)                                   551.0    260.3
Octal MALT Debr (i-cuding ondiob-rsd)                                      551.0    260.3                 IEND  Disb./Rro-  Dieb.                 15.6      30.1,     30.6       11.3       7.7        6.7
Bank Group Disb./Or-e  DRab.           15.8       30.1      30.6      11,3        7.7        6.7
DODD DOD/DOD                            20.2      24.1      29.1      23.6       20.0       11.7
Bank Group DOD/DOD                     20.2       21.1      29.1      23.5      20.0        l1L7
lIBD Debt Sercinc/leR   S.-nD-.          1.4      13.7       9.9      06.5       20.7       19.6
Bask Group Debt Oervice/
Debt Service                          1.4      13.7        9.9      26.5      22.7        19.6
i/ bo-lucing out direct inceocoent teocen.                                                                                                                                               lO1
2./ looenCEd  -outrio, PolsRepublic of Chins, North Korea, Nortb Vietea.nLA.
7/ Informtion on pr-tva    debt out avilable for years prior to l977; estianatee hve been included begisning in 1977.                                                                    Jane 9, 1978



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GUATEMALA
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS
(As of April 30, 1978)
$ Million Amount
(net of Cancellations)
Loan No.     Year      Borrower      Purpose                     Total      Undisbursed
Four loans fully disbursed                                        46.5            -
722        1971     Government   Livestock                       4.0          0.2
792        1971     GUATEL        Telecommunications            16.0          0.4
1104        1975     GUATEL        Telecommunications            26.0         21.0
1212        1976     Government   Education                      14.5         14.4
1314        1976     Government   Earthquake
Reconstruction
Education and Port          6.5          6.5
1315-T /1    1976      Government   Earthquake
Reconstruction
Urban Sites and
Services                   20.0         19.4
1426         1977      INDE         Power                         55.0         45.5
Total                                               188.5
Of which has been repaid                           23.4
Total now outstanding                               165.1
Amount sold                    5.8
Of which has been repaid    3.4                     2.4
Total now held by Bank                              162.7
Total undisbursed                                                 107.4
1/   Third Window Loan.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of April 30, 1978)
$ Million Amount
Year      Obligor                     Type of Business             Loan  Equity   Total
1958      Industria Harinera          Flour Mill                    0.2     -      0.2
Guatemalteca, S.A.
1973      Exploraciones y            Mining and Processing        15.0      -     15.0
Explotaciones              of Nickel
Mineras Izabal, S.A.
1977      Cementos Novella, S.A.    Cement                         3.0      -      3.0
18.2     -     18.2
Less cancellations, terminations, repayments
and sales                                              0.2     -       0.2
Total now held by IFC                                   18.0     -      18.0
Undisbursed                                              2.0     -       2.0
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Loan/Credit No.
Ln. 722        Livestock Project:  US$4.0 million of February 10, 1971;
Effective Date: July 19, 1971; Closing Date: June 30, 1978.
Progress of this project has been slower than anticipated,
and it is likely that disbursements will not be completed
until about two years after the original closing date.
Operations improved when the Bank and the Borrower (Government
of Guatemala) agreed to extend the project area to include the
Central Northern and Atlantic Coastal regions in addition to
the Pacific Coast, and the Government introduced measures
suggested by the Bank to accelerate commitments and disburse-
ments. The loan is now fully committed and 97 percent
disbursed.,
Ln. 792        Telecommunications:  US$16.0 million of January 5, 1972;
Effective Date: July 17, 1972; Closing Date: June 30, 1978.
Initial delays, resulting from the consolidation of the
principal sector entities and lags in procurement, have
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of the strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4
delayed completion of disbursements by about two years
beyond the original closing date of December 31, 1976.
(An -extension of the Closing Date by about six months
is under consideration.) The project is now progressing
satisfactorily, and all contracts for the procurement of
goods have been signed.
Ln. 1104        Telecommunications:  US$26.0 million of April 29, 1975;
Effective Date: November 25, 1975; Closing Date: June 30,
1979.
Implementation of this project has fallen about a year behind
schedule. The delay is due mainly to personnel difficulties
(lack of trained personnel, frequent staff turnover) of the
Borrower, the Empresa Guatemalteca de Telecomunicaciones (GUATEL).
Contracts for switching equipment have been awarded recently
but delays in ordering of cables (now being processed) continue
to produce delays in connecting work. The situation may be
expected to improve slightly as the Borrower's personnel
situation is stabilizing.
Ln. 1212        Education:  US$14.5 million of March 5, 1976;  Effective Date:
April 20, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
The one-year period required for Congressional ratification of
the Loan Agreement has resulted in substantial slippage in loan
implementation. Curriculum development has recently been
completed and school construction work is now progressing well.
Ln. 1314        Earthquake Reconstruction (Education and Port Rehabilitation):
US$6.5 million of August 2, 1976; Effective Date; April 20,
1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Mainly because of slowness of Congressional ratification of
the Loan Agreement, this loan became effective eight months
after loan signing. The implementation of the education
component has been slow but has recently shown progress. The
locations for the replacement primary schools and for new
schools to be constructed for the Urban Sites and Services
component of Loan 1315-T have been identified and made avail-
able to the project.  Also, the recruitment of additional
support staff for the two implementing agencies has been
undertaken.
Consultants are preparing the plans and specifications for the
rehabilitation of the quay at Puerto Barrios.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
Ln. 1315-T     Earthquake Reconstruction (Urban Sites and Services):  US$20.0
million of August 2, 1976; Effective Date: May 5, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Designs for the first phase of the project have been finalized.
Site preparation for 3,000 out of a total of 10,000 housing
units planned for Guatemala City and 1,900 out of a total of
8,000 housing units planned for ten other cities has been
completed.
Ln. 1426        Power:  US$55.0 million of June 10, 1977; Effective Date:
February 7, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
The loan was declared effective about five months later than
planned. The additional time was needed for Congressional
ratification of the loan, implementation of an adequate tariff
increase, and execution of an agreement among INDE, EEG and the
Government on bulk tariffs and sector coordination. All
contracts for the Aguacapa plant (the major component of
the project) have been awarded and construction is generally
on schedule. Delays have been experienced in carrying out
the studies included in the project but some of the required
consultants have now been hired and others are expected to be
hired soon.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
GUATEMALA
CHIXOY POWER PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:    Timetable of Key Events
(a)    Time taken to prepare project:              17 months
(b)    Agency which prepared project:              INDE
(c)    First presentation to Bank:                 April 1975
(d)    Departure of appraisal mission:             March 1977
(e)    Completion of negotiations:                 May 19, 1978
(f)    Planned date of effectiveness:              October, 1978
Section II:   Special Bank Implementation Actions
Not applicable.
Section III:  Conditions
(a)    The Government has agreed to measures to improve power
sector organization and to use its best efforts to complete
them by December 31, 1979 (para. 37);
(b)    The Government will provide capital contributions required
for the project and other works to be undertaken in 1978
(para. 44);
(c)    The Government has agreed to take all tariff action
necessary to enable the power sector to make contributions
to the sector investment program from internally generated
funds of not less than 13 percent in 1978 and 16 percent
in 1979 (paras. 51-52);
(d)    The Government has agreed that, following completion of the
Aguacapa project, it will take all tariff action necessary to
enable the power sector to achieve a rate of return of at
least 8 percent on revalued net fixed assets in operation;
the Government has also agreed that for the purpose of
establishing the rate of return, net fixed assets of the
power sector will be valued annually (para. 53);



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(e)    the tariff structure study agreed to under the Aguacapa
Loan Agreement will be completed and provided to the
Bank for comment not later than July 31, 1979 (para. 53);
(f)    sector receivables from public agencies will be reduced
to a maximum of 60 days billings by December 31, 1978
(para. 54);
(g)    INDE has agreed to inform the Bank of any proposed capital
expenditure in excess of US$5.0 million not included in the
sector investment program and to furnish to the Bank a
report for comments showing the economic and financial
justification of such expenditure; the Government has
agreed to take all action to prevent duplication of
facilities and unnecessary investment and to assure that
power sector expansion is based on economically justifi-
able programs (para. 55);
(h)    INDE will not contract any long-term debt, unless its
net revenues are at least 1.5 times the maximum debt-
service requirement for any future fiscal year (para. 55);
(i)    a program for the resettlement of the 1,500 people now
living in the area to be flooded by the Chixoy reservoir
will be prepared, ensuring adequate living and working
conditions; the program will be presented for Bank review
by December 31, 1978, and implemented not latter than
June 30, 1979 (para. 59);
(j)    a program to control erosion will be prepared by
December 31, 1979 and implemented by June 30, 1980
(para. 59); and
(k)    prior to loan effectiveness, the Subsidiary Contract to
the Aguacapa Loan Agreement between Government, INDE
and EEG will be expanded to incorporate the Chixoy
Agreements (para. 65).



O", cl "IW
a
GUATEMALA
COSTA RI
%
INSTITUTO NACIONAL DE ELECTRIFICACION
NDE)
7,
7,
S.
s- J..,J-y
CILI!N
cilly0y
%          O'N D
RIC 17/voo                                                            :L
3ANTI C111
,DEL GLiCHE
SAN      MIS
L
A
Sd
I'N
EIVD                                                                                                          JAL P
'NA                                                  EPAALA                                                                                  231 k,
CITY                                                                                       8 k,
L                                                                                                                                                               q k"
50 v
3d 5 k,
E                                                     2?                                            t
[3 HYDRO
rE T-.AL,
1310SER:'L
F
N-t- N
Fd-c.
o    lv Ww
-or






1BRD 13048
.000  (  ,o0  000DAM   SITE                                      0 \                          <too,   >0
ME~TERS
11    7      /  g t8    w    J.              v.1'                   PROECT  LCAT O               PLAN                 AX                        '                        -                         , .X    >e.........X NTA ANA PROJECT......LOCATION........... J'A
egOo >) g 0-X s N3 A&LOMETERS                                                                                                                                                          XJ  ;<  0 AORR9W AREA>' - . . <,,4\ ;ecess rood( 8 g /)  ) ) >A
('o                        '                               /f 7oO  o                                  '3o    70t 0pt  4                                                          S,                                    \     \    |(  "               -
YOuAEmL                               N       r      e        0  t0 : % s                               00                        ,008J \\3/ORROWAEA                                                                 0<) 0
looooo-.Jo    ELEVAs                   >0 coNrouRs I0 ,E6ER/ l l               w            l  E t al<KLMTR
lbl-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
|L NGITUITT NAINAL DRFL   NTNEL  ELECTERIFCAI                           ON  (INDE)sE'o e5o                                                                                                                                                    stX
1000 -            CONT-       0       0 2  4-                                                                                                      ,                                                                   0 0 -0 7  I
',t~~~~~~~~~~0   '00,0                                                                                                                              0                                                      3
o~~~~'                     ~0  =A                                                                                   ot   0WQi2 ,    tB 50'zw 
FIokootrooFo.oFG   4 
C  7  ,                                                  KILOMETERS                                                                                                      <Aooooorood(                                  00~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.TES  F1    ,Boo  lB1 
'40                                            ~    ~ ~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                  ~~~~~~~- 20000    7EE  0/  I 
2,ooo -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~00Oo                                                                                                                          0                                    o                               
1000 -                                                                                                                                                                     1~~~~~~~~~ GUTE ALA0010-/
,Do                                                                             500~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~00
6                                    {0                                                               00
COO  2/OAT 06' CONTOURS ITo METERS                                                  srorogoAool           (/<//<~>0Y2ICRO SSSCTO                                O-  A
o                                                                                     tv~~~~~~~~~~~3     
~~  \sAoo<,FG 4



