 IEG
                                                                                              Report Number: ICRR14709

                  ICR Review
                  Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                       Date Posted: 05/13/2015

               Country: India
             Project ID: P050653                                                   Appraisal             Actual
         Project Name: In Second Karnataka          Project Costs (US$M):           US $193.44M         US $ 348.56 M
                         Rural Water Supply
                         And Sanitation Projec
  L/C Number:                                         Loan/Credit (US$M):           US $151.60 M          US $263.5 M
      Sector Board:      Water                        Cofinancing (US$M):

           Cofinanciers:                               Board Approval Date :                               12/18/2001
                                                               Closing Date:             12/31/2007        06/30/2014
          Sector(s):       Sanitation (43%); Water supply (42%); Other social services (7%); Sub-national government
                           administration (7%); General water; sanitation and flood protection sector (1%)
          Theme(s):        Pollution management and environmental health (23%); Indigenous peoples (22%);
                           Participation and civic engagement (22%); Decentralization (22%); Gender (11%)

Prepared by:               Reviewed by:           ICR Review                 Group:
                                                  Coordinator:
Santhadevi Meenakshy Peter Nigel Freeman          Christopher David          IEGPS1
                                                  Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

 a. Objectives:
 The objectives of the project were to assist Karnataka in: (i) increasing rural communities' access to improved and
sustainable drinking water supply and sanitation services and (ii) institutionalizing decentralization of Rural Water
Supply and Sanitation (RWSS) service delivery to Gram Panchayats (village governments) and user groups. (The
objective reported in Page #19 Schedule 2 of Development Credit Agreement {DCA} and page #2 of the Project
Appraisal Document is identical ).

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
Yes
 If yes, did the Board approve the revised objectives/key associated outcome targets?
Yes
 Date of Board Approval: 06/15/2010

 c. Components:
   Component A: Community Development and Infrastructure Building (Appraisal cost is US$166.00M and Actual cost
is US $ 317.57 M): This component had three sub-components. They are: (a) Community Development Support; (b)
Infrastructure Building; and (c) Indigenous People’s Development Program.

Component B: Institution Building (Appraisal cost is US$21.30 M and Actual cost is US$ 27.88 M). This component
had four sub-components. They are: (a) Project Management; (b) Sanitation and Hygiene Promotion; (c) Capacity
Building and (d) GP Strengthening.

Component C: Sector Strengthening Programs (Appraisal cost is US$6.10M and Actual cost is US$ 3,1 M).The
component had five sub-components. They are: (a) Creating enabling
Environment; (b) Sector information management system; (c) Continuous learning;
(d) Goods and Equipment; and (e) Water Quality Monitoring.

Changes during implementation
Credit cancellation: There were two cancellations during the life of the Project: (i) US$13.94 million was canceled from
the Project based on a request from Government of India and was allocated for the Emergency Tsunami
Reconstruction Project in June 2005; and (ii) Rupee depreciated 36% against the US Dollar From Project appraisal to
closing. This resulted in an additional US$12 million that could not be used and was subsequently cancelled from the
Credit. (page #5 of the ICR)

Reallocation of Credit: In June 2009, an amount of US$22.86 million was reallocated within the existing disbursement
categories. According to task team “The Government of Karnataka (GoK) (in 2009) requested to reallocate about SDR
14.75 M (SDR= Special Drawing Rights) within the existing disbursement categories from allocations made in June
2005. This was because, on one hand, additional allocations (SDR 14.75M) were needed to finance the additional
water supply schemes (civil works) undertaken by the project. On the other hand, savings were anticipated under the
allocations made for Goods (SDR 1.0 M) and consultancy and training (SDR 4.9 M). Further the Unallocated Credit
amount (SDR 8.85M) was no longer needed”.

d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:
 Project Cost:
The total actual project cost was US $ 348.56 million. This included additional finance; financing.
Financing:
The actual financing in the form of ODA credits was US $263.5 million. There was no co- financing.

Borrower Contribution :
Borrower contribution increased from US$ 71.84 M at appraisal to US$ 85.06 million.

Dates:
The project was restructured four times. The closing date of the Project was extended four times resulting in a shift
from December 31, 2007 as stated in the Credit Agreement, to June 30, 2014. Of these four restructure, the third
restructure on June 15, 2010 included additional financing.


3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

 a. Relevance of Objectives:
SUBSTANTIAL
During conception, the project development objective was relevant to the needs of the RWSS sector in Karnataka
and in line with the Government of India’s National Sector Strategy that indicated the Government’s commitment to
institutionalize a demand-driven, community based approach for rural water supply across the country. It was also
coherent with the Bank’s development priorities. It contributed to the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) objectives of
(i) strengthening the enabling environment for development and growth, and (ii) supporting interventions that benefit
the poor and disadvantaged. However, the ICR does not provide dates of the National Sector Strategy or of the CAS.

At closure, it remained consistent with the current Country Partnership Strategy (CPS 2013) and contributed towards
transformation and inclusion. Project supported improving: water supply and sanitation services under the
transformation pillar and access to services for the residents of the poorer northern part of Karnataka under the
inclusion pillar.

 b. Relevance of Design:
SUBSTANTIAL
The design was founded on the principles of participation and inclusion, accountability, transparency, convergence
and sustainability. The components are suitably selected to enable achievement of the development objective. The
design of the three components was adequate and allowed for generating candid outputs. For instance: women’s
development and tribal development sub-components allowed for evidencing the project focus on gender, vulnerability
and inclusion aspects. The design was appropriate in terms of identifying risks and incorporating mitigation measures.
Implementation arrangements established clear links from components to outcomes.

As part of additional financing, services were extended to an additional 1,650 villages to meet any remaining demand
and the multi-village schemes (MVS) were introduced. The scope of the three components was expanded with no
changes to their overall design. The components remained appropriate to enable achievement of development
objective.
 4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):
   The objectives of the project are "to assist Karnataka in: (i) increasing rural communities' access to
improved and sustainable drinking water supply and sanitation services and (ii) institutionalizing decentralization of
Rural Water Supply and Sanitation (RWSS) service delivery to Gram Panchayats (village governments) and user
groups".

There was no change to the original objective as part of restructuring. With regard to indicators, the development
objective (DO) and intermediate (IO) indicators were reviewed at restructuring, resulting in modification, removal and
the addition of new indicators, but there was no material difference in how these indicators related to the achievement
of the project against its PDO. Therefore, efficacy was assessed against the sub-objectives listed below.

Increasing rural communities’ access to improved and sustainable drinking water
SUBSTANTIAL

The project met the target in terms of coverage ( 11 districts in northern Karnataka) and exceeded the target by 17%
and 22% with regard to access to improved drinking water .

Output { F. Results Framework Analysis of the ICR}
1. 7,026,924 people in rural areas provided with access to improved water sources under the project (original target
4,200,000 in 2001 and revised target 5,981,584 in 2010. Target exceeded by 17%)
2. 168,397 new piped household water connections resulting from the Project interventions (Target of 137,044 set in
2010. Target exceeded by 22%)

Outcome
The Project has resulted in wider water coverage across 11 districts in Northern Karnataka that comprise 2,305 GPs
and 9,693 villages. JNP I and II together have led to improved water supply in 1,369 (59.4%) GPs and 4,796 (49.5%)
villages. Coverage in two districts - Uttar Kannada and Bidar exceeded 80% of all villages. The remaining nine
districts have more than 50% GP coverage (Table 1 in page #14). Cumulatively, the project has financed 3,516 water
supply schemes, thus surpassing the PAD target by about 17%.

Increasing rural communities’ access to improved and sustainable sanitation services SUBSTANTIAL

The project substantially increased access to sanitation services and exceeded the target in providing households
with latrines and improved smokeless stoves. However, such achievements above the set targets tends to pose
questions on how realistic these targets were and/or whether they were set much lower than it should have been.

Outputs {Results Framework Analysis of the ICR}
1. 1,377,990 people in rural areas provided with access to improved sanitation facilities
under the Project (1,396,946 target in 2010. 99% of the target achieved)
2. 380,616 rural households provided with access to household latrines under the project (target 220,000 in 2001 and
372,476 in 2010. 102% target achieved)
3. 449,873 rural households provided with access to Improved smokeless stoves (indoor air quality control measures)
under the Project (target 220,000 in 2001 and target 302,103 in 2010. Target exceeded by 49%)

Outcome
The Project also led to increased access to improved sanitation. Overall, more than 380,000 people gained access to
improved latrines. Household sanitation also improved due to increased access to smokeless challahs, with more
than 449,000 households provided access to smokeless challahs.

Institutionalizing decentralization of rural water supply and sanitation service delivery to Gram Panchayats and user
group
MODEST

Outputs { Results Framework}
1. 4,029 Village Water Supply & Sanitation Committees engaged in service provision (target 2,100 in 2001 and target
2,961 in 2010. Target was surpassed by over 36%)

Outcome
GoK decentralized the rural water supply and sanitation services by aligning the Project’s institutional arrangements
with the existing Panchayati Raj Institution (PRI) set up –Zila Parishad ( ZP) at the district level; Taluka Panchayat (
TP) at tehsil level; and GP at the village levels. GPs were placed in the ‘driver’s seat’ and, together with the VWSCs
(established as a sub-committee of the GP), were capacitated to make decisions, procure materials, carry out
construction, manage funds, and contribute towards capital cost. The TPs and ZPs provided additional support to GPs
as needed.

Over 96 advocacy workshops were held to disseminate the sectoral reforms to a wider audience. The advocacy
workshops were attended by over 3,069 participants from government, private sector, non-government organizations (
NGOs), citizen groups and community organizations. Additionally, representatives from Karnataka Rural Water
Supply and Sanitation Agency (KRWSSA), Rural Development and Panchayati Raj ( RDPR), Panchayati Raj
Engineering Department (PRED), Gram Panchayat (GPs) and VWSCs participated in exposure visits to other projects
to gain an understanding of reform effectiveness.

The project institutionalized water quality testing and also involved the Chief Executive Officer of the ZP and the
District Health Officer of the engineering division of ZP. Under this sub-component, each of the project districts was
provided with quality monitoring equipment. Approved private testing agencies and laboratories were used to conduct
water quality tests.

However, according to the ICR (page # 15 of the ICR), the capacity building process required significantly more time
than was envisaged at appraisal. Additionally, at Project closing, the schemes had not met the financial parameters
set at appraisal and it is likely that the schemes will not be sustainable without financial grants from the State
government. The institutional arrangements, particularly the role of KRWSSA, were also not firmed up.

5. Efficiency:
 MODEST

Financial Efficiency
An ex-post economic analysis of water supply investments was carried using the same methodology that was
employed at Project appraisal. The analysis focused on quantifying benefits from: (i) time savings in fetching water; (ii)
the incremental water consumed; (iii) health benefits from reduction in diarrhea and gastroenteritis diseases; (iv) time
saved as a result of household latrines ; (v) time saved resulting from improved ‘chullhas’; and (vi) value of capital and
O&M costs saved. At appraisal, the Economic Rate of Return (ERR) for the Project was computed based on 23
schemes, and was estimated to be 21.4%, for a 20 year horizon.

Annex 3 of the ICR confirms that the economic analysis at closure followed the appraisal methodology. Economic
values generated by the Jal Nirmal Projects I and II were taken from a representative randomized sample of 300
schemes, spread across the two phases. At credit closure, the project has benefited 1,871,240 people spread across
625 GPs in 11 districts of the State. Given the above, IEG agrees with significant differentials across the various
technologies as well as districts.

Overall, ERR ranges between 8 to 40% (Table-2in page # 33 &34 of the ICR). According to the ICR, several factors
contributed to the significant differentials: (i) the heterogeneity in the pre-project situation in water availability status;
(ii) population to be served and the geo-physical situation; (iii) technology adopted; and (iv) distance from the source.
Lower returns were justified in the case of Gravity and Integrated Tanda Development Plan (ITDP) schemes as they
were isolated settlements and households were quite small. One other significant determinant considered was the
time horizon. Returns on investment declined significantly with reduced time horizon for those requiring O&M (Table
2, page # 33 & 34 of the ICR). Against a project cost of US$ 356.50 million, the ERR for the project at credit closing is
estimated at 29%, with Borewell-based single village schemes ( SVS) recording as high as 40%, and surface source
schemes at 23-33%.

Administrative Efficiency
The two implementing agencies were KRWSSA at the state level, which provided apex support; and ZP- district
support units (DSUs) at the district level and GPs at the village level. Project mandate to decentralize construction,
operation and management of RWSS schemes to GPs, that had no previous experience on RWSS schemes and
required additional time to build their capacity, particularly on financial and technical aspects. The district and state
level agencies also needed to change their standard operating procedures in order to provide more technical support
to GPs who were managing large and complex activities for the first time, with GoK playing its new role as the
facilitator. GPs’ capacity had to be built on all fronts, including procurement and book keeping and audits, requiring
additional time to provide effective administration. The selection and orientation of support agencies (to work with
PRIs) was also a formidable challenge.

Lastly, though KRWSSA had to put in substantial efforts to ensure that the districts accorded approvals/payments,
both the community contributions towards O&M and the tariff collection efficiency remained low.
 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                      Rate Available?                            Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

     Appraisal                             Yes                                      21.4%                                    85%

     ICR estimate                          Yes                                       29%                                     91%
                                               * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome:
     Though the project was restructured four times, the PDO was not changed. The key associated outcome targets
were revised as part of additional financing on 05/19/2010 but did not have a significant impact upon how the project should be
rated and thus did not result in a split rating for the ICRR.

The overall outcome rating was determined by combining relevance of objective and design, efficacy and efficiency.
The relevance of the project objective and design is rated substantial. The efficacy of achievement of the project
objective is rated substantial. Efficiency is rated modest. Therefore, outcome is rated moderately satisfactory
 a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


 7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:
    More than 90% of all schemes have been completed and commissioned, contracts closed, and are
operating successfully. There is sustained political commitment to decentralization and capacity of GPs/VWSCs is
strengthened to take forward the responsibilities under decentralization of RWSS schemes. Subsequent to
operationalization of the O&M policy, GoK has outsourced O&M of the common facilities of one muti-village schemes
( MVS) in Belgaum district to private operators. For large and complex schemes, the Government is providing
financial support through subsidies and is also allowing for private sector involvement in O&M. However, even though
more people are paying for water as a result of the project interventions, sustainable cost recovery mechanisms have
still not been established nor are the targets for cost recovery and tariff are yet met in order to ensure sustainability of
schemes. Despite significant efforts to build KRWSSA’s capacity, the future of the agency also remains uncertain,
increasing the level of risk to the overall project outcomes

    a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Significant

 8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:
    Project preparation was founded on strong background and institutional analysis, including the lessons from
OED’s Impact Evaluation Report of five Bank-supported RWSS projects and the Bank’s experience in India’s
RWSS sector. Innovations adopted during the Swajal Project (Uttarakhand) and the Kerala Rural Water Supply
and Sanitation Project were reflected in the design of JNP I and II. Importance of decentralization and community
involvement; strong investment in building capacity and increasing engagement of local governments in service
delivery; and importance of checks and balances to ensure accountability of local government organizations are
well captured in the design of the project.

 The preparation phase was supported by adequate resources and necessary technical skills. While fiduciary
aspects were designed based on an assessment of procurement and financial management capacities, GPs were
supported by financial and procurement specialists. Gender and inclusion was well captured by including two
sub-components that focused on women’s development and tribal development. All relevant safeguards were
addressed during project design and appraisal and instruments were developed accordingly. Risks were identified
up-front and mitigation measures were incorporated.

However, there were a number of shortcomings. The Bank team overlooked: (i) complexity of institutional
arrangements involving multiple stakeholders; (ii) the scale and scope of the Project, particularly JNP II, which
envisaged US$150 million being utilized in three years; (iii) low capacity of the implementing agency and of the
local governments; (iv) difficulties in implementing multi-village schemes (MVS); and (v) prioritizing water schemes
before lane and drain schemes were initiated. These shortcomings not only led to initial implementation delays,
but required extending the project closure from 2007 to 2014 to complete the activities.
   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                        Moderately Unsatisfactory

 b. Quality of supervision:
    The Project became effective on April 19, 2002. The Task Team, including the TTL and other key sector
specialists continued from project inception through completion. This continuity ensured consistency, and
facilitated dialogue with the government to resolve implementation issues.

The implementation phase from November 2003 to June 2005 was pronounced with implementation challenges.
Devolution of responsibilities to the GP that lacked sufficient capacity, combined with low community contributions
towards capital and operation and maintenance (O&M) costs created major road blocks. The Implementation
Progress (IP) during the initial stages of implementation (from 2003) was thus unsatisfactory according to the ISRs
( Section #G of the ICR) , until the 2005 Mid-Term Review.

During the mid-term review (MTR) in 2005, the Bank team and the implementing agency agreed on a set of
measure to improve the implementation. For instance: GPs were allowed to contribute in kind (food grains, labor,
etc.) in addition to cash, with the remaining shortfall to be covered by the State government. According to the task
team, “alternate mechanisms of contribution (in-kind – food grain, labor) did not materially affect the overall level of
contribution. But, by the end of the project, contributions amounting to 91 percent of the target amount was
achieved. Although no confirmative data is available”.
The implementation plan was updated to allow the Project to make up for the initial delays. Budget and staff
resources were reassessed and sufficient budget and staff resources was allocated. The Team regularly prepared
Aide- Memoires and was candid and rigorous in assessing and addressing project management issues.
The project was restructured four times to extend the closing date. Of the four restructures, the third included
additional financing in addition to extension of the closing date. As part of additional financing, new scope of
project activities required multi-village schemes that were technically complex and institutionally challenging.
Though a Scheme Level Committee (SLC), comprising representatives of VWSCs, was set up to address these
governance issues, O&M turned challenging requiring to look outside the box for alternatives during
implementation, including outsourcing of O&M to private operators. The Bank also supported the use of innovative
technologies such as improving groundwater levels through recharge and using different filtration methods to
improve water quality in affected areas to address the emerging implementation challenges.

Further, there were weaknesses in M&E reporting. According to the ICR ( page # 20), while the Implementation
Status Reports (ISRs) realistically rated the performance of the project in terms of achievement of development
objective and project implementation, the team did not assess the progress across all indicators. Further, though
all indicators were included in client reports and in aide memoires, only a few were monitored in the ISR.
Additionally, the PDO level indicators monitored in the ISRs are not the same as those in the additional financing
paper.

With regard to supervision of fiduciary and safeguards aspects, the Bank team provided detailed reports and
recommendations in the aide memoires, and the ISR ratings were also adjusted to reflect compliance
performance.


   Quality of Supervision Rating :                 Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :               Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

 a. Government Performance:
    GoK remained committed to the decentralized service delivery though there were three government changes
during the project duration.

During the project period, counterpart funds were timely and adequate resources was available for all activities.
Necessary directives (Government Orders) were issued for the project and the sector to work efficiently. In
particular, GoK established: appropriate levels of review and approvals; financial accountability and follow-up
mechanisms; authorization of expenditures before they were incurred; and, periodic review of all documentation.
GoK also set up the new KRWSSA, staffed it fully, and enabled it to operate with full autonomy.

In this context, according to the task team” GoK provided additional support and review to ensure successful
implementation of project activities. These checks, reviews and support mechanisms were extremely effective.
For example, it was noted early on in the project that additional support would be needed for financial reporting,
because this was the first project where PRIs were handling all project activities (and funds). GoK developed a
reporting system that ensured a flow of financial information from the GPs to the District, to the State (KRWSSA).
This information was used to evaluate project progress at state level. Accounting firms were hired to support and
train GP and District level staff in financial management. Finally, the financial information was assessed at the
state level. As a result of this system, very comprehensive, timely, and updated financial information was available
to the task team. Similar programs also improved procurement at the level of the GPs”.

However, though GoK deliberated extensively on ‘sustainability’ and formulated a long term sustainability
framework, the post- Project role of the agency is unclear and GoK has included no provisions to scale-up or
mainstream KRWSSA. Further, given the cost recovery from Project interventions is uncertain, no measures have
been put in place to address this.

   Government Performance Rating                              Moderately Satisfactory

 b. Implementing Agency Performance:
    The project included two implementing agencies: KRWSSA at the state level, which provided apex support;
and ZP- DSUs at the district level and GPs at the village level. Project mandate to decentralize construction,
operation and management of RWSS schemes to GPs. required changes the overall management style of RWSS
projects, at State, district and local levels. Most GP representatives had not previously worked on RWSS
schemes. The GPs required additional time to build their capacity, particularly on financial and technical aspects.
The district and state level agencies also needed to change their standard operating procedures in order to
provide more technical support to GPs who were managing large and complex activities for the first time, with
GoK playing its new role as the facilitator. GPs’ capacity had to be built on all fronts, including procurement and
book keeping and audits. The selection and orientation of support agencies (to work with PRIs) was also a
formidable challenge. KRWSSA had to put in substantial efforts to ensure that the districts accorded approvals as
well as made payments in a regular and proper manner, in addition to securing accounting information for
reimbursements claims. Despite these efforts, both the community contributions towards O&M and the tariff
collection efficiency remained low. But, according to the task team, "by the end of the project, contributions
amounting to 91 percent of the target amount was achieved. Although no confirmative data is available".

Overall, 400 water schemes serving the tribal communities were implemented in compliance with the social
safeguard policies. Civil works financed under the Project were environmentally compliant with local legislation
and standards, as well as Bank policies.

According to the ICR, project staff, especially the Chief Executive Officer of the ZP (who was also the Project
Manager) was burdened with a number of other activities and responsibilities.

   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                   Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                      Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

 a. M&E Design:
   The original M&E design was equipped to measure the achievement of the DO. In order to align with the Bank’s
global core sector indicator system, some changes in reporting and presentation was made in 2009. With the
additional financing, the DO and intermediate indicators were revised to better measure the PDO. The DO level
indicators were reduced from four to three, and the number of intermediate indicators was increased from 17 to 23.
Specifically, JNP II had three PDO level indicators compared to four for JNP I. The intermediate indicators were
increased from 17 in JNP I to 23 in JNP II. The indicators were refined to better measure sustainability and
decentralization.

JNP I used an innovative sustainable monitoring tool – the Village Immersion Program (VIP) to conduct sustainability
monitoring exercises (SME) for MVSs and SVSs. An extensive computerized MIS was also developed to gather
village level data across four areas – inputs, outputs, sustainability and impacts.
The design also required all stakeholders – village communities, GPs, support agencies (SAs), Contractors, and
KRWSSA, to sign off after evaluating completed activities against expectations. The design thus provided an
opportunity for stakeholders to address any deficiencies as they emerged. In a number of villages, exclusive women’s
committees were set up for monitoring and evaluation of Project activities

 b. M&E Implementation:
   The MIS system was used to track and review activities, and also to enhance transparency. A sustainability
monitoring exercise (SME) was deployed at the State level to assess overall sustainability. The SME served as an
operational tool to assess the sustainability of service delivery across multiple pre-defined parameters, including - the
availability of minimum levels of water, supply schedules, effectiveness of institutions, O&M, and community
perception- across technical, social, institutional and financial factors. Finally, the sustainability of schemes were
ranked based on the scores. The SME was conducted 5 times across the life of the Project and covered all schemes.
The results matrix presented in the ICR reports: “SME has been conducted for 3,796 water supply service schemes”.
The original target for the SME was 1,050 in 2001 and 2010.

All reports were produced on time: (i) monthly consolidated reports were prepared at the village and district levels and
sent to KRWSSA for review; (ii) quarterly reports were shared with GoK and the Bank; and (iii) detailed notes were
developed for the Tri-Partite Department of External Affairs (DEA)-Bank- GoK reviews, which were held on a biannual
basis.

However, according to the ICR, the data generated were included in the clients’ progress reports and the aide
memoires, but not reflected in the ISRs.

 c. M&E Utilization:
   M&E results were used to enhance the effectiveness of implementation. Internal and independent control
mechanisms helped ensure good quality construction. The SME assisted to evaluate the completed schemes.
According to the ICR, SME looked at the quality and quantity of available water, based on which it was possible to
identify areas where groundwater recharge was required. While SME was a useful tool to assess performance of
schemes, it did not look at cost recovery from these interventions. Several thematic studies were undertaken and best
practices under the Project were documented. Three detailed documents in the local language (Kannada) have been
disseminated widely across the State. However, the ICR does not provide information on how the findings of thematic
studies or the best practices were used or whether it generated any changes/ impact.

M&E Quality Rating: Modest




11. Other Issues

 a. Safeguards:
Environment: The project is environment category B and triggered Operational Policy (OP) 4.01 on Environmental
Assessment and monitored the implementation of the Environmental Management Plans. Civil works financed under
the Project were environmentally compliant with local legislation and standards, as well as Bank policies.

Social: OP 4.12 was not triggered as the project did not incur involuntary land acquisition. As such, the Project was
contingent upon voluntary donation of land by GPs/community members. With regard to voluntary land donations,
according to the task team “A detailed methodology for ascertaining if land donations were voluntary was developed
and implemented. This methodology was included in the overall operations manual and has since been adopted for
use in other RWSS projects. In addition, extra time was built into the project to ensure community support for land
donation. During the ICR mission, extensive discussions were held with key stakeholders - local communities
(including tribal communities), GPs, local administrators, other PRI representatives - on how land for the project was
secured. These discussions confirmed that land donations – where needed – were voluntary in nature and that all
project activities were implemented with full community support”.

OP 4.10 was triggered. The Bank’s operational policy relating to Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20 at project appraisal,
currently replaced by OP 4.10) was triggered. Tanda Development Plan (ITDP) was prepared and successfully
implemented under the Integrated Tanda Development Program was included as a sub-component under Component
1. Overall, 400 water schemes serving the tribal communities were implemented under the sub-component.

b. Fiduciary Compliance:
Financial Management :
Financial Management Reports (FMRs) were provided in a timely manner and the accounts were up to date.
According to the ICR, contract closure and GP account closure processes worked well and accounts for a majority of
schemes have been concluded and closed. The Project complied with all fiduciary covenants during implementation.
There were no overdue or qualified audits. No significant accountability issues were raised in any audit report.

However, with regard to cost recovery, funds advanced to GPs were not fully recovered at the time of closure (need to
be recovered to ensure accountability). According to Section # 5.2 ‘a’ of the ICR, cost recovery from Project
interventions is uncertain, and no measures are in place to address the issues.

Procurement:
Procurement was carried out in accordance with agreed procedures despite the highly
decentralized operations involving a large number of civil works and a variety of actors.
While KRWSSA and district level agencies had adequate capacity to carry out procurement activities, contracting at
the community level was seen as a potential risk at appraisal. According to the ICR, several steps were planned at
appraisal to address the issue, such as : (i) continual capacity building for stakeholders at various levels; (ii) extending
the project auditors’ scope of services to cover a percentage of physical assets; and (iii) technical audit of community
constructed works on a sample basis. These steps appear to have increased ability at the GP level to procure works
contracts and the GPs followed proper accounting and recording procedures. Although the mitigation measures
worked well and community contracting was central to
the Project, there were some delays in scheme completion and contract closures due to lack of experience among the
GPs in handling such activities. When more than one GP was involved (for example, in MVS), contract management
was even more problematic.

A complaint handling system was also put into place. An online procurement system was also established and is
being regularly updated by the district project support units (DPSUs). However, though the subject section reports
that KRWSSA will continue to monitor the system as per Bank recommendations, this is not apparent considering
that its role is yet to be defined ( Section # 5.2 ‘a’ of the ICR)

 c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):
According to the ICR (page #18), some of the many unintended impacts are as follows.
1. Use of pressure filter based water treatment plants as a viable alternative to traditional sand filter based plants that
require large tracts of land in other states.
2. Country wide promotion of impounding reservoirs for year round water for irrigation canal based schemes.
3. Adoption of variety of innovative technologies: (i) mobile water distribution system that purifies water on site using
an Ultra Filtration system (or other similar measures); (ii) solar pumping to address power shortages and/or high
power costs, particularly in ground water based schemes; (iii) water purification & kiosks in areas facing water quality
problems due to arsenic, fluorides, iron etc.; and (iv) groundwater well recharge with V-Wire technology.
4. Possible rise in property prices in Project villages due to the easy availability of drinking water and improved lanes
and drainage facilities.

d. Other:
NONE


12. Ratings:                               ICR                 IEG Review                      Reason for
                                                                                        Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Moderately                  Moderately
                              Satisfactory                Satisfactory
          Risk to Development Moderate                    Significant            Sustainable cost recovery mechanisms
                     Outcome:                                                    have still not been established nor are
                                                                                 have the targets for cost recovery and
                                                                                 tariffs been met in order to ensure
                                                                                 sustainability of the schemes. Despite
                                                                                 significant efforts to build KRWSSA’s
                                                                                 capacity, the future of the agency also
                                                                                 remains uncertain.(more details in
                                                                                 Section #7)
           Bank Performance: Moderately                   Moderately
                              Satisfactory                Satisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                  Moderately
                                   Satisfactory             Satisfactory
                 Quality of ICR:                            Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:
 The ICR records a number of lessons. Following are two ICR lessons, with some adaptations:

Decentralization. Strong institutions and political will are the building blocks for decentralized service delivery. The
success of such an approach also requires significant dialogue between the Bank and the national stakeholders
before project effectiveness, coupled with adequate time and flexibility built into the design of the planned
intervention.

Ensuring sustainability . A Sustainability Framework developed in close collaboration with the stakeholders
involving the communities backed up by legislative support, is necessary to ensure consistent and uniform
implementation of interventions, particularly related to water supply schemes.

14. Assessment Recommended?                   Yes     No

Why? To learn in more detail the reasons why community ownership, (in terms of cost recovery and O&M of the
water supply schemes from JNP I), have been functioning well for over six years.




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

The ICR provides a summary of the positive and negative aspects of project preparation and implementation, thus
providing the reader with a good idea of project activities and the problems faced. Stakeholders are well defined. The
lessons are derived from project experience.

The ICR indicates edit errors such as the team downgrading the Development Objective (DO) rating during the initial
stages of implementation, In this regard, the ISR matrix in the ICR reports only on downgrading the implementation
progress. Further, according to the ISR matrix, the DO rating was ‘satisfactory’ until 2005 and then again after post
MTR when it was downgraded to moderately satisfactory from 2013 until project closure when it was upgraded to
satisfactory ( Section # G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs). ICR also fall short of providing dates for the
country assistance strategy at inception and closure and the National Sector Strategy.
 a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
