Docement of
The WVorld Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report1No. 9559-BEN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
POWER REHABILITATION AND EXTENSION PROJECT
MAY 31, 1991
Industry and Energy Division
Occidental and Central Africa Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit            -            Franc CFA (CFAF) '
US$ 1                    -            CFAF 250
CFAF 1                   -           US$ 0.004
CFAF 1,000               -           US$ 4.00
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAA   - Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement
CCCE  - Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
CEB   - Communaute Electrique du Benin
CEET  - Compagnie Energie Electrique du Togo
CIMAO - Societe des Ciments de l'Afrique de l'Ouest
CTL   - Centrale Thermique de Lome
EdF   - Electricite de France
ESIE  - Ecole Superieure Interafricaine d'Electricitd
GOB   - Government of B6nin
KfW   - Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau
MIEEP - Ministere de l'Industrie, de l'Energie
et des Entreprises Publiques
OTP   - Office Togolais des Phosphates
SBEE  - Socidt6 Beninoise d'Electricite et d'Eau
SCO   - Societe des Ciments d'Onigbolo
UNDP  - United Nations Development Program
UPDEA - Union des Producteurs, Transporteurs et Distributeurs
d'Energie Electrique d'Afrique
VRA   - Volta River Authority
WAPSI - West Africa Power System Interconnection
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
One kilovolt (kV)                     -   1,000 Volts
One Megawatt (MW)                     -   1,000 kilowatts (kW)
One Gigawatt hour (GWh)               -  1 million kilowatt hours (kWh)
One barrel (bbl)                      -   0.16 cubic meter
One ton of oil equivalent (toe)       -   about 7 bbl of crude oil
FISCAL YEARS
SBEE        - January 1 to December 31
CEET        - January 1 to December 31
CEB         - January 1 to December 31
The Franc CFA is tied to the French Franc (FF) in the ratio of FF 1 to
CFAF 50. The French Franc is currently floating.



ri ., %aA rr L LLt1. Llk
BENIN
POWER REHABILITATION AND EXTENSION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page Nos.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY           .     ..........................  .......    iv
I. THE ENERGY AND POWER SECTORS.                      ..               1
Energy Sector ............. , .. ..... . .............    1
A.    Energy Resources 1.. ........                              1
B.    Energy Supply and Consumption         .    .    .          1
C.    Energy Sector Organiza.ion  .        . .............. .    2
D.    Energy Policy and Pricing .          .                     3
Power Sector                      ....... 4
E.    Existing Power Supply Facilities             .     .4
F.    Existing Demand                  ......      .             5
G.  Demand Forecast                 ........ .. 6
H.    Power Strategy and Investment Planning                     7
I.    Bank Group Strategy and Rationale for Involvement.    9
II.  THE BORROWER AND THE EXECUTING AGENCY ...................   10
SociEt4 B6ninoise d'Electricit6 et d'Eau (SBEE) ..   10
Status and Organization   ....................   10
Staf fing  ......................... *........   11 
Accounting and Audit Arrangements ..........   12
Insurance ..00........... ...................   12
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. I contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Dank authorization.



- ii -
III *THE PROJECT ...       ..                .. ...    . ....    12
11 .  T E P O CT .............................  . . . . . . ..    1
A.  Background ..........             .12
B.    Project Objectives ...............................  13
C.  Project Description            .. .13
D.    Project  Cost   .............. *..... ........          13
E.    Project Financing ....................... .14
F.    Coordination with Co-Financiers   .       .15
0.    Project Implementation                                  15
H. Procurement   ..16
I.    Disbursements ......................... .17
J.  Environmental Aspects            ..18
IV.  FINANCIAL ANALYSIS .............*.... ..... * ...........   18
A.    Past Finances and Present Financial Position of SBEE 18
B.  Billing and Collection   .              .20
C.  Tariffs                                   ..21
D. Financing Plan               ..22
E0 Future Finances   .                  .23
V. ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION .24
A.    Justification. ........                                24
B.  Economic Rate of Return   .             .25
C. Risk .26
VI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ...........26
ANNEXES
1-1   Energy Balance
1-2   Existing Power Facilities
1-3   Historical Supply, Sales and Losses
1-4   Load Forecast and Energy Balance
1-5   SBEE Investments FYs 91-95
2-1   SBEE - Present Organization Chart
2-2   SBEE - Target Organization Chart
3-1   Project Description
3-2   Project Cost
3-3   Financing Plan
3-4   Organization Chart for Project Management
3-5   Project Implementation Schedule
3-6   Details of Procurement Packages
3-7   Estimated Credit Disbursements
4-1   Income Statement FYs 78-90
4-2   Funds Flow Statements FYs 78-90



- iii 
4-3  Balance Sheet FYs 78-90
4-4  Tariffs
4-5  Funds Flow Statements FYs 90-98
4-6  Income Statement FYs 90-98
4-7  Balance Sheet FYs 90-98
4-8  Assumptions
5-1  Economic Analysis
6-1  Documents Contained in the Project File
MAPS IBRD No. 22831 and 22832
…--------------------------------------------------------------------__-__---
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission consisting of
Charles Sigwalt, Said Mikhail and Colleen de Freitas (AF1IE), who visited the
Republic of B6nin in March 1991. Bocar M. Thiam (AFTIE) was lead adviser.
Richard Verspyck (AF1IN) was peer reviewer. Secretarial support was provided
by Catherine Casselle.  Iain T. Christie (AF1IE) and M'chael J. Gillette
(AF1DR) are the managing Division Chief and Department Director,
respectively.



- iv .
BENIN
POIWER REHABILITATION AND EXTENSION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrowers                Republic of Benin (GOB)
Beneficiarys             Soci4td Beninoise d'Electricite et d'Eau (SBEE)
Amountt                  SDRs 11.3 million (US$15 million equivalent)
Terms:                   Standard IDA, with 40 years maturity
Relending Terms:         GOB would relend to SBEE US$13.6 million equivalent
of the Credit at 7.72 for 20 years including 5 years
of grace; SBEE would bear the foreign exchange risk.
This amount would also refinance PPF Advances of
US$1.5 million. An additional US$1.4 million would
be made available by GOB to SBEE in the form of an
equity contribution to finance technical assistance
and training.
Co-lenders:              CCCE (France) would provide US$13.2 million
equivalent toward project costs.
Project Objectives:      The proposed project would:
(a)   support  the  institutional  strengthening of
SBEE,  in  particular  of  its  management,
planning,    engineering    and    financial
operations; and
(b)   help meet  increased demand for electricity
through improving and extending distribution
in selected markets.
Project Description:    The proposed project would comprise the following
elements: (a) the rehabilitation and extension of
the Cotonou, Porto Novo and Abomey/Bohicon area
distribution   systems,   together   with   related
engineering and other services; (b) technical
assistance; and (c) training.
Project Benefits:        The main benefits of the proposed project would bet
improved reliability of power supplies, itncreased
capability   to  meet   the  growing  demand   for
electricity and improved operational efficiency of
SBEE.



- v -
Project Risks:           There  are no unusual  risks  associated with  the
proposed project. Problems may arise from possible
project delays if SBEE fails to achieve its plans
for improving efficiency.   Given GOB and SBEE's
commitment to strengthening the power sector, these
risks are considered minimal.
Estimated Cost:
USS Million Equivalent
Local    Foreign    Total
Distribution                        3.60      16.49     20.08
Billing System                      0.24       2.74      2.98
Studies                             0.18       1.45      1.62
T/A                                 0.07       0.61      0.68
Training                            0.41       0.95      1.36
Misc. Equipment                     0.00       1.60      1.60
Base Cost                           4.49      23.84     28.33
Contingencies:
Physical                      0.41      2.11       2.52
Price                         0.41      2.26       2.67
Project Cost                        5.31      28.21     33.52
IDC                                 0.00       3.00      3.00
Total Financing Required            5.31      31.21     36.52
Financing Plan:
Local     Foreign      Total
(US$ Million) ------
SBEE                                5.31       3.00      8.31
IDA                                 0.00      15.00     15.00
CCCE                                0.00      13.21     13.21
Total                   5.31      31.21     36.52
=5==     =5=5=G     =5=5=
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA FY                 92      93        94        95       96         97
Annual           3.2     3.0       3.3        2.5     1.7        1.3
Cumulative       3.2     6.2       9.5       12.0    13.7       15.0
Rate of Return:    202



BENIN
POWER REHABILITATION AND EXTENSION PROJECT
I. THE ENERGY AND POWER SECTORS
ENERGY SECTOR
A.   Ener,j Resources
1.01      The known energy resources of Benin comprise mainly fuelwood, a
small offshore heavy oil field and hydroelectric potential.   There are no
known deposits of coal. About 602 of the country's surface is covered by
forest or wooded savannah.   The commercial production of fuelwood could
amount to some 8 million cubic meters per year.   Significant amounts of
biomass are also available to substitute for and complement fuelwood
supplies.
1.02      Benin has a modest hydroelectric potential, estimated at about 900
MW. The Nanpbeto hydroelectric plant (60 MW, 150 GWh) on the Mono River, a
joint B6nin-Togo project commissioned in late 1987, is the first step in
developing this potential.   Two  sites farther downstream  (T6tetou and
Adjarala), with an estimated annual output of over 350 GWh, have been
identified and are being studied; the feasibility study for Adjarala has just
been completed and is presently under review. Preliminary studies covering
cartography, hydrology, geology and prefeasibility are also underway for
potential projects (Ketou) on the OuEme river.
B.   Energy Supply and Consumption
1.03      Energy consumption in 1989 was estimated at about 1 million toe or
about 200 kgoe/capita, which is among the lowest levels in the world.  Of
this total, 89Z consisted of fuelwood and agriculture residues,  9? of
petroleum products, 12 of charcoal and 1Z of electricity.   All petroleum
products and about half of the electricity consumption are currently
imported.    Oil  production  from  off-shore  Sbm&  oil  fields  amount  to
approximately  4,000  bbl/day which  is now  being exported.    The  total
recoverable reserves for the S&mb fields are estimated at about 5.9 million
bbl.  Additional off-shore explorations are now being carried out by IPL
(Canada) and on-shore explorations by Trilogy (Canada). Gas and oil reserves
have been identified off-shore at Seme field at deeper zones.   Regional
imbalances in the demand and supply of fuelwood have developed and, in
particular, the southern region has suffered serious deforestation.
Annex 1-1 shows the overall energy balance for Benin in 1988.
1.04      The sectoral breakdown of commercial energy consumption, excluding
fuelwood and charcoal which are wholly consumed by households, is as follows:



Consu. tion of Commercial Energy by Sector (in T)
Sector      Petroleum Products    Electricity       Total
Industry                 32                36           33
Transport                47                 -           41
Household                20                46           23
Commerce/Govt.            1                18            3
Total                   100               100          100
C.   Energy Sector Organization
1.05      Responsibilities in the energy sector are spread among various
agencies and are rather poorly defined. The Ministere du D6veloppement Rural
supervises the use of B4nin's forest resources through its Direction des
Eaux, Fordts et Chasses. In the hydrocarbons sector, responsibilities are
divided between the Hinistere des Finances et de l'Economie (MFE) through its
Service des Hydrocarbures, and the Ministere de l'Industrie, de l'Energie et
des Entreprises Publiques (MIEEP).
1.06      The Societe Beninoise d'Electricite et d'Eau (SBEE) is by law (of
1973) responsible for the generation, transmission and distribution of
electricity in B4nin.   The original concept of the concession system is
partially preserved, especially in the dual Governmeiit supervision: the MIEEP
is in charge of technical aspects, whereas the HFE takes care of financial
matters.   The relations between the State and SBEE are not very clearly
spelled out.  In practice, however, SBEE has been allowed to operate as a
reasonably autonomous entity, except in matters of investment planning,
remuneration policy and tariff setting. SBEE is also responsible for urban
water supply in Bdnin.
1.07      Under the terms of a treaty between Togo and Benin concluded in
1968, a large part of the responsibilities of the Government and SBEE were
transferred to a new bi-national entity, the Communaute Electrique du Benin
(CEB). Since SBEE's statutes were not modified to reflect the change, the
legal situation in Benin became complex. On the positive side, it should be
noted that the Treaty marked a significant step in international cooperation:
CEB is the first supra-national public enterprise in Africa, and the Code
Daho-Togolais de l'Electricite is the first common electric utility
legislation adopted by two independent African states. By Treaty provisl.,n,
CEB has a dual mandate: (a) it is a public utility with a monopoly of
generation and transmission throughout Togo and Benin with the exception of
facilities in service before 1968 e.,d captive plants of less than 100 kVA;
(b) it is a directorate or quasi-ministry to which the governments of Togo
and Benin have delegated extensive regulatory powers, specifically: (i) the
regulation of generation, transmission and distribution of electricity; (ii)
tariff fixing; (iii) licensing captive plant in excess of 100 kVA, 'iv) the
conduct of negotiations concerning interconnection with other countric.s; (v)
planning and implementing electrification in the two countries; and (vi)
operating a training center for the benefit of the power sectors in both
countries.



1.08      CEB's organization is threo-tiered and comprises:
(a)       the "Haut Conseil Interstatique de la Communaut6"  (HCIC),
composed of eight members of ministerial rank, four from each
country, of whom two act as concurrent presidents; it meets
at least oace a year to determine and monitor CEB's broad
policy;
(b)       the "Haute Autorite" (HA), composed of ten members, five from
each country (including the General Managers of SBEE and
CEET), nominated by the two Governments and appointed by the
HCIC; it is equivalent to a Board of Directors and establishes
the broad lines of action on technical and commercial matters
for the General Manager and oversees management; it also
proposes new investments for review and agreement by the HCIC;
and
(c)       the "Directeur Generall (General Manager), appointed by the
HCIC after nomination by the HA, who is responsible for the
day-to-day management of CEB.
To ensure optimal power sector management and coordination in Togo and Benin,
the arrangement described above has recently been reinforced by the creation
of a Permanent Coordinating Committee (PCC) of the General Managers of CEB,
SBEE   and the Compagnie Energie Electrique du Togo  (CEET) which meets
regularly to discuss policies and to prepare major proposals for joint
submission to the HA; it is supported by working level committees for sector
planning and investment, operations, finance ard training.
1.09      During the first twenty years of its existence, CEB has confined
its role to that of a wholecale supplier of electricity to the national power
entities in Togo (CEET) and in Benin (SBEE). In the process, and with strong
IDA support, CEB has developed into a well-managed utility which, by being in
charge of major power facilities, has assured the security of supply and
relieved the weaker national entities of responsibilities for which they are
ill-equipped.
D.   Energy Policy and Pricing
1.10      The Government's policy objectives for the energy sector are: (a)
to reduce the cost of energy supplies to the economy through rehabilitation,
proper maintenance of installations in the petroleum and electricity
subsectors, and through regional cooperation; (b) to evaluate and to develop
domestic energy resources; (c) to promote more efficient utilization of
energy in all its forms; and (d) to promote access of the population to
energy throughout the national territory. In the hydrocarbons sector, this
policy has been i-lemented satisfactorily. The strategy in the fields of
power generation and transmission has been delceated to CEB.   From the
beginning, CEB has recognized that the small indigenous hydro resources of
Togo and Benin would make the two countries heavily dependent on
international cooperation.   Between  1973 and 1987, CEB's only source of
supply was imported electricity from the Volta River Authority (VRA) in
Ghana. Diversification began with the commissioning of CEB's first hydro
power plant - Nangbeto - in 1987. The utility pursues a flexible expansion



strategy:   while maintaining imports, it explores the development of new
hydro resources in Togo (Adjarala, downstream of Nangbeto) and in B4nin (on
the Oudmd river), to have a viable alternative ready in case either the
quartity available and/or the price of electricity from Ghana is no longer
attractive.    CEB's planning ot high-voltage  transmission  linos,  while
oriented towards efficient wholesale supply to SBEE and CEET, serves at the
same time the objective of extending the interconnected system from the
coastal zone to the interior of Eenin and Togo.
1.11      The c.i.f. prices of petroleum products in Benin are based on
international market costs. Retail prices have remained high. SBEE pays now
CFAF 170/liter for gas oil and CFAF 90,000/ton for heavy fuel oil.   The
electricity tariffs set in the mid-sixties remained unchanged until 1982.
Meanwhile, expenses increased rapidly because of the high cost of supplying
isolated ce.aters from diesel units. Furthermore, in December 1983 the Volta
River Authority (VRA) of Ghana reduced the supply of electricity to Togo and
Benin temporarily by 50Z because of a severe drought. Follovting this reduced
availability of imported - relatively cheap - electricity, tariffs were
increased by about 100Z in 1984 to offset the much higher cost of thermal
generation. Further adjustment of electricity tariffs was agreed under the
Nangbeto Project (Credits 1507-BEN/1508-TO) which raised the average rate to
its present level of CFAF 55/kWh (USc 21/kWh). The adequacy of the current
tariffs is further discussed in paras. 4.04.4.08.
POWER SECTOR
E.   Existing Power Supply Facilities
1.12      Unt.i.1 September 1987, about 90Z of electricity used in Benin and
Togo and supplied by CEB, originated from VRA.  The corresponding service
area comprised the coastal interconnected system (see map IBRD 22832).
Isolated diesel plants service the central and northern areas of the two
countries. In accordance with a contract concluded in 1969 with GOT and GOB,
VRA agreed to supply CEB, under normal operating and average hydrological
conditions, a maximum of 67 MW from its hydroelectric plants at Akosombo and
Kpong. CEB's supply of electricity to CEET and SBEE is governed by contracts
first entered into in Hay 1973 and revised from time to time.   Actual
deliveries of power from VRA began in 1973 and have been made to the
satisfaction of CEB ar.d VRA, exct r in cases of "force majeure" such as the
1984 drought. Although the VRA supply to CEB is technically non-firm, the
quality of service has been highly satisfactory.   CEB's purchase price,
subject to review every three years,  is currently about USc 5/kWh.   At
present, the average selling price of CEB is about CFAF 25/kWh (USc 10/kWh).
Since 1987, the Nangbeto hydro power plant, owned and operated by CEB, has
reduced the dependence on VRA to about 65Z (or 350 GWh annually) of CEB's
total electricity demand. Production cost of Nangbeto hydroelectric plant is
CFAF 24/kWh (US$9.6/kWh).
1.13      SBEE's own generating capacity of 56 MVA (Annex 1-2) comprises 41
MVA of diesel units in the interconnected system ("Akpakpal plant in Cotonou)
and many smaller units, totalling 15 MVA, in the isolated centers.   The
Cotonou plant serves as a standby facility.



1.14      Existing transmission facilities fall into three categoriest
(a) a bulk supply network owned by CEB (map IBRD 22831). It comprises
the 161 kV lines Lomd-Momd Hagou-Cotonou-Onigbolo and Mome Hagou-
Nangbeto-Atakpame for delivery of imports from Ghana and generation
from Nangbeto to CEET and SBEE. The 161 kV line Nangbeto-Atakpamo,
built in anticipation of future extension of CEB supply to central
and northern Togo, is temporarily operated at 20 kV. CEB also owns
three short 63 kV lines radiating from the Mome Hagou substation
to supply SBEE at Lokossa, the Societe des Ciments de l'Afrique
de l'Ouest" (CIMAO) at Tabligbo currently under liquidation, and
CEET at the town of Anfoin;
(b) SBEE's transmission facilities in the interconnected system (map
IBRD 22832) comprising about 60 km of a 63 kV line to supply Porto
Novo and 250 km of 15 kV lines to supply Ouidah, Zinvie, Adjohoun,
Avranku and Adjarra; and
(c)  a secondary system in south-west Benin, operated by SBEE.   The
backbone of this system is a 20 kV line, 120 km long, connecting
the main load center of Lokossa to Athieme, Aplahoue, Lalo, Bopa,
Possotome and Se.  The towns of Abomey and Zagnado are supplied
over 15 and 20 kV lines respectively totall'ng 30 km.
SBEE's purchase points (from CEB) are located at Cotonou and Lokossa.
1.15      The SBEE distribution network in Cotonou consists of 30 km of 20
and l1 kV lines, about 300 distribution substations, of which half belong to
primary service customers, and about 900 km of low voltage lines. The
distribution system in Cotonou is partly in poor condition mainly becalse of
overloaded lines and transformers that were not designed to carry today's
load. The quality of service is less than fully satisfactory and operations
are plagued by excessive voltage drops.   Overall losses, however, have
remained acceptable at about 15 to 16? of totai supply.   Rehabilitation
measures  were  undertaken  a  few  years  ago witk  CCCE-financing.    The
appointment in early 1990 of an engineering consultant cleared the way for
preparation of the rehabilitation and extension of the distribution systems
of Cotonou, Porto Novo and the Abomey/Bohicon area under the proposed
project.
P. Exizting Demand
1.16      Electricity service in Benin expanded at an extraordinary rate in
the first 15 years after independe:.ce. Initially, only Cotonou and the town
of Porto Novo had a public supply. Today, all major centers of the country
are electrified. As shown on map IBRD 22831, three agglomerations can be
distinguisheds
-    the Coastal Interconnected System serving Cotonou, Porto Novo and
the smaller towns ir. the surrounding area;
-    the Lokossa system in the south western part of the country; and



- 6 -
-    isolated towns, such as Abomey/Bohicon and Cove/Zagnado in the
centre, and Parakou, Djougou, Natitingou, Kandi, Malanville and a
few others further north.
The development of supply and sales since 1970 is shown in Annex 1-3. Growth
until 1980, stimulated both by favorable economic developments, and
artificially low tariffs, averaged over 20? per year. The early 1980's were
marred by a severe economic recession, the regional drought (resulting in
curtailment of supply from Ghana) and two sharp increases in electricit)
prices.   The sector stagnated until 1985, and is now in a phase of slow
recovery.
1.17      Medium-voltage sales (larger commerce and industry) account for 52?
of the national total, and for 55? in Cotonou. The low-voltage category is
dominated by residential customers; small consumers, cottage industries and
public lighting make up the rest.  By the end of 1989, SBEE served about
56,000 residential customers, of which 30,000 in the Cotonou urban area. It
is estimated that in Benin as a whole, only 1O0 of households have access to
electricity; in Cotonou itself, the ratio is about 40?. Annual consumption
per residential customcr is about 2,000 kWh in Cotonou and, on average, 1,320
kWh in the rest of the country. The Coastal Interconnected System, in which
most of the project facilities to be financed are located, accounts for about
80Z of SBEE sales. Statistics on peak loads are erratic; the reported peak
demand of the Coastal System il 1990 was 32 MW, implying a 52X annual load
factor.
G.   Demand Forecast
1.18      Demand to the year 2000 (Annex 1-4) has been projected by the major
service areas defined in para 1.16.   Sales and generation for the entire
country are used in the financial analysis of SBEE's revenues and costs
(Annexes 4).  A subset of date for the Cotonou, Porto Novo and Abomey/Bohicon
urban areas is used in the economic analysis of the project (Annex 5-1).
1.19      Given its weight in total sales, the forecast for Cctonou and Porto
Novo is a key input. The electrification of these cities has remained well
below potential demand because of lack of finance and high connection fees.
Meanwhile, urban development continues and entire neighborhood of the cities
with resonably good quality housing for mixed social strata, potable water,
infrastructure, schools, stores and workshops, remain without electricity.
SBEE has continued to connect customers at a rate of 2,000 per year, but the
capacity of the network imposes increasing restrictions. It has also been
noted that new customers, on average, are less wealthy and consume only 1,500
kWh/year, compared to 2,000 for the established clientele. This trend was
factored into the forecast. Surveys of the city by engineering consultants
indicate that within a short time, at least 15,000 new customers would be
connected at a rate of about 4,000 per year as of the end of 1992, thus
leaving sufficient time for technical preparations. After 1995-1996, growth
would continue at a rate of about 52 to 6? per year.  The resulting real
growth rate of low voltage energy use to the year 2000, is a very prudent 4?
to 5? per year, but improvPd customer management and further loss reduction
would increase revenues on average by at least 6? per year. Growth in the
medium-voltage category is dependent on industrial activity, and in general,
on the implementation of Benin's adjustment program.   Real energy use is



projected to rise by 3.52 to 42 per year, and loss reduction would boost
revenues by an estimated 1X.
1.20      Outside  Cotonou  and  Porto  Novo,  the  proportionately  larger
unsatisfied demand is expected to produce growth rates between 6Z and 8Z per
year.  By 1995, and possibly earlier, the Parakou, Djougou and Natitingou
systems are expected to be connected to CEB's system, and the resulting drop
in generation cost should provide a new stimulus to develop the local retail
market.
1.21      In summary,  the demand between 1990 and 2000 is projected to
develop as follows:
Load Forecast
Atlantic Realon          Total SBEE
1990  2000  Annual Or.   1990  2000  Annual Or.
Sales (¢Wh)              126   207   6.1X          175   299  6.6X
Con A Purchases (CWh)    149   281   4.5X          202   383  S.1X
Losses X                16.7  10.5                18.8  10.0
Peak Load (MW)            82   64   6.2X
Load Factor X           62.4  48.9
H.      Power Strategy and Investments Planning
1.22    Power investment planning has fared rather poorly in the past in
Togo and Benin.  Instead of integrating their facilities and services, the
national entities tended to pursue independent policies with respect to
sector organization, training, tariffs and planning. Since 1985-86, this
trend has been reversed under the strong leadership of CEB.   However,
while CEB concentrated on bulk supply and transmission, CEET and, to a
lesser extent, SBEE neglected distribution rehabilitation and extension.
As a result, the power sectors in both countries have developed in an
unbalanced manner, with development heavily-biased towards generation. It
is now realized that the return on past investments in generating
capacity, as well as the overall future and soundness of CEB, will greatly
depend on the health - particularly the financial health - of the two
national companies, which in turn, will depend on their ability to market
increasing quantities of electricity efficiently.   The relative under-
investment in sub-transmission and distribution has become a potential
constraint on economic growth. In GOB's medium-term strategy, improving
the sector's efficiency and delivery capability is now of the highest
priority.
1.23    Although no major generating facility will be needed before the
mid-1990's at the earliest, some uncertainty persists because the long-
term contract CEB-VRA expires in 1996, and the conditions of renewal are
still unknown. CEB is pursuing the investigation of two hydro projectst
Adjarala on the Mono River downstream of Nangbeto at feasibility level,
and Ketou on the Ouemd River in Benin at pre-feasibility level. Adjarala
appears to be marginally competitive with new diesel generation; hence the
project is a form of insurance against reduced quantities and further



- 8 -
rises in the price of VRA supplies as well as against increases in
international  petroleum prices.   An economically  rational  long-term
expansion program for the power sector of B6nin must be defined within an
even wider framework of regional cooperation involving not only Benin,
Togo and Ghana, but also Nigeria and C6te d'Ivoire.   A regional high-
voltage interconnection (330 kV) is being studied under DANIDA financing
with the AfDB as executing agency.   This West Africa Power System
Interconnection (WAPSI) would permit the exchange of gas-fired thermal
power in Nigeria and hydroelectric production in Cote d'Ivoire and Ghana.
CEB is strategically placed to take advantage of these interchanges to
supply the smaller markets of Togo and Bonin.   As a first step, the
feasibility of a limited Nigeria-Benin (Ikeja West-Sakete) link is being
launched, which could lead to an eventual project with AfDB financing.
1.24    Large differences in generating costs between the interconnected
system and isolated towns in the interior favor connection at the earliest
possible date, particularly of the Parakou, Djougou and Natitingou
regions.  The feasibility of connecting these load centers to the main
grid by 161 kV lines has been studied by CEB under a SPPF (SPPF G053-
BENIG054-TO). The options are: (a) an east-west connection from Yendi in
Ghana to Kara and Parakou, to supply the northern regions of Togo and
Benin; and (b) a north-south connection Atakpame-Kara entirely within
Togo, then branching into Blnin towards Djougou, and from there to
Natitingou and to Parakou. The study was completed in mid-1990 and is now
expected to lead to a specific project.   Meanwhile,  some of SBEE's
isolated diesel stations are being overhauled, with financing outside the
proposed project.
1.25    In the distribution sector,  SBEE is giving priority to the
Cotonou, Porto Novo and Abomey/Bohicon areas, where poor service has the
largest impact on economic performance of the country.   Furthermore,
extension of the Porto Novo area will enhance the 63 KV link from Cotonou
financed by CCCE, and extension of the Abomey/Bohicon area will enhance
the 161 KV link from Nangbeto cofinanced by CCCE and KfW. The feasibility
study for the project was completed in March 1991 and detailed design is
expected to be ready by early 1992.  The rehabilitation and subsequent
network extensions would be accompanied by measures to improve billing,
collection and customer management in general. Outside Cotonou and Porto
Novo, SBEE emphasizes connection to the system wherever the load level
makes it economical to do so. Since Benin has a uniform national tariff,
the interconnected regions subsidize the isolated centers, where service
is very expensive. Investments in these areas are expected to be limited
to the strict minimum necessary for public service, since each incremental
kWh must be sold at a loss.
1.26    During the period 1991-95, planned investment in the power sector
of Benin (excluding CEB's portion allocated to Benin, that is generally
speaking, 50? of its total investment) would amount to about US$52 million
equivalent and US$111 million equivalent including water activities.
Sector investment plans as agreed with the Bank are summarized in the
following table and set out in detail in Annex 1-5. The proposed B4nin
Power Rehabilitation and Extension Project would represent 362. Other
Power Components' include sub-transmission and distribution in various
parts of the country and miscellaneous items. The program reflects GOB's



- 9 -
strategy to give priority to rehabilitation of existing facilities and to
develop access to electricity by new extensions.  During negotiations,
agreement was obtained that GOB and SBEE would consult with IDA annually
on SBEE's investment program and that no new investments of US$1 million
equivalent or more in the sector would be undertaken without prior
agreement of IDA.
Benin: SBEE's Power and Water Sector Investments FYs 91-95
(in current prices)
CFAF      US$          Z of
Billion  Million        Total
Rehabilitation/Extension Power Project         9.0         36            32
Other Power Components                         4.1         16            14
Sub-total Power                               13.1         52            47
Water                                         14.1         57            51
Miscellaneous                                  0.6          2             2
Total                                         27.8        111           100
I.   Bank Group Strategy and Rationale for Involvement
1.27      The Bank's involvement in the power sector in Benin dates back
to 1978 when IDA acted as executing agency for a UNDP-financed power
development study.   This study identified Nangbeto as the least-cost
source of power to be implemented as a regional project by both Togo and
B4nin, and, therefore, to be owned by CEB.  Subsequently, in 1982, IDA
financed detailed engineering studies for the Nangbeto dam, power house,
transmission and other associated facilities. These studies served as the
basis for appraisal of the project in 1983 and Board approval in June
1984.   Total cost of the Nangbeto project was about US$130 million of
which IDA contributed US$30 million.  The power station was built well
within budget. A noteworthy feature of the project is the achievement of
all major provisions to protect the environment and to resettle 10,000
people with a minimum of social disruption.    The objectives of the
project were to stabilize the cost of electricity supply to Togo and Benin
while, at the same time, strengthening the sector institutions.   Some
assistance was provided to the national utilities, particularly for
training and data processing, but the institutional priority of the
project was to consolidate and strengthen CEB as a regional entity. To
this end, CEB received training, technical assistance as well as equipment
needed to establish a central load dispatching system.   However,  the
national utilities SBEE and CEET, being CEB's main source of revenue, also
need   urgent attention.   Key studies for their rehabilitation were
financed under the Nangbeto Credits and PPFs. A management change at SBEE
in July 1990 speeded up review of these studies and formulation of the
proposed project. A similar project (Credit 2171-TO) is being implemented
in Togo to assist CEET in becoming a more efficient utility.



- 10 -
1.28      Apart from the need to complete the binational and national
institution building effort started with Nangbeto, IDA's involvement in
the sector is important support for the ongoing public enterprise reform
being  undertaken in the framework of structural adjustment.  Finally,
continued IDA support for the power sectors of Togo and B4nin is a key
element in the strategy of promoting broader regional cooperation of the
electric utilities in West Africa.
II. THE BORROWER AND THE EXECUTING AGENCY
Soci6td B4ninoise d'Electricite et d'Eau (SBEE)
Status and Organization
2.01      The Republic of Bdnin would be the borrower of the proposed IDA
Credit.  The beneficiary and executing agency would be SBEE.  SBEE was
formed originally as the "Socidtd Dahom4enne d'Electricite et d'Eaul in
1973 as a limited liability company, wholly owned by GOB. Its purpose is
defined as the generation, transmission and distribution of electricity;
it is also responsible for the urban water supply in BUnin. SBEE's policy
is determined by a Board of eleven members; seven members represent the
Ministries of Public Works, Economy, Planning, Finance, Energy, Labor and
Public Health and another three represent the Legislative Assembly, the
Chamber of Commerce and Industry and SBEE staff. The eleventh member is
a Government-appointed Commissaire. SBEE's present internal organization
structure is shown in Annex 2-1.
2.02      So far, SBEE has had no major difficulties functioning as an
autonomous utility, although its relations with the Government are not
always well-defined, especially in the areas of policy making, investment
planning and tariff setting.
2.03      Overall, the internal management of SBEE has been satisfactory
enough to ensure an acceptable quality of service, as reflected by a level
of technical and non-technical losses in the range of 15 to 16Z. However,
only limited attention has been given to rehabilitation and extension
works. In July 1990, following the appointment of a new general manager,
a new impetus was given to improvement, and a Management Audit Study for
SBEE to define the weak areas in the organization was undertaken to
recommend   improvements.       The   following   main   conclusions   and
recommendations were made:
(a)  the relationship between SBEE and GOB needs to be clarified with
specific tasks and responsibilities assigned to each, through
adoption of new legal instruments (Electricity law, company
statutes, performance contract, technical regulations);
(b)  SBEE's  organization needs  reinforcement  and  strengthening,
especially in the area of corporate planning and consumer
administration. The consultants also recommend a manpower study
which would define SBEE's training and technical at:0,;t.nce
needs, and proposed a modified organizatior chart for the
company as shown in Annex 2-2;



- 11 -
(c) SBEE requires reinforcement of its internal controls through the
creation of a management information system, procurement
guidelines, stock management system and an overhaul of the
billing system in order to better control customers' accounts;
and
(d) SBEE's personnel statute should be reformulated and adapted to
the needs of an industrial enterprise rather than tied to civil
service regulations.
2.04      GOB  and  SBEE  have  accepted  the  recommendations  of  the
consultants under the proposed project.   The most important long-term
measure to ensure adequate autonomy of the utility, i.e. revision of
SBEE's statutes, will be implemented within the framework of new laws
governing the operation of public enterprises in Bdnin. The principles of
reform are outlined in a report to SBEE of November 1990 which recommends,
inter alia:   abolition of obsolete and inapplicable laws and their
replacement by a single statute for the para-public sector; limitation of
the Government role in personnel matters to enforcement of the labour code
and collectively negotiated agreements; re-establishment of the legitimate
role of the Board of Directors; and the exercise of a posteriori control
of  Board  actions  by  the Government.    In  anticipation  of  the new
legislation, these principles are being incorporated in a performance
contract ("Contrat Programme6) which was discussed at negotiations.
Signature of the 'Contrat-Programme' is a condition of effectiveness of
the Credit.  Agreement was also reached at negotiations that GOB will
revise SBEE's statutes by July 1, 1992 to ensure their consistency with
the new public enterprise legislation.
2.05      Work has already started on the other critical aspects of
reform, covering the implementation of new computerized consumer
administration procedures, new stores management systems, revision of the
tariff structure, computerized mapping, both for technical and commercial
purposes, and a new radio-communications system. Work is also underway to
reinforce SBEE's planning capabilities and to define the details of the
new proposed organization structure. A timetable for the implementation
of remaining recommendations was agreed with SBEE during negotiations.
Staffing
2.06      At the end of 1989, SBEE had a staff of about 1,100, of which
60 professionals (including one expatriate assistant at the Akpakpa power
plant) and 150 technicians/supervisors. The number of professionals and
supervisory staff is relatively low, and several positions at the level of
section or subsection head are vacant. At the working level, however,
there is excess staff, which SBEE is in the process of reducing' by
attrition, while the capabilities of the remaining personnel are being
upgraded through in-house training (especially on-the-job training, short
courses and seminars), as well as specialized training at CEB's training
center. Furthermore, to assure an adequate supply of engineers, SBEE
plans to send several students to specialized institutes in Western Europe



- 12 -
and at the Ecole Superieure Interafricaine d'Electricit6 (ESIE) in
Abidjan. The project would contribute to the financing of SBEE's training
efforts as defined by the manpower study referred to above in para.
2.03(b). These measures to upgrade SBEE's staff can succeed only if the
personnel statute is redrafted in conformity with the requirements of a
commercially-oriented state enterprise. Present civil service regulations
have produced demoralization of staff, chronic scarcity of competent
higher level professionals and high turnover with loss of some of the best
people to the private  sector.   Recruitment  is encumbered by heavy
Government controls.   Reforms in this area are closely linked to the
parapublic sector rehabilitation programmed under the current SAL. The
specific changes necessary will be reflected in a new Statut du
Personnel".   Agreement was reached at negotiations that its execution
would be a condition of disbursement of the training component.
Accounting and Audit Arrangements
2.07      Up  to  1980,  SBEE's  accounting  system was  inadequate  and
defective, impairing efficient financial management.  Under the Second
Water Supply Project (Credit 1721-BEN) and later the Nangbeto Project
(Credit 1507-BEN), IDA financed auditors who undertook not only the audit
of SBEE's accounts, but also provided recommendations to strengthen its
accounting systems and procedures. While substantial progress has been
achieved since then, a sustained effort over several more years is
required to establish a wholly satisfactory accounting and financial
reporting system.   The proposed project provides for the assistance
required in that respect. Currently, there are no outstanding audits due
from SBEE. During negotiations, agreement was reached from SBEE to: (a)
have its accounts audited by independent auditors satisfactory to IDA; and
(b) submit to IDA its audited accounts, and the auditors' report thereon,
within six months of its fiscal year-end.
Insurance
2.08      Present insurance arrangements for power stations and associated
transmission and distribution facilities are satisfactory. SBEE maintains
adequate comprehensive insurance coverage against risks - civil liability,
fire, explosion and electrical faults - appropriate to power utilities.
Also, vehicles are adequately insured.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Background
3.01      The proposed project is a logical follow-up of the Bank's past
involvement in the power sectors of Benin and Togo. Under the Nangbeto
project and its associated engineering/technical assistance Credits,
preliminary studies of the Cotonou distribution system and SBEE's
organization were undertaken which indicated the pressing need to
strengthen SBEE and to rehabilitate and extend Cotonou's distribution
system. These needs were subsequently confirmed by Bank missions that



- 13 -
supervised the Nangbeto project, a Power Sector Report (Report No. 5048-
BEN of May 1984) and an Energy Assessment Report (Report No. 5222-BEN of
June 1985).
B.   Pro1ect Objectives
3.02      The  proposed  project  aims  at  correcting  the  critical
deficiencies in the power sector bys (a) streamlining the relationship
between SBEE and Government; (b) reinforcing SBEE's organization and
effecting improvements in all aspects of operations, including the
introduction of a performance contract with specific efficiency targets
between SBEE and GOB; and (c) financing part of the investment program of
the power sector for the period 1991-1995 including the rehabilitation,
reinforcement and extension of the distribution grid, as well as the
economically justified connection of new loads.   Lessons learned from
previous IDA involvement have been incorporated in the project design, and
have led to setting clear criteria for the respective roles of Government
and SBEE.  In line with OED's findings and recommendations, the project
also emphasizes the need for both short- and longer-term institution
building, close cooperation with SBEE and a flexible training program and
technical assistance.
C.   Project Description
3.03      The proposed project consists of the following components, which
are detailed in Annex 3-1.
(a)  an   Institutional  development  program  focussed  on  the
strengthening of SBEE through: (i) a detailed study to define
the relationship and to streamline responsibilities of SBEE and
GOB; (ii) a 'performance contract" between SBEE and GOB to
improve SBEE's efficiency as a power utility, containing
performance targets for the period through 1995 and incentives
for improved productivity; (iii) a program of technical
assistance and staff training; (iv) overhaul of the billing
system and provision for new hardware and software for better
handling of customer accounts; (v) the development of computer-
based management information and accounting systems; and (vi)
studies for future system requirements and a tariff study to
redress the present tariff structure (see paras. 4.04-4.08); and
(b)  an Investment program comprising of part of the SBEE investment
program through 1995 focussing on rehabilitation, reinforcement
and extension of the distribution facilities in the Cotonou,
Porto Novo and Abomey/Bohicon interconnected system; supply and
installation of a supervisory control system and a radio
communications system; and acquisition of tools, materials,
spare parts and office equipment.
D.   Project Cost
3.04      The estimated cost (net of all taxes) of the project, including
provision for physical and price contingencies, and including interest
during construction (IDC), is US$36.5 million equivalent, as summarized in



- 14 -
the table below.   The foreign exchange component of US$31.2 million
equivalent represents 85Z of the project cost.   Full details of the
project cost are given in Annex 3-2.
Summary Project Cost a/
Foreign    Total
US$ Million Equival. as Z of   as 2 of
Local  Foreign  Total   Total      Base
Distribution          3.60   16.49   20.08    82        70.9
Billing System        0.24    2.74    2.98    92        10.5
Studies               0.18    1.45    1.62    89         5.7
TIA                   0.07    0.61    0.68    90         2.4
Training              0.41    0.95    1.36    70         4 8
Misc. Equipment       0.00    1.60    1.60   100         5.6
Total Base Cost       4.49   23.84   28.33    84         100
Contingencies:
Physical           0.41    2.11    2.52    84
Price              0.41    2.26    2.67    85
IDC                   0.00    3.00    3.00
Total                 5.31   31.21   36.52
m===   ===ZW    W=m==
I/ SBEE Is exempt ftrom custom dutios and taxes on equipmnt.
3.05      The project cost estimate is based on mid-1991 prices.  Physical
contingencies of 102 and price contingencies, based on current inflation
trends, of 3.4? annually were added.
E.   Project Financing
3.06      An IDA Credit of US$15 million equivalent to GOB ib proposed.
It would finance about 45? of the project cost excluding IDC (or 412 of
the total cost including IDC).   The Credit would also refinance PPF
Advances of US$1.5 million. Co-financing with CCCE of France has been
arranged under the following terms: interest 52, maturity 20 years,
including 4 years of grace. The proposed IDA credit would finance 100? of
the foreign exchange costs (excluding IDC).  About 162 of the project
costs (US$5.3 million equivalent, excluding IDC) would be financed by
SBEE's internally generated funds. The financing plan is summarized in
the table below, with details set out in Annex 3-3.
Proiect Financing Plan
Local      Foreign    Total
--------(US$ Million)------
SBEE                  5.31         3.00        8.31
IDA                   0.00        15.00       15.00
CCCE                  0.00        13.21       13.21
Total             5.31         31.21       36.52
a===m    . mminm         mwms=



- 15 -
3.07      Of the IDA Credit, US$13.6 million will be relent by GOB co SBEE
for 20 years, including 5 years of grace at 7.7X.  SBEE will bear the
foreign exchange risk on this amount.  An additional amount of US$1.4
million will be passed to SBEE as an equity contribution to finance
technical assistance and training.   Signature of a relending agreement
between GOB and SBEE satisfactory to IDA is a condition of Credit
effectiveness.
F.   Coordination with Co-Financiers
3.08      At the informal request of GOB, IDA has taken the lead in
coordinating co-financing for the proposed project. Staff members from
CCCE's offices in Paris and Cotonou joined the appraisal mission, and all
activities concerning this project have so far been well coordinated with
CCCE  in Paris.   Effectiveness  of the CCCE Loan  is a condition of
effectiveness of the proposed IDA Credit.
G.   Proiect Implementation
Status of Preparation and Execution
3.09      The proposed project was prepared by SBEE with the assistance
of management and engineering consulting firms financed under the Nangbeto
Project (Credit 1507-BEN), a PPF and CCCE financing. In particulars
(a)  the first phase of a diagnostic study to determine areas of
weakness and to recommend improvements in the institutional
arrangement for the sector in general, the relationship between
SBEE and GOB, SBEE's organization and other operational matters
was completed in November 1990;
(b)  a system planning study for the rehabilitation, reinforcement
and extension of SBEE's distribution systems in Cotonou, Porto
Novo and the Abomey/Bohicon area through 1995 was finalized in
March 1991; and
(c)  tariff study and store management studies have been awarded to
consulting firms under conditions satisfactory to IDA.
3.10      SBEE would implement all aspects of the proposed project with
assistance from consultants.   SBEE has engaged Lahmeyer (Germany) to
complete detailed engineering, bid preparation and evaluation and assist
in construction supervision.   Lahmeyer was retained under conditions
satisfactory to IDA.   SBEE will establish a project management unit
responsible for project implementation. The proposed Organization Chart
for Project Management  is shown in Annex 3-4.   During negotiations
agreement was reached that the establishment of this unit and appointment
of its key personnel is a condition of credit effectiveness.   Project
completion is expected by Spring 1996.  An implementation timetable is
presented in Annex 3-5.
Monitoring and Reporting Requirements
3.11      The construction manager will be responsible for physical works.
Monitoring of institutional performance would involve the General Manager



- 16 -
and all Directors. A Corporate Planning unit is proposed under the target
organization of SBEE to strengthen their capability in this area. Overall
coordination among the different contractors, within SBEE departments and
with other agencies in Benin would be carried out by the Project
Management Unit. Quarterly progress reports would be made by the project
unit to SBEE's Board, IDA and CCCE. Detailed reporting requirements were
discussed during negotiations and a supervision plan prepared; besides
managerial and financial aspects, it would include progress on the
physical works and performance criteria of the utility, including losses,
arrears (private and public customers), sales and customers per employee,
and number of new connections. An annual review of the implementation of
all aspects of the proposed project will be undertaken by SBEE and IDA.
In addition, GOB and SBEE will, not later than June 30 1994, carry out
jointly with IDA, a mid-term review of the progress made in carrying out
the project. During negotiations, agreement was also reached that at the
end of the Credit period, SBEE will prepare a Project Completion Report to
be submitted to IDA six months after the Credit closing date.
H.   Procurement
3.12      Procurement arrangements are summarized in the following table,
where fig-ies in brackets represent proposed IDA financing:
Procurement Arrangements
(US$ Millions)
Procurement Method
Project Component           ICB    'LIB        Other    Total
1. Distribution Network
and Substations
(a) Goods                 6.59               6.36     12.95
(6.59)                       (6.59)
(b) Works                                    6.97      6.97
2. Computer Equipment        1.64                          1.64
(1.64)                       (1.64)
3. Tools, Equipment &        0.70    0.70       2.56       3.96
Materials              (0.70)  (0.70)                (1.40)
4. Engineering,                                 6.42       6.42
Studies & T/A                             (4.25)    (4.25)
5. Training                                     1.60       1.60
(1.12)    (1.12)
TOTAL                     8.93    0.70      23.91      33.54
(8.93)  (0.70)    (5.37)   (15.00)
3.13      Materials for the rehabilitation and extension of the distribution
system will be procured under 15 different lots for supplies and four lots
for erection.  Details of the procurement packages is given in Annex 3-6.



- 1, -
All IDA financed goods (8 lots) will be procured through ICB.  CCCE goods
will be procured through limited bidding in the French Zone,   Several
manufacturers and suppliers are expected to compete for these lots and
therefore resulting in economic costs to the borrower.   The CCCE-financed
distribution dispatching center and substations (US$2.7 million) will also be
procured following CCCE's procurement procedures.
3.14      The procurement of computer equipment, for billing and accounting,
will be carried out under ICB, with a proviso that after sales service and
support facilities will ha-e to be provided by the successful bidder. IDA-
financed tools, office and miscellaneous equipment, will be procured through
a combination of ICB and international shopping following the receipt of at
least three quotations from different geographical areas, as shown in the
table above. Procurement under international shopping will be packaged in
lots of under US$100,000, up to an aggragate amount not exceeding US$0.7
million equivalent.   Consultants will be selected in accordance with IDA
guidelines and would be employed on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA.
All IDA-financed contracts for amounts of US$150,000 equivalent or more, will
be subject to prior review; other contracts will be subject to selective
post-award review.
I.   Disbursements
3.15      The proposed IDA credit would be disbursed as follows:
Disbursement Categories of IDA Credit
(Amounts in US$ Million)
2 of Expenditures
Category                         Amounts      financed by IDA
1.   Distribution material and misc.           6.75      1002 of foreign
equipment                                           expenditures or 802
of total cost if
procured locally.
2.   Consultant services and training          4.25      100o
3.   Refunding of project preparation          1.50
advance
4.   Unallocated                               2.50
TOTAL                                   15.00
The proposed IDA credit would be disbursed by June 30, 1997, in accordance
with the schedule shown in Annex 3-7.   This schedule corresponds to
IBRD/IDA power projects - distribution and transmission -, but reduced
from seven and half years to six years given the one year taken to
disburse the PPF advance and  the nature of the project, being mostly
distribution with no complicated contracting arrangements. It is proposed
that a Special Account of US$1.0 million equivalent be established in a



- 18 -
commercial bank acceptable to IDA or possibly at the BCEAO, covering a
four-month period of IDA-financed eligible expenditures.   The Special
Account will be used by SBEE exclusively. Disbursements of the IDA credit
would be fully documented, except for expenditures of less than US$20,000
equivalent, which would be disbursed against Statements of Expenditures
(SOE's). All IDA expenditures of less than US$20,000 equiva' nt would be
financed from the Special Account.  During negotiations, agreement was
reached that the Special Accouvt (para. 3.15) and the SOE's would be
audited annually by the independent auditors (para. 2.07). SOE's will be
reviewed by IDA on a regular basis.
J.   Environmental Aspects
3.16      The nroject does not raise any significant environmental issue.
This has been confirmed by an Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA)
prepared by the design engineers. Agreement on the action plan resulting
from the EIA was reached at negotiations. Progress in the implementation
of the action plan will be assessed during supervision and at mid-term
review of the project.
IV. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A.   Past Finances and Present Financial Position of SBEE
4.01      Prom FY78 to FY82, sales of electricity grew at ar. average rate
of 27? annually, from FY82 to FY90 at an average rate of 42, and from FY78
to FY90 at an overall average rate of 111. SBEE's sales in its isolated
load centers have grown even faster than these averages. Costs in these
centers, however, have soared because power is supplied by small diesel
plants. This could, in the long run, threaten the financial viability of
the entity, as tariffs are currently uniform throughout B4nin.   SBEE's
Income Statements, Funds Flow Statements and Balance Sheets for FYs78 to
90 are given in Annexes 4-1 to 4-3 and are summarized, for FYs84 to 90, in
the following tables.
Past Earnings, Financing Performance and Capitalization
(in CFAP Million)
Past Earnings&
FY                       84      85     86      87     88     89    90
Sa.es (GWh)             134    148    135    137    167    162   175
Tariff (CFAF/kWh)        62      59     60      58     55     56    57
Total Revenue         12308  11491  12151  11712  13364  13592 14047
Total Expenses,
incl. Interest       11759  11235  11809  11374  13038  13193 13347
Net Surplus             549    256    342    338    326    399   700
=15W=  cs===  =.=  am a ======== .="M= =====
Operating Ratio (Z)      91      87     94      97     89      91    88
Rate of Return on
Net Fixed Assets          8       8      4       l      6       5     6
Average Collection
period in months        9.0    6.2    9.8   11.8   10.1   11.5   6.0



- 19 -
Overall, and notwithstanding both the slow growth of sales in recent years
and a stable average tariff rate, SBEE's earnings have remained positive,
mainly thanks to efforts on the part of management to contain operating
expenses.   The drop  in the  rate of return  in PY87  is clue to the
incorporation in that year's accounts of two new diesel units at the
Akpakpa power plant. The poor collection rate for receivables is mainly
due to central and local administrations not meeting their obligations in
a period of structural difficulties, not to mention the illiquidity crisis
which prevailed until recently.
FinningPerformance
Period PYs 84-90
CFAF     Equivalent
Million  US$ Million    z
Capital Expenditure                          32650      131         83
Increase in Working Capital, incl. cash    6748          27         17
Total Requirements                          39398       158        100
Internal Cash Generation                    18978        76         48
Borrowings                                  17306        69         44
Equity                                        2051        9          5
Consumers' Contributions                      1063        4          3
Total Sources of Funds                      39398       158        100
SBEE's contribution to investment, as reflected in its net internal cash
generation (NICG) ratio of 44g, is very favorable. The goal set for SBEE
under Nangbeto  Credit  1507-BEN was  45X.   A major  part  of capital
expenditure was in the water sector.  On the other hand, an increasing
share of cash resources had to finance the arrears of the public sector.



-20 -
Capitalization as of end FY90:
CFAF     Equivalent
Million  US$ Million    z
Net Fixed Assets in Operation               28459       114        72
Work in Progress                             4001        16        10
32460      130         82
Current Assets                              10321        41        26
less Current Liabilities                     3329        13         8
6992       28         18
Net Assets                                  39452       158       100
Represented by:
Equity                                      14374        57        36
Long Term Debt                              17819        72        46
Consumers' Contributions & Deposits          7259        29        18
Total                                       39452       158       100
Debt Service Coverage                         4.2
Debt/Equity Ratio                           50:50
Current Ratio                                 3.1
SBEE's capitalization as of endI:Y90 was satisfactory with a healthy cash
position and a good debt service coverage; the current ratio is robust too
and the debt/equity is acceptatbe, providing sufficient leverage for new
borrowing.   On the other hand, about 50? of current assets consist of
accounts receivable, mainly frca public sector agencies, for which delays
in collection may still be expected, notwithstanding actions agreed with
GOB in the SAL process.  During negotiations, therefore, agreement was
reached with GOB on the issue of t. ese outstanding arrears as explained in
the following paragraphs.
B.   Billing and Collection
4.02      SBEE's billings are month..y for medium voltage consumers and bi-
monthly for low voltage consumers; receivables as of end FY90 represented
about six months' revenues, mostly from government and state enterprises.
This is a marked improvement over FY89 where receivables represented ten
months' revenue. The performance in the settlement of bills by government
and public entities to SBEE, however, needs to be further improved.
During negotiations, therefore, GOB has been requested to submit a plan
satisfactory to IDA to reduce the level of arrears in public sector
receivables to no more than the equivalent of three months' billings.
This plan is part of the 'Contrat-Programme". Furthermore, GOB agreed at
negotiations that: (a) the annual budgets of government departments and
public entities include sufficient provision to cover the cost of their
annual consumption of electricity; and (b) all future electricity bills



- 21 -
are paid within a maximum of three months  from presentation.   The
'Contrat-Programme" would specify that, in the absence of payment, SBEE
will be entitled to cut service.
4.03      While its present position of receivables from private customers
is satisfactory, SBEE has igreed at negotiations to: (a) ensure that
credit to its private customers continue not to exceed three months'
billings; and (b) continue settling CEB's bills within a maximum of three
months from presentation.
C.   Tariffs
Present Arrangements
4.04      About 90% of total electricity demand in Benin is met by CEB's
imports from Ghana (VRA) and supplemented, since late 1987, by CEB's own
generation at the Nangbeto plant. The CEB-VRA supply contract reflects
the cost structure of hydro power, characterized by high fixed charges and
a low incremental cost. CEB's present average purchase price is about USc
5/kWh and its average rate to SBEE (and CEET) is about CFAF 25/kWh,
equivalent to USc 10/kWh. CEB's tariff arrangements are currently under
review by CCCE in the framework of the Nangbeto-Abomey/Bohicon
interconnection projet cofinanced with KfW. The CCCE will exchange views
with IDA on the outcome of the study with a view to recommend a revision
of tariff levels.
4.05      The historical low cost of electricity purchases from CEB (about
USc 2/kWh) resulted in low tariffs to consumers in Benin and Togo; between
1967 and 1982, SBEE tariffs remained unchanged. Originally based on the
cost of diesel generation, the 1967 tariff levels were sufficient to cover
the low cost of imports from VRA and expensive thermal supply to the
isolated load centers for a number of years.  Eventually, however, the
financial situation of SBEE deteriorated to the point where tariff
increases became overdue. As a consequence, rates were increased in 1982
(by 302 on average) and again in 1984 (by an average 1002), following the
reduction in December 1983 of VRA supplies to CEB, which forced SBEE to
generate more electricity from its diesel plants.   This brought the
average tariff level to about CFAF 55/kWh (USc 21/kWh equivalent). Full
details of SBEE's tariffs are set out in Annex 4-4.
Tariff Studies
4.06      SBEE's original tariff structure was set in the mid-sixties.
The low-voltage tariff, with increasing rateq, provided some incentive for
its customers  to save energy at peak time.   In the medium-voltage
category, both a low demand charge and a uniform energy charge did not
encourage efficient use of electricity.   Benin has always applied a
uniform national tariff as a matter of policy.   Since supply to the
coastal interconnected region is significantly cheaper than supply in the
interior (by small isolated diesels), there is a de facto cross-
subsidization from the 802 interconnected demand on the coast to the
remaining 20? inland demand.
4.07      The Power Engineering and Technical Assistance Project (Credits
1189-BEN/1190-TO) made provision for the review of SBEE's tariffs.  The



- 22 -
study, completed in June 1983, confirmed the inadequacy of both the tariff
structure and levels then in existence. It recommended a tariff structure
based on marginal costs while maintaining uniformity of tariffs throughout
Benin. The recommendations were implemented and led to the rate increases
referred to in para. 4.05 above,  Under the Nangbeto Project (Credits
1507-BEN/1508-TO) an update of the tariff study, completed in February
1988, recommended a few adjustments to the tariff structure as proposed in
the original study.  A further update is currently underway, including
assessing the impact of new fiscal policies being envisaged in Benin, and
covering among others the introduction of a value added tax (VAT).
Future Tariffs
4.08      SBEE's tariff structure will be reviewed, taking into account
the recommendations of the tariff studies, during the implementation of
the new customer administration system. Tariff levels, on the other hand,
must be determined in accordance with SBEE's financial requirements as set
out in the IDA-SBEE Project Agreement (Credit 1507-BEN, Nangbeto); the
Agreement provides that the rates be adequate to meet a Net Internal Cash
Generation (NICG) goal of 45Z.   It was also agreed that during the
Nangbeto project implementation, SBEE, in consultation with IDA, would set
an appropriate rate of return target, based on net average fixed assets in
operation (at current value) in substitution for the above cash generation
target.   On the basis of these decisions, agreement was obtained at
negotiations that GOB would authorize SBEE, and SBEE would adjust its
tariff levels, as and when required, to produce a rate of return of at
least 42 as of FY93. This relatively low level is justified mainly by the
fact that about half of SBEE's assets are in the Water Sector, with low
(when not negative) rates of return. According to the financial forecasts
(as outlined in para. 4.11), this would translate in a constant average
nominal tariff level during the period of the project, i.e. decreasing in
real terms.  This is important in light of the need to reduce domestic
costs in order to improve the country's international competitiveness.
D.   Financing Plan
4.09      SBEE's estimated investment requirements and sources of funds
through FY95, roughly the period covered by the proposed project, are
summarized below, with details given in the Funds Flow Statements in Annex
4-5.   It should be noted that the investment plan, including the present
composition listed in Annex 1-5, will be subject to periodic review with
IDA as a condition of the Credit.



- 23 -
SBEE's Financing Plan (FYs9l-95)
CFAF      US$
Billion  Million   2
Requirements:
Rehabilitation/Extension Project           9.0        36   32
Other projects                            18.8        75   68
Total Capital Exp. incl. IDC              27.8       111  100
a==s     .   ==
Financed by:
Internal Cash Generation                  26.7       107   96
less Working Capital a/                   (1.3)       (5)   5
less Debt Service                         (8.9)      (36)  32
SBEE's Contribution to Investment b/    16.5          66   59
Proposed IDA Credit                        3.9        15   14
Other Borrowings                           5.1        21   19
Total Borrowings                           9.0        36   33
Equity Contribution                        1.7         7    6
Consumers' Contributions                   0.6         2    2
Total Capital Sources                     11.3        45   41
Total Financing                           27.8       111  100
IS==   ====A  m==
a/ including variation in cash.
b/ excluding variation in cash, the contribution to investment would
be 60Z.
4.10      For the proposed project, GOB will be the borrower of the IDA
Credit of US$15 million.   An additional US$13 million of the proposed
project would be financed by CCCE.  Further borrowings of US$7 million
would be needed for SBEE to finance the balance of its investment program.
SBEE will encounter no difficulty in raising these funds, since most of
these funds are already committed by KfW. SBEE's internal cash generation
would provide about US$66 million or 591 of requirements which is
considered satisfactory.
E.   Future Finances
4.11      With  the  above  measures,  SBEE would  show  a  satisfactory
financial positir and performance during the period FYs9l to 95. SBEE's
forecast Income Statements and Balance Sheets for FYs9O to 95 are given in
Annexes 4-6 and 4-7 with the assumptions used given in Annex 4-8. Salient
aspects of SBEE's future finances in this period are as follows:



- 24 -
Salient Aspects of Future Finances of SBEE (FYs91-95)
(in CFAF billion, unless stated otherwise)
91    92    93    94    95
Sales, in GWh            185   194   207   219   234
Tariff, in CFAF/kWh       57    57    57    57   57
Total revenues          14.5  15.3  16.3  17.3  18.6
Operating expenses      14.2 14.9  15.8  16.7 18.1
Net income               0.3   0.4   0.5   0.6   0.5
Operating income         1.4   1.1   1.5   1.6   1.5
Operating ratio           91    93    91    90    92
Debt/Equity ratio      52:48 54:46 54:46 52:48 51X49
Debt service coverage   4.7   3.4  k.4   2.7   2.8
Current ratio            2.9   2.6   2.6   2.8   3.4
CI a/                     74   57    58    60    55
RoR bi                   4.7   3.6   4.4   4.5   4.1
a/   The Contribution to Investment (CI), including variation in cash, is
computed on a three-year average basis.
b/   The Rate of Return (RoR) is computed on currently valued average net
fixed assets in operation.
The assumptions used concerning both the growth of sales and the reduction
of technical and non-technical losses are conservative.   Should actual
performance of SBEE in that respect be better than assumed, average rate
decreases could be envisaged. The other key indicators - operating ratio,
debt/equity ratio, debt service coverage and current ratio - are all
satisfactory. SBEE's contribution to investment, including variation in
cash, would be about 59Z on average for the period under consideration,
which is satisfactory; excluding variation in cash, the contribution would
be around 60Z, which is also satisfactory. The rate of return as computed
above remains fairly stable at around 4Z over the period covered by the
analysis. This is considered satisfactory, given that the asset base on
which the rate is computed comprises a significant water component for
which the return is naturally low, when not negative.
V. ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION
A.   Justification
5.01      Performance of the sub-transmission and distribution system in
Cotonou and Porto Novo has deteriorated in recent yeare as a consequence
of overloading and poor structuring of the distribution network and



- 25 -
because of old and inefficient equipment at the substations. Although
there is adequate supply of electricity available from CEB, and as standby
capacity from SBEE, power supply to consumers is often interrupted because
of breakdowns in the subtransmission and distribution networks.
Furthermore, less than half the population in Cotonou and Porto Novo has
access to electricity. The proposed project is essential to provide better
value for money to existing customers, to compensate for the past under-
investment in the distribution network to meet the demand of new
customers, and to improve the utilization of sunk investments in hitherto
idle capacity.   An  adequate and  reliable  supply  of electricity  is
essential to the economic recovery of Bonin.
B.   Economic Rate of Return (Annex 5-1)
5.02      The main direct benefits of the proposed project are the
increased reliability of electricity service to the public, reinforcement
of infrastructure to meet growing demand for electric power, and improved
operational efficiency of SBEE. The costs and benefits are measured by
comparing the power operations in Cotonou, Porto Novo and the
Abomey/Bohicon area with and without the project. It is estimated that
without the project, SBEE could continue for at most three more years to
increase low-voltage service by connecting about 2,000 customers per year,
while accommodating load growth of existing customers at a modest rate of
1 to 2? per year; losses would remain at least at the present level of
152. With the project, extension of low voltage service would accelerate,
and both commercial and technical losses would drop gradually to about 13Z
in 1996. The sales and generation levels are kept constant after 1996,
this being the first year of full operation of the new facilities. The
benefits of the project are certainly not exhausted in 1996, but there
will also be additional costs that cannot yet be reliably estimated.
5.03      The incremental sales are valued by consumers' willingness to
pay, conservatively taken to be the actual tariffs of 57 CFAF(22.8 US
cts/kWh. The resulting Internal Economic Rate of Return (IERR) in the 20?
range is well in excess of the economic opportunity cost of capital in
Benin (about 10), and thus confirms that the proposed project is
economically justified.
5.04      A least-cost distribution development and expansion plan was
prepared by a reputable firm of consultants. The forecast of the power
market is realistic, maximum use is envisaged of the existing assets and
the design of the distribution expansion uses the most advanced concepts
concerning planning and choice of techniques. A notable feature is the
preparation of a complete cadastre of the city of Cotonou and Porto Novo,
as well as of the Abomey/Bohicon area, which will help further customer
management and also benefit other urban infrastructure developments.
5.05      The IERR is believed to be conservatively estimated.  First, the
underlying load growth with the project (6? in terms of real consumption
and revenues) is considered conservative. Second, no account is taken of
the consumer surplus arising from consumers' willingness to pay over and
above SBEE's current average tariff. Third, no quantitative allowance has
been made for the substantial external economic benefits to be derived
from urban electrification, and specifically of its positive effects on
small enterprises (including those led by women) and on urban employment.



- 26 -
C.    Risk
5.06      The principal risks associated with the proposed project relate
to possible project delays and to the achievement by SBEE of its plans to
improve efficiency.    However,  SBEE and GOB are  fully committed  to
strengthening the power sector. Furthermore, SBEE's management is keenly
aware of the need to reinforce the credibility of SBEE in the eyes of the
public.
VI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01      During negotiations, the following agreements were reached:
(a)      GOB and SBEE will conault annually with IDA on SBEE's
investment plan and seek IDA approval of any proposed
investment estimated to cost more than US$1 million
equivalent (para. 1.26);
(b)      GOB will revise SBEE's statutes (para. 2.04);
(c)      timetable for the implementation of the Management
Consultants' recommendations (para. 2.05);
gd)      audit of SBEE's accounts and submission of auditors'
report within six months of fiscal year-end (para.
2.07);
ge)      reporting requirements, mid-term review and submission
of a PCR (para. 3.11);
(f)      audit of the Special Account  and the SOEs  (para.
3.15);
(g)      action plan resulting from the EIA (para. 3.16);
(h)      implementation of a plan satisfactory to IDA to reduce
the level of arrears in public sector receivables to
no more than the equivalent of three months' billings;
the annual budgets of government departments and
public entities to include sufficient provision to
cover the cost of their electricity consumption; and
all future bills to be paid within three months from
presentation (para. 4.02);
(i)      SBEE to ensure that credit to its private customers
will not exceed three months' billings, and settle
CEB's bills within three months from presentdtion
(para. 4.03); and
(j)      achieve a minimum rate of return of 4Z as of 1993
(para. 4.08).



- 27 -
6.02      Conditions of Credit effectiveness:
(a)      signature of a performance contract between GOB and
SBEE (para. 2.04);
(b)      execution or a relending agreement between GOB and
SBEE satisfactory to IDA (para. 3.07);
(c)      effectiveness of CCCE's Loan (para. 3.08); and
(d)      establishment of Project Management Unit (para. 3.10).
6.03      C^3dition of disbursement of the Training Component:
(a) Execution of SBEE's "Statut du Personnel" (para. 2.06).
6.04      Based on the above agreements, the proposed project is suitable
for an IDA Credit of SDR 11.3 million (US$15 million equivalent).
AF1UE/C8-5: cc
(25/8X/1



- 28 -
A N N E X E S



- 29 -
ANNEX 1-1
BENIN
POWER REHABILITATION AND EXTENSION PROJECT
Energy Balances (1988)
(Thousands of toe)
Primtiry Energy          Energy Products             Total
Fuelwood Agricultural Charcoal Petroleum Electricity
Residues               Products
Gross Supply :
Domestic Prod.    431         52          -           -          15       498
Imports              -         -          -        254           15       269
less Exports         -         -          -         (42)          -      (42)
Subtotal           431        52          -        212           30       725
Supply Conversion (68)         -         68          (6)          6         -
Losses                          -       (35)          -           (7     (42)
Net supply for
end use    363         52        33         206           29      683
Consumption:
Households         343        50         33          15           7       448
Transport            -         -          -          74           -        74
Commerce/Govt.      20          -         -           -           6        26
Industry             -         2          -        117           16       135
Total              363        52         33         206          29       683
AF1IE/CS
11/15/90
BENSARAN.1-1



- 30 -
ANNEX 1-2
P go 1 of 2
POWER REHABILITATION AND EXTENTION PROJECT
EXISTING POWER FACILITIES
Plant                    Unit/Capacity (MW)   Type A Make    Operating Cap.(MW)   Yr. In Servlco
A- CEB Plants
1- Nbngb.to  /1          2 X 31600               Hydro             80000 /1             1987
B- SBEE Plants
1- Cotonou
2 X 6260             D/Alothom           2 X 8750            1977/81
2 X 10182            0/Alothom          2 X 10000              1984
2 X 2000                0/Men            2 X 1600              1904
2- Lokooss               1   800oo               Moterue             204                1976
2 X 90                 Baudouln             72
8- AIled.                2 X 140                   Fiat              160                1984
4- Bohicon               2 X 800                 Moterola          2 X 190              1981
2 X 600                Motermic          2 X 875               1981
1 X 1126               Crepelle            1000                1990
2 X 700                Crepell.          2 X 450             1980/cz
6- Cove                  2 X 140                   Flat             179.2               1984
8- Ketou                 2 X 140                   Flat             179.2               1984
7- Dagsa                 2 X 100                Motermic             124                1989
8- DJougou               2 X 140                   Flat              179                1984
9- Natitlngou            8 X SOO              Duvent Crepelle        676
2 X 90                 Baudouln            67.8
10- Perekou              8 X 1126             Duvent Crepelle        2160               1982
1 X 2260               Alethom             1440                1990
11- Boukoumbe            1 X lOO                 Motermlc             64                1987
1 X s0                 Motermic             82                 1987
12- Seberek.             1 X 60                 Moterole              96                1987
1 X 100
13- Kouende              1 X 60                 Moterelc              96                1987
1 X 1oo
14- Kendl                8 X 140                MotereIc            288.8               1987
16- Tenquleta            1 X 50                 Motereic              93               .1987
1 x 100
16- Nlkkl                1 X so                 Motermlc              98                1987
1 X 100
17- Melonville           1 X 100                 Moteurlc             96                1987
Subtotal                   11,614                                    69718.2



- 31 -
ANNEX 1-2
Page 2 of 2
Unit/Capacity (kW) and owner
C- Captive Plants
1- Save                   16000 (BS - Sugar Refinery)
2- Savxlou                400 (SONAPRA/Cotton)
8- Olazoue                800
4- Bohicon                600
6- Bohicon                2000 (ONAB/Saw mill)
6- Bohicon                600 (Beninolie/Brewery)
7- Bohicon                2 X 400 (SONICOO/Ol)
8- Kandi                  600 (SONAPRA/Cotton)
2- Bembereke              800 (SONAPRA/Cotton)
10- Banikoara              800
11- Parnkou                8 X 900 (COTEB/Textil i)
12- Hinvl /2               N.A.    (SONICOO/Oll mill)
13- Toffo Sedjl /2         N.A.    (SBEE/Water Pumping Station)
14- Torl Bossito /2        N.A.    (SBEE/Water Pumping Station)
/1  Nangbeto hydro electric plant Is jointly owned by Togo and Bonin. Therefore
only half Its cnpacity Is considered for Benin.
/2  To be replaced by Avap..
SRM/oxtcap
14-May-91



- 32 -
Annex 1-3
BENIN
POWER REHABILITATION AND EXTENSION PROJECT
Historical Supply, Sales and Losses
Total
Year      Generation   Purchases   Supply        Sales    Losses
GWh           GWh        GWh        GWh        Z
1978/79             6.9         87.3       94.2
1979/80             8.1        100.9      109.0
1980/81            10.2        114.3      124.5
1981/82            15.1        133.1      148.2
7/82-'.2/82         6.7         77.5       84.2
1983               20.7        162.4      183.1     139.4      22.5
1984               61.3        101.8      163.1     130.7      19.9
1985               23.6        148.5      172.1     142.4      17.2
1986               26.0        140.9      166.9     135.2      19.0
1987               26.2        145.9      172.1     i37.7      20.0
1988               20.4        179.0      199.4     166.8      16.3
1989               20.4        169.0      189.4     162.8      13.8
1990               21.4        181.5      202.9     175.5      13.5
AF1IE
14-May-91
HISTLD



- 33 -
BENIN                                          Annox 1-4
POWER REHA8ILITATIONi AND EXTENTION PROJECT
------------------------------------------
Load Foreast and Energy Balance (OWh)
A e t u a I
1989   1990     1901   1992   1998   1994   1996   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000
1.sol                         ------ -----S   ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ -----  ------ ------ ------ ------
1.1 Atlantic Reglon /I        118.8  126.8    130.9  188.8  148.0  161.6  162.2  176.2  188.9  191.8  198.9  206.9
1.2 Oums Rnion  /2             21.8   22.9      28.8   24.8   26.8   26.0   28.0   28.0   28.0   80.0  83.0   86.0
1.8 Mono Region  /8            10.6    9.9      11.2   12.1   13.1   18.1   18.1   18.2   14.1   14.2   14.8   16.8
1.4 Zou Region  /4              6.0    6.1       6.7    7.2   10.2   11.6  12.4   12.9   18.6   14.2   16.4   16.2
1.6 8orgou Region  /6           8.6    9.0      10.0   11.0   12.8   18.4   14.6   16.9   17.1   18.6   20.0   21.0
1.6 Attacor& Rogion  /6         1.9    2.2       2.'.   2.7    8.0    8.8     8.6    8.9    4.2    4.6    4.9    6.1
1.7 Total Solos               162.6  175.4    184.6  194.1  206.9  219.0  238.9  249.0  260.9  272.8  286.5  299.6
Annual growth rate (X)             7.9       6.2    6.2    6.6   5.8   6.8    6.4    4.8    4.6   6.0    4.6
2. Gross Generation
2.1 Atlantic Region /1          0.7    0.6       0.8    0.8    0.6    1.3    1.2    1.6    1.6    2.0    2.0    2.0
2.2 Oum. Ragion  /2             0.8    0.8       0.8    0.8    0.8    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
2.8 Mono Region  /8             0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
2.4 Zou Rogion  /4              7.8    8.0       8.9    9.4    6.4    0.8    0.8   0.8    0.8    0.8    0.8    0.8
2.6 Borgou Region  /S           9.8    9.9      11.0   12.1   13.6   14.7   16.0   17.4   18.8   20.8   22.0  28.1
2.6 Attacore Region  /6         2.3    2.6       2.9    8.2    3.6    8.8    4.2    4.5    4.9    6.8    5.7    6.0
2.7 Total CGnoration           20.8   21.4      28.9   25.8  28.8  20.1   21.7   28.7   25.6   27.9  80.0  81.4
8. Net Generation
8.1 Atlantic Region /1          0.6    0.6       0.8    0.7    0.6    1.8    1.2    1.6    1.6    2.0    2.0    2.0
8.2 Oumo Region  /2             0.8    0.8       0.8   0.8    0.8    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   0.0
8.8 Mono Region  /8             0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0      0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   0.0
8.4 Zou Region  /4              7.6    7.8       8.7    9.2    5..   0.8    0.8    0.8    0.8    0.8    0.8    0.8
8.6 Borgou Region  /5           9.1    9.7      10.8   11.9  18.2  14.4  16.7   17.1   18.4   19.9  21.6  22.6
8.6 Attecora Rogion  /6         2.8    2.5       2.8    8.1    8.4    8.7    4.1    4.4    4.8    6.2    6.6    6.9
8.7 Total Generation           19.9   20.9      28.4   25.8   22.9   19.7   21.8   28.2   26.0   27.8   29.4   80.8
4. Purchases
4.1 Atlantic Region (Vedeko)  .36.8  148.1    154.6  161.8  166.6  171.8  181.2  192.8  201.0  208.8  217.8  226.8
(Avskpa)                                  2.0    2.0    2.0    2.0    8.0    8.0    8.0    8.0
4.2 Oum Region (OnTgbolo)    21.6  22.6    28.0  24.0   25.0  26.0  28.0   28.0   28.0  80.0  88.0  85.0
4.8 Mono Rogion (Lokoesa)      11.4   10.6      12.0   18.0  13.0  14.0  14.0   14.0   16.0  16.0  15.0  16.0
Mono Reg. (Hilla CondJi)    0.2    0.2       0.2    0.3    0.3    0.3    0.3    0.4    0.4    0.6   0.6    0.7
4.4 Zou Region                                                 8.0   16.0   16.0   18.7   17.5   18.4   20.0   21.0
4.6 Total Purchas.c           169.0  181.4    189.8  199.0  218.9  229.1  241.5  263.4  264.9  276.7  288.9 802.0
5 Net G(ner. A Purchases
6.1 Atlantic Region           136.4  148.7   166.4  162.6  168.2  176.1  184.4  196.8  206.6  218.8  222.8  281.2
6.2  uom Region                21.9   22.8  - 28.8   24.8   26.8   26.0   28.0   28.0   28.0   80.0   88.0   86.0
5.8 Mono Region                11.6  10.8    12.2   18.8   18.8  14.8  14.8   14.4   16.4   16.6  16.6  16.7
6.4 Zou Region                  7.6    7.8       8.7    9.2   18.8  16.8  16.8   17.0   17.8   18.7  20.8  21.8
5.5 Borgou Region               9.1    9.7    10.8  11.9  18.2  14.4   16.7   17.1   18.4   19.9  21.6  22.6
5.6 Attecora Reg'on             *. 3   2.6       2.8    8.1    8.4    8.7    4.1    4.4    4.8    6.2    6.6    6.9
- -j 7 - - ---    - - - -- - -- --- - .-- - -- - - - -- - -- - -- - -- - -- - -- - -- - -- - -- - -- - -- - -   
5.7 Total CGner. A Purchoses  188.9  202.8    218.2  224.8  2386.7  248.8  262.8  276.6  289.9  808.1  818.4  882.7
S.  Implied loss"               18.9   18.8     18.5   18.4   12.6   12.0   11.0   10.0   10.0   10.0   10.0   10.0
7. Poek Load (MW)
7.1 Atlantic                   S0.8  82.4       88.6   85.2   87.1   89.8   41.8   44.2   48.6   49.1   61.8   64.0
7.2 Lokossa                     2.2    2.4       2.4    2.6    2.8    2.8    2.8    2.8    8.0    8.0    8.0    8.2
7.8 Bohicon                                      2.0    2.2    8.0    8.8    8.6    8.6    8.7    8.9    4.2    4.4
/1 Atlantique lncludes Cotonou, Alleds, Avakpa, anZ Porto-Novo.
/2 Ouom Includes Ketou end Onigbolo.
/8 Mono Region includes Lokooss.
/4 Zou Region Includes Abomy and Bohicon.
/5 Borgou Rogion Includes Nikkl, Parokou, and B.beroke.
/6 Attacora Region Includes Djougou, Boukombe, Natiningou, Kousnde, and Tanguieta.
SRM/frcstSM 14-May-91



- 34 -
ANNEX 1-5
BENIN
POWER REHABILITATION AND EXTENSION PROJECT
SBEE - Power and Water Sector Investments FYs 91-95
CFAF     US$
Million Million
POWER
Spares for generation                                            250       1
Rehabilitation & Extension Project                              9068      36
Electrification 13 Prefectures                                  2400      10
Small extensions                                                1000       4
Tools and equipment                                              350       1
Study micro-hydro                                                 50
Sub-total                                                      13118      52
WATER
Second Water Project (IDA)                                      2100       8
Water Projects (KfW)                                           10770      44
Yeripao dam                                                     1215       5
Sub-total                                                      14085      57
MISCELLANEOUS                                                    606       2
Total                                                          27808    111
AFlIE/CS
03/15/91
BENSARAN.1-5



BENIN
POWER REHABILITATION AND EXTENSION PROJECT
SBEE - PRESENT ORGANIZATION CHART
|DIRECTON GENEME
DIRECR GENERAL ADJOlNr
*                                                                                                      I-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
|~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~EVC SERIREVICE 
c                                                                                                                          RE     DEE _LA E   .II
o            OU             OIRECTION DWREON E         DUEC  DECS       E      DIREC1                DIRECN  DES ODTEC EN
o   DES ELUX       DE LTELECT NCN AE |EXPLONA IX  |              ADPI INSTRAlVE =AIAIES                        RNAINCE
0   Elil)X   ID LANT1UEO        CE ILEClNIIE  PUERS U O                   C ONGU        C IDNIT ATACOR
.-R
~~~~~Mcm DE                   XRECTMDE                    CIE=    N   W!|   EU
C.   C,L                NI U
2~~~~
UpbAS53U~:



BENIN
POWER REHABILITATION AND EXTENSION PROJECT
SBEE - TARGET ORGANIZATION CHART
IDORECIEW GlE 
i SECRT    I
CIPAUD WE *fFERNE
t OPAIELIIE MAYIa QUEJM
}SST    I OOWUERCIAWETCOMABUTE I
Ttso  I                                                    I    OIN
U013 UIVI WDGEA Er                                    _"EVMMGE            * E
ONTOLE DE GESnON                                      CO -TAME ANXLYn>£U0
WLANIEDt IOP FEONLCERE oes PTS                        ME
a s ~ ~  ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ au
SWNO  ET DOCWENmnON
MEO"~~I --"                                        ETIO
ES   I  ~~ELECTKM1RVt            COMMERCIALE              Ix  ATRKSO#}             Er I
ECNOESs  Er UEloTNODE    TRAVIXMGSNPE                                          s    S-RnKME
E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AEIR 3                               ENERAUXS                    1
SERIC CRD
PFA)DtCTfrRANW.  a DIRE-01ONS OWARTEMENTALES~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 37 -
ANNEX 3-1
Page 1 of 2
BENIN
POWER REHABILITATION AND EXTENSION PROJECT
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
The proposed project comprises two major components namelys an
institutional development -^omponent and an investment component.
I - INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT COMPONENT
1.01         This focusses on the strengthening of the power sector in Benin
and SBEE through:
(a)  completion of an institutional study that started under PPF financing
to streamline responsibilities in the sector between SBEE and GOB.
The study will also prepare a proposal for a performance contract to
be negotiated between SBEE and GOB. The contract will focus on
improving SBEE efficiency as a power utility and include a multi-year
program with budgets and targets for each year through 1993. The
contract will also seek to provide SBEE with operational autonomy,
and redefine its relationship with CEB. SBEE performance is to be
monitored by performance indicators in five key areas of operations
namely: sales/revenues, collections, manpower development and
training, quality of supply and physical project implementation;
(b)  a program of technical assistance from a mature power utility to fill
key positions where special skills are needed, or where staff members
from SBEE are in training. The technical assistance for the five
years ending 1995 is estimated at about 50 man-months. This includes
17 man-months short term assignments ranging from a few days to
several weeks to address particular and specific tasks, and about 23
man-months of long term technical assistance;
(c)  a training program to provide SBEE with required expertise in the
technical, financial and managerial areas. The training needs for
the five years ending 1995 will cover:
(i)     ten student years at ESIE in COte d'Ivoire;
(ii)     fifteen student years at the COte d'Ivoire training center;
(iii)     overseas training estimated at 20 student months; and
(iv)     about 110 persons to be trained annually at CEB training
center in Abomey-Calavi;
(d)  overhaul the SBEE customer billing and accounting systems by:
(i)      establishing a laboratory for meter calibration for both
the L.T. and H.T. meters;
(ii)     establishing computerized mapping facilities for Automated
Mapping (AM) and Facilities Management (FM) system to
improve the management of customers and equipment in the
system;



- 38 -
ANNEX 3-1
Page 2 of 2
(iii)     establishing all necessary software for a new billing and
customer management system; and
(iv)      auditJng of customers arrears;
(e) the development by consultants of:
(i)     a computer-based management information system;
(ii)     procurement procedures;
(iii)     stock management system; and
(iv)     investment program including priorities for 1994-1999.
II  -  INVESTMENT COMPONENT
2.01         The investment component consists of the bulk of SBEE's 1992-
1995 power investment program. The rest of the investment program is being
financed mainly by KfW outside this project or by SBEE. The investment
component includes:
(a)  Subtransmission System.  SBEE owns and operates three bulk power
supply substation in Cotonou and one in Porto Novo. In addition a new
161/20 kV substation will be built by CEB in Abomey/Bohicon to
provide supply to these two towns from the interconnected system.
Major work under the project includes:
(i) supply and erection of load break switches between CEB and SBEE
substations;
(ii) supply and erection of a second 63/20 kV transformer in Porto
Novo; and
(iii)supply and erection of a tie betweei. the diesel plant and the
bulk substation.
(b)  Supervisory Control system (SCS).  Supply and erection at Akpakpa of
a control system to monitor and control the switching operations at
all main substations. This should provide SBEE with state of the art
technology for monitoring the system and detecting and responding to
system disturbances.
(c)  Distribution System.  This component includes the rehabilitation,
reinforcement and extension of the Cotonou, Porto Novo and
Abomey/Bohicon distribution systems to supply economical loads. At
present it is estimated that only about 45Z of households are
electrified with an estimated 15,000 potential customers awaiting
connection to the grid. As a result of this project, more than
20,000 new customers will be added to the system. Detailed
engineering studies and preparation of bid documents are underway.
(d) Other Items. This includes telecommunications equipment, tools, and
spare parts for distribution and diesel plants.
AFlIE/CS
05/03/91
BENSARAN.3-1



POdE NBPBIUTAT21 AND 61r86113 PRO.K
SUWaT PROJeTT CSTs
Power Coepmonet
(US 9 Million)                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FOR. TOTAL.
-1992----- -199              3 ---  --- lw---    --IS--- 19 4 9 --1 ----------- I -TOTAL-----  I OF I OF
Local For. Total LocaiFo. Total Locaml For. TotalI Loal For. Total LocalFr.Ttl I    Local For.  Total TOTAL. SAS
A. GEAT13 
lubab. of IMPAKA eta.  0.00 0.00 0.00  0.00 0.00 0.00  0.00 0.00 0.00  0.00 0.00 0.00  0.00 0.00 0.00    0.00  0.00  0.00 arn   0.01
S. OISTRIlrKrnl S12T81
Vado WesVt        0.12 0.4  0.6   0.04 0.16 0.20  000.0  0.00000 0         0 000    0.00 0.00 0.00    0.16  0.64  0.80 801  2.81
b.Porto Iheg       0.04 015 0.20  0.04 0.16 0.20  000 0.00 0.00  000 0.00 0.0   0.00 0.00 0.00    0.0   0.32  0.40 80S  1.43
4_Abonq SBoicon    0.06 0.32 0.40  0.06 0.32 0.40  0.00 0.00 0.00  0.00 0.00 0.00  0.00 0.00 0.00    0.16f  0.64  0.80 601  2.81
DisOjtreb. Doaetatg   0.00 0.00 0.00  0.04 0.36  0.40  0.04 0.38 0.40  0.00 0.00 0.00  0.00 0.00 0.00    0.06  0.72  0.80 90X  2.81
a. ED#. A so".      0.01 0.06 0.06  0.01 0.07 0.06  0.01 0.06 0.06  0.00 0.00 0.00  0.00 0.00 0.00    0.02  0.18  0.20 903  0.71
Subtotal 6-1        0.29 1.01 1.26i  0.21 1.-0? -1.28  0.06 0.41 0.48s  0.0 W.000   0.00 0.00; 0.00-   0.60;  2.80  W.0   631.6
2. LD 15 NS KWA LI
ca.Ctoomo Vel       0.513617   0.42 1.66 2.00  0.42 1.68 2.00  0.21 0.83 1.04  0.00 0.00 0.00    1-.38  8.5   6. WS0 24.41
b. Cotomos Seat  ~~0.06 0.32 0.40O  0.10 0.38 0.48  0.10 0.38 0.46  0.05 0.19 0.24  0.0   .000    0    0.82  1.261.06151
Pb.to Ibue  0.1? 0.?0~~y  0.8?  0.21 0.64 1.04  0. 21 0.84 1.04  0.10 0.42 0.52  0.00 0.0  0.0'0    0.70  .7   3.680121
d. PAboe I  hcon     0.0 040 0.80  0.12 0.46 0.60  0.1  40.4  0.60  0.06 0.24 0.30  0.00 0.00 0.00    0.40  1.60  2.0  80       i71
VeIl.. Toola a v.&.  0.00 0.16 0.16  0.00 024 0.24  0.0 0.4 0 0   0040 0 0  .0 000 0.40 0.40    0.00  1.6   1.60 1003  5.635
IF. 6m. A Swum.      0.04 0.14 0.18  0.06 0.21 0.27  0.05 0.21 0.27  0.04 0.14 0.16  0.00 0.00 0.00    0.18S  0.71  0.80 803  3.11
g.Poect Ihaawe.t   0.02 0.10 0.12  0.02 0.10 0.12  0.02 0.10 0.12  0.02 0.10 0.12  0.02 0.10 0.12    0.12  0.46  0.60 603  2.11
Subtotat 9-2         0.682  39    .2 8.91 4.6 0.92'i ; 4.07 4.990.4  2.32 2i.80  0.02 0.80- 0.2    6.10 13.99 17.0  6an  60.2
Subtotal a            1.01 4.21 5.22  1.18 4.96 6.11  0.96 4.48 8.45  0.4e 2.32 2.80  0.02 0.80 0.52    2.60 16.49 20.08 823 70.91
C. ones
1. 1111mg System
a.f bde re         0.00 0.75 0. 78  0.00 0.38 0.38  0.00 0.15 0.16  0.00 0.15 0.18  0.00 0.08 0.06    0.00  1.80  1.80 1001  5.211
b. Software A Studies  0.06 0.44 0.82  0.06 0.44 0.82  0.00 0.00 0.00  0.00 0.00 0.00  0.00 0.00 0.00    0.16  0.86  1.04 6S51  3.71
c. T.A. A Training   0.02 0.07 0.09  0.02 0.0? 0.09  0.02 0.0? 0.09  0.02 0.07 0.09  0.02 0.0? 0.09    0.09  0.35  0.44 601  1. 61
Subtotal c-i.      o.o12   .801   .909    .20.22 0.24  0.02 0.22 0.24  0.02 0. 15 0.16    0.24  2.74  2.98 926 10.835
2. Stadies
a. Proc. aStore Veer0.01 0.08 0.06  0.01 0.05  .06  000 0.00 0.00  0.00 a.000 00  0000 01 0  0.00    0.0   0.10  0.12 661  0.411
b. Oja=tlib.Sfeaa*0"bilst 0.06 0.84 0.40  0.00 0.00 0.0:0  0.00 0.00 0.00  0.00 .1.00 0.00  0.00 000 0.0  006  034  0.40 881  1.41
c.Imetitiutional Stud 0.01 0.25 0.26  0.00 0.00 0.09  0.00 0.06 0.09  0.00 0.00 0.00  0.00 0.00 0.00    0.02  0.42  0.44 951  1.61X
d. .I.S. S'.tot    0.00 0.06 0.08  0.00 0.02 0.02  0.00 0.01 0.01  0.00 0.00 0.00  0.00 0.00 0.00    0.00  0.06  0.06 951  0.21
a.Tariff Studj     0.01 0.6007 001 0.04 0.05  000 0.00 0.00  0.00 0.00 0.00  0.00 0.00 0.00    0.02  0.10  0.12 601  0.41
f. Second Power Projac 000 0.00 0.00'  0.00 0.00 0.00  0.02 0.17 0.19  0.02 0.17 0.19  0.01 009 010    0.05  0.43  0.46 901  1.71
Subtotal C-2.      0.10 0.73 0.83  0.02i 0.19 0.21  0.02 0.2;7 0.290.0  0.1019- --0.01 -0.-0  0.-10   -0.18- -1.48-  1.6-2 891  5.71
3. Training          0.06 0.19 0.27  0.00 0.19 0.2?  0.06 0.19 0.27  0.00 0.19 0.27  0.00 0.19 0.27    0.41  0.95  1.38 701  4.61
4. Tedwanic Aeeieta,16
a. Long Term        0.01 0.0? 0.00  0.01 0.07 0.08  0.01 0.07 0.06  0.01 0.07 0.06  0.01 0.07 0.00    0.04  0.38  0.40  W01  1.41
b. Sbo.t Tare       0.01 0.08 0.06  0.01 0.05 0.06  0.01 0.06 0.06  0.01 0.05 0.06  0.01 0.05 0.06 . 0.08  0.25  0.28 901  1.011
Subtotal C-4.      0.01 0.l2 0.14  0.01 0.1i2 0.14  0.01 0.12i 0.14  0.0  012- 0.124- -0.01 -0.12 0.1-4-   0.0-7 0-. 61- -0.--68 906  2.41
S. Niieallane...     0.00 0.32 0.32  0.00 0.32 0.32  0.00 0.32 0.32  0.00 0.32 0.32  0.00 0.32 0.22    0.00  1.60  1.60o 1006  5. 61
Susbtotal C.       0.29 2.62 2.91  0.21 -1.7-1 1.93;  0.14 1.1 -2 1.2  -0.18 -1.083 1.60.12, 0.66- 0.99-  -0.90- -7.-35  8.24- 691 29.13
TOTAL SASE CTSo      1.29 6.83 8.18  1.34 6.69 8.08  1.10 5.60 6.70  0.61 3.34 3.98  0. 15 1.36 1.81    4.49 23.88 20.32 841 100.01
Total FIqa. Cont.    0.12 0.58 0.70  0.12 0.60 0.72  0.10 0.28 0.63  0.06 0.30 0.36  0.01 0.11 0.12    0.41  2.11  2.52 841
Total Price Coat.    0.00 0.25 0.80  0.10 0.80 0.61  0.13 0.68 0.77  0.10 0.82 0.62  0.04 0.r. 0.87    0.41  2.26  2.67 851
Total Contingencies   0.17 -0.88- -1.00 -0.25 -1.10 -1.3-2 -0.22- 1.1?140-  0.15 0.82 0.97  0.04 0.45 0.49    0.82  4.87  6.19 841 
GR ANO  TO0T1AL    1.4   /791   1.56 7.79 9.35  1.28  6.78 8.11  0.76 4.17 4.03  0.19 1.61 2.00    5.31 28.21 33.81 841 
DE~TIF  FAT        1.08            1.0?             1.11            1.14             1.28
869.ATIOR: FORt   0.034           0.034            0.034           0.024            0.075
16-Nag-91   DFt5D   DIT Uf S3  TOTAL 27.26       27.91            24.25           14.715            6.015                I



- 40 -
Annex 3-3
BZNIN                       ---------
POWER REHABILITATION AND EXTENTION PROJECT
PROPOSED FINANCING PLAN
(US $ million)
Source of Financing
Project Component                    Total Cost    SBEE    IDA      CCCE
1. Distribution system
a. Substat. L Despach Center        3.26       0.56             2.70
b. Engineer. & Spvn. for sub.       0.24       0.02             0.22
c. Network - Materials             10.33       0.00    6.59    3.74
d. Network - Labor                  6.33       3.34             2.99
e. Spares, Tools, & Vehicles        2.00                        2.00
f. Engineer. & Spvn. for network   1.06        0.21    0.85
g. Project Management               0.74       0.15    0.59
2. Billing System                       3.29       0.27    3.02
3. Studies
a. Proc. & Store Management         0.14       0.02    0.12
b. Distrib. feasibility             0.46       0.07    0.39
b. Institutional Study              0.52       0.03    0.49
c. HIS System                       0.07                0.07
di. Tariff Study.                   0.14       0.03    0.11
e. Prep. of next project            0.60       0.06    0.54
4. Training                             1.60       0.48    1.12
5. Technical Assistance
a. Long Term                        0.47       0.05             0.42
b. Short Term                       0.33       0.03    0.30
6. Miscellaneous                        1.96                0.81    1.15
TOTAL                        33.54       5.32   15.00   13.22
Percentage of total            100         16      45       39



- 41 -
ANNEX 3-4
BENIN
POWER REUAWILITATION AND EXTENSION PROJECT
Organisation Chart for Project Management
PROJECT MANAGER
ASSIST. PROJECT MANAGER
PROJECT ENGNl                                           PROJECT ACCOUNTNT   I
l                                    Cost E
Specialist                                              Management             l
Substations          l
lI-    Payments                                          I
Specialist           l
lines              j                                  Computer              l
Administration
Technical
-                                                       I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Departments 
Finance E
Accounting Department
AF1IE
04/19/91
BENSARAN.3-5



- 42 -
BENIN                                            ANNEX 8-6
POWER REHABILITATION AND EXTENSION PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
DISTRIBUTION WORK
-- - - - - -   - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -----         I   - - - - - - -
Substations                     1991    :    19        :    1998           1994          1995
--  - - - - -  - - -- -  - - - - - - -   -- - --  - -  --  - -- -  -  -- -- --  --  --------      --- -- - -- - -
:Engino.ring & Tendering                 -
:Public Bid Opening                     . 
:Bid Evaluation A Approy.               s
:Contract Negot. A Signature
:Engineering, Manuf., Tost., A Ship.
:Installation
_-_-____----_----_--_---_----____- --0_- _---------- ------------------------------------
:DISTRIBUTION                           s              s             s
:Engineering                                                         .
:Prep. of Bid Documents :
:Tendering                                                           .
:Bid  Opening                           s           = :
:Bld Evaluation & Approv.               s:
:Contract Negot.   Signature                           :             .
:Engineering, Manuf., Test.,    Ship.                                :
:Erectlon                                                                   =       ,
s- - ---- ---- -- -------- ---- -------------------------- ------- ------------------------



- 43 -
ANNX_3-6
POWR REHABILITATION AMM EXTENSION PROJECT
Details of Procurement Packaaes
DistibuionPackaoaes
Lot Hot             Paskage          AnoroxLmate CoEt          Finan£ina
USSMllo
A. Materials
Lot # 1            Wooden poles             0.12               IDA
Lot # 2            Concrete poles           0.80               CCCE
Lot 1 3            Conductors M. T.         0.40               IDA
Lot 1 4            Conductors L. T.         2.80               IDA
Lot 1 5            Cables M. T.             0.52               CCCE
Lot 1 6            service Cables           0.84               IDA
Lot 1 7            Insulators               0.32               IDA
Lot 1 8            Armature h
accessories              2.68               CCCE
Lot # 9            Transformers             0.16               CCCE
Lot 1 10           Public lighting          0.60               IDA
Lot 1 11           DistrVlution panels      0.04               CCCE
Lot # 12           Transformers cabines    0.12                CCCE
Lot # 13           Reclosers                0.01               CCCE
Lot # 14           Meters                   1.30               IDA
Lot 1 15           Circuit breakers         0.61               IDA
Erectlion
Lot B-1            Cotonou West                                CCCE
Lot B-2            Cotonou last                                CCCE
Lot 8-3            Porto-Novo                                  CCCE
Lot 8-4            Abomey-Bohicon                              CCCE



- 44 -
BENIN                            Annex 3-7
POWER REHABILITATION AND EXTENTION PROJECT
------------------------------------------
Estimated Credit Disbursements
(US$ Million)
IDA Fiscal Year           During                      IBRD/IDA
and Quarter Ending        Quarter /a  Cumulative      Profile X  /b
92-1I  Dec.  91             1.50  /c      1.5            10
III Mar.  92             0.90          2.4            16
IV  June  92             0.75          3.2            21
93-I   Sept. 92             0.75          3.9            26
II  Dec.  92             0.60          4.5            30
III Mar.  93             0.90          5.4            36
IV  June  93             0.75          6.2            41
94-I   Sept. 93             0.90          7.1            47
II  Dec.  93             0.75          7.8            52
III Mar.  94             0.90          8.7            58
IV  June  94             0.75          9.5            63
95-I   Sept. 94             0.75         10.2            68
II  Dec.  94             0.60         10.8            72
III Mar.  95             0.60         11.4            76
IV  June  95             0.60         12.0            80
96-I   Sept. 95             0.45         12.5            83
II  Dec.  95             0.45         12.9            86
III Mar.  96             0.45         13.4            89
IV  June  96             0.30         13.7            91
97-I   Sept. 96             0.30         14.0            93
II  Dec.  96             0.45         14.4            96
III Mar.  97             0.30         14.7            98
IV  June  97             0.30         15.0           100
----------------------------------------------------------------
ta Assumes Credit Effectiveness by September 1991.
/lb IBRD/IDA Loans, All Regions Power Distribution and Transmission,
adjusted for the PPF advance.
/c Includes refunding of PPF Advance.



- 45 -
8NIN - POU  RW      ILITATION AMIXTDGON PJEf                                                          NN   4-1
'1  I tINCOe  T8T*WT             197 1179           1980     1981      1982     1988     1064      18s      198       lo       1989     iw1111    1990
Fr-w .aIcu.an @Wh                  82       @0        92      106   U.37         143      184       148   I1J         187      16       162       175
A.r;c*,in FCPA/hWh                 20      2Q         22       21       31        84       62        89       6o       as        85       W         B
Ergy revenue                     1026     181      2058     2248     4249      4912    8a6       6m6       80m6     7908      9221     9126     967
Vtst  revenue                     146  o192   a        0      504   n2           740      908       981     1244      1892     1801       m       172
Othor op. rey nue                 49       52s       662     1681      1000     20       8187      1908     2869     2412      262      2"9      286
---     - ---     - - --   - - --    - - --   ...      -- --     - - --   - - --    ...      - - --
lot   revnuc                     1611     2526      8070     4380     8972       0m2    12o      11491    12181    11712    1336       1M2    14047
Fe*l                              148      206       822      471       900      6ll    lo8       1002     1l12      917       840        2        2
Power eurcd.n  CE                 8J9      422       SIO      66o      1867     2910     2610      4064     888      8154      4810     4819     486
Personnel                         827      870       427      822               1000      986       986     1M2      1268      18       1380     1667
meterials                         198       197      218       28      10       1867     1624      1202     1671     2269      l88      10        1169
Ser,icso-Yr,nport                  47       84      o0   a 0            262      260      811       428      482      489       882      416      425
°tlUr op. expenos-                180       78       220      488      280       600      o10      262      1069     1822       722      524      272
p'o.isloe                         227      724       986      978      lOS      985     8401     2084      2527     2025      2429     88       8860
. ~~~~- - --           - - --   - - --    - - --   - - --   -- --     -- --    ---       ----
Tot.I op. egp*wn*                1480     2026      2710     4069      6244     7891 11227    10018    11474    11422    11927    12868    12848
Operating Inom                    181      SO       860      811      -272      141     1061      1478      d77      290      1487      229     1704
interest                           U8       82       104      170      281       167      407      888       88       267      829       879      R9
Nn-op. adJunta. ta,                                                             -410     -128      .82                S1S      -582     -481     -448
Net income                        118      418       286      141    -408        886      549       286      842      888       82       899      700
-  -  a  - -  -  -  -  -   -  -  -  -see
Operating ratio                  90.6     80.2      88.8     92.9    104.6      98.2     91.2      07.2     94.4     97.5      89.2     91.0    07.9
ROR                               8.0      14.0      8.7      S.6    -8.8        2.0      7.8       7.9      8.8       1.8      6.0      4.8      6.4
AfI ic/CS
16-Mar-91
SOEEINC



!  i | u§i    0a|I§i  R                ;  ,I i;i   
g 0 i  Xaj   *u.I ||g!§     a j mii      b n m
i i I  jI  !     1@ii3 i    I  ..1        *    3f    



- 47 -
sDIIN - POWE R"BAILITATION AND DT18ION PROJECT                                                      AX  4-
!l1 I *-BALANCLE SET            1978      1979     1980     1981     1982    l1s8    1984        1988     1985     1987     1988    1t09       1990
crar  t4tLLION                   ----     ....     ----     ----     ----      ----     ....     ----     ...._    ----      ----     ....     ....
Cr,,* FA In op.                 8890     7298      7957    11600    12627    18782    24020    21200    2e994    80004    87186    88824    45791
c.O 13precistlon                2668     3188     3787      4851     88m0     7072     8124     4614     6268      8488    11003    18771    17332
- ---   ...      - - --    - - --   - - - -  - - --   - - --   -         - - --   ...      ----     ---       ---
M*t FA in op.                   8028     4112      4190     6949     727       6680    20698    1688    22781    21n6    26188    24788    28489
wop, In provres.                 770         0      16S      679     1189     8410      690      2381      714    s887      8o6s    7403       4001
- ---   ....      - - --    ---      --- ---  ---  ...  ....-             ---  ...  ...    ....      ----     - ---
Total Fined Assets              8798     4112      4U8      7628     8388    10070    21480    1874?    28448    27878    29268    81186    82480
Cook                              69         0      110      2aa      229      211      888       879     284       701     1061       e02     2498
lnvontories                      417      819      88o       876      620     6se8      Sl       970    1i4s       1741     2343     2281     S2I8
Receivables                     ta28     22        8262     2808     4282     4608     6lso    4498       687      760o     7718               4998
Other current  *et               242      854       442      201      117      188       114      197      240     289       299      822       581
-*- --  ...       ...      - - --   - - --   ...      -- --    - - --    - - --   - - --   ...      ----      ....
Taol current e""ts              2274     3706     4389      8918     5248    S40      7819     6044      8424    10820    11501    12187    10821
Total assets                    6072     7817      8744    11546    1304    18610    29005    24791    e8189    87698    40769    44818    42781
Ea. i tj                        2144     28        2506     4104      3812    2479    13245    104    11680    12546        9940     e072    14374
lon^  tere debt                  942      1898     1888     2182     1984     elo    4672       822S     968    11488    1888      20387    17819
Coauciers deposits                                                    768     1184      1468     1687     2087     2485    2727       2984     811
Current lieblitite              1197      1863     2816     2787     4492     8s29     6m        81?      8894     75S8     8584      89s      8829
anlk overdraft                             120                                   1       73
Cona.mere contributions         1789     2141      2474     2478     3083     808a     a200      8900     3400     3921     8989    a82        414
...     .... --   - - -     ---      ---      ---      --- ...  ...  ...  ...  ...  ...  ----  - ---  - ---   - ---
Total ltibilitiem               0072     7817      8744    11548    13684    15810    29008    24791    81889    87898    40769    44131    42781
O.bt/DObt+Equ!t4                  8        40       as      aS        as       SO       24        29       41       48       SS       6e        50
Eav;ty/Debt*Equity                69        6o       as       es       67       S0       76        71       89       87       48        ss       60
Current ratio                     1.9      2.8      1.9      1.4      1.2      1.0       1.2      1.6      1.6      1.4       1.8      1.4      8.1
ari Icics
16-Mar-91
sArres



- 48 -
ANNEX 4-4
Page 1 of 2
BENIN
POWER REHABILITATION AND EXTENSION PROJECT
SBEE - Existing Tariffs
(Since March 1, 1984)
1.    Low Voltage
1.1   Commercial Lighting
Up to 20 kWhimonth             CPAP 67/kWh
Above 20 kWh/month             CPAF 75/kWh
1.2   Residential
First block                    CPA? 50/kWh
Second block                   CPA? 55/kWh
Third block                    CFAF 73/kWh
Fourth block                   CPA? 68/kWh
Definition of blocks:
first : up to 20 kWh/month
second: (15xn)-20
third : (15xn)/2
fourth: beyond
(n being the number of rooms of the household)
1.3   Small Industry
All energy charged at          CFA? 58/kWh
1.4   Residential and Air-Conditioning
First block                    CFA? 67/kWh
Second block                  CPA? 73/kWh
Third block                    CPAP 68/kWh
Fourth block                  CPFA  62/kWh
Definition of blocks:
first : up to 20 kWh/month
seconds (15xn)-20
third s lOOP-(l5xn)
fourths beyond
(n being the number of rooms of the household and P the power
subscribed in kW)
1.5   Air-Conditionina
All energy charged at          CPAF 62/kWh



- 49 -
ANNEX 4-4
Page 2 of 2
1.6   Public Lighting
All energy charged at          CFAF 60/kWh
2.    Medtimu Voltage
2.1   Hotels and Restaurants
Fixed charge                   CFAF 2,000tkVA/month
Energy charge                  CFAF 58/kWh
2.2   Others
Fixed charge                   CFAF 3,180/kVA/month
Energy charge                  CFAF 35/kWh
3.    Societe des Ciments d'Onigbolo (SCO)
Monthly fixed charge           CFAF 20,460,000
Demand charge                  US$ 8.00/kVA/month
Energy charge                  USS 0.04/kVh
4.    Meter Rent and Deposit
A charge for meter rent and an advance deposit are payable by all
consumers. In addition, a charge for meter maintenance is payable
by medium voltage consumers.
APlIE/CS
05/03/91
BENSARAN.4-4



M8IN - PrMu9 RBSA8ILITATION AN) EXrNSION PRD0JT                                 ANN0C 4-5
SBM - RN6 RAW STATEIS                                1990    1991    192    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998             91-95 6  i Ill on   90-98 5 mil l ion
CFAF  M2L2CN                                         ----     -_-     ----     ----     ----     ----__  ----     ----     - -       -----  ---------    -----  ---------
Operating income                                     1704    1361    1097    1480    1651    1S3S    1S47    1527    1148            7133       29       13059       52
Depreciation                                         3200    3460    36ss    3866    4189    438S    4510    4721    4880            19655      78       36866       147
Total internal funds                                 4904    4821    4752    5355   s540    5920    6057    6248    6028            2668       107       49925      2C0
Var.woring capital                                   2100      134    -180    -101       233     536    -54      -587     369        622        2        1989        8
Interest                                              559     613      700      986    1006      990    9s0        W6s     945       4295       17        7744       31
Principal                                             606     409      694    1211    15SO      1149    1510    155O    1610         4618       18        9889       40
Contribution to Go8                                   445      470       0        0        0       0        0        0        0       470        2         915        4
Tot.op. requ;_to                                     3709    1626    1214    2096    2389    2675    1976    1928    2924           10000       40       20537       82
U'
NICO                                                 1195    3195    3538    3259    3451    3246    4081    4320    3104           16688       67       29388      118              0
Capital eapenditure                                  3865    6718    7657    6328    3981    3123    2821    3280    3420           27807      111       41193      165
blanc.                                               2670    3523    4119    3069       530    -123   -260    -1040        316      11119       44      18OS        47
financed by:
Consu_rs contributios                                 154      ¶52     135      127      94       75       75       75      75        583        2         962        4
BOorraoing                                          -1932    1770    3254    2382       866      796       26      570    1400       9068       S6      lo32        41
Equity                                               6142     286      304      335     330      417      355      327     303       1672        7        8799       35
_ - - _ - - - _ - - - _ - - - - - - - - - - _ ------                 - - --     -- - --   - -- -
Total capitel ources                                 4364    2208    s693    2844    1          1288    1656       s7      1778     11323       45       20093       so
Cash variation                                       1694   -1315    -426    -225        760    1421    2916    2012    1462          204        1        8288       33
Cash begin yer                                        802    2496    1181       754      529    1289    2700    S616    7628         2496       10         802        3
Cash eW year                                         249S    l181      754      529    1289    2700    S616    7628    90o0          2700       1l        90o0       36
Yearly NICO                                          30.9    47.6    46.2    51.5    86.7   103.9   144.7   131.7    90.8
Averag NICO                                          33.9    52.5    51.3    54.4    77.1    98.1   132.7   186.1    92.7              60                  71
Det service coverage                                  4.2     4.7      3.4      2.4     2.7      2.6      2.4      2.5      2.4
Rate of oechange: ULSSI.CFAr                          250
AFIE/CS-SBEEFF (03186/91)



- 51 -
8BEIN - POWER REHAILITATION AND EXTENSION PROJECT                       ANEX 4-6
S8EE - INCOME STATDEIT                               1990     1991     1992      1998     1994     1996     1996     1097      1998
CFAf MILLION                                         ....    ----      ----     ----      ----     ----     ----     ----      ----
Purchae.. from CEB,in CWh                             182      190      199      214      229       241      253      26S      278
Thermal generation,in OWh                              21       24       26       23        20       22       24       25        28
Total.in CWh                                          203      214      225      237       249      263      27       290       304
Av.CEB price,CFAF/kWh                                  24       24       26       26        26       29       29       29       81
A,.therm. oen. ,CFAF/ICWh                              42       42       42       43        44       48       46       47       48
Eneray salsa, in OiEh                                 175      188      194      207      219       234      249      261      273
Loases,in t                                            14       14       14       1S        12       11       10       10        10
Av.prica,in CFAF/kJh                                   87       87       87       87        87       67       57       87       87
Energy revenue                                       9987    10546    11186    11882    12413    13443    14293    14981    18684
Wet-r revenue                                        1721     1829     1941     2093      2207     2382     2430     28S0     2720
Other op. revenue                                    2339     2165     2247     2369     2626      2818     2850     2890     2980
Total revenue                                       14047    14539    15824    16344    17266    16f40    19873    20421    21384
Fuel                                                  662     1008     1092      989      880       990     1104     1175      1344
Power purchase CEB                                   4368     4560     5174    6S84       6954     6969     7337     7688    8a38
Pereonnel                                            1667     1701     1736     1771      1808     1845     1862     1920     1968
Meterioale                                           1169     138     1405     1475      1549     1626     1708     1793      1888
Services-Transport                                    425      4S3      442      451       480      469      478      480      486
Other op. expensfs,                                   272      278      283      289      295       801      810      320      3SO
Provisions                                           3SSO     8860     4098     4316     4689      4685    8210      8821    5680
Total op. expenees                                  12848    13178    14227    14858    18688    17108    16026    18894    20236
Operating income                                     1704     1361     1097      1489     l6S3     1835     1647     1827      1148
Interest                                              55e      613      700      986      1006      990      980      980      906
Texae                                                 448      470        0        0         0        0        0        0         0
Not itcome                                            700      278      397       N0S      648      548      597      S77       198
CeC  S       Wielam     steem            en       se        et 
Operating ratio                                      87.9     90.6     42.8    90.9       90.4    91.8      92.1     92.8      94.6
RoR                                                   6.4      4.7      8.6      4.4       4.5      4.1      4.2      4.4       8.4
AF1IE/CS
S8EfINC
03/16/91



-  52  -
SBOIN - PIWE RB4ABILITATION ANO EXTESION PR0JET                        PAN    4-7
CEEr - BALANCE SEEfr                                190      1991     1992     199S    1994      1995    lo"       1997     19W
CFAF  MILLION                                       ----     ----     ----     ----     ----      ----     ----     ----     ---
Cross FA In op.                                    45791    49791    86511   64167    70498    74478    77200   80400   80670
lese Depreciation                                  17332   20792    24447   28318    82502   S61187   41097   48110    8092
Not FA In op.                                      28459   28999    82084    36884    87e9S    87889    8 800    84282    2872
Work in progrms                                     4001     6719     7886     6828    898l    812S       8220    8S8w      8450
Total Fixed Assts                                  82460   88718   89720   42182   41974    40712   89028    87862   86122
Cash                                                2496     18el      784      829     1289    2700    8616       7628    9090
Inventories                                         2251    2364    2482    2608        2788     2878     8017     8167     8326
Receivables                                         4994     4748    4484    4159    4889        4708     4288    8748      8921
Other current  *ssts                                 881      625      672      72s      788      88a      929     1018     1109
Total current assts                                10821     8918     8868     8019     9167    11181    18880    16558    17448
Total &"*to                                        42781    446S8    4006     80201    81141    81848    82878   8818?    6
Equity                                             14874    14652    18049    18882   16197    16742    17889    17916    18114
Long term debt                                     17819    19180   21740   22911   22627   22274    21990    21010   20800
Consumers Deposits                                  3113     3399     3708     4080    4388      4788     5110     8422     8780
Current limbilitls                                  3S2e     3104     3188    8140      8298    8818      8680     8910     8970
Bank overdraft                                         0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0
Consumers contributions                             4148     4: ,8    4488     4880     48U      4729     484"    4879    4984
Total liabilities                                  42781    44688    4088S   80201    81141    81848    82878    88187   83868
Oebt/Debt#Equity                                      8o       82       84       84       82       S1       49       47       47
Equity/Debt.Equity                                    80       48       46       48       48       49       81       6S       88
Current rst;o                                        8.1      2.9      2.6      2.6      2.8      8.4      8.8      4.0       4.4
AF1IE/CS
S8EEBS
03/18/91



- 53 -
ANNEX 4-8
Page 1 of 2
BENIN
POWER REHABILITATION AND EXTENSION PROJECT
Assumptions
The main assumptions used in preparing SBEE's financial
forecasts are as follows.
Assumptions concerning generation and sales have been
derived in Annex 1-4 as followst
Purchases         Own Generation    Total         Sales
FY          from CEB                              GWh           GWh
90            182                     21           203          175
91            190                     24           214          185
92            199                     26           225          194
93            214                     23           237          207
94            229                     20           249          219
95            241                     22           263          234
96            253                     24           277          249
97            265                     25           290          261
98            276                     28           304          273
Cost of power purchases from CEBs starting from the actual
price of CFAF 24 per kWh, it has been assumed that increases of 10l
would take place every three years.
FY                 GWh                CFAF/kWh           CFAF Million
90                 182                   24                 4368
91                 190                   24                 4560
92                 199                   26                 5174
93                 214                   26                 5564
94                 229                   26                 5954
95                 241                   29                 6989
96                 253                   29                 7337
97                 265                   29                 7685
98                 276                   31                 8556
Fuel costs have been computed on the following basis: for
Akpakpa, specific consurption of 0.25 1/kWh, heavy fuel at CFAF 45/1
(total CFAF 15.0/kWh generated, including gasoil for starting and
stopping, lube oil and consumption of spares), escalated at 52 per year.
For the isolated diesels, an average cost of CFAF 55/kWh generated has
been assumed, escalation also at 5? per year. On this basis, fuel costs
are as computed below:



- 54 -                          ANNEX 4-8
Page 2 of 2
CFAF/              CFAF
FY                 GWh           kWh               Million
90                 21             42                 882
91                 24             42                1008
92                 26             42                1092
93                 23             43                 989
94                 20             44                 880
95                 22             45                 990
96                 24             46                1104
97                 25             47                1175
98                 28             48                1344
Other headings of operating expenditure (materials,
personnel, etc) have been escalated in line with the development of
SBEE's activities).
Depreciation is computed on the following basis: for
existing assets, according to their useful remaining lifetime, and for
new investments (mainly distribution) over 16 years.
Interest has been computed on the assumption that the
average rate of interest for new loans would be about 5Z. This reflects
the grant element included in loans from CCCE and KfW, as well as the
onlending arrangements for IDA's credit.
Fixed Assets/Work in Progress are based on SBEE's investment
plan.
Cash is the balancing item of the Balance Sheet. The
amounts thus computed are consistent with SBEE's minimum. cash
requirements. Excess cash beyond FY96 could be subject to Government
withdrawal, in the form of dividends for instance.
Inventories and Other Current Assets, as well as Current
Liabilities, have been computed in line with the development of SBEE's
activities.
Receivables have been computed on the basis of the following
average assumptions: 5.4 months in FY92, and 4.8 months thereafter.
Average conditions for long-term loans have been assumed to
be as follows: 20 years, of which 4 years grace period, interest at 5S.
AFlIE/CS
05/03/91
BENSARAN.4-8



- 55 -
Annex 5-1
BENIN
POWER REHABILITATION AND EXTENTION PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
1992   1993  1994  1995  1996  1997   --   2012
Costs:
Investment (US$ 000) /a         8830   8740  7340  4310  1630
0 & H /b                                      351   498   584   617   -    617
Energy Required (GWh)
With the project           224    237   249   263   277   290   --    290
Without the project        224    230   235   235   235   235   --    235
Incremental Energy (GWh)           0      7    14    28    42    55   --      55
Cost of Inc. Energy /c             0    672  1344  2688  4032  5280   --   5280
Total Inc. Cost /d          8830   9412  9035  7496  6246  5897   --   5897
Benefits:
Energy Sales (GWh)
With the project           194    207   219   234   249   261   --    261
Without the project        194    199   203   203   203   203   --    203
Incremental Sales (GWh)            0      8    16    31    46    58   _       58
Value of inc. Energy Sales /e      0   1779  3648  7068 10488 13224   --  13224
Total Inc. Benefits            0   1779  3648  7068 10488 13224   --  13224
NET BENEFITS                 -8830 -7632. -5387 -428. 4241.  7327   --   7327
IERR (X)                          20
…__________--__________________    - ----____ -_____  --_____ --_ - ---___ ------
a/ Capital investment including 102 physical contingency, cost of
Tecnical Assistance and Training.
b/ 2Z of cumulative investment.
c/ At the present CEB energy price of CFA 24/kWh.
d/ Consisting of investment cost, O&H cost, and cost of energy from CEB.
e/ Incremental sales valued at the average tariff of CFA 57/kWh.
SRM/econl
14-May-91



- 56 -                    ANNEX 6-1
Page 1 of 2
BENIN
POWER REHABILITATION AND EXTENSION PROJECT
DOCUMENTS CONTAINED IN THE PROJECT FILE
A. Selected Documents, Reports and Studies on Subsector
Legal Documents
-    Accord International et Code Daho-Togolais de l'Electricitd, July 27,
1968.
-    Ordonnance No. 73-13 du 7 fevrier 1973 portant creation de la Societe
Dahomeenne d'Electricite et d'Eau.
-    Ordonnance No. 74-20 du 11 mars 1974 portant Statuts de la Societe
Dahom4enne d'Electricite et d'Eau.
Audit Reports
-    SBEE, Rapport de r4vision des comptes 1981, Coopers & Lybrand.
-    SBEE, Rapports de revision des comptes, 1982 to 1988, A. Andersen.
Organizational Studies
-    SBEE, Etude organisationnelle, HQI, May 1983.
-    SBEE, Etude de diagnostic, Rapport provisoire, ADL, novembre
1990.
-    SBEE, Etude de diagnostic, Rapport d4finitif, ADL, avril 1991.
Tariff Studies
-    SBEE, Etude de Tarification de l'Energie Electrique, EdF,
July 1983.
-    SBEE, CEET, CEB - Etude Tarifaire, Rapport Final, EdF,
February 1988.
General
-    CEB, Etude d'inventaire des ressources hydroelectriques
potentielles du Togo et du Bdnin et plan directeur de
dEveloppement de la production et du transport, Sir Alexander
Gibb/Tractionel, September 1983.
-    Benin, Electric Power Sector Memorandum, World Bank,
May 1984.
-     WEnin, Issues and Options in the Energy Sector, World Bank/
UNDP, June 1985.



- 57 -
ANNEX 6-1
Page 2 of 2
B. Selected Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
SBEE, Plan Directeur de la Distribution A Cotonou, Tractionel,
August 1983.
SBEE, Etude de faisabilit4 pour le projet de rehabilitation et
d'extension du secteur de l'Energie electrique au Benin, premier
rapport, Lahmeyer, May 1990.
SBEE, Alimentation secours de la ville de Porto-Novo, Etude de
faisabilite, EdF, June 1990.
SBEEE, Etude de faisabilite du projet d'extension et de renforcement
du reseau electrique de la SBEE, Projet, Lahmeyer, January 1991.
SBEE. Etude de faisabilite du projet d'extension et de renforcement
du reseau electrique de la SBEE, Reseaux urbains, Rapport final,
Lahmeyer, March 1991.
SBEE, Rapport d'analyse financibre, CCCE, February 1991.
Benin, Power Rehab./Ext. Project, BTO of November 14, 1988.
Benin, rower Rehab./Ext. Project, BTO of March 1, 1989.
Benin, Power Rehab./Ext. Project, BTO of June 14, 1989.
B4nin, Power Rehab./Ext. Project, BTO of November 1, 1989.
Benin, Power Rehab./Ext. Project, BTO of May 23, 1990.
Benin, Power Rehab./Ext. Project, BTO of November 5, 1990.
Benin, Power Rehab./Ext. Project, BTO of April 15, 1991.
C. Selected Working Papers
Computer printouts, ACTSBEE and NEWNANG, March 1991.
Computer printouts, FFSBEE, March 1991.
Supervision Plan, May 1991.
AF1IE/CS
05/03/91
BENSARAN.6-1



INA,                         1                                2                                 o    NIGER
_   ASO        ,    V      I;d  Al h;eh4 Al\                                   \>  
< 1 I,  I :TAvp 811!mn thedf 1U&                      _f
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, Ik. (ttANn . Ienfdinbadse IhaO_  
5: 0  1   ' I Y. I   I   un f^ .~a4 . nd u,,ao  m,.,   4r0v ra           1/ .
,nd lo 1.ohoo/fooo
U > / I * f I I ~~~~paal a' U,.  lsMathS Ba   ad Ind  . 
tlrayel 3.a    a'orsp   '/Xr.a14gial/o(J~n (lS//al  BURKIN  A              J                       Malanvill
Mwtp    '0 tolne Novo    C, aI,    atha7a.       FASO                                                                NI E I
-5IVL~11       BUEKINA                     Nal Kandi ll
a8 Dapaong                        Tanguieta 
7u* 5ukombet          ° Kouand4                  O Bemberek0 K
-o             apon                     Tanguieta                                                                                              l
<                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Nikki °
Natitn g    Djougou                                                            26
. .                      kmb                     Kouand,0   20 40  6,
< - -' J ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KILOMETERS
Niamtog  K   uParakou
_9.  .   w -  +         *                            .                _K  ~~~~~~~~~~TOGO - BENIN - GHANA
-    ^se  sOkod6t  ,.                     .                       ~~~ELECTRIC POWER SYSTEM
. _>   /      !                          E                           ~~~~~~~~RESEAU ELECTRIQUE
t   /   . .                          .                             ~~~~~~~~~~~EXISTING FACILITIES
.i    /    AMENAKEMENTS .XISTANTS
a~      /'              ^         zc8'        '.
: t ~~Sotoubua                                                   .                     .EXIS,ING   FUTURE
Y,ndi -                                                                               Parakou.  _ \XIS ANT  ROIt
, J $ $ | i~~~~~~~~'-                                                                      POWtR LINES
. '   z   t   e |                       s                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RESEAU LIGNES
. .   t   t   '    0@o                   -                       _                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~161 kV
=8                                                                               a,, v X t)t . - __ 63/66 kV a
'',.i,' ~ ~ ~  ~      ~      ~     ~      ~      ~     ~     ~     ~      __ TO____ 1 <        33kV
I'JAI   ;                                                                                      - J  '  |  - -       20 kV
7i,  -~                      t                       gbtst eKetou                                   0            0r we Byreetiu E
'  a  tAmiamE  4  >                                       |    ~~~~~~~~~~~O Ct 8 Substations
;ok6d ,   I   /Xe               Ahpme                   9nigbol                Postes CEB
AM Electrified Areas
W  Local/Bs t  POtr fR LINE
/   1  /       \         l *           \ ~~~~~~ Bohicon /                 A     Diesel Power Stations
.   J  /  (   I   . I ^                             .                *      U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Lsines Dietse/ Exist antes
_7 !adouCEHydroelectricProject N eEET    Hydroel ectricPa
j   4  m Adjarala                       m Sykete      d ronenagemntr P-jelntH tr ueCE Plant
l, \    clmao l / \OK,   1
--   2  a Q   \<Lokos  )C,* National CSstaions
'a>                / £ ~< \lssvie        _ Intenatlona. Boundari.es
ohicon                 D~~~~~Fonia5ese PoternSationals
A'    sob                         'a.                  Anfoin  ',_
A/sCnes OF SE/anFesbruary199
O    .  ,   _       O     M     E                   :~~~~dj;raa .                   0
lnternatiGnruBouydarie



I =                          #        ~    ~ ~           ~      201 o                        \ I  I 
2'                                 2'30'                                 3'
B E N I N                                            SBEE - ELECTRIC POWER SYSTE.M1
POWER REHABILITATION AND EXTENSION PROJECT                                    Sk i-RfSEAU fIECTRIQUf
7'30'                X           PROJET DE REHABILITATION ET D'EXTENSION DU                                  Existing         Future                          r3-
SECTEUR DE L'ENERGIE ELECTRIQUE                                     Existant         Projete
N                                                    \; OKctou   0 u                -             --          161Kv
-;  V  Lf Ketou  --~       63Kv
Cove                                                               20Kv
Nilangbeto    ~        _ !2 _               Bohicon                ZagnOnigbolo                      ___                        15Kv
Abomey                                                                            [       Hydroelectric Plant
Amenagement Hydro6tIectrique
7'                                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rivers
Aplahoue                                                                                                 F/leues   ait
Adjara               Lalo                                                                                 ?Capitale Nationafe
-  \  /   I  k  International Boundaries
Frontieres Internationales
TOGO
Adjohon       SaketeNI E                        A
/ / < 5akete j ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N I G E R I A
OAllada       Zinvie               I  
S    a   L~~~okoossa\ 0                                                                                                            ,,lf.r,
1   0 /   4Bopa  \                \    \    IAvranku}                                         ',
/  K em   e                                                                             0 \    1 I Avran  0  10    20    30
-6'30'                           Se              ssotome                                                                   KILOMET 
-  -                                                         (xGNOVO
< Anehod - Popo S /;,? T t H 'f ' X ' o' Of C
Anehd                                                             2ei3e
~~~~0                2- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2'30'                                                    3'



