Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2284 BEN
(Power Rehabilitation and Extension Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated July 12, 1991
CREDIT NUMBER 2284 BEN
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 12, 1991, between REPUBLIC OF BENIN (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B)
the Borrower intends to contract from Caisse Centrale de Cooperation 
(CCCE) a loan (the CCCE Loan) in an amount equivalent to $13,200,000 to assist in 
financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the CCCE 
Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and CCCE; and
(C)
the Project will be carried out by Societe Beninoise d'Electricite et 
d'Eau (SBEE) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the 
Borrower will make available to SBEE the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this 
Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association 
and SBEE;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Page  2
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to exchanges of letters dated 
February 13, 1989, March 13, 1989, May 21, 1991 and May 29, 1991 between the Borrower 
and the Association;
(b)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(c)
"Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and SBEE pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes any schedules to the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(d)
"SBEE" means Societe Beninoise d'Electricite et d'Eau, a public 
enterprise established by the Borrower's Ordonnance No. 73-13 of February 7, 1973; and 
"SBEE Statutes" means the Statutes of SBEE approved by the Borrower's Decret No. 83-29 
of September 27, 1983, as such Statutes may be amended from time to time;
(e)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association and 
Societe Beninoise d'Electricite et d'Eau (SBEE), of even date herewith, as the same 
may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements 
supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(f)
"BCEAO" means Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest, the 
common central bank of the Borrower and other members of the West African Monetary 
Union;
(g)
"FCFA" means Franc de la Communaute Financicre Africaine, the common 
currency of the Borrower and other members of the West African Monetary Union; and
(h)
"PMU" means the Project Management Unit to be established by SBEE 
pursuant to Section 2.06 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to eleven million three hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 11,300,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
CFA a special deposit account in a commercial bank, acceptable to the Association or 
in BCEAO on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and 
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions 
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1997 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Page  3
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
May 1 and November 1 commencing November 1, 2001 and ending May 1, 2031. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on May 1, 2011 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification 
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such 
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on 
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under this Agreement, 
shall cause SBEE to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement 
all the obligations of SBEE therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all 
action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, 
necessary or appropriate to enable SBEE to perform such obligations, and shall not 
take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such 
performance.
Page  4
(b)
The Borrower shall: (i) relend a portion of the proceeds of the Credit 
equivalent to 13.6 million dollars to SBEE under a subsidiary loan agreement to be 
entered into between the Borrower and SBEE, under terms and conditions approved by the 
Association which shall provide, inter alia, that: (A) such portion of the proceeds of 
the Credit shall be onlent at an interest rate of 7.7% per annum for a term of twenty 
(20) years, including a five-year grace period, and (B) that SBEE shall bear the 
foreign exchange risk of such onlending; and (ii) contribute the balance of the 
proceeds of the Credit to SBEE as an equity contribution, under the said Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or 
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by SBEE 
pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall cause each government entity (whether central, 
local or other), including ministries, public entities and quasi-public entities: (a) 
to reduce their arrears due SBEE in accordance with a schedule adopted on or before 
January 15, 1992 and satisfactory to the Association; (b) to pay all bills presented 
by SBEE within three months of receipt; and (c) to adopt annual budgets that 
adequately provide for their respective projected annual electricity consumption. 
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall comply with the provisions of the performance 
contract, referred to in Section 5.01 (c) of this Agreement and shall not amend, waive 
or otherwise modify any material provision thereof without the approval of the 
Association.
Section 3.06. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.01 of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower, SBEE and the Association shall not later than June 
30, 1994, jointly undertake a mid-term review of the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
SBEE shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that SBEE will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower's Ordonnance No. 73-13 of February 7, 1973 or SBEE Statutes 
shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect 
materially and adversely the ability of SBEE to perform any of its obligations under 
the Project Agreement.
(d)
the Borrower shall have failed to amend the SBEE Statutes by July 1, 
1992, in accordance with the Borrower's new public enterprise legislation, in a manner 
satisfactory to the Association.
(e)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of SBEE or for the suspension of 
its operations.
Page  5
(f)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
 
(A)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any 
loan or grant made to the Borrower for the financing of the 
Project shall have been suspended, cancelled or terminated 
in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms thereof, or
(B)
any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such 
suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is not caused 
by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations 
under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the Project are 
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and 
conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under 
this Agreement.
Section 4.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof 
shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower;
(b)
any event specified in paragraph (c), (d) or (e) of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur; and
(c)
any event specified in paragraph (f) (i) (B) of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (f) (ii) of such Section.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General 
Conditions:
(a)
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower 
and SBEE; and
(b)
all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the CCCE Loan Agreement 
have been fulfilled, other than those related to the effectiveness of this Agreement;
(c)
the Borrower and SBEE have entered into a performance contract acceptable 
to the Association and, among other things, defining the relationship between the 
Borrower and SBEE and setting performance criteria for SBEE; and
(d)
SBEE has established the PMU and has appointed thereto the personnel 
referred to in Section 2.06 of the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by SBEE, 
and is legally binding upon SBEE in accordance with its terms; and
(b)
that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by the Borrower and SBEE and is legally binding upon the Borrower and SBEE in 
accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower in charge of finance is designated as 
Page  6
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Ministry of Planning, Economy,
   Finance and Statistics
P. O. Box 342
Cotonou, Benin
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
 
INDEVAS 248423 
(RCA)
Washington, D.C. 
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
By /s/ Candide Ahouansou
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Distribution              5,060,000        100% of foreign
     materials and                              expenditures
     equipment                                  and 80% of local
                                                expenditures
(2)  Consultants'              3,190,000        100%
     services and
     training
Page  7
(3)  Refunding of              1,130,000        Amounts due
     Project                                    pursuant to
     Preparation                                Section 2.02 (c)
     Advance                                    of this Agreement
(4)  Unallocated               1,920,000
         TOTAL                11,300,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
provided, however, that if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another 
country from the territory of which the goods and services are supplied, expenditures 
in such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign 
expenditures".
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; and (b) payments made, or to be made, for expenditures relating to training 
to be financed under Category (2) of the table set forth in paragraph (1) of this 
Schedule, unless the new staff rules and regulations of SBEE have been put into 
effect.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to improve the efficiency of the Borrower's 
electricity generation and distribution system, as managed by SBEE.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Institutional Development of SBEE
 
1.
An institutional study to review and make recommendations to streamline 
responsibilities between SBEE and the Borrower and establish performance indicators in 
key areas of SBEE's operations.
2.
A training program, including training overseas for selected SBEE staff in 
technical, financial and managerial areas.
3.
Improvement of SBEE's billing and accounting system through (i) establishment of 
a laboratory for meter calibration; (ii) installation of computerized mapping 
facilities for customer and equipment management; (iii) provision and installation of 
hardware and establishment of software for a computerized billing system; and (iv) 
carrying out of an arrears audit.
Part B:
Investment Component
 
1.
Reinforcement of SBEE's subtransmission substation in Cotonou, Porto-Novo and 
Abomey/Bohicon.
2.
Rehabilitation, reinforcement and extension of the Cotonou, Porto-Novo and 
Abomey/Bohicon distribution systems.
3.
Provision of telecommunications equipment, tools and spare parts for 
distribution and diesel plants.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1997.
SCHEDULE 3
Page  8
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and (2) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to CFA 
280,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
Page  9
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
