Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 18968
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF LATVIA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(Loan No. 4126-LV)
February 18, 1999
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Unit (ECSPE)
Europe and Central Asia
The World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of January 31, 1999)
Currency Unit      Lat
1 Lat          =   US$1.74
US$ 1.00       =   Lat O.57
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
BOL       =   Bank of Latvia
BPAR    =   Bureau of Public Administration Reform
CAS      =    Country Assistance Strategy
CSF       =   Central Sickness Fund
EBRD    =   European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EU       =   European Union
FSU       =   Former Soviet Union
GDP      =   Gross Domestic Product
ICR      =   Implementation Completion Report
IMF       =   International Monetary Fund
LDP       =   Letter of Development Policy
LGs       =   Local Governments
LPA       =   Latvia Privatization Agency
RSFs      =   Regional Sickness Funds
SAL      =    Structural Adjustment Loan
SARC    =    State Administrative Reform Council
SFs       =   Sickness Funds
SIF       =   Social Insurance Fund
WTO       =   World Trade Organization
Vice President:    Johannes Linn, ECAVP
Country Director:    Basil Kavalsky, ECCO9
Sector Director:    Pradeep Mitra, ECSPE
Task Team Leader:   Mansour Farsad, ECSPE



FOR OFFICIUL USE ONLY
IPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF LATVIA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN No. 4126-LV)
CONTENTS
Preface .................................i
Evaluation Summary ................................ iii
Part I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION BACKGROUND
A. Introduction ...........................1
B. Objectives and Design ...2.......................2
C. Implementation and Achievements ..........................3
D. Major Factors Affecting the Project ..........................7
E. Sustainability ...8.......................8
F. Bank Performance ..........................9
G. Borrower Performance ...........................9
H. Assessment Of Outcome ...........................9
1. Future Operations .......................... 10
J. Key Lessons Leared .10
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1  Summary of Assessments
Table 2  Related Bank Loans and Credits
Table 3  Project Timetable
Table 4  Cumulative Loan Disbursements
Table 5  Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6  Studies on Reform Proposals Included in the SAL
Table 7  Project Cost and Financing
Table 8  Status of Legal Covenants
Table 9  Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 10 Bank Resources - Staff Inputs
Table 11 Bank Resources - Missions
APPENDIX
Appendix A: Borrowers Contribution to the ICR
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Structural Adjustment Loan
(SAL) in Latvia, for which Loan No. 4126LV in the amount of DEM 90.6 million was approved on
December 19, 1996, and made effective January 17, 1997.
The loan was closed on June 30, 1998, compared with the original closing date of December
31, 1997. The first tranche of DEM 30 million was disbursed upon effectiveness on January 17,
1997; the second tranche of DEM 60.6 million was disbursed on April 13, 1998.
This ICR was prepared by Mr. Mansour Farsad, ECS/PE with assistance from Mr. Elliott
Hurwitz (Consultant), and reviewed by Mr. Perviaz Rashid, Ms. Helen Sutch, and Mr. Ardo
Hansson.
Preparation of this ICR was completed during the Bank's final supervision! completion
mission, September 16-18, 1998, and is also based on material in the project file.
The borrower contributed to preparation of the ICR by providing its own evaluation of the
project's preparation, implementation, and impact (Appendix A).



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF LATVIA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN NO. 4126-LV)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    After the country had made good progress toward stabilization, a wave of difficulties
disrupted the early stages of Latvia's economic recovery in 1995. The absence of financial discipline
for enterprises as well as the lax supervision and regulation of the banking system led to a serious
banking crisis. At the same time, pressures arising from a combination of public revenue shortfalls,
rising claims on public expenditures, and increasing tax and energy arrears emerged as a growing
fiscal deficit. Short-term cuts in public expenditures and firm financial policies helped the
Government contain the fiscal deficit and weather the banking crisis, while Bank assistance was
requested to help restore momentum to the structural reform through an SAL.
2.    The SAL to Latvia was the second policy-based operation to support the country in the
transition to a market economy; the first was the Rehabilitation Loan in FY93. The SAL was signed
on December 20, 1996.
Objectives and Achievements
3.    The main goals of the SAL were to: (i) support the maintenance of macroeconomic stability;
(ii) support an agenda for structural reforms to encourage efficient growth by expediting
privatization and promoting financial discipline of banks and enterprises; and (iii) reform public
sector resource management by rationalizing expenditure decisions, improving the delivery and cost-
effectiveness of municipal and social services, and strengthening the institutional capacity for the
management of public finance.
4.    The goals and objectives of the SAL were appropriate and consistent with enabling the
Government to continue the reform process. Project objectives were clear and realistic, and were
linked to monitorable performance indicators. The technical and financial assistance of the Bank
through the SAL allowed the Government to address the immediate fiscal crisis and also to reduce
short-term borrowing, increase public investment, and accelerate reforms. The focus of the SAL on
the management of public finances and the strengthening of public administration capabilities was
appropriate, considering the weaknesses in those areas. The emphasis on accelerating privatization--
in banking, housing, utilities, and the enterprise sector--was judicious, considering that these
structural improvements were key to laying the foundation for future growth. Aspects of the project
dealing with enforcing financial discipline allowed the Government to avert further financial



iv                                                                Evaluation Summara
problems in banks and enterprises and to enhance their efficiency and financial strength. The SAL's
emphasis on increasing the efficiency of resource use required a strong focus on removing market
distortions in the agricultural and energy areas--sectors in which Latvian reform efforts had lagged.
During the SAL period, Latvia achieved considerable progress in establishing macroeconomic
stability, reviving real growth, and furthering reform efforts, although the current account worsened
and some reforms took longer than anticipated.
Implementation Experience, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
5.    The Government's record of achievement and commitment-to reform has been impressive.
The actions taken and measures implemented had strong backing from the Govemnment and had
popular support. Measures required from the Government were mostly carried out and were
sometimes exceeded, for example, in privatization of apartments and enterprises, financial discipline,
and management of public resources. Additional projects being undertaken in the areas of health,
education, and tax administration will also deepen reforms.
6.    In a few cases progress was slower than had been expected, which resulted in a delay in the
release of the second tranche. These cases were mainly in two areas: (i) delays in the preparation by
the Government of an approved concept paper to draft the Social Insurance Legislation and the
subsequent Parliamentary delays in passing that legislation; and (ii) prolonged discussions within the
Government concerning the development of a medium-term framework for public administration
reforms which the Government had agreed on in the LDP. However, one of the most salient impacts
of the SAL was the changes it stimulated in the ways in which Latvian officials think about and
approach public policy. For example, policymakers in fields unrelated to the SAL began to request
administrator to review the competitive implications of various approaches--a way of thinking that
had been stimulated by work under the SAL.
7.    Bank performance was satisfactory and consistent with the Government's policy and the
Bank's strategy. The design of the project was appropriate to the circumstances of the country and
was formulated in a highly collaborative process with the borrower. When obstacles were
encountered they were overcome in a collaborative manner. Bank technical work--in the energy,
pension, and public administration areas--was valued highly by the Government and was an
important and credible contribution to the political process. The Bank closely monitored the
implementation of policy measures. Supervision missions were well documented. The stability over
time in the composition of the SAL team contributed to its effectiveness in the context of recurrent
changes in the Government
8.    Borrower performance was satisfactory. In preparation for the SAL, the Government
designated a coordinating group composed of high level officials to ensure activities under the SAL.
In addition to maintaining macroeconomic stability, the Govemment achieved its goals in the
enforcement of financial discipline, in the health sector, and in social services and social insurance
reform and also performed well in developing institutions to implement the reform agenda (e.g., the
Bureau of Public Administration Reform).  Ministries supported the reform  program  with
appropriate analytical work (e.g., the Educational Policy Note). While, as required, the Government
set up an Energy Regulatory Board, it also went further and began work on establishing a multi-
sectoral regulatory body with greater independence.  In addition, the country's capacity for
management of public finances is now improving.



Evaluation Summara                                                                 v
9.    Overall, the SAL outcome has been satisfactory. The Government has been keen in
continuing to expand policy dialogue with the Bank to sustain the momentum achieved under the
SAL and to deepen the reforms. For this purpose, a Policy Agenda for structural reform, similar to
the SAL agenda, will be developed to monitor further progress in reform areas and to identify ways
in which the Bank can most effectively assist the country.
10.   The key lessons learned are listed below.
*    Ambitious but realistic reform targets can be an important stimulus to action: SAL
targets were established that challenged the Government to act boldly across a broad
front.  Particularly in privatization, energy, public sector reform, and social
insurance, promises were far-reaching and thorough. Nonetheless, despite relatively
minor delays, the Government achieved all of its major goals. The lesson here is that
the setting of less ambitious targets, even if they might have had a greater likelihood
of attainment, would probably have resulted in less progress in the end.
*    A participative approach can help the Governnent achieve consensus among its own
bodies. The inter-governmental committee formed as part of the SAL process greatly
facilitated reform, particularly in the areas of privatization and social sector and
public sector reform. A major thrust of the SAL was improving the management of
public resources and the reform of the public sector. This involved major changes to
strengthen capacity for the management of public finances, as well as the
development of a framework and associated action plan for the reform of the public
sector, although further action is needed for the latter.
*    Setting realistic objectives and working out their major elements with key civil
servants in transition economies such as Latvia can motivate the professionals in the
Government and can stimulate changes in the way officials think about economic
policy, as was the case with telecommunications in Latvia.
-    Public sector reform is a delicate process which requires clear vision, careful
planning, and a schedule for 'implementation over a number of years. It also requires
strong leadership from the top as such reform concerns every ministry and agency in
the Govermment (which often are reluctant to accept any changes in their structure or
in the way they operate).



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF LATVIA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN NO. 4126-LV)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. INTRODUCTiON
1.    When Latvia regained independence in 1991, it was left with an inefficient economic
structure dependent on shrinking FSU markets and unable to compete in world markets. Energy
prices increased, suppliers disappeared, and, following a sharp fall in output and incomes, the
economy experienced a period of hyperinflation. Latvia successfully implemented a vigorous
stabilization program, supported by the Bank and the IMF, which quickly and substantially reduced
macroeconomic imbalances and permitted the country to accumulate substantial foreign exchange
reserves. Tight fiscal and monetary policy led to near-balanced budgets through 1993 and a sharp
decline in inflation from nearly 1,000 percent in 1992 to 35 percent in 1993.
2.    By 1994 significant progress had been made toward macroeconomic stabilization and growth
of the private sector. Stabilization policies were complemented by structural measures aimed at
achieving a rapid transformation of the economy. Most trade and price regimes were liberalized, and
efforts were made to restructure the banking system and privatize enterprises. Increases in real GDP
and wages were recorded, inflation continued to decline, and foreign exchange reserves increased.
3.    In 1995 a wave of difficulties common to a number of transition economies disrupted the
early stages of Latvia's economic recovery. Pressures arising from tight monetary and fiscal policies,
increases in energy prices to market levels, and increased competition all served to reduce the
profitability of enterprises. Pressures on enterprises, together with the then lax supervision and
regulation of the banking system, produced a serious banking crisis. At the same time, the resulting
combination of public revenue shortfalls, rising claims on public expenditures, and increasing tax
and energy arrears emerged in early 1995 as a growing fiscal deficit. The fiscal balance moved from
a surplus of 0.6 percent of GDP in 1993 to a deficit of 3.3 percent in 1995.
4.    Because of the magnitude of the fiscal deficit, the Government failed to meet performance
criteria under its 1995/96 Stand-by Arrangement with the IMF, and it became evident that the deficit
could not be contained by short-term measures aimed at ad hoc expenditure reductions. It was
apparent that fundamental reforms of the public administration and major expenditure programs
would be necessary to ensure a sustainable fiscal balance and the restoration of growth in the
economy.



2                                                      Implementation Completion Report
B. OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN
5.    The main objectives of the SAL were to support the restoration of sustained growth and to
improve living standards through structural policies that would promote efficient private sector
development and would enhance the management of public sector resources. The main policy areas
supported by the SAL were: adopting and maintaining a macroeconomic framework for stable
growth; encouraging efficient growth by expediting privatization, promoting financial discipline of
banks and enterprises, and improving the efficiency of markets; and reforming public sector resource
management by rationalizing expenditure decisions; reforming local finances to improve the delivery
and cost-effectiveness of municipal and social services; reforming social insurance; improving tax
administration; and strengthening the institutional capacity for the management of public finance.
6.    The goals and objectives of the project were appropriate and consistent with enabling the
Government to continue the reform process. Project objectives were clear and realistic, and were
linked to monitorable performance indicators (see Table 5, below, in the Statistical Tables). The
technical and financial assistance of the Bank through the SAL allowed the Government to address
the immediate fiscal crisis and to reduce short-term borrowing, increase public investment, and
accelerate reforms. The focus of the SAL on the management of public finances and the
strengthening of public administration capabilities was appropriate, considering the weaknesses in
those areas. The emphasis on accelerating privatization--in banking, housing, utilities, and the
enterprise sector--was judicious, considering that these structural improvements were key to laying
the foundation for future growth. Aspects of the project dealing with enforcing financial discipline
allowed the Government to avert further financial problems in banks and enterprises and to enhance
their efficiency and financial strength. The SAL emphasis on increasing the efficiency of resource
use required a strong focus on removing market distortions in the agricultural and energy areas--
sectors in which Latvian reform efforts had lagged.
7.    In addition, the project supported a series of reform proposals that were extremely beneficial
in identifying the costs and benefits of various policy options, as well as their scheduling, feasibility,
etc. Proposals included those to: reform and privatize the electricity industry, adopt energy pricing
methodology, reduce duplication of public functions and divest those which could be performed
privately, reduce student subsidies, reform health sector financing, and reduce arrears in the energy
sector.
8.    While the SAL was not contemplated in the CAS submitted in September 1994, it was fully
consistent with the CAS objectives. The SAL was closely coordinated with IMF support and with
other Bank lending. The SAL (approved in FY97) followed seven loans: a US$45 million
Rehabilitation Loan (FY93) supporting initial reforms and critical imports; a US$25 million
Agricultural Development Loan (FY94); a US$35 million Enterprise and Financial Sector Loan
(FY95); the US$4 million Liepaja Environmental Development Loan (FY95); the US$14 million
Jelgava District Heat Loan (FY95); the US$27.3 million Municipal Services Development Loan
(FY96); and a US$20 million Highway Loan (FY97). An additional Welfare Reform Loan of
US$18.1 million was approved in FY97, a Solid Waste Management Loan of US$8 million was
approved in FY98, a Rural Development Loan of US$10.5 million was approved in FY99, and a
State Revenue Service Modernization Project (US$5.1 million equivalent) and a Health Sector Loan
(US$20 million) were approved in FY99. An Education Sector Loan is also being prepared for
Board submission in FY99.



Latvia Structural Adjustment Loan                                                  3
9.    The lending operations summanzed above were complemented (or are being complemented)
by appropriate non-lending services. The first World Bank economic work, a Country Economic
Memorandum, provided a comprehensive overview of the Latvian economy. It was followed by a
series of policy notes which provided advice to the Government on various macroeconomic and
structural reform issues. A Public Expenditure Review Report provided recommendations on public
expenditure planning, programming, and management. A report on local government expenditure
and resource transfer analyzed aspects of expenditure and revenue priorities facing local
governments in Latvia, and a report on macro financial policies reviewed the vulnerability of the
economy to external shocks. The Bank has also undertaken sector reviews in the areas of
agriculture, public sector management, municipal finance, enterprise development, pensions, health,
the financial sector, and private participation in infrastructure. In addition, the Bank has provided
technical assistance on tariff policy, customs administration, the design of a city drawback scheme,
and the preparation of a three-year public investment program.
C. IMPLEMENTATiON AND AcIEvEMENTs
Stabilization
10.   Appropriate Macroeconomic Framework for Stabilization.  The prudent fiscal and
monetary policies led to a restoration of GDP growth of about 3.3 percent in 1996, followed by a
growth of about 6.5 percent in 1997. Economic recovery is well under way but GDP growth is
expected to show a somewhat slower rate of 6 percent in 1998, reflecting the spillover effect of the
Russian crisis. The downward trend in consumer price increases has continued. The rise in prices
was less than 7 percent at the end 1997. This reflected a number of factors, including the
implementation of the Baltic free trade agreement. Consumer price increases have dropped further
to a 3.7 percent rate for the 12 months ending Novermber 1998. Interest rates have also declined.
11.   The fiscal stance remained tight with the general government fiscal balance moving from a
deficit of about 1.8 percent of GDP in 1996 to a surplus of 1.3 percent in 1997. This reflected strong
revenue outcomes from  most taxes, lower interest costs, and expenditure restraint.  The
Government's objective was to keep the fiscal deficit at less than 1 percent of GDP in 1998.
Monetary developments in 1997 and 1998 reflected a continued increase in confidence in the
banking system and the development of the financial sector. In real terms deposits increased and
bank credit to the private sector began to grow, although it remained relatively low (about 10 percent
of GDP) compared with other transition economies.
12.   The current account deficit rose from 3.4 percent in 1996 to about 5 percent in 1997,
reflecting mainly the deterioration in the private savings investment balance in the past two years.
Deterioration was also evident in the services balance as the Latvia shipping company moved some
of its activities offshore. However, inflows of foreign capital remained strong, contributing to an
overall balance of payments surplus in 1996 and 1997. The current account deficit increased to
about 7 percent of GDP in the first half of 1998, and is expected to remain at this level for the year as
a whole as exports continue to be robust. At end 1998 gross reserves amounted to about three
months of imports. The financial crisis in Russia is likely to have an important effect on the Latvian
economy, as exports of goods to Russia will decline. Some one-fifth of Latvia's exports go to
Russia, of which one-third are agricultural food products.



4                                                      Implementation Completion Report
Structural Reforms
13.   Privatization Program and Ownership Rights. As of September 1, a total of 878 enterprises
had been privatized, of which 81 were medium-size (50-500 employees) and 14 were large (more
than 500 employees). In addition, 33.7 percent of the total pool of municipal and state apartments
had been privatized. Moreover, the LDP stipulated that the Government would adopt a strategy for
the Savings Bank that would include performing due diligence on potential merger partners, using
privatization certificates only if necessary to bring the Savings Bank to the Bank of Latvia's (BOL)
capital adequacy requirements and to ensure that all prudential regulations of the BOL are met. This
objective has been achieved. The recapitalization of the Savings Bank has been completed and 46
percent of its shares are now in private hands. The bank now fully meets the prudential regulations
of the BOL and its capital adequacy ratio is estimated at around 15 percent. In the LDP the
Government also committed itself to: (i) providing a report to the Bank, by March 1997 documenting
progress satisfactory to the Bank in implementing the privatization schedule; (ii) announcing a list of
companies to be offered to the public for privatization certificates; (iii) preparing an action plan to
establish an integrated system of registration of mortgages on real estate and liens on movable
property; and (iv) submitting to Parliament an investment fund law. All of these commitments have
been fulfilled.
14.   Enforcement of Financial Discipline. To enforce financial discipline, the Government
liquidated 12 enterprises with large tax arrears. The Government also strengthened the payment
discipline in the energy sector. The accounts receivable of the Latvenergo, the power utility, were
reduced to 27 days' worth of electric bills for electricity users and the accounts receivable of Latvijas
Gaze, the supplier of gas, were reduced to 39 days' worth of bills. These arrears were approximately
200 days in 1996. In addition to these measures, the Government committed itself to adopting
amendments in accounting and auditing legislation and regulations which require the general
adoption of International Accounting Standards and International Standards on Auditing. This
objective was met. Amendments to the accounting and auditing legislation, which came into force
on January 1, 1997, require the adoption of International Accounting Standards and empower the
association of auditors to issue regulations on auditing.
15.   Improving Sectoral Productivity and the Efficiency of Markets. In the area of trade, the
Government committed itself to: (i) reducing average production-weighted agriculture tariff rates to
less than 30 percent; (ii) refraining from increasing any import tariff beyond its May 1996 level and
from introducing any new tariff barriers; (iii) converting the remaining specific tariffs to ad valorem
rates, except for alcoholic beverages, tobacco, and sugar; and (iv) liberalizing foreign trade in sugar,
grains, and cereals, including the elimination of quantitative restrictions and the conversion of import
licensing requirements to a WTO-consistent basis. The Government adhered to all of these
commitments, except that the reduction in agriculture tariffs was less than envisaged under the LDP.
Although changes to the law "On Customs Duties" sharply reduced tariffs on agricultural products,
and although the coming into effect of the Baltic free trade agreement fully eliminated tariffs on this
trade, the main stumbling block to reducing the rate to less than 30 percent was delays in WTO
membership negotiations. The authorities claim that agreements made during these negotiations
have brought average rates to the above-mentioned levels. Latvia became a member of WTO in
September 1998.
16.   As far as cost recovery is concerned, the Government agreed to amend the existing
legislation on municipal services so that cost recovery tariffs for municipal services include



Latvia Structural Adjustment Loan                                                  S
allowances for depreciation and maintenance, as well as operating expenses. This objective was
achieved and municipalities are continuing to strengthen their cost recovery methods.
17.   In the area of energy, in addition to the measure to reduce energy arrears (discussed above),
the Government formally set up the Energy Regulatory Board with a full complement of staff and
office space. The tariff working group drafted the pricing methodology for electricity, gas, and
district heating based on sound economic principles. The Government also agreed to present the
Bank with plans to reform and privatize the electricity supply industry. The Government strategy at
the time of the SAL preparation was to privatize Latvenergo as a vertically integrated monopoly.
Following suggestions by the Bank on the careful examination of privatization options, and after
reviewing alternative approaches with the Bank staff, a consensus emerged within the Latvia
Privatization Agency (LPA) that Latvenergo should be restructured first and then privatized, and that
such restructuring should ensure the introduction of real competition in generation, transmission, and
distribution in the power sector. This strategy, which was also shared by the EBRD, was to be
reflected in the privatization plan of Latvenergo. In March 1998 the LPA submitted a proposal to the
Cabinet of Ministers which involved restructuring and privatizing Latvenergo along the lines
mentioned above. This proposal constituted a significant step in establishing a market-based
electricity industry with competitive elements in generation, although it also had its shortcoming, as
it called for the creation of a single distribution company instead of allowing the market to decide on
the number. However, Parliament decided to postpone privatization of Latvenergo while an
investigation into the past financial dealings of the enterprise continues.
18.   Rationalizing Expenditure Decisions.  In the LDP the Government agreed to start
implementing the action plan to reduce duplication and divest functions that can be efficiently
carried out by the private sector. Implementation of this condition is now satisfactory. The census
of the public sector was authorized in July and undertaken in October 1997. The results have shed
light on the duplication of functions and the need for rationalization. The Government also
committed itself to developing a framework for designing and implementing a medium-term public
administration reform. Progress in this area was interrupted by a change of Government in February
1997. However, the State Administrative Reform Council (SARC) and the Bureau of Public
Administration Reform (BPAR) were set up before the Government changed again in August 1997.
Since then, there has been notable progress stemming from the establishment of the SARC and the
work of the new Bureau. In addition to conducting a review of relevant legislative proposals and the
analysis of the Census, the BPAR developed a medium-term framework for public sector reform that
was adopted by the Cabinet of Ministers on December 23, 1997. It also produced a schedule of work
activities for 1998 which was endorsed by the SARC.
19.   The Government also agreed to: (i) publish a summary of planned public investment
expenditures financed from all sources; and (ii) adopt a plan to reduce public subsidies to students in
vocational schools, colleges, and universities. Both agreements have been fulfilled. A summary of
the public investment program from all sources in 1997 was published in Latvijas Vestnesis on
March 7, 1997. Three initiatives were launched to reduce public expenditures for vocational and
higher education, including initiating a student work program, increasing the number of students
paying for tuition, and having half the cost of instruction paid for by students sponsored by the state.
20.   Improving Cost Effectiveness of Social Services. In the LDP, the Government committed
itself to review with the Bank the reformn proposals in the social sector studies, to present a timetable
for revising the revenue and expenditure assignments of local governments and intergovernmental



6                                                      Implementation Completion Report
transfers in light of these proposed reforms, and to take initial steps for the implementation of the
reassignment of expenditures and revenues. Progress has been made in meeting these objectives.
The Ministry of Welfare prepared a draft paper on social assistance, and the Ministry of Health is
considering reforming the management of hospitals. The Ministry of Education prepared an
education policy note in December 1996 and a white paper for an education workshop in November
1997. The Government agreed to: (i) implement the reform of education financing on the basis of
the results of the reform proposals on education policy; and (ii) transfer state paid teachers' salaries
to local governments and allocate education expenditures on the basis of the number of students.
Both objective were met.
21.   The first stage of health insurance reform was completed in 1997. In December 1996 the
Cabinet of Ministers passed a resolution "Regulations on Financing of Health Care" which provided
the procedure for financing health care, and also regulated the types and amounts of medical services
covered by the state budget, the special health care budget, and co-payments and patient fees. The
main step was to recentralize the resources for the financing of health care into a central budget to be
allocated to providers through the existing district Sickness Funds (SFs). A Central Sickness Fund
(CSF) was established in January 1997 to administer these funds. A portion of income tax (28.4
percent in the 1997 budget) was allocated to the CSF, which then make allocations to regional funds
on a per capita basis (weighted by age and gender). The centralization of revenue allocation,
combined with improved budgeting, has kept expenditures under control. Cost control measures
have resulted in 19 hospital closures, and further closures are planned for 1998. The Ministry of
Welfare has also made progress in the distribution of functions and responsibilities among the
Ministry, the CSF, and the new consolidated RSFs. The Ministry also plans to consolidate the
existing district funds into new RSFs, which will be independent units owned and operated by the
local governments.
22.   The Government also adhered to the agreement to inform the Bank on the progress of the
joint working group on territorial reform. However, the Government made little progress in the
systematic treatment of issues related to the revenues and expenditures of local governments and in
measures needed to improve the efficiency of small local government units through consolidation.
The draft law on "Territorial Administrative Reform," which would abolish the 26 rajon
governments, divides up their responsibilities among the national ministries and the municipalities.
23.   Refonning Social Insurance. To further reform social insurance, the Government: (i)
enacted the Social Insurance Framework Law; (ii) changed the income tax legislation to subject
social insurance benefits to the income tax; (iii) implemented a scheme to control the costs of work
injury legislation; and (iv) removed the pension credit for time spent in higher education. The
Government also implemented a licensing and supervisory system for privately managed pension
funds. The Law establishing a supervisory system for privately managed pensions was approved by
Parliament in October 1997. However, there was a delay in submitting to Parliament the legislation
allocating portions of the social tax to privately managed pension funds. The revised concept paper
for the preparation of the legislation, which was in line with the discussions with the Bank staff, was
endorsed by the cabinet in December 1997. The law on Privately Managed Pension Funds came into
effect on July 1, 1998. This law states that the licensing and supervision of these funds is the
responsibility of the State Insurance Supervision Inspection.
24.   Improving Tax Administration.  In the LDP, the Government committed itself to the
following measures to improve the tax administration system: (i) approving the 1997 revenue targets



Latvia Structural Adjstment Loan                                                   7
for local offices, the Large Taxpayer Division, and Customs border posts; (ii) from October 1996,
maintaining quarterly tax collections not lower than total taxes newly declared and assessed during
that quarter, and continuing to increase the ratio of collected to newly assessed taxes thereafter; and
(iii) submitting to Parliament amendments to transfer the SIF collection and compliance functions to
the SRS. These objectives were met, including the passage of legislation which allows the transfer
of SIF collection functions to the SRS from January 1, 1998. For 1997, the ratio of quarterly tax
collection to total taxes newly declared and assessed during that quarter fluctuated within a narrow
range, taking values of 1.07, 1.08, 1.03, and 1.07 from the first to the fourth quarter, respectively.
This is an improvement relative to ratios of 1.00, 0.93, and 1.01 for the first three quarters of 1996,
but below the peak and exceptional collection rate of 1.11 in the last quarter of 1996.
25.   Strengthening Institutional Capacity for Management of Public Finances. To strengthen
the capacity for the management of public finances, the Government agreed to develop a unified
system for monitoring and managing domestic and foreign borrowing. The formal integration of the
internal and external asset and debt management operations of the State Treasury is completed. The
entry of loans into a unified debt recording system initially proceeded more slowly than expected,
mainly because of organizational problems and difficulties in verifying the accuracy of data and
tracking past on-lending. This was completed in early 1998, with work now focusing on auditing the
entered data. Technical assistance has improved the knowledge of risk management techniques, the
application of which has been hampered by poor software. A simple debt recording system adapted
from Albania proved unsatisfactory, especially because of its weak capacity to handle domestic
borrowing and on-lending and a lack of the necessary analytical capabilities. The authorities have
now requested EU Phare support for acquiring more appropriate software. As this will be fully
operative by mid-1999, the Government is improving the existing program with assistance from the
U.S. Treasury. Progress in generating and testing various reports from the assembled data debt
position, debt servicing forecasts, breakdowns by currency and interest rate, the on-lending position,
the stock of outstanding state guarantees, etc., has been good.
26.   Progress has been made in the monitoring and control of the debts of local governments
(LGs). The LGs can now borrow only through the State Treasury or the Municipal Development
Fund. Quarterly and annual overall limits on such loans, and loans guaranteed by LGs, are included
in the state budget and have been successfully maintained. Each such loan or guarantee must be
approved by the Supervision and Control Council for Local Government Borrowing and Guarantees,
established by a February 1997 resolution of the Cabinet of Ministers. This council receives weekly
reports from the State Treasury on loans taken and repaid by LGs. More work is needed to complete
monitoring of the liabilities of enterprises owned by state and local governments. The 1998 budget
prudently includes some provisions to cover potential losses on loans given to LGs.
27.   The Government also committed itself to: (i) transferring the accounts of the central
government special funds and budgetary institutions to the State Treasury; and (ii) proceeding with
the implementation of the plan for improving the management and organization of budget and
Treasury process, and debt management operation. Both objectives have been achieved.
D. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
28.   The SAL was approved by the Board on December 19, 1996 and was made effective on
January 17, 1997, in accordance with the schedule in the Memorandum of the President. The first



8                                                      lmplementation Completion Report
tranche of DEM 30 million was disbursed upon effectiveness on January 17, 1997. However, while
it had been anticipated that the second tranche conditions would be met by June 1997, some of these
conditions were met by only April 1998, and the second tranche of DM 60.4 million was disbursed
on April 13, 1998. The loan was closed on June 30, 1998, although the original closing date was
December 31, 1997.
29.   Factors Not Generally Subject to Government Control. Progress under the SAL, though
quite substantial as noted earlier, was not as rapid as had been anticipated at the start of the project.
Delays in the second tranche release were partly caused by parliamentary delays in passing Social
Insurance Legislation. The purpose of this legislation was to allow a portion of the social tax to be
allocated to privately managed pension funds and it became subject of lengthy discussion among
different factions in Parliamement. In addition, there were changes at the political level. The
consistency of the SAL as a framework for policy and structural reform, and the stability in the
composition of the SAL team, were helpful to the borrower in furthering reform efforts.
30.   Factors Generally Subject to Government Control. Delays in the SAL were also caused by
prolonged discussions within the Government concerning the development of a medium-term
framework for public administration reforms. After lengthy delays, several steps were taken to
initiate the implementation of a medium-term public sector reform. These included a census of
public sector employees and the establishment of the Bureau of Public Administration. However, it
took the Cabinet longer than expected to approve the strategy to reform the public sector. Elements
of this strategy, including its timing and resource needs, were extensively worked out with the SAL
supervision missions.
E. SUSTAINABILTrY
31.   Sustainability is judged as likely. The actions taken and the measures implemented have the
strong backing of the Government and also have popular support. The reforms have survived
parliamentary elections and a change of personnel in many top positions. Measures already taken to
promote privatization and private sector development will expand income and employment. Actions
taken to improve sectoral productivity and the efficiency of markets will allow further liberalization
of foreign trade and will improve the cost recovery of government services. They will also ensure
that utility prices are set on sound economic principles. Measures taken to rationalize expenditures
and improve tax administration will make it easier for the Government to fiscally support the
completion of further reforms.
32.   Latvia is solidly committed to continue working with the Bank to deepen the reform efforts.
First, several investment projects are planned or are under implementation that were to a large
degree spawned by efforts undertaken under the SAL. These include projects in health, education,
and tax administration. Second, there are plans to continue work with the Bank to extend and
deepen reforms and to monitor their impact. This was evidenced in early 1998 by the considerable
participation of the Government in the formulation of the CAS. The Government and the Bank have
agreed on a quarterly review mechanism to monitor the progress of the reform program as well as the
contribution that the Bank can make to the Govermnent's reform efforts. Third, the State
Administrative Reform Council and the Bureau of Public Administration Reform have been
established and have achieved a dynamic start. These organizations will continue to have a salutary
effect on the quality and efficiency of Latvian public administration.



Latvia Structural Adjustmnent Loan                                                9
33.   As described, one of the most salient impacts of the SAL has been the changes it stimulated
in the ways in which Latvian officials think about public policy, which would also serve to enhance
sustainability. For example, policymakers in telecommunications have begun to require regulators to
review the competitive implications of various approaches--a way of thinking that was stimulated by
work under the SAL.
F. BANK PERFORMANCE
34.   Overall, the Bank's performance was satisfactory. The design of the project was appropriate
to the circumstances of the country and was fornulated in a highly collaborative process with the
borrower.  As noted earlier, project objectives were clear and realistic and were linked to
monitorable performance indicators (see Table 5, below). When obstacles were encountered (e.g., in
the case of public administration reform or the privatization of key enterprises) they were dealt with
in a patient and collaborative manner. Bank technical work--in the health, energy, pension, and
public administration areas, for instance--was highly valued by the borrower and was an important
contribution to the political process (see Table 6).
35.   The Bank effectively and closely monitored implementation of the policy measures specified
in the project. Supervision missions were effective and well documented, and reporting was widely
distributed. The consistency of the Bank team, as noted earlier, contributed to its effectiveness.
G. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
36.   Borrower performance was satisfactory. The Government performed very well in the
macroeconomic area, keeping fiscal and monetary policy tight.  As noted, macroeconomic
performance improved substantially from 1996 through 1998. The Government also performed well
in developing numerous structures to implement the reform agenda (e.g., the State Admninistrative
Reform Council and the Bureau of Public Administration Reform). Ministries also supported the
reform program with appropriate analytical work (e.g., the Educational Policy Note). In addition,
the country's institutional capacity for the management of public finances has improved markedly.
H. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
37.   The SAL outcome is assessed as satisfactory. As described earlier, the SAL met nearly all of
its objectives and the Government's record of achievement and commitment to reform have been
impressive. Macroeconomic performance was impressive. The project has already achieved
substantial development results, and these are highly likely to be sustained and extended. All the
measures required of the Government were carried out, and sometimes exceeded--for example, in the
privatization of apartments and enterprises and in the areas of financial discipline and the
management of public resources.
38.   But progress in some aspects of the SAL was slower than expected. As noted, delays in the
second tranche release were partly caused by Parliamentary delays in passing Social Insurance
Legislation, and by prolonged discussions within the Government concerning the development of a
medium-term framework for public administration reforms.



10                                                    Implementation Completion Report
39.   The SAL contributed to the thinking and approach of the official to public policy. For
example, the SAL required the Energy Regulatory Board to be fully staffed and exercising its
responsibilities in accordance with Bank-approved methodologies. However, the Government was
concerned that such a body might not have sufficient independence, and so decided to establish a
multi-sectoral regulatory authority--including energy--with greater autonomy and thus ability to
resist special interests.  Similarly, policymakers in fields unrelated to the SAL, such as
telecommunications, routinely began to require ministries and regulators to produce policy papers on
pricing and review the implications of various approaches. This change in policy decisions also
enhanced the likelihood that the project benefits would be sustained.
I. FUTURE OPERATIONS
40.   The Bank has held an ongoing and intense policy dialogue with the Government intended to
sustain the momentum achieved under the SAL and to deepen the reforms. For this purpose, a
Policy Agenda for structural reform, similar to the SAL agenda, will be developed which provides a
forum to: (a) monitor further progress in structural reform and, where appropriate, on matters of EU
accession; (b) maintain a policy dialogue with the authorities on a regular basis, which will be
anchored by quarterly meetings of the Bank Country Director with the Minister of Finance; and (c)
identify ways in which the Bank can most effectively assist Latvia in its reform efforts. Also, as
noted earlier, work under the SAL in the areas of health, education, and tax administration has
spawned investment projects in these areas, which will stimulate further policy progress. These
include the SRS Modernization Project (FY99), a Health Sector Loan (FY99), and an Education
Sector Loan (under preparation).
J. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
41.   Ambitious but realistic reform targets can be an important stimulus to action--in each sector
included in the SAL, targets were established which challenged the Government to act boldly across
a broad front. Particularly in privatization, energy, public sector reform, and social insurance,
promises were far-reaching and thorough. In total, they comprised a very large work program for
any Government to achieve. Nonetheless, despite relatively minor delays, the Government has
achieved all of its major goals. The lesson here is that the setting of less ambitious targets, even if
they might have had a greater likelihood of early attainment, would probably have led to less
progress in the end.
42.   A participative approach can help the Government achieve consensus among its own bodies.
The inter-governmental committee, formed as part of the SAL process, greatly facilitated reform,
particularly in the areas of privatization and social sector and public sector reform. A major thrust of
the SAL was improving the management of public resources and the reform of the public sector.
This involved major changes to strengthen the capacity for the management of public finances as
well as the development of a framework and an associated action plan for fees reform of the public
sector, although further action is needed in the latter.
43.   Setting realistic objectives and working out their major elements with key civil servants in
transition economies such as Latvia can motivate the professionals in the Government and can also
stimulate changes in the way the officials think about economic policy, as was the case with
telecommunications in Latvia.



Latvia Structural Adjustment Loan    -                                              11
44.   Public sector reform is a delicate process which requires a clear vision, careful planning, and
a schedule for implementation over a number of years. It also requires strong leadership from the
top, as it is a reform that concerns every ministry and agency in the government (which often are
reluctant to accept any changes in their structure or the way in which they operate).






PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:    Summary of Assessments
Table 2:    Related Bank Loans and Credits
Table 3:    Project Timetable
Table 4:    Cumulative Loan Disbursements
Table 5:    Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:    Studies on Reform Proposals Included in the SAL
Table 7:    Project Cost and Financing
Table 8:    Status of Legal Covenants
Table 9:    Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 10:   Bank Resources - Staff Inputs
Table 11:   Bank Resources - Missions



I



Latvia Structural Adjustment Loan                                                          15
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of
Objectives                  Substantial        Partial          Negligible            N/A
Macro policies                   x
Sector Policies                                   x X    |
Financial objectives                                                                  nX
Institutional development    | I I            I                 I       I
Physical objectives                                                                   nX
Poverty reduction               x
Gender issues                                                                         WX
Other social objectives                           x
Environmental objectives                                                               x
Public sector management         x 
Private sector development    1               I                 I                      x
Other (specify)
B. Project Sustainability                       Likely           Unlikely          Uncertain
[IZ                    W W
C. Bank Performance                            Highly
Satisfactory      S    i              Deficient
D. Borrower Performance                        Highly
Satisfact         Satisfacto          Deficient
E. Assessment of Outcome      Highly                                                Highly
Satisfact       Satis             factory



16                                                         Implementation Completion Report
Table 2: Related Bank Loans and Credits
Loan Title                   Purpose                   Fiscal Year of    Status
Approval
Preceding Operations
Rehabilitation               Budgetary support and         1993         Closed
critical imports
Agricultural Development     Agricultural Development      1994         Closed
Enterprise and Financial Sector  Enterprise and Financial  1995         Closes 12/31/98
Sector Development
Jelgava District Heat        Enhancement of District       1995         In implementation; closes
Heat System                                6/00
Liepaja Environment          Environmental                 1995         In implementation; closes
Remediation                                3/00
Municipal Services           Municipal Services            1996         In implementation; closes
Development                  Development                                6/01
Welfare Reform               Welfare Reform                1997         In implementation
Highway                      Highway Rehabilitation        1997         In implementation
Following Operations
Welfare Reform               Welfare Reform                1997         In implementation
Solid Waste Management       Enhancement of Solid          1998         In implementation
Waste Disposal Facilities
Rural Development            Rural Development             1998         In implementation
State Revenue Service        Tax Administration            1998         In implementation
Modernization
Health Sector Reform         Health Sector Reform          1998         In implementation
Education Sector Reform      Education Sector Reform       1998         In preparation
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle              Date Planned          Actual Date
Identification
Preparation                         June, 1996           June, 1996
Appraisal                           September, 1996       September, 1996
Negotiations                        Novemnber, 1996       November 11-13, 1996
Letter of development policy        November, 1996        November 15, 1996
Board presentation                  December, 1996        December 19, 1996
Signing                            December, 1996         December 20, 1996
Effectiveness                       December, 1996        January 17, 1997
First tranche release               December 31, 1996     January 17, 1997
Second tranche release             June 30, 1997          April 13, 1998
Project completion (last disbursement)   n.a.             April 13, 1998
Loan closing                        December 31, 1997     June 30, 1998



Latvia Structural Adjustment Loan                                                             17
Table 4: Cumulative Loan Disbursements
(US$ millions)
FY 1996                       FY 1997
Appraisal estimate            DEM 90.6 million               -0-
Actual                        DEM 30 million                DEM 60.6 million
Actual as % of estimate       33.1%
Date of final disbursement                                   April 13, 1998
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Objective                     Intermediate Indicator         Outcome
Sustainable Macroeconomic    Reduction in short-term debt    Real GDP growth increased; unemployment and
Framework                     through 1997                   inflation declined; fiscal balance improved and
short term debt became negligible; but current
account worsened
Privatization and Private     Privatization of 150 enterprises (50  As of September 1, 1998, a total of 878 enterprises
Sector Development            medium and large), and 5% of   were privatized of which 81 were medium and 14
apartments                     large. Approximately 33.7 percent of the total
apartments were also privatized, considerably
exceeding the requirement
Implement strategy for Savings  Savings Bank has been recapitalized and meets
Bank that includes due diligence    BOL prudential regulations and capital adequacy
on merger partners and ensures that requirements
all prudential regulations of the
BOL are met
Increase registration of private  Registration of movable property has began and
properties                     integration of immovable registers with the
movable registers has recently started under three
working groups and a steering committee.
Enforce Financial Discipline    Reduced energy arrears from  As agreed, accounts receivable for Latvenergo
different group of consumers   have remained below 30 days, and accounts
receivable for Latvijas Gaze reduced below 40
days
Initiation of bankruptcy/liquidation  The liquidation of 12 large loss-making enterprises
procedures for 10 state enterprises   was initiated
with large losses and growing tax
arrears
Maintain strict supervision and  Strict regulatory regime and prudential regulations
prudential regulations on banks  for banks are in place
Improvements to legal framework   Regulations have been adopted requiring use of
to encourage private sector    International Accounting and Auditing Standards.
development and financial      Government formed Corruption Prevention
discipline (implementation of laws  Council and submitted an Investment Fund Law to
and regulations on accounting and   Parliament.
auditing, bankruptcy, anti-
monopoly, investment funds, civil
code)



18                                                             Implementation Completion Report
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation (continued)
Objective                     Intermediate Indicator         Outcome
Rationalize Expenditure       Consolidation of Government    As part of comprehensive strategy, Government is
Decisions                     functions, reduction in number of   streamlining functions and reducing duplication.
Government employees, reduction   Census of public employees were taken.
in extra-budgetary funds
Identification of reform proposals  Implementation of reforms in health expenditures
in health, education, and social  and hospital management; Government also
assistance that include: guidelines   implemented reforms in social assistance and
for rationalizing health and   educational financing; and adopted plan to reduce
education facilities; ensures that    subsidies to students in vocational institutions.
money follows the client; targeting
of compensatory payments;
adequate incentives for efficient
service provision and revenue
assignments
Increase in share of expenditure for  Share of expenditure for public investment is
public investment from 0.9% in  anticipated to increase to 3 percent of GDP in
1995 to 2.5% in 1997           1998.
Completion of regulatory       Government committed to enact Social Insurance
enviromnent for social insurance    Framework Law; made social insurance benefits
taxable; implemented plan to control cost of work
injuries; removed pension credit for time spent in
higher education
Develop framework for medium-    State Administrative Reform Council and Bureau
term public administration reform    of Public Administration Reform were established
and have achieved dynamic start. Bureau of Public
Administration developed medium- term plan for
reform of public administration, which was
adopted by the Council of Ministers.
Improve Tax Administration    Establishment of tax collection and  Government allocated new taxpayer identification
enforcement unit; expansion of  numbers to all businesses registered with State
Large Taxpayer Division to cover   Revenue Service; approved specific revenue
more enterprises; complete     targets by level at which collected; collected
allocation of taxpayer         increased levels of taxes as a proportion of those
identification numbers         assessed; transferred administration of Social
Insurance Fund to State Revenue Service
Strengthen Management of     Implement plan to improve       Internal and external asset and debt management
Public Finances              management and organization of    operations of State Treasury have been integrated;
budget and treasury process and    loans have been entered into unified debt recording
debt management operations     system; accounts of central Government special
funds and budgetary institutions have been
transferred to the State Treasury.
Develop regulations for state/local  Government has implemented improved methods
Government borrowing to ensure   and systems to monitor and control local
maintenance of macroeconomic   Government debt.
stability
Maintain fully operational debt  Government has reorganized its asset and debt
reporting and management system    management and treasury functions, with stronger
cash flow forecasts, improved risk analysis, and
better inter-agency coordination..



Latvia Structural Adjustment Loan                                                        19
Table 6: Studies on Reform Proposals Included in the SAL
Study                            Purpose as defined at          Status
appraisal/redefined
Plans to reform and privatize power   Plans to reform and privatize  Completed
industry (Deloitte and Touche;   power industry
Deutsche Bank)
Energy pricing methodology (Bechtel Energy pricing methodology   Completed
Corp)
Plan to reduce duplication of public   Streamlining plan         Completed
functions and divest some functions
Plan to reduce subsidies to students   Plan to reduce subsidies  Completed
Health plan                      Health plan                    Completed
Work injury scheme               Plan for reform of worker      Completed
compensation
Plan for improving budget and    Plan for improving budget and   Completed
treasury process                 treasury process
Plan for collecting overdue tax  Plan for collecting overdue tax  Completed
payments                         payments
Reduction of arrears in the energy  Plan to reduce energy arrears  Completed
sector (EU-Phare)
Methodology for estimating losses    Methodology for estimating losses  Completed
from past on-lending and loan    from past on-lending and loan
guarantees                       guarantees
Table 7: Project Cost and Financing
Appraisal Estimate               Actual/Latest Estimate
(DEM million)                     (DEM million)
Local   Foreign                   Local    Foreign
Source             costs     costs     Total          costs      costs     Total
IBRD                 0        90.6      90.6            0         90.6      90.6
Cofinancing         n.a.      n.a.      n.a.            0          0         0
institutions
Other external       0         0         0              0          0         0
sources
Domestic             0         0         0              0          0         0
contribution
Total                0        90.6      90.6            0         90.6      90.6



20                                                              Implementation Completion Report
Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement    Covenant       Present  Original    Revised       Description of covenant   Comments
Section       Type          Status*   Fulfillment fulfillment
date        date
Sec. 3.01     Project Impl.    C     Continuous  continuous   At the request of the     Action
Bank, borrower shall    carried out
report on progress      satisfactorily
carrying out Public
Investment Program
Sec. 3.02     Accounting/      C     Continuous  continuous   Borrower shall have       Action
Auditing                                         Deposit Account audited   carried out
by auditors acceptable to   satisfactorily
Bank and make audit
available
Schedule 3-1   Project Impl.   C      Second      Second       Continuous maintenance   Action
Tranche     Tranche      of macroeconomic         carried out
Release     Release      framework consistent with  satisfactorily
program objectives
Schedule 3-2   Project Impl.   C     Second       Second       Privatization of at least    Action
Tranche     Tranche      150 enterprises, at least'   carried out
Release     Release      40% of which are medium  satisfactorily
and large
Schedule 3-3   Project Impl.   C      Second      Second       Transferal to private    Action
Tranche     Tranche      ownership of at least 5%    carried out
Release     Release      of publicly-owned        satisfactorily
apartments; preparation of
plan for a further 20%
Schedule 3-4   Project Impl.   C      Second      Second       Initiation of liquidation of  Action
Tranche     Tranche      10 publicly-owned        carried out
Release     Release      enterprises with large   satisfactorily
losses and tax arrears
Schedule 3-5   Project Impl.   C     Second       Second       Allocation of taxpayer   Action
Tranche     Tranche      identification numbers to   carried out
Release     Release      all businesses registered    satisfactorily
with State Revenue
Service



Latvia Structural Adjustment Loan                                                             21
Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants
(continued)
Agreement       Covenant      Present   Original     Revised     Description of      Corments
Section        Type           Status*   Fulffillment  Fulfillment Covenant
Date         Date
Schedule 3-6    Project Impl.    C      Second       Second      Reduction and       Action carried
(a)                                     Tranche      Tranche     maintenance of      out
Release      Release     accounts receivable  satisfactorily
of energy utilities to
not more than 30
days for electricity
and 40 days for gas
(other than heat
supply companies)
(b)                                     Second       Second      Reduction of        Action carried
Tranche      Tranche     accounts receivable  out
Release      Release     for gas supply to   satisfactorily
heat companies in
accordance with
plan agreed with
Bank
Schedule 3-7    Project Impl.    C      Second       Second      ERB operating,      Action carried
Tranche      Tranche     adequately staffed,   out
Release      Release     and setting energy    satisfactorily
tariffs in accordance
with methods agreed
by Bank
Schedule 3-8    Project Impl.    C      Second       Second      Development of      Action carried
Tranche      Tranche     satisfactory work   out
Release      Release     and financing plans   satisfactorily
for implementing
medium-term public
administration
reforms
Schedule 3-9    Project Impl.    C      Second       Second      Preparation and     Action carried
Tranche      Tranche     review with the     out
Release      Release     Bank of 1997-1999   satisfactorily
Public Investment
Program
* C = complied with
CD = complied with after delay
CP = complied with partially
NC = not complied with



22                                                       Implementation Completion Report
Table 9: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement Number and Title                Description and Comment on Lack of
Compliance
All relevant OM statements complied with
Table 10: Bank Resources--Staff Inputs
Planned                      Actual
Stage of Project Cycle        Weeks      US$(000)          Weeks      US$(000)
Preparation to appraisal            n.a          n.a             21           90
Appraisal, negotiations through     n.a          n.a             40          172
Board approval
Supervision/tranche release         n.a          n.a             48          228
Completion                          n.a          n.a             5            25
Total                               n.a          n.a             114         515



Latvia Structural Adjustment Loan                                                             23
Table 11: Bank Resources -- Missions
Performance Rating
Stage of     Monthl   No of   Days        Specialized staff    Implemen.     Dev.       Types of
cycle         year   persons  in field         skills           Status    Objectives    Problems
Preparation    6/96      10       18    Tax Administration,      NA           na
Energy, Social Sector,
Financial Sector,
Privatization, Trade,
Macroeconomics,
Local Governments
Appraisal     9/96       7        15    Education, Social        na           na
Sector, Energy, Trade,
Privatization, Public
Sector Reform
Supervision    2/97      7        7    Energy, Social Sector,     S           S       No major
Financial Sector,                             problems
Privatization, Trade,                         expected
Public Sector Reform
Supervision   6/97       8        12    Tax Administration,       S           S       Slower
Energy, Social Sector,                       progress than
Trade, Financial                             expected in
Sector, Privatization,                       reforms in
Public Sector Reform                         bank
recapitalizatio
n; enterprise
privatization;
public sector
reform;
reducing
energy arrears;
passage of
social
insurance
laws; transfer
of SIF to SRS
Supervision    10/97     10       12    Education, Tax            S           S       Lack of
Administration,                               sufficient
Energy, Social Sector,                       progress in
Trade, Financial                             public
Sector, Privatization,                       administration
Public Sector Reform                         reform and
legislation for
pension reform
Supervision/   9/98      2        3    Supervision, ICR           S           S
completion



APPENDIX A
BORROWER CONTRIBUTION TO ICR



LATVIJAS REPIJBLIKAS FINANSU MINISTRIJA
MINISTRY OF FINANCE OF THE REPUBLIC OF LATVIA
I SMILSU, LV-I919, RIGA, LATVIA, PHONE: (371) 7 226672, FAX: (371) 7 095503
29    >vn V>/     499 9                                        World Bank
G7 6/ )6-  'S                                Country director for Poland
61D6 - F9                                   and the Baltic's ECA region
Mr. Basil Kavalsky
Thank you for sending us the draft Implementation Completion Report on Latvia
Structural Adjustment Loan. We reviewed the report and are in agreement with its
contents and its assessment of the successful outcome of this loan. We have no
objection for preparing the final report based on this draft document.
Sincerely,
I. Godmanis
Minister of Finan 



APPRAISAL OF THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONDITIONS OF THE WORLD
BANK STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
At the end of 1996 Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) Agreement was signed with the World Bank.
The loan agreement provided for specific conditions to be implemented by the Latvian side. They
were basically focused on the implementation of structural adjustments and also on implementation
of institutional reforms. Given the number of involved executive institutions and complexity of
needed changes the implementation process of required changes and adjustments requires special
assessment.
The given assessment material focuses on directions of macroeconomic development in Latvia,
economic policy trends, implementation and assessment of the agreement terms and conditions as
well as the role of the World Bank in the implementation of the provisions of the agreement.
Economic Strategy of Latvia
The economic strategy set forth in the WB SAL has been incorporated in the Medium Term Strategy
for Latvia which was prepared at the beginning of 1998 and has been accepted by the Government.
The Medium Term Strategy provides for the accomplishment in Latvia of the transition to a well-
established market economy by the year 2003. The basic objective set forth in the strategy is to
achieve a balanced, stable and viable economic growth in Latvia. In order to attain this objective the
Strategy distinguishes between two basic activity directions:
*    formation and consolidation of macroeconomic environment favorable for economic
growth;
-    proceeding with structural reforming.
The Strategy emphasizes the following sub-objectives:
*    economic stability;
*    creation of a functional market economy;
*    promotion of economic growth;
*    implementation of reform processes and strategies of financial system, social security
net and sectors.
The strategic objectives are specified, i.e., such specific tasks as completion of privatization,
liberalization of market and prices, maintenance of a stable currency exchange rate, promotion of
export, etc., are defined.
The Strategy includes matrixes of policy trends or specific tasks the implementation of which will
ensure further stabilization of macroeconomic situation in Latvia in the coming 3-5 years,
development of regions and certain sectors of national economy, improvement of the living standards
of the population and increasing life quality in general. A detailed account of required legislative
activity is provided and the plan of projected activities is split into accurate implementation periods.



2
An important set of measures included into this Medium Term Strategy refers to regional
development in Latvia and promotion of such development . There is a need to eliminate
disproportion presently existing among regions with respect to employment, income, labor
conditions and other aspects in future. In order to achieve this goal administrative reform should be
implemented and the state support should be ensured.
It is similarly important to enhance a balanced sector and regional economic policy also in future and
to carry out programs aimed at increasing export competitiveness.
Macroeconomic Development
Macroeconomic development of Latvia testifies to successful implementation of overall economic
policy.
In Quarter I of 1998 GDP grew by 7.6 per cent in comparison with the respective period of the
previous year. Preliminary estimation of economic activities evidence that GDP growth in Quarter II
and m is likely to report similar achievements. Scenarios of the Latvian macroeconomic growth
envisage that 1998 GDP growth ratio will be at the level of 6 per cent against the previous year.
Though macroeconomic achievements for first 8 months of the current year testify to a notable
growth we cannot leave out current developments in Russia and have to reckon with eventual
negative consequences.
Consumer price index in August 1998 has grown by 3.7 per cent against the figure of August 1997.
Accumulated inflation in 8 months of the current year has been 1.9 per cent. It must be remembered
that in two summer months of 1998 there was deflation caused by seasonal price fluctuations and the
total annual inflation is to be expected in the amount of 5 per cent against 1997. Present consumer
price growth in Latvia has occurred mainly as a consequence of administratively regulated price
growth.
In Quarter I of 1998 the current account deficit of payment balance was 5.2 per cent of GDP.
Increase of the current account deficit in the reported period has been mainly caused by a declining
or worsening services balance; yet generally the current account deficit is determined by a negative
foreign trade balance. Current account deficit is projected to remain at the level of 5-7 percent of
GDP also in the coming years.
Since 1997 budget expenditure is being planned on the basis of sector programs and sub-programs.
This encourages an improved budget management and restriction of expenditures. At the end of first
half of 1998 both the fiscal balances of the local government and the state budgets were positive.
Fiscal deficit of the consolidated budget for 1998 is anticipated to be in the amount of 0.6 per cent of
GDP.
Implementation of the Conditions of the Loan Agreement and Realization of Structural
Adjustment Activities in Economy of Latvia
The conditions of the World Bank SAL stipulated implementation of the following activities:
Privatization Program and Ownership Rights



3
Reforming of the Public Sector Expenditure
Analysis of the objectives stipulated by the World Bank SAL leads to the conclusion that majority of
such objectives have been fully attained. Some activities are still in the process of implementation;
the Government has carried out part of these objectives within the framework of its competence, and
now their accomplishment depends on the Saeima ( for instance, a set of legislative acts has been
developed, but they presently are in the Saeima and are being passed through various readings).
Similarly certain objectives have been implemented to the degree required by the Loan Agreement
and now their further implementation is going on (for instance, the number of companies stipulated
by the provisions of the Agreement has been privatized, while the overall privatization process is still
going on. Housing privatization is proceeding in the same way, budget planning and optimization is
going on and the same is true about public administration reform and territorial administration
reform) .
A great part of the activities stipulated by the World Bank SAL refer to the implementation of
privatization process, which is going on quite successfully and is producing first positive results. The
ratio of the private sector in the total added value has already grown in the result of this privatization
process. For comparison, in 1995 the private sector accounted for 53 per cent of the aggregate added
value, while in 1997 its share already was 62 per cent. At the end of 1997 the private sector
employed 66 per cent of all economically active people. In some branches like industry, farming,
building and trade the share of added value produced by the private sector has gone up and reached
the level of 90 to 98 per cent.
As not all privatization certificates held by the population have been redeemed so far, privatization
of sate-owned enterprises for privatization vouchers is going to be continued also in 1999.
One of the central structural adjustment tasks is on-going privatization and technological
modernization of the objects in energy sector aimed at enhancing energy efficiency. Greater
competition is an important task of restructuring the sector.
One of the most important policy rationalization tasks was the implementation of the public
administration sector restructuring. The work in this aspect is still in the process at present. Public
administration development strategy for the period until the year 2000 has been developed; it is
accompanied by an appropriate implementation schedule.
In order to perfect the social insurance system, many undertakings have been carried out in Latvia of
late. The basic law - that on the state social insurance has been passed. The system of licensing and
supervision of privately managed pension funds is presently in the making; needed laws, regulations
and normative documents have been prepared and adopted. Besides, the draft Law On State Funded
Pensions and its economic framework have been prepared.
In the implementation process of the World Bank conditions we had to take both internal and
external risk factors into account.
The basic internal factor with an impact on processes within certain sectors of Latvian economy is
the elections to the Saeima taking place early October of the current year. Thus, for instance, the
elections have affected privatization of state stock company Latvenergo to a certain degree by



4
making the process - preparation of the privatization project and its endorsement - too political and
hence delaying it.
With Latvia's greater integration in the world economic system and structures there is a possibility
that certain various external factors may play a smaller or greater role in on-going economic
development of Latvia. One of the latest such external factors with an eventual impact on Latvia's
economy is the crisis - economic and financial- in Russia and its economic sanctions against Latvia.
A decline in direct tax revenues from corporate and population income taxes, as well as reduction in
social tax revenue may figure as an expression of the Russian econonic and financial crisis. This is
related to eventual falling exports to Russia which, in their turn, may bring about output realization
problems to the enterprises the consequences of which would be shortage or restriction of working
capital. Lack of funding may result in dismissal of employees; this might push up funding needed for
social maintenance. Revenue from indirect taxes may fall as well due to shrinkage of domestic
demand.
Operation of the Latvian banking sector in general and specifically of the banks which closely
cooperated with the Russian financial system has been considerably threatened by the fall of the
Russian Ruble and transformation of the short -term payment liabilities into long-term ones. Profit
of certain financial institutions may fall just because of the same reasons which may have a negative
effect on the corporate income tax .
Yet it is important to note that on the whole various external factors may have an effect on Latvia's
economic growth only in a short term perspective without an essential effect on overall economic
development of the country.
The Role of the World Bank
The World Bank Structural Adjustment Loan does not provide financing for separate investment
projects. A complex program for Latvia's transition from command economy to market economy
backed by the World Bank SAL has been worked out.
Cooperation and close collaboration with the World Bank staff and consultants enabled the Latvian
politicians, ministry and sector staff to acquire new expertise and to learn about positive
achievements of the developed states. The World Bank has provided required consultations and has
produced its appraisals in the preparation and perfection process of the Medium Term Strategy. The
World Bank material The study of risk factors in macroeconomic and finance sectors deserves our
highest appraisal. The World Bank has also given support in the development of the pension system
reform in Latvia.
There are all grounds to assert that Latvia will proceed with the structural reform process in
compliance with the terms and conditions of the Structural Adjustment Loan Agreement



IBRD 24630R
-10\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
~~~~~~000                                                                                                                                       E STO0N I A
\ 00--: \ H ' '-' 4 9 ~~~RUSSIAN
('   FEDERATION
VENTSPILS                                                                                                                                                   s     A               w
/\   \>C               AT~~~~~~alsi-, ,                                                      =                                                                           )
/ $\ < cS ~~~~~~~~~~~~RIGA,                                            Siuld ;t     WaOt
To Op-ckJ
D ELEVATONS                        V    Io AooAVA
KILOMETERS ~ ~     ~     INMEER
SWEDEN                                                                      @4s NATIONAL CAPITAL       -     TRUNK ROADS T seeYLE       
0   10  20   30  40  50  L I T H  U  300 IoPoeoAy
LATVIA <, ~~4 1 SO URBAN AREAS                                 -     MAIN ROADS  hebudrscor.
0  10  1.~ ~ ~~~~~~~50bodoooooo
~~ t)                    4   _  ~       ~     ~~~~50  * SELECTED CITIES        RAILROADS                                  Ta Vmus                              ,efo,lo onsoo, cm
RUNStv  <                        -- o         ~       ~~~~ RIVERS            -     INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                  T b.e Wdrl nBonltokGrsp
Z5                             BELARUS                                                                                                                       t                          )otus of a oyfotero~or
i   POLAND         )                                                                                                                                  c}                            oound o,oooooo
APRIL 1994



