Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.-P-7019 LV
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF DEM 90.6 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF LATVIA
November 19, 1996
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



LATVIA - STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit = Lats
US$1.00 = 0.545 Lats
(as of November 15, 1996 - Average)
Weights and Measures
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BoL           Bank of Latvia
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
DEM           Deutsche Mark
EBRD          European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EFTA          European Free Trade Agreement
EU            European Union
ERB           Energy Regulatory Board
EU            European Union
FSU           Former Soviet Union
GDP           Gross Domestic Product
LDP           Letter of Development Policy
LPA           Latvian Privatization Agency
MoE           Ministry of Economy
MoEd          Ministry of Education
MoF           Ministry of Finance
MoW           Ministry of Welfare
OD            Operational Directives
PIP           Public Investment Program
SAL           Structural Adjustment Loan
SBA           Standby Arrangement
SDR           Special Drawing Rights
SIF           Social Insurance Fund
SRS           State Revenue Service
TA            Technical Assistance
VAT           Value Added Tax
WTO           World Trade Organization
Government Fiscal year
January I - December 31
Vice President                          Johannes Linn
Director                                Basil Kavalsky
Division Chief/Manager                  James Q. Harrison
Task Manager                            Mansour Farsad



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF LATVIA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
LOAN SUMMARY
Borrower:                   Republic of Latvia
Amount:                     DEM 90.6 million
Terms:                      Standard amortization terms, grace period and interest rate for fixed rate
Deutsche Mark single currency loan with an expected disbursement period
of 0-3 years.
Commitment Fee:             0.75% on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days after signing, less
any waiver.
Objectives and Description:  The main objective of the loan is to support the restoration of sustained
growth and improved living standards through structural policies that
promote efficient private sector development and improve the management
of public sector resources.
The main policy areas to be supported by the SAL are : (A) adopting and
maintaining a macroeconomic framework for stable growth; (B)
encouraging efficient growth by (i) expediting privatization, (ii) enforcing
financial discipline on banks and enterprises, and (iii) improving the
efficiency of markets; and (C) reforming public sector resource
management by: (i) rationalizing expenditure decisions, (ii) reforming
local finances to improve the delivery and cost effectiveness of municipal
and social services, (iii) reforming social insurance, (iv) improving tax
administration; and (v) strengthening institutional capacity for the
management of public finance.
Benefits:                   The reform program supported under the loan will support a broad-based
growth strategy driven by domestic and foreign private investment. It will
help ensure a sustained stabilization effort and fiscal adjustment by
improving the efficiency of public sector operations and by rationalizing
intergovernmental fiscal relations and social sector expenditures. It will
also encourage private sector development by supporting the
Government's efforts to improve the environment for the private sector
and to increase foreign direct investments.  By enfoicing financial
discipline and prudential regulations, the loan will support the
development of a commercial energy sector and an efficient, sound
banking system, which is essential for growth of the real sector. The loan
will help expand the tax base by identifying a large number of taxpayers
and will enhance the tax administration's capability to reduce tax evasion
and to increase tax revenues. By reducing the public sector borrowing
requirements, the loan will release resources for private sector investment.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Is contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.



ii
Risks:                      Political pressure from interest groups could delay the implementation of
structural reforms, the reduction in energy and tax arrears, and the
sustainable fiscal adjustment the reform will bring. It could also impede
the process of reforming health, education, and social assistance
expenditures, and could lead to delays in the preparation and submission
of the required legislation to Parliament. Poor coordination among the
ministries involved could also lead to delays in the implementation of the
program. The inability to maintain macroeconomic stability is a relatively
minor risk, but could result in high inflation and interest rates. [his could
choke off domestic investment as well as reduce Latvia's ability to
mobilize the needed foreign resources and sustain the reform program.
Given these risks, intensive supervision of the SAL together with regular
monitoring from the field office is planned to ensure that key policy
conditions are under implementation before Board presentation and the
second tranche disbursements. Continued dialogue with the Government
and other groups involved in reforming the economy should reduce
possible delays in structural reforms. An inter-ministerial working group,
chaired by the Ministry of Finance and including sector ministries affected
by the SAL, helped prepare this operation, and is expected to continue its
work during the implementation phase of the loan. It will help improve
coordination among the implementing agencies and between the Ministry
of Finance and the Bank of Latvia. Although Bank funding will not be
provided for technical assistance purposes, the Bank will assist the
Government in mobilizing the supporting technical assistance necessary to
adopt and implement the reform programs. Subsequent lending operations
would seek to sustain and deepen the reforms initiated under this
operation. The risks to economic stability are minimized by the
Government's and Bank of Latvia's firm commitment to the tight
monetary and fiscal policies embodied in the Stand-by Arrangement
(SBA) with the IMF. Maintaining the performance criteria under the
current SBA will also ensure continuation of the stabilization policies.
Schedule of Disbursements:   DEM  30.2 million immediately after loan effectiveness (expected in
December 1996);
DEM 60.4 million upon satisfaction of second tranche release conditions
(expected by June 1997).
Rate of Return:             Not applicable
Poverty Category:           Not applicable
Project ID Number:          LV-PA-44123
Map:                       IBRD No. 24630R



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF LATVIA
TABLE OF CONTENTS
LOAN  SUMMARY  ....................................................i
I.  COUNTRY  CONTEXT  AND  POLICIES ...................................................1
A. Early Achievements ...................................................l
B. Emergence of Difficulties and the Initial Response .................................................2
C.  The Need for Policy Adjustment ...................................................3
II. THE GOVERNMENT'S ECONOMIC REFORM PROGRAM ..........................5
A. Adopting and Maintaining a Macroeconomic Framework for Stable Growth  ... 5
B.  Encouraging Efficient Growth Led by the Private Sector ......................................                       6
B. I   Expediting the Privatization  Program  ..........................................6
B.2   Enforcing Financial Discipline .........................................8
B.3  Improving Efficiency of Markets..............                                            8............ .8
C.  Reforming Public Sector Resource Management ........................................9
C. 1   Rationalizing Expenditure Decisions .......................................... 10
C.2 Reforming Local Finances and Improving the Cost
Effectiveness of Social Services .................................1........ 1
C.3   Reforming Social Insurance .........................................                                        13
C.4   Improving Tax Administration .........................                    ,      .     ,      .    .......... 15
C.5   Strengthening Institutional Capacity for the Management ............................. 15
of Public Finances
III.  PROSPECTS  FOR  A  SUSTAINED  RECOVERY  .........................  .................... 17
IV.  COUNTRY  ASSISTANCE  STRATEGY  AND  THE  SAL  ................................... 19
V. THE PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN .. .                                                           .......................... 23
A.  Objectives and Rationale ................................................ 23
B.  Tranche Release Conditions and Supervision ...............................................                          24
C.  Benefits and Risks ............................................... 24
D.  Creditworthiness ...............................................                                                   26
E. Poverty Implications ....................., , , , ,,. .. 26
F. Environmental Impact ....................                                                            , ,            27
G. Coordination with the IMF ....................                                                                     27
H  Implementation Arrangements ......................                                                                  27
VI. RECOMMENDATION .,                                                                                                         28



BOX 1  The New Latvian Pension System ....................................               14
TABLES
Table 1 Latvia Lending Program .................................... 21
Table 2  Core SAL Conditions for Tranche Release ....................................   25
ANNEXES
Annex 1 Latvia - Key Economic Indicators
Annex 2 Status of Bank Group Operations in Latvia
Annex 3 Timetable of Key Processing Events
Annex 4 Letter of Development Policy
Annex 5 Policy Reforms Program Matrix
Annex 6 Latvia at a Glance
MAP       IBRD No. 24630R



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF LATVIA
1.    I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a proposed Structural
Adjustment Loan to the Republic of Latvia in the amount of DEM 90.6 million (about US$60 million
equivalent) in support of the Government's economic reform program. The loan would be at the Bank's
standard amortization terms, grace period, and interest rate for fixed-rate DEM single currency loans with
an expected disbursement period of 0-3 years, and would be disbursed in two tranches: DEM 30.2 (about
US$20 million equivalent) immediately after loan effectiveness, and DEM  60.4 (about US$40 million
equivalent) to be disbursed upon satisfaction of second tranche release conditions (expected about June
1997).
2.     The Republic of Latvia became a member of the IBRD in August 1992; IFC in September 1993;
and signed the MIGA convention in September 1993.
PART I. COUNTRY CONTEXT AND POLICIES
A.    Early Achievements
3.    When Latvia regained independence in 1991, it was left with a highly distorted production
structure. dependent on the protected and collapsing markets of the FSU and unable to compete in world
markets. Sources of supply dissipated, energy prices increased and the economy experienced a period of
hyperinflation following a sharp fall in output and incomes. Latvia successfully implemented a vigorous
program of stabilization policies. These policies, which were supported by the IMF and the World Bank,
allowed Latvia to quickly and substantially reduce macroeconomic imbalances and to accumulate a
significant amount of foreign exchange reserves. Tight fiscal and monetary policies led to near balanced
budgets through 1993 and a sharp decline in the annual rate of inflation from nearly 1000 percent in 1992
to 35 percent by the year ending December 1993.
4.     Stabilization policies were complemented by a series of structural measures aimed at a fast
transformation of the economy. From the outset, most price and trade regimes (except for some key
agricultural products) were liberalized. These steps were complemented by efforts to restructure the
banking system, privatize the economy and demonopolize large state-owned enterprises. Such measures
encouraged the development of the private sector and allowed substantial reorientation of production away
from the highly protected and distorted markets of the FSU.
5.     By 1994, two years after launching its stabilization and reform program, Latvia had made
significant progress toward macroeconomic stabilization and a full market economy. A modest 0.6 percent
rise in real GDP was recorded, real wages began to increase, inflation continued to decline, and gross
international reserves rose to cover more than four months of imports of goods and services.



- 2 -
B.    Emergence of Difficulties and the Initial Kesponse
6.     Most of these favorable trends were unexpectedly interrupted and reversed in 1995. Economic
activity slowed, with recorded real GDP falling by 1.6 percent. Open unemployment hovered around 6
percent of the labor force, and real wages remained roughly constant at their 1994 level. In addition,
foreign reserves dropped significantly. The main positive trend was a continued decline in consumer price
inflation, which reached 23 percent for the year ending December 1995. The two factors which directly
caused the negative outcomes were a crisis in the banking system and a substantial deterioration of the
fiscal balance. These problems reflected a pattern, similar to that in other transition economies in which
tighter fiscal and monetary policies, harder budget constraints on firms, greater domestic and foreign
competition and energy prices close to world market levels combined to create a second generation of
problems that emerged as both spending pressures and revenue shortfalls, as well as increasing arrears in
energy and tax payments. These pressures also reduced profits in many firms, undermining their ability to
repay loans, as well as their energy and tax bills.
7.     The Banking Crisis. In the spring of 1995, a full-scale banking crisis erupted in Latvia, resulting
in financial losses equivalent to about 8 percent of GDP. This included the failure of Latvia's largest bank
(Bank Baltija), and a number of smaller banks, which together accounted for about 40 percent of total
banking system assets. This crisis was the combined result of several factors, including poor commercial
banking practices, fraud, weak regulation and supervision (including the permission of large open foreign
exchange positions), and poor financial discipline and performance in non-bank enterprises. High real
interest rates also contributed to the growth of bad loans. In addition, improvements in Russia's economy
stemmed the outflows of capital from that country which had fueled the earlier growth of Latvian banks.
These factors led to a deterioration in the financial position of banks, which was more clearly revealed by
the tighter accounting and auditing standards for banks which took effect in early 1995.
8.     While no massive bank runs were observed, the crisis undermined confidence in the banking
system, as was evidenced by significant deposit withdrawals, sharp increases in market interest rates, large
capital outflows, and growing currency substitution.  The interest rate on three-months government
Treasury bills rose from  19.4 percent in February 1995 to 33 percent in June 1995.  Monetary
developments in 1995 were heavily influenced by the banking crisis and the growing government borrowing
requirement, with the real money supply declining by 38 percent and credit to the private sector falling
from 16 percent to 8 percent of GDP. The sharp decline in credit reflected not only the crisis-induced
contraction in the banking system, but also the banks' increased holdings of government securities and more
cautious lending policies prompted by stricter banking supervision.
9.     The Bank of Latvia successfully intervened to restore stability in the foreign exchange market. It
also succeeded in restoring confidence and strength to the banking system by stepping up its on-site
examination and off-site surveillance of banks, by hiring international auditing firms for targeted audits of
larger banks, and by an aggressive delicensing program designed to rid the banking system of banks not in
compliance with laws and regulations. These measures led to a further reduction in the number of banks
and to growing confidence and relative stability in the banking sector in 1996.
10.    The Fiscal Crisis. The deterioration in the fiscal accounts began very late in 1994 with sharp
rises in wage and pension payments and the financing of growing energy arrears through a large increase in
net lending to public sector utilities. Even greater pressures emerged from the beginning of 1995, when a
substantial revenue shortfall led to a much looser fiscal policy stance than had been envisaged. This
shortfall was caused by a number of factors, including a slowdown in economic activity, lower revenue
from firms forcing greater financial and competitive pressures, tax evasion especially in the growing



- 3 -
informal sector, rapidly growing tax arrears from enterprises, and unrealistic revenue projections. The
banking crisis also reduced the ability of taxpayers with accounts in failed banks to pay their taxes. In
spite of massive cuts in planned expenditures, the 1995 fiscal deficit rose to 3.3 percent of GDP, compared
to a targeted level of 2.2 percent.
11.    The deterioration of the fiscal balances during 1994 and 1995 was also associated with changes in
the composition of expenditures in ways not conducive to efficiency and growth.
*  Between 1993 and 1995, the general government wage bill rose from 22 percent to 26 percent
of total expenditures. During the same period, transfer payments (mainly pension expenditures)
rose from 40 percent to 42 percent of total expenditures.
*   High payroll tax rates (38 percent) discouraged employment during a period of rising
unemployment while poor tax administration led to growing tax arrears and widespread tax
evasion. By end- 1995 the ratio of pensioners to contributors was 0.87 and the total amount of
tax arrears amounted to nearly 10 percent of GDP.
*   With the rise in wage and pension expenditures and the deteriorating revenue performance,
investment expenditures were cut to a level (1 percent of GDP), below what is needed to avoid
deterioration of public assets.
*   Financing mechanisms for social expenditures assigned to local governments have not
encouraged cost effectiveness in social service delivery as funding is mostly linked to
historical input norms rather than outputs or number of clients.
*   Weak institutional capacity for managing public finances has resulted in poor budget
implementation and control and has contributed to inefficient monitoring and management of
government borrowing.
12.    As a result of these factors, the fiscal balance deteriorated by nearly 4 percent of GDP, moving
from a surplus of 0.6 percent of GDP in 1993 to a deficit of 3.3 percent in 1995.
13.    The 1994-95 fiscal problems indicated a need to strengthen the management of Latvia's public
finances. More effective tax administration is needed to cope with an increasing number of enterprises in
both the formal and informnal sectors. Moreover, the capacity to formulate and implement public
expenditure policies and priorities needs to be improved in order to enable the effeetive formulation and
implementation of comprehensive fiscal policies in general and of expenditure policies and priorities in
particular. The overall magnitude and the composition of expenditures needs to reflect a comprehensive
public prioritization and expenditure allocation. There is also scope to improve expenditure allocation
mechanisms between the state and local levels, particularly in social sector programs, to increase cost
effectiveness of these expenditures. Finally, budget discipline can be improved by reducing the share of
public resources that is channeled through special funds.
C.    The Need for Policy Adjustment
14.    The urgent task of containing the banking and fiscal crises consumed much of the efforts of the
caretaker Government which had been appointed in mid-1994 and was in power until late 1995. While the
Government succeeded in reestablishing confidence in the banking system and in preventing a major run on
the banks, its effort in reducing the fiscal deficit was less successful, as expenditure cuts and cash rationing



- 4 -
were not sufficient to match the shortfall in budgetary revenues. The Government's efforts prevented the
deficit from being still larger, but the borrowing needed to finance it tended to crowd out the private sector.
Because of this deficit, the Government failed to meet various performance criteria under the 1995/96
Stand-by Arrangement (SBA) with the IMF. Moreover, it became evident that containing the deficit could
not be sustained for long by short-term measures aimed at ad hoc expenditure reductions. Fundamental
reforms of public administration and major expenditure programs were needed to ensure a sustainable
fiscal balance in the medium term.
15.    The fiscal pressures reduced short and medium-term growth prospects of the Latvian economy in
at least three ways. First, the brunt of unforeseen expenditure cuts fell most heavily on public investments
and maintenance. Second, financing the budgetary deficit through Treasury bills drove interest rates
sharply upwards and, by absorbing a growing share of domestic and foreign savings, the government sector
reduced the scope for private sector growth. Third, as the Government issued more Treasury bills and
placed over $41 million in short-term government securities in international capital markets to finance the
deficit, the stock of Treasury bills quadrupled and the cost and maturity structure of public debt became
unsustainable. In the absence of a major medium-term fiscal adjustment effort, the costs of servicing
public sector debt would have absorbed an increasingly unmanageable share of government revenues,
necessitating further cuts in key investment and expenditure programs. Before Latvia began the adjustment
effort discussed in Part II below, total public debt service had been projected at 21 percent of basic
revenues in 1996 and 31 percent in 1997.
16.   While concentrating on resolving the immediate problems in banking and the budget in 1995, the
Government was unable to maintain the pace of reforms needed for efficient private-sector led growth.
With the important exception of initiating a fundamental pension system reform (Box 1), little progress was
made in other critical areas of reform such as privatization, financial discipline (especially in energy and
tax payments), reducing remaining trade distortions and adjusting administered prices of utilities, rents, and
municipal services to adequate levels. As the economy continued to perform sluggishly, it became
increasingly evident that it was necessary to restore momentum to reforms in these areas in order to
establish an efficient framework for domestic and foreign investment.
17.   At the end of 1995, the Latvian economy was in need of a program that would quickly restore
macroeconomic balance and confidence in the economy, strengthen the policy framework for efficient
private sector growth, and improve the management of public resources, both through measures that could
be quickly implemented and by starting a medium term process of reform in public administration and key
expenditure programs. Part II of this Report describes the Government's program to achieve these
objectives. The proposed structural adjustment loan, which this Report recommends (Part V), would
support this program.



- 5 -
PART II. THE GOVERNMENT'S ECONOMIC REFORM PROGRAM
18.   A new Government was approved by Parliament in December 1995, following the parliamentary
elections of October. From the outset, the new Government announced as its basic objectives a strong
commitment to a reform program that would maintain macroeconomic stability, and extend the progress
made in the financial sector, while speeding up the structural reforms and making further reductions in the
fiscal deficit. The Government renewed discussions with the IMF, resulting in a new SBA in May 1996 and
the adoption of an austere fiscal policy to improve the fiscal balance. The Government also requested the
World Bank to support its medium-term reform program with a structural adjustment loan (SAL). The
Government's program covers a broad range of reforms with three basic objectives:
(A)   Adopting and maintaining a macroeconomic framework for stable growth;
(B)    Encouraging efficient growth by: (a) expediting privatization; (b) enforcing financial discipline on
banks and enterprises; and (c) improving the efficiency of markets;
(C)    Reforming public sector resource management by: (a) rationalizing expenditure decisions;
(b) reforming local finances to improve the delivery and cost effectiveness of municipal and social
services; (c) reforming social insurance; (d) improving tax administration; and (e) strengthening
institutional capacity for the management of public finance.
19.   This program is described in the Letter of Development Policy and its attached Matrix of Policy
Reforms Program (Annexes 4 and 5). The SAL will support key policy measures of this program that
have already been implemented before Board presentation of this operation (identified below by [Board]),
or that are expected to be implemented before second tranche release (identified below by [Second
Tranche]). These core policy measures are summarized in Table 2 in Part V. As elaborated in the
following discussions, the SAL-supported measures are expected to support the maintenance of
macroeconomic stability in the years to come and support the restoration of sustained growth. They would
allow a greater share of public resources for public investment and maintenance essential for growth, and
would reduce the budgetary burden and balance of payments cost of high debt service payments in 1997,
resulting from expensive short term borrowings mentioned above. By reducing the public sector resource
needs, the program would provide greater scope for private sector development.
20.    The following paragraphs provide a more detailed description of the SAL-supported reform
measures, as well as other complementary measures that are needed to further the reform program of the
Government, along the lines of the objectives specified above. Section A provides an overview of the
macroeconomic framework, which is discussed in more detail in Part III. Section B discusses the
Government's program for encouraging private sector growth and improving efficiency throughout the
economy. Section C explains Government policies to rationalize public expenditures and improve the
management of public finances.
A.    Adopting and Maintaining a Macroeconomic Framework for Stable Growth
21.   In support of the stabilization objectives of the reform program, the Govermnent has agreed with
the IMF on a 15 month stand-by arrangement designed to correct the slippages in fiscal policy during 1995,
maintain an appropriate level of international reserves, further reduce the rate of inflation, and set the
economy on a path of sustained growth. Macroeconomic developments in 1996 have been encouraging,
with both the financial deficit and central government revenue so far meeting the targets established under
the SBA. The fall in the fiscal deficit relative to 1995 has sharply reduced public sector borrowing resulting



- 6 -
in lower interest rates on Treasury bills and central bank refinancing credits. The fall in interest rates has
already contributed to a reduction in the public debt service burden. Estimates indicate that without the
fiscal adjustment, the debt service payments would have amounted to 31 percent of basic budget revenues
in 1997 as compared to less than 15 percent under the adjustment scenario. Despite the improvements in
the fiscal balance, the current account deficit of the balance of payments is expected to rise from 3.5
percent of GDP in 1995 to 4.4 percent this year. This has been due mainly to the continued increase in
imports and a sharp drop in prices of wood exports, which account for about one quarter of total exports.
The deficit is projected to decline to 3.6 percent of GDP in 1997 and decrease further in subsequent years.
Specifics of the stabilization targets and the macroeconomic framework for stable growth under the SAL
are discussed in Part III.
B.     Encouraging Efficient Growth Led by the Private Sector
B. I    Expediting the Privatization Program
22.    Latvia is steadily moving toward a private economy. The 1996 Transition Report of EBRD
estimates that the private sector's share of GDP is about 60 percent. About 53 percent of total industrial
production is now produced by the private sector. Latvia has made good progress in selling small
enterprises (most retail shops have now been either privatized or leased with the option to buy), and about
80 percent of agricultural land is now in private use. However, privatization of medium and large
enterprises has moved slowly. Moreover, the slow pace of the sale of housing and urban real estate has
prevented the emergence of a well-functioning real estate market, while high costs of acquiring ownership
titles, along with an inefficient land registration system, have created obstacles to full assignment of
property rights.
23.    Enterprise Privatization. Through 1995, the slow privatization of medium and large enterprises
was due primarily to administrative problems and a lack of commitment. The privatization process
accelerated significantly in 1996 in response to the new Government's priorities. Following the April 1996
transfer of the remaining state-owned enterprises, including utilities and the Savings Bank, to the Latvian
Privatization Agency (LPA) for privatization, the LPA's portfolio contained 577 enterprises: 24 large
enterprises (more than 500 employees); 112 medium (employing from 50 to 500); and 441 small (of which
136 are pharmacies). The only public enterprises not being prepared for privatization are the railways and
the post office. Privatization of railways will be initiated in 1997. This means the LPA now has the
mandate to privatize virtually all state-owned enterprises. The LPA follows a "case-by-case" approach,
with a high level of discretion in shaping the contracts and emphasis on finding a single owner or a strategic
investor for large enterprises. Public announcement of privatization offers is the main instrument to provide
transparency to the process.
24.    The Government's stated objective is to conclude the bulk of enterprise privatization by the end of
1997. The SAL will support this objective. The LPA has published a schedule for privatization of all 577
state-owned enterprises with a target to privatize two-thirds of them by end 1997 [Board]. As part of this
program, the LPA has privatized more than 50 enterprises since June 1, 1996 [Board]. By the time of the
second tranche, 150 enterprises, of which at least 40 percent will be medium and large, will be privatized
[Second Tranche].
25.    The Government recognizes that broad public participation in privatization will help sustain
ownership reforms; significant blocks of shares in the best companies will be offered to the public in
exchange for privatization certificates (which were distributed to the general public earlier); these shares
can be traded later at the Riga Stock Exchange. Well-regulated investment funds, as in other economies in



- 7 -
transition, can also become important agents of improved corporate governance of privatized companies. A
draft of an Investment Fund Law will be submitted to the Parliament. The Government will also establish
an integrated system of registration of mortgages on real estate and liens on movable property to broaden
credit availability to new private businesses.
26.    Utilities Privatization.  Privatization of utilities will emphasize identifying possibilities for
introducing competition in the respective sectors and establishing a stable regulatory regime prior to
privatization. To this end, the energy regulatory board will be strengthened (see section B.3). In the case of
Latvija Gaze, strategic investors are already selected and will hold 33 percent of shares by end 1996, with
only 18 percent left in state hands to be divested by the end of 1997. A privatisation study of the power
sector is being developed with the support of EBRD as part of its loan agreement with Latvenergo. Reform
of the power sector needs to support the emergence of a competitive electricity industry in line with the
ongoing trends in the neighbouring countries and in the rest of Europe. The study needs to assess the
possibilities of separating generation, transmission, and distribution activities, allowing third party access
to producers and buyers, and allowing domestic and foreign competition by providing "common carrier"
transmission services. The Government will review with the Bank the privatisation plans for the electricity
supply industry.
27.   Housing Privatization. Privatization of apartments has been a socially and politically complex
issue. In addition, several implementation difficulties have slowed the privatization of apartments,
including the lengthy procedure to clarify and register ownership of land and buildings and difficulties in
servicing the communal areas of a building, particularly when not all tenants opt to buy their apartments.
Housing maintenance continues to be low because rents, which until recently were controlled by the state
government, still do not cover maintenance costs. The Government revoked central government ceilings on
rent in 1996. To speed the privatization process, the Government amended the Law on Privatizing State
and Municipal Apartments to allow signing privatization contracts prior to titling the ownership of land.
This has led to a recent spurt in apartment privatization. The task of privatizing municipality-owned
apartments has been delegated to Housing Privatization Commissions located throughout the country,
which administer the program. The Government is also considering measures for privatization of state-
owned apartmnent buildings and commercial establishments located on the premises of residential buildings.
Under the SAL-supported program, the Government will privatize 5 percent of apartments by the time of
the second tranche and will adopt a plan to privatize 20 percent of apartments by end-1997 [Second
Tranche].
28.    Banking Privatization. With the aggressive bank supervision that followed the banking crisis, the
number of fully licensed banks dropped from 41 in mid-1995 to 13 by the beginning of 1996. Among this
group there were two state-owned banks, Unibank and the Savings Bank. Latvia has now successfully
privatized two-thirds of the Unibank, which, following its creation in 1993 from the merger of 21 branches
of the Bank of Latvia, had been the largest state-owned commercial bank. The Latvian Savings Bank is
100 percent owned by the Government and is the fourth largest bank in terms of assets. The bank has an
extensive network of branches throughout the country that primarily service individual consumers. While
the bank is substantially overstaffed, a program is being implemented to reduce the bank personnel and
administrative costs. At present, the bank is marginally undercapitalized.
29.    The LPA has developed a plan to simultaneously recapitalize and partially privatize this bank. This
involves having the Savings Bank exchange the privatization certificates that it now holds for blocks of
non-bank enterprise shares held by the LPA. Since the privatization law requires that this bank be at least
25 percent owned by the private sector before it can use privatization certificates, the Savings Bank has
proposed to merge with another Latvian bank, which is one of the smallest banks in Latvia. Under the



- 8 -
Latvian banking law the Bank of Latvia would need to review and approve any merger. Moreover, with the
assistance of an international accounting firm, the Government is performing a due diligence review of the
Savings Bank and would carry out due diligence review of potential merger partners. The Government's
strategy for partial privatization of the Savings Bank also includes use of the privatization certificates only
if necessary to bring the bank to the Bank of Latvia's capital adequacy requirements, and ensuring that all
prudential regulations of the Bank of Latvia are met and that the government securities held as assets
receive adequate returns [Board].
B.2    Enforcing Financial Discipline
30.    Strong financial discipline is a prerequisite not only for avoiding financial problems in banks and
enterprises, but also for spurring the structural changes in enterprises that will improve efficiency and
create the basis for sustained growth. Strict supervision and prudential regulation of banks remain an
important focus of the Government's program in enforcing financial discipline on the banks, and indirectly,
on enterprises by increasing the care banks take in extending loans. The 1995 banking crisis pointed to the
need to strengthen the legal framework as well as the regulation and supervision of the banking system. In
response, Parliament adopted the Law on Credit Institutions in October 1995, which allowed the
strengthening of financial discipline on banks by introducing tighter limits on insider trading, credit
concentration, connected lending and foreign exchange exposure, and by increasing minimum capital
requirements.  It also required that financial statements of banks are audited in accordance with
International Accounting Standards. Parliament has adopted legislation for more widespread application of
these standards for enterprises.
31.    If newly privatized enterprises are to adopt real private sector behavior they must face the hard
budget constraints that financial discipline brings. In Latvia, weak financial discipline has been evidenced
by problems in the banking sector and by the accumulation of energy and tax arrears. The inability of
energy enterprises to collect from users has reduced their capacity to meet their payment obligations to
creditors and contractors and has made them defer their tax and dividend payments to the Government.
The Government's program includes measures to enforce payment discipline for energy arrears (para. 36),
tax arrears (paras. 56-57), and other obligations. An effective bankruptcy system is an important tool
enforcing greater financial discipline. To improve the bankruptcy and liquidation process, Parliament has
adopted a new bankruptcy law that protects the rights of secured creditors [Board]. As part of the program
supported by the SAL, ten non-viable state-owned enterprises with large losses and growing tax arrears
have been selected for liquidation [Board]. Steps to liquidate them, as demonstrated by a published
announcement to creditors to present their claims, will be underway by the time of second tranche release
[Second Tranche].
B.3   Improving Efficiency of Markets
32.    Maintaining sustainable growth requires removing market distortions so that market-based pricing
and competition increase the efficiency of resource use. Otherwise, private sector resources will not flow
into the activities with the highest real returns to the economy. Latvia has removed most such distortions.
The exceptions are the high tariffs and restrictions that remain on some agricultural imports, and
administered prices for energy when set below levels that recover the cost of efficient operations.
Moreover, the price signals for the energy sector are undermined by widespread arrears.
33.   Agricultural Trade. Latvia has the highest level of agricultural trade protection among the three
Baltic states. In particular, its grain, cereals and sugar sectors remain under regimes that are restrictive
and reduce efficiency. As part of the Government's economic reform program, Latvia will reduce trade



- 9 -
barriers for these products by removing quantitative restrictions on foreign trade and converting the
remaining licensing regimes to a WTO-consistent basis. As part of the progran, the Government will also
reduce the average production-weighted agricultural tariff rates to less than 30 percent, as indicated in its
Letter of Intent with the IMF. The Government will also refrain from increasing any tariff rates above their
May 1996 level, as well as from introducing new non-tariff barriers. Following the adoption of a new
WTO-consistent Customs Code, it will also convert, with few exceptions, the remaining specific tariffs
(which are mainly on agricultural grain products, animal feed, and motor vehicles) to ad valorem rates.
34.    Energy Arrears and Tariffs.   Two important problems that continue to reduce efficiency in the
energy sector are its chronic financial deficits and a weak legal and regulatory environment. The sector's
financial deficits have basically resulted from tariffs set below levels that recover costs, rapid increases in
fuel import costs, and weak payment discipline and enforcement. Difficulties in collecting energy bills are
greatest in the heating subsector and have reduced the capacity of the heating companies to pay for their
energy purchases on time. Energy suppliers have in turn been forced to defer their payments obligations
and have often resorted to borrowing to pay their suppliers and creditors. Total heat, gas, and electricity
arrears to energy enterprises amounted to over Ls 140 million in June 1996, with heating bills accounting
for over half of the total and enterprises, especially heating companies, owing most of these arrears.
35.    Arrears in payments by energy enterprises follow closely the trend in customer arrears with a time
lag of a few months, indicating that payment delays and non-payment by consumers are funded by energy
enterprises deferring payments to suppliers and contractors, and by delaying dividend and tax payments to
Government. Customer arrears to Latvenergo and Latvijas Gaze in July 1996 amounted to over
Ls 100 million, while these enterprises owed in turn over Ls 80 million to suppliers and contractors. The
difference between the customers arrears and the enterprise debt is being financed in part by delays in
necessary investments and expenditures in repairs, rehabilitation and maintenance, which in time will result
in higher costs of operation and lower thermal efficiencies due to a rapidly deteriorating infrastructure.
36.   As part of the objective reducing energy arrears to normal commercial standards, the Government
has established basic principles and guidelines for its program. It is now preparing specific monitorable
plans for energy enterprises to reduce customer arrears and improve collection rates by such measures as
enforcing penalties, disconnecting services to delinquent customers, charging reconnection fees, taking
recourse to courts, and making adequate provisions for non-collectable arrears [Board]. Since district
heating companies are in the hands of local governments and their arrears are largely from households,
progress is expected to be slower in this area, but commercial standards are expected for electricity and gas
for non-heating purposes in the first half of 1997. The Government's energy arrears reduction program
will (a) reduce accounts receivable for energy utilities to no more than: 30 days' worth of bills for
electricity users; and 40 days' worth of bills for gas users other than heat supply companies; and (b)
reduce accounts receivable from heat supply companies in accordance with an action plan and timetable
with monitorable targets acceptable to the Bank [Second Tranche].
37.    To improve economic efficiency, foster energy conservation, and continue strengthening the
financial position of energy enterprises, sound economic methodologies for setting electricity, gas, and heat
tariffs are being developed. Presently, electricity and gas tariffs are approved by the Ministry of Economy.
However, this responsibility is being transferred to the Energy Regulatory Board and Licenses Office as
envisioned in the Law on Regulation of Energy Activities.   The Government intends to have this
Regulatory Board fully staffed and operating, and exercising its functions in setting energy tariffs in
accordance with the methodologies agreed with the Bank by mid-1997 [Second Tranche].



- 10-
C.    Reforming Public Sector Resource Management
38.    The budgetary pressures resulting from shortfalls in revenue collection and unexpected increases in
expenditures from rising spending on wages, transfer payments and social services have been met by
reducing public investment and compressing civil service wages rather than by rationalizing expenditures.
At the same time, the public sector revenues absorb nearly 38 percent of GDP. Further reform of the public
sector is thus needed to reduce the budgetary deficit in a sustainable way and to reduce the public sector's
high share of economic resources. The SAL will support the Government program to achieve this by: (i)
rationalizing expenditure decisions; (ii) reforming local finances and improving delivery and cost
effectiveness of social and municipal services; (iii) continuing reforms of social insurance expenditures;
(iv) improving tax administration; and (v) strengthening the management of public finances. Although
many of these reforms could only lead to results in the medium-term, it is crucial that their design and
implementation to start immediately. Containing expenditure growth, together with improvements in
revenue collection, would allow the tax burden, particularly on private businesses, to be reduced and thus
would stimulate economic growth.
C. 1   Rationalizing Expenditure Decisions
39.    Latvia's expenditure system is relatively decentralized. The central government's basic budget for
1996 controls directly only about 42 percent of general government expenditures. The social security
budget, which reverted to being a special fund in 1995, spends 32 percent, and the 18 other special funds
about 7 percent. About one-fifth of general government expenditure is spent by the local governments. At
39 percent of GDP, general government expenditures and net lending in Latvia are high in relation to most
other countries at a similar income level. The predominant items in current expenditures are wages (26
percent of total) and transfer payments to households (42 percent of total), which since 1995 have been
paid by the social budget. Expenditures on health, education, social security, and welfare are nearly two-
thirds of the budget. Although the central government and the social budget pay the largest share of these
expenditures, they are also a large part of local government budgets (see section C.2). The Government's
program for rationalizing expenditures includes reallocating expenditures to increase the share of public
investment, containing the growth in the public sector wage bill, and initiating a medium-term program of
public administration reform.
40.   Reform of Public Administration, Employment, and Wage Policies.  Between 1993 and 1995,
the general government wage bill rose from 22 percent to 26 percent of total expenditures, with local
governments showing a higher increase, particularly in large cities. Furthermore, employment in the general
government (as measured by full time equivalent positions), has remained high by international standards:
the average for OECD countries is about 70 per 1,000 inhabitants; in Latvia it is about 84. At the same
time salaries for civil servants and other public employees have become relatively less competitive,
resulting in high turnover, especially among the most skilled groups. Some steps have been taken toward
rationalizing government employment and wage policies in the context of the establishment of a civil
service system. These steps include adopting the Law on Public Service, preparing a list of positions to be
occupied by future civil servants. and establishirg a more appropriate salarv structure.
41.    To increase efficiency and make immediate savings in expenditure, the Government will adopt a
plan and timetable to reduce duplication of functions in budgetary institutions and divest functions that can
be efficiently carried out by the private sector. Implementation of the action plan will start by early 1997
and is expected to lead to reductions in staff positions and help contain the wage bill. The Government also
plans to phase in graduates of the School of Public Administration to fill key civil service positions. The
Government has taken a Census of all full time governnent employees paid from the state budget [Board]



- 11 -
in order to identify potential cost savings. In parallel, the Government will develop a framework, including
a timetable, resources needed, and institutional base, for designing and implementing a medium-term public
administration reform [Second Tranche]. The aim of the reform would be to develop over time a smaller,
efficient, and well-compensated public administration, able to design and carry out government policy and
facilitate economic growth.
42.   Increase in Public Investment Expenditures. Given that the public investment program (PIP)
has been unsustainably compressed for the past several years, there is a clear need to increase its size. The
Government program has provided real increases in funding for general government investment in the 1997
Budget, which has been submitted to Parliament and has included a provision in that budget law to protect
the general government investment from reductions due to revenue shortfalls or pressure on
expenditures[Board/. The Government will publish a summary of planned investment expenditures which
will include all public investment, indicating all sources of financing. The Government will review the
1997-99 PIP with the Bank with a view to agreement on the principles governing determination of
investment priorities [Second Tranche].
C2    Reforming Local Finances and Improving the Cost Effectiveness of Social Services
43.   The decentralization of the Latvian public sector after independence placed significant
responsibilities in the hands of local governments for which they were not well prepared. While local
governments have become increasingly responsible for providing municipal and social services, revenue
sharing arrangements to finance these services have not provided incentives to improve efficiency and
effectiveness. As a result, the service delivery and efficiency of most of these expenditures have remained
poor, particularly in the social sector areas, which have a large share (60 percent) in local government
budgets. The program of the Government in this area includes:
44.   Reforming Social Expenditures. Financing mechanisms for social expenditures do not encourage
cost effectiveness in social service delivery, as funding is mostly linked to historical input norms rather than
outputs. In addition, the fragmentation of funding and responsibilities between levels of government
impedes efficient and client-oriented service delivery. The Government program, which the SAL will
support, includes a process for reform of the health, education, and social assistance systems. It includes
the establishment of working groups, terms of reference, and timetable to prepare social sector reform
proposals that include: guidelines and incentives for rationalizing health and education facilities;
rationalizing expenditure assignments and ensuring that money follows the client; targeting of
compensatory payments; adequate incentives for efficient service provision and revenue assignments that
correspond to new responsibilities. It also includes preparation of relevant studies. The first drafts of these
reform proposals have already been prepared [Board], and the Government will review these proposals
with the Bank. Subsequent lending operations are planned to support the implementation of these reforms.
45.   Health. Local governments are responsible for primary and secondary health care, provided
through 33 district Sickness Funds. Tertiary level service is the responsibility of the state and is provided
through the State Sickness Fund. The health care system has faced numerous problems, including too
many doctors, not enough of whom are in primary care, too many hospital beds but often poorly equipped,
and an excessive use of hospital care involving stays that are too long. A number of reforms have been
introduced to alleviate the problems in the system. The regional and state sickness funds were established to
separate the providers and purchasers of care. For the most part, they have failed to do so, as expenditures
are still allocated on an input-based system. In the few cases where other systems are in place (fee-for-
service and capitation formula), the providers are unhappy with the mechanism because of its slow
procedures for reimbursement.



- 12 -
46.    The Government has prepared a proposal to establish a national compulsory health insurance
system. The health insurance program is expected to shift respcnsibility for the financing of health care to
a central insurance fund. The insurance program would be funded by reallocating personal income taxes
from the local governments' revenues by an amount corresponding closely to the reduced local
expenditures. This proposal, which the SAL will support, would develop a universal health insurance
system covering necessary health services, with adequate cost control mechanisms and without increases in
social tax [Second Tranche]. The system will be developed in two stages. In the first stage, the new
central fund would be created. In the second stage, existing sickness funds would be consolidated as
branches of the national fund, and a reimbursement system which would allow competition among
providers will be established. Attention will be paid to ensuring all stakeholders have a voice in the system.
47.   Education. The municipalities are responsible for pre-school, primary and secondary schooling.
The arrangements for state funding of teachers and the multiplicity of small rural schools have resulted in
very low teacher-student ratios and large number of very small schools. Nationally, the ratio of full time
equivalent teachers per student is quite low at 1:7.7. The Government is preparing reform proposals for
education policy and finance [Board], drawing on the 1996 workshop organized by the World Bank and
the Ministry of Education and Science. The Government will discuss these proposals, which will include a
strategy for improving the cost effectiveness of the education system through greater rationalization and
consolidation of the system, with the World Bank. The Government proposals will include: (i) a program to
transfer state paid teachers' salaries to local governments and to allocate expenditures based on the number
of students; and, (ii) a plan to contain vocational and higher education expenditures funded from the state
budget, including increasing reliance on tuition and fees. A subsequent lending operation is proposed to
assist in the implementation of the education reform proposals.
48.    Social Assistance. Local governments are responsible for the provision of all targeted cash social
assistance. The Government intends to reassess the social assistance program, focusing on ways to reduce
its budgetary burden while improving its delivery (which is presently fragmented because of the current
assignment of responsibilities between different levels of local governments). The SAL will support the
Government's effort to design a more coherent general assistance program to families and to assess vanrous
cost-saving alternatives. The Government is preparing an evaluation of the current assignment of
responsibilities and financing of social assistance, and proposals to reform incentives to develop
alternatives to institutional care. The Government has prepared the first draft of reform proposals [Board]
and will review it with the Bank.
49.   Increasing Efficiency of Expenditures at the Local LeveL  With a population of 2.6 million,
Latvia has 594 local governments, of which 492 are rural municipalities. Many of these are small
(population ranging 1000 to 5000). Local governments have been incurring high administrative costs and
have been unable to improve the cost effectiveness of their services. The gradual consolidation of small
local government units, which is part of the Government's program, is in line with the objectives of
rationalizing and reducing public expenditures. The failure to recover costs in municipal enterprises is a
related problem that has placed a significant fiscal burden on many local governments. Debts have been
built up, and infrastructure has not been maintained adequately and upgraded. Local governments have the
right to set the charges that their enterprises levy for services, but the law provides that, if the government's
rates impose losses on the enterprise, the losses are to be covered from the local government's budget.
Currently, fees for municipal services cover only operating costs. The Government's program includes
amending existing legislation on municipal services so that cost recovery tariffs for municipal services
include allowances for depreciation and maintenance as well as operating expenses.



- 13 -
C3   Reforming Social Insurance
50.    Between 1993 and 1995, transfer payments rose from 14.2 percent to 16 percent of GDP. Most of
this increase was attributable to a massive growth in pension expenditures financed by payroll taxes. High
payroll taxes (38 percent), combined with a weak connection between contributions and benefits,
encouraged tax evasion, especially in newly formed and informal enterprises. Between 1991 and 1995, the
number of social tax contributors declined by almost 50 percent. This reduction in contributors, combined
with generous retirement provisions that discouraged work, caused the ratio of pensioners supported by
each contributor to rise to 0.87 by end-1995.
51.    To rectify these problems, Latvia has become the first country in Eastern Europe to begin
implementation of a fundamental reform of the public pension system, which was adopted by law in
November 1995 (see Box 1). The Government now needs to focus on streamlining the administrative
structure and reducing the excess burden of taxation, especially for the self-employed. The SAL will
support action in two areas: (i) the development of a package of lower insurance coverage, for the self-
employed, farmers, and those over 60 (the minimum pension age), with correspondingly lower
contributions (payroll taxes); and (ii) the creation of one independent administrative agency managing all
funds (unemployment, pensions, work injury, sickness and maternity), with one advisory council. The
Government has submitted to Parliament a unified Social Insurance framework law incorporating these
measures [Board].
52.    Owing in part to the speed of the reform process, some anomalies have emerged across prograns.
Benefits for the same risk should be similar across insurance programs to improve equity and reduce
administrative costs resulting from claimants seeking to qualify for the highest benefit offered in a given
situation. Work injury benefits provide an example of this problem in Latvia. Overly generous provisions
in the 1995 legislation could result in a long-term cost of up to 2 percent of GDP. The Government's
program includes revising the work injury insurance legislation to contain this cost and to conform this
legislation with the standard disability and sickness benefits, and to convert the disability benefit for work
injury to an amount equal to an old-age pension at 60, as in the standard disability program.
53.    Currently, two people with equal incomes pay substantially different amounts of tax if one of them
has a significant share of income from social benefits while the other does not. This is because social
benefits are not subject to income tax. To improve equity and incentives to work instead of collecting
pensions and other social benefits, the Government program will make all social insurance benefits subject
to income tax. The existing non-working pensioners will not be affected by this policy change.
54.    An agenda of action remains to complete the 1995 pension reform. In the publicly managed
system, the reforms so far only cover old-age and survivor pensions. Disability coverage was not revised.
Legislation has been submitted to Parliament which will change the benefit formula to one that is consistent
with the rest of the social insurance system and that encourages rehabilitation and return to work. In
addition, the 1995 pension legislation calls for the channeling of reserve funds into the privately managed
system by January 1998. The SAL will support development of this system in two stages. In 1996, the
privately-managed system will be developed and piloted with voluntary pension contributions (including
employer-based programs). The establishment of a regulatory framework for these funds is expected in the
first half of 1997 [Second Tranche]. In 1997, legislation will be prepared and enacted allowing the
channeling of the reserve funds from the public system into the individual pension accounts, which will
operate during the investment phase in virtually the same manner as the voluntary accounts.



- 14 -
Box 1 - The New Latvian Pension System
Latvia has become the first country in Eastern Europe to begin implementation of a major reform of the public pension
system. In November 1995, Parliament approved legislation creating a new public system for those who retire after 1995
(pensions for current pensioners were not affected). The Latvian pension concept provides an entirely new formula for
calculating future pensions, one in which benefits are directly linked to individual contributions and to the retirement age. It
also provides for the introduction of funded pension programs, initially as a supplement to the public system. In 1998,
contributors will be allowed to allocate a portion of their payroll tax to individual, privately managed accounts (the second
pillar).
The new pension system is a "notional defined contribution" one. It is designed to mimic the contribution-based pension that
would be offered in the private sector by an efficient insurance company. The system starts by giving everyone paying the
social tax an individual account. As contributions eannarked for the pension system are paid, the account is credited, as if it
were a savings account. The "capital" in the account earns a rate of return just like a savings account. This rate of return is
equal to the growth of the sum of wages on which contributions are collected (the contribution wage base). At retirement, the
pension paid is equal to the total capital in the person's account divided by the expected post-retirement life span for all those
of that person's age. For example, if a person has 10,000 lats in their account at retirement, and is expected to live 10 more
years, the pension would be 1000 lats per year or 83 lats per month. The pension will be indexed, adjusting for price changes.
In the new system, there is no mandatory retirement age and no "full pension." The minimum retirement age will be 60 years
for most participants. But the system provides strong incentives to work longer. Longer working years reduces the number of
payments, allowing each to be higher, and increases the initial capital. The new system includes a minimum guaranteed
pension for all those who reach the age of 60.
How Do the Actual Benefits Compare Under the Old and New Systems? Assuming that under the old system, the required
quarterly indexation would have taken place in 1996, most new pensioners with full years of service retiring after 60 do not
suffer a benefit decline compared with the old system. For those who work longer, benefits increase -- by over 200 percent for
those who work another 10 years. Benefits are also larger for those with higher incomes (who in the future will also
contribute more). Early retirees will be penalized. For example, a woman who retires at 55 will experience on average a 25
percent decrease in her pension under the new system if she stops contributing. Those who retire even earlier will suffer an
even greater loss of benefits. It is expected that these strong incentives to work and contribute will drastically reduce the
number of early retirees.
Macroeconomic Impact. After 10 years, the expenditures on first tier pensions are projected to be 1/3 lower than they would
have been under the old system. This is primarily the effect of delayed retirement, and decreased benefits for early retirement,
but it also results from switching to price indexation of benefits in the face of real wage growth. These savings will be
allocated to second pillar accounts through a process of gradual participation. By 2005, it is expected that about 10 percent of
total contributions will be invested - a potentially large increase in national savings. For Latvians now under 40, about 40
percent of their pension is expected to come from second tier funds. The system dependency ratio will fall steadily to below
50 percent by the end of the period. Provided Latvia realizes at least some economic growth, the affordability of the system
should be achieved.
Other Economic Effects. As benefits are completely and fully dependent on contributions in the new system, a large part of
the disincentive effect of a traditional social insurance tax disappears. When benefits are unrelated to contributions, the social
insurance contribution becomes a tax, and like any other tax embodies a loss of income and utility to the payee. The closer
benefits are related to contributions, the less loss of income and utility the system implies, and the easier administration
becomes. There is always some loss of income and utility associated with a mandatory contribution system, however.
The new system also permits a flexible adjustment of benefits to changes in life expectancy. This avoids the acrimonious
debate over retirement age. The system also has the advantage of containing one simple formula which covers all
circumstances. In doing so, it provides a wider range of options for older workers. Anyone over the age of 60 can take a
pension if they desire. Or they can continue working and get a higher pension later. Or they can do both, and get a slightly
higher pension later. Or they can stop working for a while, and then start up again. These options can be especially important
for women (who tend to have greater responsibility for taking care of dependent family members), and those whose health may
be weakening, but still wish to work part time and require limited income support.



- 15 -
C4.4   Improving Tax Administration
55.    Tax collection weakened significantly during 1995 with revenues dropping by 1 percent of GDP.
This reflected a slowdown in economic activity as well as poor tax administration, which translated into
growing tax arrears and widespread tax evasion. There were also shortfalls in customs revenue collection
despite the rise in imports. Although the Law on Taxes and Fees provides for a broad range of penalties,
including significant fines and the seizure of bank accounts, cash, goods and property, progress in
strengthening tax payment discipline has been limited.
56.    The Government is committed to increasing its efforts to strengthen tax administration and to take
a number of measures in the near term to arrest the growth of tax arrears, curb tax evasion, and increase
revenue collection. The Government has recently expanded the large taxpayers unit to cover over 50
percent of total tax revenue [Board] and will expand this unit to cover all large taxpayers. The
Govermment has also established a debt collection and enforcement unit at the State Revenue Services
(SRS) headquarters, implemented a customs freight declaration processing system and started the
implementation of a customs improvement project, and established a joint SRS/SIF (Social Insurance
Fund) working group to develop guidelines for a phased unification of tax administration functions.
57.    These measures will be complemented by others in early 1997, including: (i) completing the
allocation of the new taxpayer identification numbers to all business establishments registered with the SRS
[Second Tranche], (ii) approving revenue targets for 1997 for local offices, the large taxpayer unit, and
custom border posts; (iii) limiting the growth of arrears by maintaining quarterly tax collection above the
level of new tax obligations created in the same period, and (iv) formulating an action plan to achieve a
phased integration of the tax administration functions of the SRS and the SIF.  The Government will
continue its practice of publishing the names of major tax evaders. The Government will work with the
World Bank and the IMF to analyze the existing stock and flows of arrears, and identify methods for
reducing them, including a review of tax deferrals and penalties.
C. S Strengthening Institutional Capacity for the Management of Public Finances
58.    The budgetary constraints of recent years have resulted in an increasing reliance on rationing cash
expenditure. However, tight cash controls without parallel controls at the commitment stage often result in
the accumulation of commitments in excess of payments, and consequently generate payment arrears. This
approach also allocates spending on a "first come, first served" basis rather than to the highest priorities.
59.    To improve the management of public finances, the Government intends to undertake a
comprehensive and integrated reform of the budget, Treasury and debt management processes.  The
elements of this reform have been developed [Board], and its implementation phase is about to begin with
technical assistance from the EU-Phare. This phase includes steps to improve debt management and other
information systems, integrate the domestic and external debt management functions of the Ministry of
Finance, and extend the maturity profile of government debt through the introduction of two-year Treasury
bills. The steps will allow an eventual shift from cash to accrual accounting. To further improve the
monitoring and control of expenditures, the Government will continue to transfer the accounts of central
government special funds and budgetary institutions to the State Treasury.
60.    To maintain tight limits on domestic and external debt and to ensure that the state obligations stay
within sustainable limits consistent with the overall macroeconomic framework, the SAL will support
adopting and implementing regulations for approving borrowing and guarantees by the state and local
governments. Regulations limiting local government access to foreign borrowing have been put in place.



- 16 -
The SAL will also support the development of a system for monitoring the borrowing of state and local
governments, and the major enterprises which they own [Second Tranche]. To allow a smooth repayment
or refinancing of loans coming due, the Government has developed a methodology for estimating the
potential losses from past on-lending and government loan guarantees, and in turn linking these estimates
with the budget process to create adequate provisions to cover these losses.



- 17 -
PART III. PROSPECTS FOR A SUSTAINED RECOVERY
61.   Maintaining Macroeconomic Stability. Improving fiscal performance is a prerequisite for the
continuation of growth with macroeconomic stability in Latvia. In the short term, under the on-going SBA,
the annual inflation rate is expected to further decline to about 16 percent by end-1996. The current
account deficit is expected to reach 4.4 percent of GDP before declining to 3.6 percent in 1997, and the
official reserves are projected to remain over 3 months of imports of goods and non-factor services.
Reaching these targets requires a substantial fiscal adjustment which would sharply reduce the fiscal deficit
from 3.3 percent in 1995 to 1.8 percent of GDP in 1996. Achievement of this objective should be possible,
in the short term, by limiting growth in the public sector wage bill and other non-wage current payments.
Maintaining macroeconomic stability in the medium term, however, hinges on medium term reforms of the
public sector to achieve a sustained reduction in the fiscal deficit, reduce the high rates of taxation, and free
resources for investment and growth. Fiscal prudence, leading to lower deficits and thus to lower public
sector borrowing, will reduce pressure on interest rates and enhance the prospects for sustained growth of
the private sector.
62.   Improving Savingsfor Sustained Growth. Improving the savings in the public sector is necessary
for a sustained recovery. Most of the increases in government savings are expected to come from the
rationalization of expenditures, especially from improving the efficiency of social expenditures and from
reforiming employment policies in the public sector. Improved government savings are also expected in the
immediate future from lower than expected interest payments on Treasury bills. The tightening of fiscal
policy in 1996 and the improvement in confidence in economic policies has resulted in a marked increase in
the demand for the Treasury bills by residents and nonresidents, a sharp decline in T-bill rates, and a
recovery of gross official reserves. The SAL will contribute to a reduction in the financial cost of the
Government debt by financing high debt service payments in 1997 resulting from short term borrowing to
finance the unexpectedly large fiscal deficit in 1995. This would reduce the crowding out of the financial
sector, as it would free resources for private sector use as well as an increase in general government
investment.
63.    The SAL-supported program in fiscal adjustment could, if implemented consistently, improve
government savings as much as 3.7 percentage points over five years, from - 1.9 percent of GDP in 1995 to
+ 1.8 percent of GDP in the year 2000. The improvements in the operations of the Social Insurance Fund
are estimated to increase savings by about 1.8 percent of GDP, of which 0.4 percent would be from the
second-tier pension fund (see Box 1 on the new Latvian pension system). The remaining 1.9 percent could
be realized from reductions in the wage bill as public administration reforms take hold and from the
rationalization of health, education, and social assistance expenditures.
64.    The cumulative gains from public sector reforms are projected to reduce the size of current
expenditures in GDP from about 37 percent in 1995 to 33 percent by the tum of the century, provided there
are no major slippages in the reform program.  This would allow increases in general government
investment as well as more spending on rehabilitation and basic maintenance which have suffered from the
past budgetary cuts (the underlying macroeconomic projections are presented in Annex I). At the same
time, public sector borrowing and tax rates would decline, leaving more room for private sector investment,
profit, and growth.
65.    A more efficient functioning of the financial markets and a more favorable environment for
domestic and foreign investors would allow gross domestic fixed investment to increase from 15.7 percent
of GDP in 1995 to 21 percent in the year 2000. As the productive sectors experience more exposure to
market forces, inventories are projected to decrease from 5.1 percent of GDP in 1995 to around 1 percent



- 18 -
of GDP by the end of the decade. This would allow gross fixed investment to rise even more rapidly than
overall savings and will allow the economy to move to a faster growth path.
66.    Given these improvements, output growth is projected to accelerate during the second half of the
1990s, increasing to possibly 2 percent in 1996, 4 percent in 1997, and rising to 5 percent a year toward
the end of the decade. In this process, further deepening and a speedy implementation of reforms to support
efficient private sector development would be crucial to improve sectoral productivity and the efficiency of
markets and to promote confidence in the environment for private foreign and domestic investment. These
reforms would include removing constraints and distortions in various sectors, including those in
agriculture and energy discussed above. This will help make Latvian products more competitive in both
domestic and export markets.
67.    A sustained resumption of growth also hinges on maintaining external competitiveness.  The
Government's program will support this by reducing domestic inflation to intemational levels and by
maintaining an undistorted incentive regime that would be conducive to a flow of private investment into
efficient, export-oriented industries. Exports are projected to grow moderately. However, the openness of
the economy, the continued shift in relative prices, and the reallocation of resources toward export-oriented
activities induced by reforms, will put market pressure on improving domestic production and reducing
costs, and will ultimately result in increased production efficiency and increased export capacity of Latvia.
68.    Capital Requirements.  During the next several years Latvia will need to borrow substantial
amounts of foreign exchange to complete its economic reform program and to help assure the growth of
output and investment. In the short term, the required investment cannot be financed by domestic savings
alone. External financing would thus be needed not only for the required investment but also to maintain a
prudent level of international reserves and to finance the current account deficits, which are projected to
decline gradually from 4 percent of GDP in 1996.
69.    Between 1996 and the year 2000, the overall external financing needs are estimated at about
US$1.9 billion. These resources are necessary to finance about US$0.9 billion in non-interest current
account deficits, US$0.5 billion in debt service payments and US$0.5 billion in increases in net
international reserves. Private sources are projected to provide about 70 percent of the overall financing
requirement during the projection period. The remaining part is expected to be provided by bilateral sources
and by multilateral institutions. Foreign direct investment inflow is projected to remain strong, especially
in view of the recent progress towards macroeconomic stability and the encouraging inflow of foreign direct
investment thus far. Latvia's access to medium-term private capital markets will depend heavily on the
success of the Government's current economic reform program (see para. 93 on Creditworthiness).



- 19 -
PART IV. COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STRATEGY AND THE SAL
70.    The Board discussed the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Latvia in September, 1994. The
key development challenge identified then still faces Latvia now: to attain sustainable economic growth in
order to raise the living standards of the people. This requires a sustained commitment to economic
stabilization and a coherent program of structural reforms. The CAS identified the priority areas for
economic reforms and Bank assistance as:
i)    Private Sector Development, including a legal and regulatory framework supportive of rapid
privatization of publicly owned enterprises, foreign and domestic investment, and financial
discipline in a sound financial and banking system;
ii)    Efficient Management of Public Infrastructure, including assuring adequate maintenance,
rehabilitation, investments and policies to increase energy efficiency; making improvements in the
management, finances and efficiency of the nascent municipal governments; and resolving
environmental problems; and
iii)   Improved Delivery and Sustainability of the Social Safety Net and Basic Social Services,
including pension reforms, social assistance and health and other services.
71.    By unlocking the potential of the private sector and raising public sector efficiency, reforms in
these areas were expected to stimulate vigorous growth while ensuring that essential infrastructure and
social services would be provided effectively, within a sustainable fiscal envelope. This growth in turn
would enable a sustained rise in Latvian living standards and a reduction in poverty, following the sharp
drop in incomes in the early 1990s.
72.    At the time the CAS was prepared in mid-1994, Latvia's program of stabilization and economic
reform seemed well on track, and the country was beginning to experience the first signs of economic
recovery following the hyperinflation and collapse in real output and incomes associated with the breakup
of the highly protected and distorted economic system of the FSU. Our strategy supported the reforms
listed above through a focused program of economic and sector work and specific investment operations.
No structural adjustment operations were planned at that time.
73.    By mid-1995, however, circumstances had changed considerably. As noted in Part I, serious fiscal
problems emerged and a banking crisis developed. These problems reflected a pattern, similar to that in
other transition economies, in which the tightening of fiscal and monetary policies, the enforcement of hard
budget constraints on firms, and increasing internal and external competition created a second generation of
problems that showed up as both spending pressures and shortfalls in revenues, including a buildup in
arrears for taxes and energy. These pressures also reduced firms' ability to repay loans, which, in the then
lax regulatory environment, contributed to a rapid deterioration of the banking sector.
74.    During the tenure of the coalition caretaker Government (from mid-1994 to late 1995), progress
with the reform agenda was uneven. The Government focused its efforts on managing the fiscal crisis
largely through short-term measures such as cash rationing and on a successful effort, in conjunction with
the Bank of Latvia, to restore staoility to the banking system through a much stricter legal and regulatory
framework, which has already resulted in a smaller, sounder set of banks (para. 28). The Government also
designed a fundamental reform of the pension system, enacted in late 1995, that has established a tight link
between contributions and benefits and will put public pensions on a financially sustainable track (Box 1).
As noted earlier, however, other areas of reform lost momentum, particularly those relating to private



- 20 -
sector development and improvements in public sector efficiency. Substantial borrowing was needed to
finance the fiscal deficit, which tended to crowd out the private sector. The expenditure cuts were
especially heavy on public investment. These factors combined to reduce the scope for a return to a stable
growth path.
75.    The new Government, formed in December 1995, quickly announced its intention to restore
momentum to the reform agenda. The Government has agreed with the IMF on a new SBA to replace the
one that had lapsed under the previous Government. The Government also requested the World Bank to
work with it in preparing a broad reform agenda to be supported by a SAL.
76.   The proposed SAL responds to the Government's request and supports its commitment to re-
establish momentum in key areas of structural reform, which correspond to those identified in the CAS.
The SAL has been designed both to build on and support the analysis and objectives of the assistance
strategy, while responding to developments since 1994 in two specific ways. First, it focuses on reform
areas that are key to solve the problems experienced since that time: privatization, financial discipline, and
sustainable reductions in the fiscal deficit. Budget cuts made to date will not be sustainable unless backed
up by reforms that target the areas of weakness and enable sufficient funds to be allocated to efficient
public investment and social expenditure programs. Second, it will help the Government to spread and
lower the costs of its debt: the sudden onset of the fiscal crisis drove the Government to borrow short-term
at high cost in 1995. As noted in the following section, debt service would be 30 percent of basic budget
revenue in 1997 in the absence of the adjustment program and associated SAL financing.
77.    Together, these considerations pointed to the desirability of mounting an operation that would
support the Government's renewed commitment to reform, respond to the changes in policy emphasis, and
provide an appropriate policy framework for subsequent operations. The SAL would also enable the
Government to lower the fiscal and balance of payments cost of its debt portfolio, allowing it to make its
fiscal adjustment at lower cost to growth. In addition, World Bank support, together with that of the IMF,
will lend credibility to the program and assist the Government in maintaining the consensus needed to
implement it. The reform program will be backed up in a number of key areas by subsequent Bank-
supported investment operations, particularly in education and health, for which the SAL will support the
initial stages of program design. Thus the SAL and the investment operations will be mutually reinforcing,
with the SAL providing the framework and the initial policy impetus, while the operations provide follow-
through and depth of implementation of the strategy.
78.    The Government's strong commitment to reform signals that Latvia is moving towards the high
case envisaged in the CAS. If the proposed SAL is successful, a high case scenario should be considered.
This would imply a higher volume of lending: the 1994 CAS envisaged that lending would be in the region
of US$50-60 million per year on average, and could rise by about $20 million per year on average in the
high case. For the moment, however, actual and planned country assistance remains in line with the base
case, with some minor realignments. The smaller size of operations in the actual and currently proposed
program has developed in order to make the best use of available cofinancing, and to ensure that projects
are of a readily implementable size and scope. This development allows the introduction of the SAL, while
maintaining the volume and sectoral composition of lending at the 1994 base case levels. Table 1 compares
the base case lending program proposed in the CAS with the actual lending to date and the current
proposed lending program. The proposed program extends beyond the program presented in the CAS to
the year 2000. The annual lending volume remains on average in the range proposed in the CAS.
Projected exposure indicators remain low and close to those in the CAS (see para. 93 below).



- 21 -
Table 1 : Latvia Lending Program
CAS Lending Program                              Actual and Current Proposed Program
(September 1994)                                         (October, 1996)
FY93*                                           FY93*         (A) Rehabilitation Loan (45)
FY94*                                           FY94*         (A) Agricultural Dev (25)
FY95       Enterprise & Financial Sector (35)   FY95          (A) Enterprise & Financial
Sector (35)
Energy Rehabilitation (30)                        (A) Jelgava District Heat (14)
(A) Liepaja Environment (4)
FY96  (S) Environment (4)                       FY96          (A) Municipal Development (27.3)
Health & Social Protection (30)
FY97  (S) Enterprise & Financial Sector 11 (35)    FY97           Structural Adjustment (60)
(S) Municipal Development (20)                            Welfare Reform (20)
FY98  (S) Agricultural Development 11 (50)      FY98          (S) Highways (20)
(S) Transportation (20)                                   Agricultural Development H (25)
Environment (Solid Waste) (6)
FY99         (S) Health and Education (20)
Private Participation
in Infrastructure (10)
Environment (10)
FY'00        (S) Municipal Development 11 (20)
(S) Housing Finance (I5)
Energy 11 (30)
* Program before CAS discussion.
Note:   Operations in bold type are operations proposed in original CAS. Numbers in () are loan amounts in US$million. (S) indicates standby
operation and (A) indicates actual.
79.    The sectoral composition of the investment operations also remains close to that of the CAS.
Virtually all operations proposed in the CAS have either already resulted in projects or remain in the
proposed program, though there have been modifications in loan amounts, timing and project configuration
to  use  available  cofinancing  and to  reflect experience gained  during  project preparation  and
implementation. For example, the Health and Social Protection Project presented in the CAS has been
divided, with the FY97 Welfare Reform Project dealing with social protection reforms and the Health
component incorporated into a proposed FY99 project to deal with delivery and funding of health and
education services. The FY98 Environment (Solid Waste) project had originally been part of the FY96
Municipal Development project, but needed to be split off from it due to the extensive beneficiary
consultation needed to establish an appropriate site and design. Similarly, progress to date on the FY95
enterprise and financial sector restructuring loan suggests that a follow-up credit line will not be needed in
FY97. Instead, a project to support private sector development and private sector participation in
infrastructure is proposed for FY99, responding to potential Government interest in this area.
80.    The evolving program reflects requests from the Latvian Government and pragmatic adjustments to
project preparation experience, is leading towards a larger number of operations than originally planned
(three instead of two per year). On the other hand, loan amounts tend to be somewhat smaller than



- 22 -
foreseen, with the exception of the SAL itself.  In order to respond effectively to the borrower's
requirements, we may need to plan and budget for three projects per fiscal year. On this basis, the
Highways Maintenance project could be brought forward to FY97, and the Health project into FY98.
81.    The existing and proposed operations will provide opportunities to deepen reforms in most areas
supported by the CAS and the proposed SAL. The proposed private participation in infrastructure project
will continue efforts to improve the framework for private sector development, including foreign
investment. The proposed housing finance project would help implement housing privatization and the
development of a broad-based housing market. The second agricultural development project would
continue to develop a competitive agriculture based on privately owned farms. Other proposed operations
would support and deepen public sector reforms. The welfare reform, health, and education projects
would help increase the effectiveness and the fiscal sustainability of these key social sector programs,
which constitute about two-thirds of budget outlays. The two municipal development projects -- one
approved in FY96 and the other scheduled for FY'00 -- will support continued reforms to improve the
efficiency and financial viability of local government operations. The highway project and second energy
project will assist in the efficient design of public infrastructure investment, rehabilitation and maintenance
programs, as well as supporting private sector development.
82.   The proposed SAL responds to the Government's request for support for its broad-based program
of economic reform. This program is fully consistent with the key reform priorities identified in the CAS.
The proposed SAL builds on progress already made, especially in the areas of banking supervision and
welfare reform, and enhances the environment for private sector development, efficiency and financial
viability in the energy sector, public expenditure management, and tax revenue collections, while laying the
foundations for more comprehensive reform of public administration in the future. It also seeks to assist
the Government in restoring momentum in other critical reform areas. Specific investment lending
operations proposed for the future will provide opportunities to continue to deepen these reforms.



- 23 -
PART V. THE PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
A.    Objectives and Rationale
83.   The main objective of the Loan is to support the restoration of sustained growth and improved
living standards through structural reforns that improve the environment for efficient private sector
development and improved management of public sector resources. A Loan of DEM 90.6 million (about
US$60 million equivalent) would be made to the Republic of Latvia represented by the Ministry of Finance
as the Borrower.
84.   The main policy areas to be supported by the SAL are outlined in Part II of this Report. Their
effective implementation would: (i) deepen the structural reforms and strengthen financial discipline in
order to spur private sector growth and productivity and to improve efficiency throughout the economy;
(ii) assist the Government in maintaining macroeconomic stability, by limiting public expenditures through
rationalization and better targeting and by improving the management of public finances; and (iii) shift a
greater share of public resources toward needed public investments, while freeing additional resources, now
absorbed by the public sector, for financing of private investments.
85.   The overall reform program is designed to take place within a framework for macroeconomic
stability consistent with the Government's arrangement with the IMF. The Government intends to reduce
the fiscal deficit while at the same time it accelerates the structural reform program. A major part of the
SBA that the Government has agreed upon with the IMF is the program of fiscal adjustment to limit the
general government fiscal deficit to 1.8 percent of GDP in 1996 (in contrast to the deficit of 3.1 percent of
GDP envisaged in the budget approved by Parliarnent in February 1996), and to 0.7 percent of GDP in
1997.
86.   The Government has pursued this target by adopting measures both to increase revenues and to
contain expenditures. The revenue-raising measures have included an increase in excise taxes on gasoline
and diesel as well as measures to improve tax administration, including the introduction of tax
identification numbers and the implementation of a customs improvement project. On the expenditure side,
budgetary outlays for most expenditure categories have been held to their 1995 levels in nominal terms.
Compared to 1995, the planned fiscal adjustment in 1996 and 1997 would increase the share of total
government revenues with respect to GDP by about 1.3 percent while reducing the share of total
expenditures to GDP by about 0.7 percent.
87.   Although the implementation of this budget would reduce the overall budgetary deficit and the
absorption of domestic savings, the Government's fiscal adjustment and reform program, as outlined
above, requires further policy development to underpin expenditure restraints. This calls for medium-term
reforms of public administration and major expenditure programs so that they can meet the needs of the
country while absorbing a declining share of resources. The SAL will support the initial stages of these
reforms.
88.   In addition to policy support, the SAL would substantially reduce the burden of debt service on the
budget and balance of payments in 1997 resulting from the accumulated short term domestic and foreign
borrowing during the banking and budgetary crisis, and amortize it over a much longer time period and at a
lower cost. Based on IMF estimates, the debt service burden in the 1997 budget, under a non-adjustment
scenario, would have amounted to over 30 percent of basic budget revenues. Because of the circumstances
under which the 1995 borrowings took place, the interest and maturity on those loans have been
considerably less favorable than those on loans offered by the international financial institutions. The



- 24 -
Government's debt service in 1997 includes repayment of a two-year loan of $41 million equivalent. The
SAL proceeds would enable the Government to reduce the impact of loan payments on the 1997 budget by
eliminating the need for additional short term borrowing--either by extending the previous loan or issuing
new Treasury bills--to pay this amount. This will also allow the Government to achieve its objective of
maintaining balanced basic and social budgets in 1997 while making more resources available for private
sector use. In short, the SAL resources would:
*   Refinance the exceptionally high debt service payments due in 1997, thereby improving the
budget's cash flow and reducing the country's vulnerability to short term debt exposure.
*   Permit a more gradual and rational containment of expenditure programs and thus support
growth by freeing more resources for the long-delayed programs of public investment and
essential maintenance.
*   Reduce the need for public sector borrowing on the domestic market, freeing more financial
resources for private investment and growth by reducing the crowding out taking place in the
financial sector.
*   Provide support for reforms in public administration and major expenditure programs that are
needed to contain the fiscal deficit over time.
The SAL will also provide a framework for donor-supported technical assistance which will assist in the
design and implementation of the Government's reform program.
B.    Tranche Release Conditions and Supervision
89.    The Loan would be disbursed against the satisfactory implementation of the adjustment programn in
compliance with the key tranche release conditions specified in Table 2. The SAL implementation will
require three supervision missions in 1997. Interim monitoring and follow-up will also be carried out by the
staff of the Regional Office for the Baltic Countries in Riga.
C.    Benefits and Risks
90.    Benefits. The reform program to be implemented under the loan will support a broad-based
growth strategy driven by domestic and foreign private investment.  It will help ensure a sustained
stabilization effort and fiscal adjustment by improving the efficiency of public sector operations and by
rationalizing intergovernmental fiscal relations and social sector expenditures. It will also encourage
private sector development by supporting the Government's efforts to improve the environment for the
private sector and for foreign and domestic investments. By enforcing financial discipline and prudential
regulation, the loan will support the development of a commercial energy sector and an efficient, sound
banking system, which are essential for the sustained growth of the real sector. The loan will support
measures to expand the tax base by identifying a large number of unregistered taxpayers and will enhance
the tax administration's capability to reduce tax evasion and to increase tax revenues. By reducing the
public sector borrowing requirements, the loan will release resources for private sector investment.



- 25 -
Table 2. Core SAL Conditionsfor Traiche Release
Objectives        Actions Taken Prior to Board Presentation           By Second Tranche
Privatization and     *  Prepare and publish a schedule to privatize 2/3 of  *  Privatize 150 enterprises of which at least 40 percent are medium
Private Sector            existing enterprises under the LPA by end 1997.      and large.
Development           *  Privatize 50 enterprises as from June 1, 1996.    *  Privatize 5 percent of apartments and adopt plan to privatize 20
*  Adopt a strategy for the Savings Bank thatz includes  percent of apartments by end-1997.
performing due diligence on potential merger
panners;  uses privatization certificates only if
necessary to bring the bank to the BoL's capital
adequacy requirements; and ensures that all
prudential regulations of the BoL are met.
Enforce Financial     *  Adopt a new bankruptcy law that provides adequate   *  Initiate liquidation of the 10 selected enterprises with large losses
Discipline                safeguards to secured creditors.                     and  growing  tax  arrears  as  demonstrated  by  published
*  Start preparation of plans for the energy enterprises  announcement to creditors to present their claims.
to: (i) reduce accounts receivable to levels targeted in   *  (a) reduce accounts receivable of energy utilities to no more than:
LDP, and (ii) improve collection rates by such      30 days' worth of bills for electricity users; and 40 days' worth of
measures as enforcing  penalties, diicitnecting     bills for gas users other than heat supply companies, and maintain
services to delinquent customers, reconnection fees,  them at or below these levels for at least three months; and (b)
and taking recourse to courts.                      reduce accounts receivable from  heat supply companies in
*  Identify 10 state enterprises with large losses and  accordance with an action plan and timetable acceptable to the
growing tax. arrears to be liquidated.              Bank.
*  The Energy Regulatory Board and License Office is fully staffed
and operating, and exercising its functions in setting energy tariffs
in accordance with methodologies agreed with the Bank.
Rationalize           *  Complete a census of all full-time govemment  *  Develop a framework for designing and implementing a medium-
Expenditure               employees paid from the state budget.               term public administration reform; the framework to include a
Decisions             *  Increase in real terms the allocations for general    sequenced action plan, timetable, and identification of resources
government investment in the 1997 Budget to be      needed.
submitted to Parliament. Include in the 1997 Budget  *  Review the 1997-99 Public Investment Program with the World
Law provisions to protect the general government    Bank with a view to agreement on the principles governing
investment budget from reductions due to revenue    determination of investment priorities.
shortfalls or pressure on expenditures.
Improve Local         *  Establish working groups, terms of reference, and
Financing and Cost       timetable to prepare social sector reform proposals   *  Develop a health insurance system  covering necessary health
Effectiveness of          that  include:  guidelines  and  incentives  for     services, with adequate cost control mechanism  and without
Social Services           rationalizing  health  and  education  facilities;  increases in social tax
rationalizing expenditure assignments and ensuring
that money follows the client, targeting of
compensatory payments; adequate incentives for
efficient service provision and revenue assignments
that correspond to new responsibilities.
Reform Social         *  Submit Social Insurance Framework legislation to   *  Implement licensing and supervisory system for privately managed
Insurance                 Parliament.                                         pension funds, and submit to Parliament legislation allocating a
portion of the social tax to these funds.
Improve Tax           *  Expand the coverage of the Large Taxpayer Division   *  Complete allocation of new taxpayer identification numbers to all
Adnitnistrafton          to enterprises representing at least 50% of total tax  business establishments registered with the SRS.
revenue.
Strengthen            *  Develop a plan including a timetable for improving
Management of             management and  organization  of budget and   *  Develop a unified system for monitoring and managing domestic
Public Finances           Treasury process, and debt management operations.   and foreign borrowing of state and local govemments, and
monitoring liabilities of the major enterprises which they own.
Complementary         *  Progress under the Governments Policy Reform   *  Progress under the  Govemment's  Policy  Reform  Program
Actions to Further the    Program satisfactory to the Bank.                    satisfactory to the Bank.
Broad Reform
Program of
Government



- 26 -
91.    Risks.  Political pressure from interest groups could delay the implementation of structural
reforms, the reduction in energy and tax arrears, and the sustainable fiscal adjustment the reform, will
bring. It could also impede the process of reforming health, education, and social assistance expenditures,
and could lead to delays in the preparation and submission of the required legislation to Parliament. Poor
coordination among the ministries involved could also lead to delays in the implementation of the program.
The inability to maintain macroeconomic stability is a relatively minor risk, but could result in high
inflation and interest rates. This could choke off domestic investment as well as reduce Latvia's ability to
mobilize the needed foreign resources and sustain the reform program.
92.    Given these risks, intensive supervision of the SAL together with regular monitoring from the field
office is planned to ensure that key policy conditions are under implementation before Board presentation
and the second tranche disbursements. Continued dialogue with the Government and other groups involved
in reforming the economy should reduce possible delays in structural reforms. An inter-ministerial working
group, chaired by the Ministry of Finance and including sector ministries affected by the SAL, helped
prepare this operation, and is expected to continue its work during the implementation phase of the loan. It
will help improve coordination among the implementing agencies and between the Ministry of Finance and
the Bank of Latvia. Although Bank funding will not be provided for technical assistance purposes, the
Bank will assist the Government in mobilizing the supporting technical assistance necessary to adopt and
implement the reform programs. Subsequent lending operations would seek to sustain and deepen the
reforms initiated under this operation. The risks to economic stability are minimized by the Government's
and Bank of Latvia's firm commitment to the tight monetary and fiscal policies embodied in the SBA with
the IMF. Maintaining the performance criteria under the current SBA will also ensure continuation of the
stabilization policies.
D.    Creditworthiness
93.    Although Latvia's mc;dium-and long-term debt is expected to increase in the medium term, it will
nevertheless remain manageable provided the Government continues to exercise fiscal prudence and
maintain an adequate pace of reforms. Total debt outstanding is projected to increase from 9.3 percent of
GDP in 1995 to 9.9 percent toward the end of the decade (see Annex I). The ratio of total debt service to
exports will remain below 5 percent during the second half of the 1990s. Its irregular pattern is caused by
a short-term loan in 1995 which has to be repaid in 1997, and the G-24 loans received from the EU, which
are due in the year 2000. The Bank exposure will also remain low as the ratio of IBRD debt service to
exports will be less than 1 percent. The IBRD debt service relative to total public debt service will increase
to nearly 21 percent in 1999 before declining again in the following years. Like the other FSU countries,
the increased share of the IBRD partly reflects the low initial indebtedness of Latvia and active Bank
support, which led to relatively high Bank and preferred creditors shares. It also reflects the needs of Latvia
to cushion the irregular pattern of the debt service obligations mentioned earlier. Over time as other sources
of finance become more readily available, the share of IBRD and preferred creditors will decline to lower
levels. Latvia's share in the IBRD portfolio remains negligible throughout the projection period.
E.    Poverty Implications
94.    The proposed SAL will have an important effect on poverty since it will support growth objectives
in a stable environment and will improve the delivery of social services. The growth should bring expanded
job opportunities and should increase incomes. The lower levels of inflation will prevent further erosion in
the real living standards of the poor. Although this operation is not classified as part of a program for
targeted interventions, the SAL has important poverty implications owing to the objectives of improving the



- 27 -
management of public resources, which will allow the improvements in cost effectiveness and delivery of
services in health, education, and social assistance that are especially important to the poor.
F.    Environmental Impact
95.   In line with current operational directives OD 4.02 and 8.60 this adjustment operation has been
placed in Category U, which does not require an environmental assessment.
G.    Coordination with the IMF
96. In May 1996, the IMF Board approved a 1 5-month Stand-by arrangement to Latvia for the amount
of SDR 30 million. The Stand-by is precautionary. Given the expected financing from the SAL and the
present level of international reserves the Government does not intend to make any purchases. The IMF
first review of this Stand-by was carried out in August/September 1996 which overlapped with the
appraisal of the SAL. Close collaboration with the IMF has been achieved in the preparation of the SAL.
An IMF staff member participated in the preparation of the SAL in the field and the SAL incorporates the
main macroeconomic framework under the Stand-by.
H.    Implementation Arrangements
97.    Tranching. The loan will be released in two tranches: the first, for DEM 30.2 million (about $20
m-illion equivalent), following loan effectiveness and the second, for the balance, on fulfillment of the
specific second tranche release conditions.
98. Disbursements. Following approvtal of the loan and notification by the Bank of loan effectiveness,
the Governmnent will submit a withdrawal application. The Ministry of Finance will open and maintain a
deposit account in the Bank of Latvia. For each tranche to be released, the Ministry of Finance will submit
a simplified withdrawal application, against which the Bank will disburse the loan proceeds into the deposit
account. If, after deposit in this account, the proceeds of the loan are used for ineligible purposes (i.e., to
finance items imported from non-member countries, or goods or services on the Bank's standard negative
list), the Bank will require the borrower to either: (i) return that amount to the account for use for eligible
purposes; or (ii) refund the amount directly to the Bank, in which case the Bank will cancel an equivalent
undisbursed amount of the loan. In accordance with the February 1996 Operational Directive on
Simplification of Disbursement Rules under Structural Adjustment and Sectoral Adjustmnent loans,
disbursements will not be linked to specific purchases and, hence, there will be no procurement
requirements.
99.   Accounts, Auditing and Closing Date. The loan administration will be the responsibility of the
Ministry of Finance which will also monitor overall loan implementation, working where appropriate
through the inter-ministerial working group (para. 92). Although a routine audit of the deposit account will
not be required, the Bank reserves the right to require an audit. The loan is expected to be fully disbursed
with the release of the second tranche. The loan closing date is currently estimated for December 1997.



- 28 -
PART VI. RECOMMENDATION
100.   I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and
I recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
by Caio Koch-Weser
Washington, DC
November 19, 1996



ANNEXES






Annex 1
Page 1 of 4
Table A. Latvia - Key Economic Indicators
Indicative scenario
Estimate                       Projected
Indicator                     1993      1994     1995     1996     1997     1998      1999     2000     2005
Real annual growth rates
(%, calculated from 1993 prices)
GDP at market prices                             -14.9%     0.6%    -1.6%      2.0%     4.0%     5.0%      5.0%     5.0%     5.0%
GNP at market prices                                  ..       ..        ..   1.9%      4.0%     4.8%      4.8%     4.8%     4.9%
Gross Domestic Income                                  ..   0.2%    -3.7%    -2.6%      4.4%     5.5%      5.7%     5.6%      5.4%
GNP per capita                                        ..       ..        ..   1.9%      4.0%     4.8%      4.8%     4.8%     4.9%
Consumption per capita                                ..       ..        ..  -0.5%      2.1%     3.6%      4.6%     3.7%     4.5%
Debt Service (in US$)                                10.7     26.4     32.0    69.0    123.0      88.7      90.2    228.4    203.6
Debt Service/XGS                                     0.7       1.7      1.5      2.7      4.4       2.9      2.7      6.2       3.7
Debt Service/GDP                                                        0.7      1.3      2.0       1.3      1.1      2.6       1.6
National accounts
(as % GDP at current market prices)
Gross domestic investmenta                           9.2     19.1     20.8    20.9       21.1     21.4     21.9      22.3     22.8
Gross domestic fixed investment                     13.8     14.9      15.7    16.4      17.6     18.8      19.9     21.0     22.5
Gross domestic savings                              25.4     21.2      15.5    15.0      16.7     18.0      19.0     20.0     22.1
Gross national savings                              29.3     25.1      17.3    16.5      17.5     18.3     19.0      19.9     21.2
Govemment investmentb                                1.2      1.1      0.9       1.4      2.5      2.5      2.6       2.7      2.7
Govemment Savings                                    2.2     -0.6     -1.9      0.0       2.0      1.7       1.7      1.8      3.8
o.w. from pension commitment                          ..      ..        ..      ..       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.4      2.0
Private investmentb                                 12.6     13.8      14.9    15.0      15.1     16.3     17.3      18.3     19.8
Private Savings                                     27.1     25.7      19.2    16.4      15.5     16.6     17.4      18.1     17.4
Private Savings including transfers to pension fund                      ..      ..    15.5       16.6      17.4     18.5     19.4
Public finance'
(as % of GDP at current market prices)
Current revenues                                    36.4     36.5     35.5    36.2       36.6     35.4     35.1      34.8     34.6
Current expenditures                                34.2     37.1     37.4    36.2       34.6     33.7     33.4      33.0     30.8
Capital revenues                                     0.1      0.3      0.4      0.5       0.6      0.4      0.4       0.4      0.0
Capital expendituresd                                1.7      3.8       1.8     2.4       3.2      3.1      3.1       3.1      2.7
Overall Balance (- = deficit)                        0.6     -4.0     -3.4    -1.8       -0.7     -0.9      -1.0     -1.0      1.1
Total export volume growth rate                       ..    -8.2       11.2    25.5       9.9      7.2      6.3       6.3      5.5
Export/GDP                                          73.2     46.5     42.7    45.2      44.2      42.3     41.1      40.4     42.4
Total import volume growth rate                       ..    12.1      27.1     20.8       8.0      6.1      6.2       5.3      5.1
Import/GDP                                          57.0     44.4     48.0    51.1      48.6      45.7     44.1      42.6     43.1
Current Account (in US$)                           151.0    -86.0   -166.0  -237.2   -224.7   -218.9   -230.8   -210.3   -197.8
Current Account /GDP                                 6.9     -2.4     -3.5    -4.4       -3.6     -3.1     -2.9      -2.4     -1.6
Annual average (LCU/USS)                            0.68     0.56     0.53     0.54      0.54     0.54     0.54      0.54     0.62
Average GDP Inflation                               71.5     38.3     24.0    15.3        9.8      9.0      7.0       6.0      5.0
a. Incudes changes in stocks
b. Fixed investment only
c. Public sector includes state budget, municipality budgets, and social insurance fund.
d. Excluding social security capital transfers.



Annex 1
Page 2 of 4
Table B. Latvia - Balance of Payments
(US$ nillions at current prices)
Indicative scenario
Estimate                          Projected
Indicator                  1993      1994      1995     1996      1997      1998      1999      2000      2005
Total exports of GNFS'                        1429.0   1513.0   2017.4   2447.2   2729.0   2986.9   3264.3   3567.5   5388.9
Merchandise (FOB)                          998.0    997.0   1368.0   1442.3   1598.8   1731.9   1880.9   2042.5   3111.8
Nonfactor services                         431.0    516.0    649.4   1004.9   1130.2   1255.1    1383.5   1525.0   2277.2
Total Imports of GNFS                         1363.0   1672.0   2266.4   2761.9   2999.8   3230.4   3501.7   3765.7   5472.9
Merchandise (FOB)                         1158.0   1375.0   1947.0   2214.4   2424.7   2607.9   2822.6   3028.8   4385.8
Nonfactor services                         205.0    297.0    319.4    547.6    575.1    622.6    679.1    736.9   1087.1
Resource balance                                66.0   -159.0   -249.0   -314.7   -270.8   -243.5   -237.4   -198.2    -84.0
Net factor income                                7.0       9.0      10.0      7.5       6.2      -5.4    -23.4    -42.1   -143.8
Factor receipts                             17.0      51.0      61.0     67.8      79.4      83.8      90.8      98.9    146.3
Factorpayments                              10.0      42.0      51.0     60.3      73.2      89.2    114.2    141.0    290.1
Interest (scheduled)                     6.3      15.7      23.0      24.0      31.0     36.7      42.9      50.1      92.0
Total interest paidb                    6.3      15.7     23.0      24.0      31.0      36.7      42.9     50.1      92.0
Net adjustments to scheduled interest   0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Otherfactorpayments                      3.7      26.3      28.0      36.3     42.3      52.5      71.3      90.9    198.0
Netprivate current transfers                    30.0      25.0     41.0      31.0      18.0      30.0      30.0      30.0      30.0
Currentreceipts,ofwhich                       ..        ..      41.0     31.0      18.0      30.0      30.0      30.0      30.0
Workers' remittances                     0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0
Current payments                              ..        ..       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Net official current transfers                  48.0      39.0      32.0     39.0      22.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Current account balance                        151.0    -86.0   -166.0   -237.2   -224.7   -218.9   -230.8   -210.3   -197.8
Official capital grants                          0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Private investment (net)                        51.0    155.0    165.0    200.0    205.0    235.0    245.0    255.0    287.6
NetLT'borrowing                                 98.0      87.0      67.0    101.8    100.5    102.8    122.5         53.0      85.5
Disbursementsb                             101.5     79.6      74.0    121.8    154.5    128.8    152.8    219.3    197.1
Repayments (scheduled)                       7.0     20.0       7.0      19.0      54.0      26.0     30.3    167.3    111.6
Total principal repaidb                     7.0      20.0       7.0      19.0     54.0      26.0      30.3    167.3    111.6
Net adjustments to scheduled repayments     0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Net otherLTinflows                           3.5      27.4      0.0      -1.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       1.0      0.0
Other capital flows                             -7.0      -6.0   -106.0    115.0    -20.0    -35.0    -45.0    -45.0    -45.0
Net short-term capital                       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Net capital flows n.e.i.d                    8.0     43.0    -88.3       58.0    -20.0    -35.0    -45.0    -45.0    -45.0
Errors and omissions                       -15.0    -49.0    -17.7       57.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Change in net international reserves          -293.0   -150.0      40.0   -179.6    -60.8    -83.9    -91.8    -52.7   -130.4
(- indicates increase in assets)
Memorandum items
Total gross reserves, of which                504.4    620.0    622.7    777.7    799.5    857.5    934.3    977.1    1563.2
Total reserves minus gold              431.6    545.2    583.2    736.8    757.6    814.6    890.3    932.0   1512.8
Gold (at year-end London price)         72.8      74.8      39.5      40.9     41.9      42.9      44.0      45.1      50.4
Total gross reserves (in months'imports G&S')   4.4       4.3      3.2       3.3       3.1       3.1       3.1       3.0       3.3
Exchange rates
Annual average (LCU/US$),                     0.68      0.56      0.53      0.54     0.54      0.54      0.54      0.54      0.62
At end year (LCU/US$)                         0.60      0.55      0.54      0.54     0.54      0.54      0.54      0.55      0.63
Current Account Balance as % GDP                 6.9      -2.4     -3.5      -4.4      -3.6      -3.1      -2.9      -2.4      -1.6
a. Goods and nonfactor services.
b. Historical data from Debt Reporting System (DRS); other data projected by country operations division staff.
c. "LT" denotes "long-term."
d. "n.e.i." denotes "not elsewhere included."
e. "G & S" denotes "goods and services."
f. "LCU" denotes "local currency units."



Annex 1
Page 3 of 4
Table C. Latvia - Key Exposure Indicators
Indicative scenario
Estimate                       Projected
Indicator             1993     1994     1995     1996     1997     1998     1999     2000     2005
Total debt outstanding and          231.9   379.3    437.0    527.8   611.0   685.6   789.8    811.9   1256.5
disbursed (TDO) (US$m)a
Net disbursements (US$m)a           169.3    122.4    65.0    77.8    61.5        76.8    106.5     41.0     85.5
Total debt service (TDS)             10.7    26.4    32.0    69.0    123.0        88.7     90.2    228.4    203.6
(US$m)a
Debt and debt service indicators (%)
TDOIXGSb                           16.0    24.3      21.0    21.0    21.8    22.3        23.5     22.1     22.7
TDO/GDP                            10.7     10.4      9.3      9.8      9.9      9.7      9.9      9.2       9.9
TDS/XGS                             0.7      1.7      1.5      2.7      4.4      2.9      2.7      6.2       3.7
IBRD exposure indicators (%)
IBRD DS/public DS                   2.8      7.7      9.4      5.8      7.2     19.0    20.8      10.8      17.4
Preferred creditor DS/public       50.0    47.9      75.0    73.9    55.9       73.4     64.0     71.3      32.3
DS
IBRD DS/XGS                         0.0      0.1      0.1      0.2      0.3      0.5      0.6      0.7       0.6
Share of IBRD portfolio             0.0      0.0      0.0      0.1      0.1      0.1      0.2      0.2      0.2
a. Includes public and publicly guaranteed debt, private nonguaranteed, use of IMF credits and net short-term capital
b. "XGS" denotes exports of goods and services, including workers' remittances.



Annex 1
Page 4 of 4
Table D. Latvia - Financing Plan
(Min US$)
Indicative scenario
Estimate                              Projected
Indicator                 1995       1996       1997       1998       1999       2000        2005
Financing Requirement                        133.0      435.8      339.5      328.8      352.8      430.3      439.7
Non-interest Current Account                143.0      213.2      193.7      182.1      187.9      160.2      105.7
Debt Service a                               30.0       43.0       85.0       62.7       73.2      217.4      203.6
Amortization                                 7.0       19.0       54.0       26.0       30.3      167.3      111.6
Interest                                    23.0       24.0       31.0       36.7       42.9       50.1       92.0
Reserve Build-Upb                           -40.0      179.6       60.8       83.9       91.8       52.7      130.4
Financing Sources                            133.0      435.8      339.5      328.8      352.8      430.3      439.7
Private Sources                             213.0      228.3      226.9      276.8      313.1      365.5      389.7
Private Investment (net)                  165.0      200.0      205.0      235.0      245.0      255.0      287.6
Commercial Credits                         48.0       28.3       21.9       41.8       68.1      110.5       102.1
Official Sources                             26.0       93.5      132.6       87.0       84.7      108.7       95.0
Multilateral Loans                         23.0       70.5       97.0       55.5       54.7       66.7        55.0
Bilateral Loans                             3.0       23.0       35.6       31.5       30.0       42.0        40.0
Other Capital c                            -106.0      114.0      -20.0      -35.0      -45.0      -44.0      -45.0
a. Includes IMF interest payments
b. Includes IMF credit purchases and repurchases
c. Mostly changes in assets holdings of commercial banks and private citizens



Annex 2
Status of Bank Group Operations in Latvia
A. IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Original amount in USS millions
Project       Loan or     Fiscal
ID         Credit No.    Year              Borrower                    Purpose                   IBRD       IDA       Cancellations  Undisbursed
Nunber of Cloned LoanslCredits: I
Actire Loans
LV-PA-34584      L39640       1996    REPUBLIC OF LATVIA          MUN. SERVICES DEV.                  27.30                                   27.11
LV-PA-8526      L38900       1995    REPUBLIC OF LATVIA          JELGAVA DIST. HEAT                   14.00                                  11.73
LV-PA-8527      U6950        1994    LATVIAN GOVERNMENT    AGRIC. DEVELOPMENT                         25.00                                  10.76
LV-PA-8529      L37950       1995    GOVT. OF LATVIA              ENTERP. FINANC. SECT                20.00                                  13.15
LV-PA-8529       W7960       1995    GOVT. OF LATVIA             ENTERP. FINANC. SECT                 10.00                                   7.95
LV-PA-8529      L37961       1995    GOVT. OF LATVIA             ENTERP. FINANC. SECT                  5.00                                   5.63
LV-PA-85n        L38140      1995    GOVT OF LATVIA              LIEPAJA ENVIRONMENT                   4.00                                   2.15
TOTAL                                                                                              105.30         0.00          0.00       78.4S
Active Loans               Closed Loans                      Total
Total disbursed (DIRD and IDA)                                  27.45                      41.S6                      69.31
Oflhich repaid                                                 0.00                       0.00                        0.00
Total nob held by BRD and IDA                                  105.30                      41.86                      147.16
Amoumt sold                                                      0.00                       0.00                       0.00
Ofwhich repaid                                                 0.00                       0.00                       0.00
Total undisbursed                                               78.48                       0.00                      78.48
Note: Disbursement dta re updated at the end of the fist week of the month.
B. Statement of IFC Investments
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 9/30/96
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                                                           Disbursed
IFC _FC
FYApproval           Company                                     Loan         Equity         Quasi         Panic                    Loan          Equity          Quasi         Panic
1995                Lattelekom SIA                                5.39         13.67           0.00          0.00                    0.86           13.55          0.00           0.00
1996                Vereinsbank Riga                              0.00           1.76          0.00          0.00                    0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
Total Portfolio:                             5.39          15.43          0.00          0.00                     0.86          13.55           0.00          0.00
Approvals Pending Committnent
Loan         Equity         Quasi         Panic
1996                HEBEDA - LATVIA                               2.00          0.00           2.00          0.00
Totai Pending Comminment:                    2.00          0.00           2.00          0.00



Annex 3
LATVIA - STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Timetable of Key Processing Events
1.      Timne taken to prepare:                           6 months
2.      Prepared by:                                      Government of Latvia with the assistance of
IBRDstaff and consultants.'
3.      Preparation Mission:                              June 1996
4.      Pre-Appraisal/Appraisal mission:                   September 1996
5.      Negotiations                                      November 1996
6.      Planned Board Presentation                         December 1996
7.      Planned date of Effectiveness                      December 1996
1/ Bank staff who participated in preparation at various stages include: Mansour Farsad (Task Manager), Louise Fox,
Frederick Golladay, Luis Gutierrez, Gregory Jedrzejczak, Helen Sutch, Jos Verbeek. Staff of the Riga Resident Mission who
also joined the SAL team included Messrs./Mesdames Dobraja, Grube, Holmstrom, and Modeen. The missions also
benefited from the participation of Hjordis Bierman, Ardo Hansson, Melvin McMillan, Richard McHugh, Maris Mikelsons,
and Samuel Talley. Messrs. Harrison and Jeurling participated in some of the missions' discussions. The team benefited
from cormuents and suggestion of a Bank-wide Working level Review Meeting.



Annex 4
PRIME MINISTER OF THE REPUBLIC OF LATVIA
Mr. James D.Wolfensohn
President
The World Bank,
1818 H. Street, N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
November 15, 1996
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn,
Attached please find the Letter of Development Policy and its accompanying
Policy Reform Program Matrix outlining the economic reform program of the
Government of Latvia. We have formulated this program with the objective of
achieving sustainable economic growth in a stable macroeconomic environment.
We intend to achieve this objective by improving the policy environment for
private sector development and by better management of public resources
through rationalizing expenditure decisions, increasing cost effectiveness of
social services, improving tax administration, and strengthening institutional
capacity for management of public fmances.
We request the World Bank to support this program with a Structural
Adjustment Loan of DEM 90.6 million.
Sincerely,
Andrisk



Annex 4
Page 1 of 11
REPUBLIC OF LATVIA                      November 15, 1996
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
Background
1.    In 1992 the Government of Latvia launched a program of economic reform aimed at transforming
the economy from a centrally-planned to market-based system. Its fundamental goal was to restore the
economy to a sustainable growth path to raise the living standards of the Latvian people. The main
components of the reform program, supported by the IMF and the World Bank, were currency reform, tight
fiscal and monetary policies, a significant liberalization of prices and of the exchange and trade system,
and a number of systemic changes designed to promote efficiency and to stimulate private sector
development.
2.    We made substantial progress towards macroeconomic stabilization through the pursuit of prudent
financial policies and succeeded in bringing the rate of inflation from 958 percent in 1992 to 23 percent in
1995. Progress in structural reform was also substantial, although privatization of large enterprises lagged
somewhat. Early in the transition process, we liberalized wages, prices, foreign exchange and foreign trade
to create a competitive market environment and to speed up the economic transformation. We also made
significant progress in privatizing small enterprises in trade, catering and services and in restructuring and
privatizing the banking sector. Particular attention was given to making social assistance more fiscally
sustainable and more effective for lower income groups through better means-testing.
3.    In 1995, our economy experienced serious difficulties as a result of a banking crisis and a widening
fiscal deficit. These developments led to a sharp decline in domestic liquidity and in international reserves
and interrupted the process of economic recovery that had started in late 1994. The failure of Latvia's
largest bank, and some smaller banks, which together covered about 40 percent of the banking system's
total assets, resulted in a full-scale banking crisis in the spring of 1995. The main causes of the crisis were
poor management, imprudent loans and ineffective banking supervision and regulation. The decisive
actions of the Bank of Latvia succeeded in restoring stability in the foreign exchange market and its
subsequent measures to improve banking supervision helped to reduce the number of banks licensed for full
banking operations and to restore confidence in the banking system.
4.     Several factors contributed to a deterioration in the fiscal position during 1995. On the revenue
side, growing tax arrears arising from weaknesses in tax administration and from the freezing of deposits in
failed banks, combined with an overall slowdown in economic activity, led to a serious shortfall in tax
revenues. On the expenditure side, growing wage payments added further pressures on the budget. Since
efforts to cut expenditures were insufficient to match the shortfall in revenues, the fiscal deficit in 1995
amounted to about 3.3 percent of GDP (compared with the original projected deficit of 2.2 percent of
GDP). The deficit was financed mainly through the issuance of Treasury bills, at increasingly higher
interest rates, and through short-term foreign borrowing, which led to a substantial increase in the financing
cost of the Government debt.
5.    The fiscal developments in 1995 strengthened our resolve to correct the fundamental weaknesses in
our fiscal system, in particular by improving tax administration and by rationalizing public expenditure to
ensure that sufficient savings are left for private investment and growth. These efforts, together with those



Annex 4
Page 2 of 11
to deepen the structural reform and to encourage the private sector supply response, will be the cornerstone
of our future economic program as discussed below.
The Government's Economic Program
6.    The goals of our medium-term program (summarized in this Letter and the attached Matrix of
Policy Reform Program) are to resume growth in a stable macroeconomic environment by consolidating
and deepening structural reforms and by improving the management of public resources. We request that
the medium-term reform objectives of this program will be supported by the World Bank, through the
proposed structural adjustment loan (SAL) as well as through subsequent investment and sector loans for
reforms of specific sectors. The SAL will contribute to a reduction in the financial cost of the Government
debt by financing high debt service payments in 1997 resulting from our short term borrowing to finance
the unexpectedly large fiscal deficit in 1995. In this way, we expect to reduce our stock of short tenn debt
by at least $60 million and to reduce the absorption of resources by the public sector in favor of more rapid
and efficient private-sector led growth.
A.    Maintaining Macroeconomic Framework for Stable Growth
7.    The macroeconomic framework of our reform program consists of measures to reduce imbalances
in the economy in the short and medium term and to put the economy on a sustainable growth path. In
support of the short-term stabilization objectives of this program, we have reached agreement with the IMF
on a 15-month Stand-By Arrangement (SBA) effective May 1996 for SDR 30 million.
8.    A detailed account of our stabilization program is provided in a Letter of Intent and the
Memorandum of Economic Policies submitted to the IMF in our request for the SBA in May 1996. This
program focuses on the following measures for 1996: reducing the consolidated fiscal deficit from about
3.3 percent of GDP in 1995 to about 1.8 percent in 1996; setting a floor on convertible international
reserves of the Bank of Latvia at US$366 million; limiting the contracting or guaranteeing of non-
concessional medium-term and long-term external debt by the government, the Bank of Latvia, and other
agencies on behalf of the government; limiting the stock of external government and government-guaranteed
debt of maturities of up to one year; and, introducing a comprehensive system of tax identification
numbers.
9.    We intend to adhere strictly to these measures with a view to achieving in 1996 a real GDP growth
rate of about 2 percent, a further reduction in the rate of inflation to 16 percent, a current account deficit of
about 4 percent of GDP, and international reserves coverage of three months of irnports of goods and
non-factor services. The adoption of this program has already had positive effects on our economy. The
tighter fiscal policy stance has reduced the crowding out of the private sector by the government and led to
a marked decline in Treasury bill rates, while inflation fell further, reaching 15.8 percent in the 12 months
ending October 1996.
10.   To ensure the economy will remain on a path of sustainable growth with lower inflation in 1997,
we will update our macroeconomic program in close collaboration with the staff of the Bank and the IMF.
We are committed to seeking a further reduction in our fiscal deficit while also striving to reduce the
overall tax burden.



Annex 4
Page 3 of 11
B.    Encouraging Growth and the Private Sector Supply Response
11.     To encourage growth and to stimulate the supply response, we intend to accelerate the
implementation of our structural adjustment program and focus on the following objectives.
B. 1.  Expediting the Privatization Program and Clarifying Ownership Rights
12.    Our economic policy seeks to encourage a more rapid growth of the private sector. Privatization is
critical to the sustainability of our structural reform efforts. While we have made significant progress in
privatization of small municipal enterprises and agricultural land, until recently, privatization of medium
and large enterprises has moved much more slowly than anticipated due to various constraints.
13.   Privatization efforts accelerated significantly in 1996. As part of this effort, we abolished the State
Property Fund and transferred the remaining state enterprises, including the Savings Bank and the energy
utilities, to the Latvian Privatization Agency for privatization. We have prepared a schedule for privatizing
577 existing enterprises under the LPA, with a target of privatizing 2/3 of them by end of 1997. More
specifically, we have privatized more than 50 enterprises since June 1, 1996 and we plan to bring this total
to 150 enterprises by March 1997, of which at least 40 percent will be medium and large. To speed up the
use of privatization certificates and to broaden public participation in privatization, a complete list of
selected companies with good financial standing will be published and significant blocks of their shares will
be offered to the public. We will also submit to Parliament an Investment Fund Law to encourage
investing privatization certificates and to improve corporate governance of privatized companies. To
prevent exploitation of monopoly positions by new private owners, we will combine privatization of
infrastructural enterprises with the necessary regulatory and institutional changes. We will also ensure that
the accelerated pace of privatization will not compromise the transparency and openness of the process and
our efforts to institute strong and effective ownership of privatized companies.
14.   The rate at which housing units are being transferred to private ownership is not rapid enough. We
intend to increase the rate of privatization of apartments and encourage the establishment of owner
associations as stipulated by the Law On Privatization of State and Municipal Apartments. Local
governments do not have the budgetary means to remain owners of apartment buildings. In this regard, we
have adopted regulations to sell apartments before municipalities complete the time consuming land survey,
building inventory, and legal settlement of land rights under privatized apartments. We will remove
obstacles for the privatization of commercial establishments located in residential buildings and the speedy
resolution of the disposition of State owned residential buildings. We will privatize 5 percent of apartments
by March 1997 and adopt a plan to privatize 20 percent of apartments by end of 1997.
15.   As far as privatization of the state banks is concemed, we have already sold two-thirds of Unibank
shares. We will also adopt a sound strategy for privatization of the Savings Bank, which is currently
undercapitalized and is going through a restructuring program to improve its financial performance. We
will ensure sound recapitalization and privatization of the Savings Bank by adopting a strategy that:
includes performing due diligence on potential merger partners; uses privatization certificates only if
necessary to bring the bank to the Bank of Latvia's capital adequacy requirements; and ensures that all
prudential regulations of the Bank of Latvia are met. We will also ensure that the regulation that
determines yields on govemrnment securities held as assets in the Savings Bank is revised to ensure adequate
returns on these securities.



Annex 4
Page 4 of 11
16.    The slow pace of the sale of urban real estate and apartment housing hamnper the emergence of real
estate markets. We will facilitate registration of titles of ownership to make the property tradable and
property rights of new owners well secured. We also will prepare and adopt an action plan to establish an
integrated system of registration of mortgages on real estate and liens on movable property to broaden
credit availability to new private businesses.
B.2.   Enforcing Financial Discipline
17.   Two groups of our enterprises are specially vulnerable to financial indiscipline--state-owned
enterprises awaiting privatization, and companies privatized at the early stage of transition by management
and employee buy-outs. There are about 400 companies in both groups, some of which have unpaid
obligations to the State Budget and to energy suppliers.
18.   We recognize that the threat of bankruptcy is essential to ensure that enterprises operate in a
financially prudent manner. We prepared and submitted to Parliament a new Insolvency Law which
provides adequate safeguards to secured creditors and makes liquidation process easier to initiate. To show
our firm commitment in this area, we have identified 10 state enterprises with large losses and growing tax
arrears and will initiate their liquidation, before March 1997, as will be demonstrated by published
announcement to creditors to present their claims. The impact of this action will be carefully assessed with
a view to accelerate bankruptcy proceedings against other chronically large loss-making enterprises.
Furthermore, as discussed below, we will adopt measures to reduce tax arrears, and to improve collection
of overdue payments to energy providers. We are also aware of the importance of improving accounting
and auditing standards of enterprises. In particular we have adopted amendments in accounting and
auditing legislation to introduce International Accounting Standards and International Standards on
Auditing.
19.    The banks that survived the banking crisis of 1995 are more prudent in their lending to enterprises.
We have strengthened the prudential regulatory framework and supervisory capabilities of the Bank of
Latvia to reinforce this change in behavior. Banking supervision has been strengthened by increasing the
use of external auditors and stricter enforcement of prudential regulations. Only a few fully licensed banks
are permitted to accept household deposits. Banks are required to follow international accounting
standards and to publish their balance sheet on a regular basis. The new Law on Credit Institutions,
adopted in October 1995, has strengthened financial discipline on banks by introducing tighter limits on
insider trading, credit concentration, connected lending, and foreign exchange exposure, and by increasing
minimum capital requirements. It has also given the Government a mechanism to close and liquidate a
bank whose failure could adversely affect public confidence and the proper functioning of the banking and
payment system. We amended this Law in May 1996 to prohibit banks from opening or maintaining
accounts without identifying the account holders. Our objective is to introduce legislation against money
laundering, based on EU standards.
B.3.  Improving Sectoral Productivity and Efficiency ofMarkets
20.   Agriculture. We have privatized most agro-processing and input supply industries and have been
successful in creating an individual private farning sector with favorable competitive potential. We intend
to develop a sound and growing rural economy to support an efficient agriculture based on privatized
farms. This will help to facilitate the emergence of competitive agriculture and the overall development of
the rural economy.



Annex 4
Page 5 of 11
21.    Energy. The key problems we face in the energy sector are the financial deficits and an inadequate
legal and regulatory framework. The main causes of the deficits have been inefficient pricing and weak
payment discipline and enforcement. Difficulties in collecting energy bills have created significant
problems for energy enterprises and the rest of the economy. The inability of district heating companies to
collect from users reduces their capacity to pay on time for energy supplies. Electricity and gas companies
consequently face a shortage of investment and working capital, resorting to borrowing, falling behind in
their payments to creditors and contractors, and deferring their tax and dividend obligations to government.
We intend to break this cycle of arrears once and for all. We have started preparation of plans for energy
enterprises to reduce accounts receivable and to improve collection rates by such measures as enforcing
penalties, disconnecting services to delinquent customers, charging reconnection fees and taking recourse to
courts. In seeking to put the energy utilities on a commercial basis, we recognize a particular difficulty in
the areas of district heating enterprises, which are the main source of arrears in gas payments. Since these
enterprises are the responsibility of decentralized municipal governments it will take longer to design and
implement an effective plan to reduce their arrears. Accordingly, we expect to bring accounts receivable
from March 1997 onwards to: (a) no more than: 30 days worth of bills for electricity users; and 40 days
worth of bills for gas users other than heat supply companies, and maintain them at or below these levels at
least for three months; and (b) reduce accounts receivable from heat supply companies in accordance with
an action plan and timetable to be agreed with the World Bank.
22.    Inefficient pricing and poor commercial practices have affected all aspects of energy demand and
supply, resulting in almost no energy conservation, and higher costs of operation and lower thermal
efficiencies due to a rapidly deteriorating infrastructure. At present, electricity and gas tariffs are approved
by the Ministry of Economy. However, this responsibility is being transferred to the Energy Regulatory
Board and Licenses Office as envisioned in the Law on Regulation of Energy Activities. To ensure that the
Energy Regulatory Board is able to carry out its functions, we plan to have it fully staffed and operating by
March 1997. We will also develop sound economic and financial methodologies for setting electricity, gas
and heat tariffs and present them to the World Bank by December 1996. These methodologies will define
how the correct structure and levels of prices will be set to increase efficiency and to make energy
enterprises financially viable.
23.    We intend to deepen the reform in the energy sector and privatize the energy enterprises to increase
efficiency over the long run. In restructuring the power sector, we will consider the reformn trends in the
Baltic States, the Baltic Sea region and the rest of Europe, so as to benefit from the emerging competition
in the industry and the favorable position of Latvia as a transit corridor. We will also consider the
introduction of competition in the power sector by providing third party access to producers and buyers.
and allowing domestic and foreign competitive trading given by a "common carrier" regional transmission
system. We will review with the World Bank a program to reform and privatize the electricity supply
industry by March 1997.
24.    Foreign Trade. During the past several years, we have taken major steps to liberalize our foreign
trade policy. These have included the gradual reduction of most tariff rates, the conversion of most specific
tariffs to ad valorem rates, and the elimination of most quantitative limits on imports. The sole area in
which we still have import restrictions, including high and dispersed tariff rates, is that of agricultural
products. We recognize that such measures impose direct costs on our consumers and indirect costs
throughout our economy. We are therefore committed to a phased reduction and unification of tariff rates,
conversion of remaining specific tariffs (except for alcoholic beverages, tobacco and sugar) to ad valorem



Annex 4
Page 6 of 11
tariffs, and an elimination of remaining quantitative restrictions to trade. These measures will encourage
improvements in agricultural and overall productivity, cut the cost of food to consumers, and reduce the
smuggling of food products. In June 1996, we took an important step in this direction by signing a free
trade agreement covering agricultural products with Estonia and Lithuania.
25.    As we have agreed in our Letter of Intent with the IMF. we will reduce the average production-
weighted agricultural tariff rate to less than 30%. We will study further possibilities for reducing
agricultural tariffs in 1997 and will review our next steps with the World Bank. We have submitted
legislation that removes quantitative restrictions on foreign trade and converts licensing methods to WTO-
consistent basis. The focus of these and other trade liberalization measures will be in the grains, cereals,
and sugar sectors, where we will remove quantitative restrictions, and ensure that any remaining licensing
requirements are consistent with WTO rules. As part of our liberal foreign trade policy, we will refrain
from any increases in individual tariff rates above their May 1996 level, and will neither introduce nor
implement new tariffs or non-tariff restrictions. We also plan to eliminate remaining import licensing
requirements, except those required for reasons of health, the environment, or security.
C.    Reforming Public Sector Resource Management
26.    Further reform of the public sector is needed to improve Government efficiency and effectiveness
and to reduce the high ratio of budgetary expenditures to GDP, which amounted to about 38 percent of
GDP in 1995. We intend to reduce this share by rationalizing expenditure decisions, reforming local
government finances, reforming social insurance, and strengthening institutional capacity for management
of public finances. Our objective is to free resources for private sector-led growth while maintaining
adequate levels for public investment expenditures and provision of essential public services.  The
rationalization of expenditures, together with the improvements in tax administration that we intend to
initiate, will eventually allow the tax burden, including that on private business, to be reduced, thus
stimulating economic growth. The measures to improve financial discipline discussed above will also
contribute to an improved fiscal balance.
C.1.   Rationalizing Expenditure Decisions
27.    Public Administration Reform. We believe that one reason for the continued large size of
government operations in the economy is that governnent still carries out activities which would be better
left to the private sector. Separating such activities from the Government would give a clear signal that the
Government is committed to complement rather than compete with private sector activities. Another reason
for the large size of government is duplication of activities in different institutions, and the existence of
similar activities in diverse institutions which could be more efficiently supplied by one source.
28.    We are aware that thorough reforms of public administration cannot be designed and implemented
in a matter of months. We therefore propose a two-track approach. The first track will consist of short-
term measures designed to have an impact on the 1997 Budget including the wage bill. These measures are
designed for quick action to clean up existing structures. In parallel, work will start on the second track:
establishment by March 1997 of a framework, including a timetable and an institutional base, to design and
implement a program of sustainable reforms in public administration within fiscal constraints.
29.    To initiate the first track an action plan and timetable will be established before the end of calendar
1996. The action plan will be based on an inventory of functions performed by budget institutions, and will



Annex 4
Page 7 of 11
consist of measures to streamline existing structures by re-grouping similar activities, and by eliminating
duplicated activities and those which should be delivered by the private sector. Implementation of this plan
will start in early 1997, and result in a reduction in overhead and operating costs, allocated positions, and
numbers employed. Consequent expenditure reductions and transfers between Ministries could be
confirmed in a Supplementary budget for 1997.
30.   We have taken a Census of government employees in each central government institution. The
Census covers full time state civil servants. We will expand the coverage of this census to include other
government employees, day workers and workers on contract, both full-time and part-time and including
contractual workers. This provides information which is currently lacking on the numbers actually
employed to carry out government functions and is the first step to establishing a regularly updated
database on government employment. Reductions in allocated staff positions and in duplicated payments
will be made in the light of this information.
31.   The objective of the second track of the reform is to develop over time a small, efficient, and well-
compensated administration acting to carry out government policy, serve the public, and facilitate economic
growth. A working group will be set up to prepare the framework of logically sequenced reforms and to
identify the resources needed to design and implement this program.
32.   Education Expenditures. The central government covers about two-thirds of the cost of public
education. About 20 percent is spent for higher and vocational education. To reduce the burden of
vocational and higher education on the State Budget, we intend to increase recovering of the costs in our
higher education establishments by allowing them to charge their students the tuition fees for the class or
program. By doing this, we will also encourage the involvement of the private sector in providing
educational services.
33.   Investment Expenditures. The share of budgetary resources allocated to maintenance has declined
from 17.2 percent of budgetary expenditure in 1992 to 13.4 percent in 1995. Over the same period,
government investment, which is focused mainly on upgrading and rehabilitation of the existing social and
economic infrastructure, declined from 5.2 to 2.3 percent of expenditure. Given Latvia's well-developed
but deteriorating infrastructure, public investment and government maintenance and rehabilitation
expenditures need to be increased significantly to prevent a further deterioration of existing assets.
34.   We have provided a real increase in funding for essential maintenance and investment in the 1997
Budget. In particular, the general government investment in the 1997 Budget is equivalent to 2.5 percent
of GDP as compared to 1 percent of GDP budgeted for 1996. We have allocated 85 million Lats for
general government investment in the 1997 Budget. We expect that the portion funded from the central
government budget will be at least 25 million Lats. We have included in the 1997 Budget Law provisions
to ensure that in the event of shortfalls in revenue or other constraints on budgeted expenditure, reductions
will not be made in the capital budget. We will publish a summary of planned public investment
expenditures from all financing sources within one month after Parliamentary approval of the 1997 Budget.
By March 1997, we will review with the World Bank the 1997-99 Public Investment Program with a view
to agreement on the principles for determination of investment priorities.



Annex 4
Page 8 of 11
C .2.  Reforming Local Government Finances and Improving the Cost Effectiveness of Social Services
35.    Through the process of decentralization, which we initiated soon after regaining independence, and
in line with our traditional government structure, we transferred greater autonomy and responsibility from
the state to local governments. They have responsibility for providing public housing and housing
maintenance as well as critical municipal infrastructure services such as utilities. They also have
responsibility for delivery of social services. The current assignment of social services, combined with their
financing arrangements, do not ensure cost-effective delivery for many reasons. The financing system for
health consists of large number of unduly small and administratively inefficient sickness funds. The system
of financing long-term care institutions provides no incentive for developing community- based alternatives
for vulnerable groups. School districts are too small, and many have too many teachers. The excessive
number of small local governments increases administrative costs. This reduces the scope for consolidation
of facilities, realization of economies of scale, and improvements in service.
36.    We have formed a high level working group for territorial reform of local governments. We will
expand the mandate of this group to analyze and reform the broader functions of local governments, in
particular as concerns social sectors and the financing arrangements between the state and local
governments. Our objective is to provide local governments with an appropriate balance of revenue
assignments and expenditure responsibilities and to increase efficiency and effectiveness of social
expenditures, which account for a substantial portion of the budgetary outlays.
37.    As a first step, we have initiated a process of reform of health, education, and social assistance to
improve the cost effectiveness and quality of these services. Systemic reform of these sectors will take
several years to complete. Hence, we have carried out special studies to identify and design reforms and
put in place a specific timetable for implementation. We will review the results of these studies with the
World Bank. hi light of these findings, we will revise revenue and expenditure assignments with the
objective of providing greater flexibility in the revenue assignments of local governments and increasing the
cost effectiveness of social services.
38.    In the health sector, we will develop a universal, efficient, and unified health insurance system
covering all basic health care services, with adequate cost control mechanisms, on the principle of the
money following the patient, not the service unit. This will be achieved either by consolidating the current
sickness funds into a small number of larger, competing funds, or by establishing one national fund which
will negotiate with service providers. We will also develop arrangements for paying providers that will
help increase efficiency and reduce costs. In short, the system will cover the whole population, create
incentives to lower the high cost of services (e.g. length of stay), monitor costs, and revise reimbursement
mechanisms if necessary. Financing for this health system will not involve an increase in the social tax.
Implementation of this reform will begin in 1997.
39.    We intend to reform the system of financing for all formal levels of education. In the 1997 school
year, we have transferred budgetary allocations for teachers' salaries to local governments. We have
required that these funds be distributed to schools in proportion to enrollments. We expect this will increase
incentives for cost savings. We have prepared a policy paper on the education sector and will discuss it
with the World Bank. We will also present to the World Bank a strategy for improving cost effectiveness
of the education system through greater rationalization and consolidation.



Annex 4
Page 9 of 11
40.    The current system of cash assistance is complex, including general benefits, which depend on the
number of children and their ages, financed from the State Budget. With respect to the targeted benefits,
the local governments have significant discretion, although there are regulations issued by the Ministry of
Welfare. We have reviewed the performance of the system during 1995. We are preparing a policy paper
evaluating the benefit structure assignment of responsibilities and financing, and proposing incentives to
develop alternatives to institutional care. By March 1997, we will propose a new system, along with a
timetable for implementation, which we will discuss with the World Bank.
41.   In the years since independence, there have been substantial real increases in the prices for
municipal services throughout Latvia. Although municipal enterprises enjoy budgetary autonomy under the
Law on Municipal Enterprises, the right to set prices and user charges remains with the individual
municipality. For most municipal services, prices are sufficient to cover operating expenses. Because
prices are still too low to cover the costs associated with depreciation, future capital investment, and
appropriate maintenance of existing infrastructure, and because there is typically no offsetting local
government contribution, municipal infrastructure is poorly maintained and there is little scope for
investment to improve or even maintain services. To reduce this problem, which is jeopardizing the quality
and cost effectiveness of municipal services, we have devolved to municipalities the responsibilities for
setting rents on municipality-owned residential buildings and removed rent ceilings previously imposed at
the national level. We will also amend existing legislation on municipal services so that cost recovery tariffs
for municipal services include allowances for depreciation and maintenance as well as operating expenses.
C. 3.   Reforming Social Insurance
42.    Social insurance expenditures account for nearly one-third of the consolidated general government
budget. These expenditures are funded by payroll taxes with high rates (38 percent), which increase the
cost of hiring labor and weaken the competitiveness of Latvian enterprises.  In 1995, we initiated
significant reforms in many areas of social insurance with the passage of several laws covering social tax,
occupational injury, sickness and maternity benefits, social insurance, unemployment benefits and the
pension system. We created a separate occupational disease and injury insurance scheme and reformed sick
leave policy to make the employee pay for the first day and the employer pay for the rest of the first two
weeks. We reformed the unemployment benefit to provide a stronger link to contributions in order to
increase the incentives to look for a job. The new law on pensions, which introduces a multi-tier pension
system, including a privately managed funded tier, perrits the rationalization of pension contributions and
links benefits to contributions. It will also allows a gradual reduction in the social tax rate and unification
within an autonomous social insurance fund.
43.    Building on these achievements, we intend to deepen the reform of the social insurance system. We
are currently revising the framework legislation to rationalize coverage and improve administration. In
November 1996, we submitted to Parliament legislation which will exclude farmers, the self employed and
those above the pension age from certain insurance benefits (e.g. unemploymnent, work injury) and provide
for a decrease in the contribution rate (payroll tax) of such workers. In the samne legislation, we have
created one unified fund and administration, with a new corporate structure accountable to the Minister of
Welfare.
44.    We are developing a new program to insure against occupational injury and disease. During 1997,
we will ensure that benefits are harmonized with those of other insurance programs to avoid unnecessary
cost escalation. Our 1995 reform did not include reform of the disability pension system. The number of
disability pensioners has grown rapidly since 1992. We have introduced legislation which aligns the



Annex 4
Page 10 of 11
disability pension formula with the old age pension formula and reduces benefits for the working disabled.
We are reviewing other countries' experience in this area, and intend to strengthen our disability
certification system during 1997. Our pension reform concept calls for the development of privately
managed pensions. We will submit to Parliament legislation regulating privately managed pension funds.
The new pension system allows those working past retirement age to collect pensions that are untaxed at
the time of contribution or withdrawal, encouraging an early draw down of pensions. Consequently, we
will revise income tax legislation to subject social insurance benefits to the income tax.
C.4.  Improving Tax Administration
45.   Improvements in revenue collection are essential to contain the fiscal deficit, reduce gradually over
time the current high share of taxes in GDP, and increase the incentives for private sector activities. We
will therefore concentrate our efforts on strengthening the tax administration system,, with a view to
containing the growth of tax arrears and to curbing tax evasion and increasing tax collection. In order to
reduce the outstanding amount of tax arrears, we will work with the World Bank and the IMF to analyze
the existing stock and flows of arrears, and identify priorities and methods for reducing them, including a
review of tax deferrals and penalties.
46.    We have established a debt collection and enforcement unit at the State Revenue Services (SRS)
headquarters. We also intend to vigorously enforce the provisions of the Law on Taxes and Fees, including
through a greater use of bankruptcy proceedings against delinquent taxpayers. We will seek not only the
full payment of current taxes, but also the phased repayment of tax arrears and penalties. As a first step,
we will aim to at least stabilize the principal component of tax arrears, by ensuring that from October
1996, total tax collections do not fall below the value of new tax obligations created during a given quarter.
To further reduce tax arrears, we will aim to gradually increase the proportion of collected to newly
declared and assessed taxes thereafter. To discourage the accumulation of new arrears and improve the
overall financial discipline on enterprises, we will maintain appropriate penalty rates, limit the rescheduling
of tax arrears, and regularly announce the identity of major tax evaders.
47.   We have established a large taxpayer unit at the SRS and have increased its coverage to enterprises
representing at least 50 percent of total tax revenue. We will also complete the allocation of new taxpayer
identification numbers to all business establishments registered with the SRS by the beginning of 1997. In
addition, the 1997 monthly targets for revenue services offices, which were introduced in 1996, will be
approved following the adoption of the 1997 State Budget. We have taken a number of measures to reform
customs administration, improve border control and increase customs revenue collection. In May 1996 we
contracted out some customs services to an international customs collecting company and expect a
substantial increase in revenue collection within the next two years. We have also established computer
links between main border control points and Riga, and required coordination of the sales of tax stamps for
excises on imports of alcohol with VAT collection at the border.
48.   We will continue to strengthen the auditing capabilities of the State Revenue Service in order to
Fulther reduce tax evasion and delinquencies as taxable capacity expands with the growth of the private
sector. The unification of tax collection and compliance functions between the SRS and the Social
Insurance Fund (SIF) could improve efficiency and lead to increased revenue collection. Therefore, we
have established a joint SRS-SIF working group to formulate a timetable for this unification. We will
submit amendments to Parliament to transfer the SIF collection and compliance functions to the SRS by
March 1997.



Annex 4
Page 11 of 11
C.5. Strengthening Institutional Capacity for the Management of Public Finances
49.   The fiscal performance in 1995 clearly showed the need to strengthen our institutional capacity to
manage public resources. We have already taken several major steps to improve our debt management
system, including establishing a State Treasury, placing ceilings on central bank credit to the Government,
and imposing annual limits on outstanding domestic and foreign debt and loan guarantees as an integral
part of the State Budget. We have also successfully implemented auctions of short-term Treasury bills and
managed to increase the average maturity of those bills.
50.    To improve the primary market for Treasury bills over the medium term, we will seek to further
lengthen the maturity of government debt by issuing 2-year bills, and to broaden the range of securities
holders by targeting potential non bank markets. We will also use available technical assistance to develop
a concrete plan, including a timetable, for improving the management and organization of our budget and
treasury processes, and our domestic and external debt management systems. We have prepared this plan
and will begin implementation of its first phase in early 1997.
51.   We will increase coordination between the Ministry of Finance and the Bank of Latvia to develop a
medium-tenn debt management strategy. The main objectives of the public debt management program will
be to first minimize the Government's borrowing costs while meeting financing requirements in a non-
inflationary and fiscally sustainable way, and second to improve the maturity profile of Latvia's external
debt and avoid high risk short-term debt. We will maintain tight limits on domestic and external debt and
government loan guarantees as integral parts of our state budgets, to ensure that our state obligations stay
within sustainable limits consistent with the overall macroeconomic framework. In May 1996, we adopted
a statute to regulate and approving borrowing by local governments. We will also develop a unified system
for monitoring and managing borrowing by the national and local governments, and for monitoring the
liabilities of the major enterprises which they own.
52.   To avoid unexpected future pressures on the State Budget and ensure the smooth repayment of
loans coming due, we have developed a methodology for estimating the losses which the government is
expected to face as a result of past onlending and loan guarantees. We have developed rules for creating
adequate provisions to cover these losses, and have included such provisions in the 1997 Budget. We will
also work to reduce these losses by vigorously pursuing the collection of overdue loans. To further
enhance our ability to monitor and control state expenditures, we will transfer the remaining accounts of
budgetary institutions and special funds to the State Treasury. The sole exception will be the Privatization
Fund, which undertakes numerous and complex onlending operations which would be burdensome for the
Treasury to manage.
Andris Skele
Prime Minister



Annex 5
Page 1 of 7
Latvia - Structural Adjustment Program
Policy Reforms Program Matrix
Objectives                                 Actions Already Taken                                       Policy Actions
By Board                       By Second Tranche
A. Adopting and Maintaining Macroeconomic Framework for Stable Growth
*  Reached new standby agreement with the    Maintenance of an appropriate  *  Maintenance of an appropriate
IMF in May 1996.                      macroeconomic framework.            macroeconomic framework.
*  Adoption of an appropriate
macroeconomic framework that reduces
the fiscal imbalances and limits
contracting external debt of short term
maturities.                                                                                                l
B. Encouraging Growth and Private Sector Supply Response
1. Expediting the Privatization Program  *  In April 1996 Cabinet decided to abolish   * Prepare and publish a schedule to   * Privatize 150 enterprises of which 40
and Clarifying Ownership Rights.   the State Property Fund and to transfer the    privatize 2/3 of existing enterprises    percent are medium and large.
372 remaining state-owned enterprises to  under the LPA by end 1997. (MoE,
the Latvian Privatization Agency (LPA)  LPA)                          * Provide a report to the Bank, by March
for privatization.                                                       1997, documenting progress
Privatize 50 enterprises as from  satisfactory to the Bank in
*  Blocks of shares of some 200 joint-    June 1, 1996. (LPA)                implementing privatization schedule,
ventures and employees buy-outs have                                     including the Savings Bank.
been transferred to the LPA.         * Adopt a strategy for the Savings
Bank that: includes performing due * Privatize 5 percent of apartments and
*  Cabinet decision of April 10, 1996 applied    diligence on potential merger  adopt plan to privatize 20 percent of
general privatization rules to agricultural  partners; uses privatization  apartments by end-1997. (MoE, LPA)
enterprises and transferred some 40    certificates only if necessary to
remaining agricultural enterprises from  bring the bank to the BoL's capital * Announce a list of companies to be
the Ministry of Agriculture to the LPA.  adequacy requirements; and      offered to the public for privatization
ensures that all prudential       certificates. (LPA)
*  Cabinet made amendments to the Law on   regulations of the BoL are met.
Privatization of State and Municipal   (LPA)                          * Prepare an action plan to establish an
Residential Houses to accelerate                                         integrated system of registration of
privatization of apartments.                                             mortgages on real estate and liens on
*  The law on privatization amended in                                       movable property. (MoE, Mol)
January 1996 to allow foreigners to                                   * Submit to Parliament an Investment
purchase vouchers and to own land                                        Fund Law. (MoE)



Annex 5
Page 2 of 7
Latvia - Structural Adjustment Program
Policy Reforms Program Matrix
Objectives                                    Actions Already Taken                                          Policy Actions
By Board                         By Second Tranche
belonging to the buildings.
l  Parliament approved establishment of a
Securities Commission.
2. Enforcing Financial Discipline on    *  Banking supervision has been         *  Maintain strict supervision and    *  Maintain strict supervision and
Banks and Enterprises.                   strengthened by increasing use of external  prudential regulation of banks.   prudential regulation of banks.
auditors, allowing household deposits to
few fully licensed banks, and stricter  *  Adopt a new bankruptcy law that  *  Initiate liquidation of the 10 selected
enforcement of prudential regulations.    provides adequate safeguards to    enterprises with large losses and
Banks are required to follow international  secured creditors. (MoE)          growing tax arrears as demonstrated by
accounting standards and to publish their                                    published announcement to creditors to
balance sheet on a regular basis.      *  Identify 10 state enterprises with  present their claims. (LPA)
large losses and growing tax
*  A new Law on Credit Institutions was       arrears to be liquidated (LPA)  * Adopt amendments in accounting and
adopted in October 1995, which includes                                      auditing legislation and regulations
tighter limits on insider trading, credit                                    which require general adoption of
concentration, connected lending, foreign                                    International Accounting Standards
exchange exposure, and an increase in                                        and International Standards on
minimum capital requirement.                                                 Auditing. (MoF)
3. Improving Sectoral Productivity and  *  Privatized most agro-processing and input *  Submit to Parliament legislation    * Reduce average production-weighted
Efficiency of Markets                 supply industries.                       that removes quantitative           agricultural tariff rates to less than 30
restrictions on foreign trade and  percent.
*  Established a duty drawback scheme for    converts licensing methods to
exports.                                 WTO-consistent basis.            * Refrain from increasing any import
*  Began negotiations to join WTO.                                               tariff beyond its May 1996 level and
from introducing any new non-tariff
*  Signed June 1996 Baltic free trade                                            barriers.
agreement on trade in agricultural
products.                                                                 *  Convert the remaining specific tariffs
to ad valorem rates except for alcoholic
*  Ratified and effected Free trade                                              beverages, tobacco, and sugar.
agreements with EU, EFTA, Czech
Republic, Slovakia, Slovenia, and ratified                                *  Liberalize foreign trade in sugar,
with Ukraine.                                                               -grains and cereals, including the



Annex 5
Page 3 of 7
Latvia - Structural Adjustment Program
Policy Reforms Program Matrix
Objectives                                    Actions Already Taken                                          Policy Actions
By Board                         By Second Tranche
*  Created individual private farming sector                                     elirnination of quantitative restrictions
with favorable competitive potential.                                        and conversion of import licensing
requirements to WTO- consistent basis.
*  Eliminated central government controls
on rent.                                                                  *  Amend existing legislation on
municipal services so that cost recovery
tariffs for municipal services include
allowances for depreciation and
maintenance as well as operating
l ______________________________________                                                                               expenses.
3a. Energy                           *  Converted state utility companies into  *  Approval by the Energy           *  Present to the World Bank plans to
joint-stock companies, privatized Latvia  Regulatory Board of principles      reform and privatize the electricity
Nafta in 1994, and announced intention    for sound economic                  supply industry. (MoE and LPA)
to privatize Latvenergo, Latvijas Gaze    methodologies satisfactory to the
and Ventspils Nafta in 1995.              World Bank for setting electricity, *  The Energy Regulatory Board and  I
gas and heat tariffs, and initiation  License Office is fully staffed and
*  Adopted the Law on Regulation of Energy    of work by MoE and consultants      operating, and exercising its functions
Activities in 1995 which provided for the  to prepare and adopt these         in setting energy tariffs in accordance
establishment of an Energy Regulatory     methodologies on an agreed          with methodologies agreed with the
Board.                                    timetable. (MoE)                    Bank. (MoE)
*  Approved the provisions to establish   *  Start preparation of plans for the   *  (a) reduce accounts receivable of
Energy Regulatory Board and Licenses      energy enterprises to: (i) reduce   energy utilities to no more than: 30
Office in May 1996.                       accounts receivable to levels       days' worth of bills for electricity
targeted in LDP, and (ii) improve  users; and 40 days' worth of bills for
*  Began disconnecting service to delinquent  collection rates by such measures   gas users other than heat supply
consumers of electricity in 1996.         as enforcing penalties,             companies, and maintain them at or
disconnecting services to          below these levels for at least three
delinquent customers,              months; and (b) reduce accounts
reconnection fees, and taking      receivable from heat supply companies
recourse to courts (Latvenergo,    in accordance with an action plan and
Latvijas Gaze, LPA, ERB and        timetable acceptable to the Bank.
MoF)                               (Latvenergo, Latvijas Gaze, LPA, ERB
and MoF).



Annex 5
Page 4 of 7
Latvia - Structural Adjustment Program
Policy Reforms Program Matrix
Objectsies                                    Actions Already   k             J                               Poliy  Actions
l ____________________________        _________________________________                       By   Board                        By  Second   Tranche
C. Reforming Public Sector Resource Management
1. Rationalizing Expenditure Decisions  *  The Law on Public Civil Service, covering  *  Begin preparation of an action plan *  Start implementation of the action plan
civil servants and civil service candidates,  and timetable to reduce duplication  to reduce duplication and divest
was adopted in May 1994.                  of functions in budgetary            functions that can be efficiently carried
institutions, and divest functions  out by the private sector.
*  A three year rolling Public Investment     that can be efficiently carried out  Implementation to include actions to
Program was formulated for the first time  by the private sector.              cut vacant staff positions in line with
covering the period 1995-97. The PIP      (MoW/Department of Economic          the results of the Census and to contain
incorporated some strengthening of sector  Reform, MoF)                        the total wage bill in the 1997 Budget.
policies and project selection. The main                                       (MoW/Department of Economic
focus of the PIP remains on the        *  Complete a census of all full time   Reform, MoF)
rehabilitation of existing assets. It includes  government employees paid from
explicit estimates of the recurrent cost  the state budget. (MoW,           *  Develop a framework for designing and
implications of investments.              Department of Economic Reform,       implementing a medium-term public
MoF)                                administration reform; the framework
to include a sequenced action plan,
*  Increase  in  real  terms  the    timetable, and identification of
allocations for general government    resources needed. (MoW/Department
investment in the 1997 Budget to    of Economic Reform, MoF, MoE).
be submitted to Parliament. Include
in the 1997 Budget Law provisions *  Publish a sununary of planned public
to protect the general government    investment expenditures financed from
investment budget from reductions   all sources (MoE).
due  to  revenue  shortfalls  or
pressures on expenditures. (MoF)   *  Adopt plan to reduce public subsidies
to students in vocational schools,
colleges, and universities. (MoEd)
*  Review the 1997-99 Public Investment
Program with the World Bank with a
view to agreement on the principles
governing determination of investment
priorities. (MoE)



Annex 5
Page 5 of 7
Latvia - Structural Adjustment Program
Policy Reforms Program Matrix
Objectives                                    Actions Already Taken                                          Policy Actions
By Board                         By Second 7ranche
2. Reforming Local Finances and      *  Cabinet approved a new health concept,    *  Establish working groups, terms   *  Review with the Bank the reformn
Improving Cost Effectiveness of      including decision to separate financing   of reference, and timetables to     proposals in the social sector studies,
Social Services.                     from health care provision and to create   prepare social sector reform        present a timetable acceptable to the
one unified health financing unit for      proposals that include: guidelines  Bank for revising revenue and
efficient administration and risk pooling.  and incentives for rationalizing  expenditure assignments of local
health and education facilities.   governments and intergovermnental
*  Social service delivery units have been    rationalizing expenditure          transfers in light of these proposed
decentralized.                             assignments and ensuring that      reforms, and take initial steps for
money follows the client;         implementation of reassignment of
*  A joint working group for administrative   targeting of compensatory          expenditures and revenues.
territorial reform was established in April  payments: adequate incentives for
1996 composed of representatives from     efficient service provision and  *  Develop a health insurance system
local governments, state ministries, and   revenue assignments that           covering necessary health services,
Parliament to prepare a concept paper on   correspond to new responsibilities.    with adequate cost control mechanism
reform of local government                                                    and without increases in social tax.
administration.                        *  Reduce cost of family benefits      (MoW)
proposed in 1995 social assistance
law. (MoW)                     *  Implement reform of education
financing based on the results of the
reform proposals on education policy.
(MoEd)
* Transfer state paid teachers' salaries to
local governments and allocate
education expenditures based on the
number of students. (MoEd)
*  Inform the Bank on progress of joint
working group on territorial reform
and prepare a timetable for
consolidating small local government
units.
3. Reforming Social Insurance         *  Reserved the earmarked payroll tax for the  *  Submit Social Insurance     *  Enactment of Social Insurance
financing of contributory social insurance  Framework legislation to          Framework Law.
programs by moving the non-contributory   Parliament. (MoW)



Annex 5
Page 6 of 7
Latvia - Structural Adjustment Program
Policy Reforms Program Matrix
Objectives             :       0           ActionsAlreay Taken                                          Policy Actions.
By Board                        By Second Tranche
benefits from the social insurance budget to *  Submit legislation to Parliament   *  Implement licensing and supervisory
the state budget.                       regulating privately-managed       system for privately managed pension
pensions. (MoF, MoW)              funds, and submit to Parliament
*  Decided on gradual lowering of social tax                                 legislation allocating a portion of the
rates and unification within an      *  Submit to the World Bank           social tax to these funds. (MoW)
autonomous social insurance fund.       acceptable cost estimates for new
work injury insurance and a plan   *  Reform income tax legislation to
*  Created a new pension system with       to contain this cost. (MoW)        subject social insurance benefits to the
benefits based on contributions, with a                                    income tax. (MoF, MoW)
provision for the development of a funded,
and privately managed tier.                                             *  Implement a scheme to control costs of
work injury legislation. (MoW)
*  Created a separate occupational disease
and injury insurance scheme.                                            *  Remove pension credit for time spent
in higher education. (MoF, MoW)
*  Reformed sick leave to reduce abuse by
making the employee responsible for the
first day and the employer responsible for
the rest of the first two weeks (to take
effect in 1997).
*  Reformed unemployment benefit to
provide a stronger link to contributions.
with phased benefit reductions in order to
increase the incentive to seek employment.
4. Improving TaxAdministration      *  Began allocating new tax identification    *  Expand the coverage of the Large   *  From October 1996, maintain
numbers to business taxpayers.          Taxpayer Division to enterprises   quarterly tax collections not lower
representing at least 50% of total  than total taxes newly declared and
*   Created new division to monitor the     tax revenue. (MoF)                assessed during that quarter, and
largest taxpayers.                                                         continue to increase the ratio of
. Ipoereeufoeatna*  Establish debt collection and    collected to newly assessed taxes
*  Improved revenue forecastig and          enforcement unit at SRS           thereafter. (MoF, MoW)
introduced a system of revenuel
performance targets for local offices of  headquarters. (MoF)               C
SRS.                                                                       Complete allocahon of new taxpay
*  Implement customs freight         identification numbers to all business



Annex 5
Page 7 of 7
Latvia - Structural Adjustment Program
Policy Reforms Program Matrix
Objectives                                  Actions Already Taken                                         Policy Actions
By Board                        By Second Tranche
*  Customs modernization program started    declaration processing system and  establishments registered with the
and computer links between main border   start the implementation of        SRS. (MoF)
control points and Riga were established  customs improvement project.
(in conjunction with EU PHARE,           (MoF)                           *  Approve the 1997 revenue targets for
EuroCustoms).                                                               local offices, Large Taxpayer Division,
*  Establish a joint working group    and Customs border posts. (MoF)
*  Contracted out some customs functions to  with SRS and SIF staff to develop
nlinimize losses from tax evasion.       an action plan for collection of  *  Submit to Parliament amendments to
overdue tax payments and the      transfer the SIF collection and
*  Identified areas for harmonization of    unification of tax collection and  compliance functions to the SRS.
activities between SRS and SW.           compliance functions.              (MoF, MoW)
5. Strengthening Institutional Capacity  *  Instituted annual limits on outstanding    *  Develop methodology for  *  Transfer accounts of the central
for Management of Public Finances.   domestic and foreign debt and loan       estimating losses from past        government special funds and
guarantees as integral parts of the state  government on-lending and loan  budgetary institutions to the State
budget.                                 guarantees, and for creating       Treasury. (MoF)
provisions to cover these losses,
*  Started programs to improve technical    and include required provisions    *  Develop a unified system for
capacity for asset and debt management.  beginning with the 1997 Budget.   monitoring and managing domestic
(MoF)                             and foreign borrowing of state and
*  Improved management of Bank of Latvia                                      local governments, and monitoring
foreign reserves.                    * Adopt and implement regulations     liabilities of the major enterprises
for approving borrowing and        which they own. (MoF, LPA)
*  Moved accounts of major special funds    guarantees by the State and local
into the State Treasury, and abolished  governments, including limits   *  Proceed with the implementation of the
most small special funds.               consistent with macroeconomic      plan for improving management and
framework. (MoF)                   organization of budget and treasury
*  Increased the average maturity of                                           process, and debt management
government Treasury bills.           * Develop a plan including a          operation. (MoF).
timetable for improving
*  Introduced limits and regulations on     management and organization of
direct borrowing by local governments.  budget and treasury process, and
debt management operations.
l ____________ _____________   ____   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   (M oF)  l__ _ _ _ _ __(M oF



Annex 6
Page 1 of 2
Latvia at a glance
Europe &   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            Central  middle-
Latvia     Asia  income       Development diamond*
Population mid-1995 (millions)                          2.5      488    1.154
GNP per capita 1995 (US$)                             2,420     2,240    1,700                Life expectancy
GNP 1995 (billions US$)                                 6.1     1,093    1,962
Average annual growth, 1990-95
Populaton (%6)                                         -1.2       0.4      1.4     GNP                               Gross
Labor force (%6)                                       -0.8       0.8      1.8     per                              primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available since 1989)                            capita                        enrollment
Poverty: headcount index (% of population)
Urban population (% of total population)                73        66       56
Life expectancy at birth (years)                        69        68       67
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                16        23       36                Access to safe water
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)
Access to safe water (% of population) a!               92                 78
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                                                           Latvi
Gross primary enrollment (%6 of school-age population)  83        97      104                   a a
Male                                                  83        97      105                  Lower-middle-income group
Female                                                82        97      101
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975     1985      1994     1995
Economic ratios*
GDP (billions US$)                             ..        ..       5.8      6.1
Gross domestic investment/GDP                                    19.1     20.8             Openness of economy
Exports of goods and non-factor services/GDP   ..               46.5      42.7
Gross domestic savings/GDP                      ..               21.2     15.5
Gross national savings/GDP                      ..       ..      25.1     17.3
Current account balance/GDP b/                  ..       ..      -3.4     -4.2
Interest payments/GDP                     ,     .                0.4     0o5      Savings                      Investment
Total debt/GDP                                            .      10.4      9.3
Total debt service/exports                          ..            1.7      1.5
Present value of debtGDP                                          5.6
Present value of debtUexports                  ..        ..      25.8                           Indebtedness
1975-84  1985-95    1994      1995  1996044
(average annual growth)                                                                      Latvia
GDP                                    ..       ..      0.6      -1.6      4.6
GNP per capita                        ..       ..       2.1       1.2      4.5               Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and nfs              ..        ..    -8.2       11.2      8.4
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1975     1985      1994     1995
(% of GDP)                                                                         Growth rates of output and Investment (%)
Agriculture                                     ..       ..       9.5      9.3     80
Industry                                                         31.3     31.0     40
Manufacturing                                  .        ..     19.9     18.1       o
Services                                        ..       .       592      59.7     -        0     1                84
-40
Private consumption                             ..       .       58 5     64.9    -80s
General govemment consumption                   ..       ..      20.1     19.6                     GD1        GDP
Imports of goods and non-factor services                 ..      44.4     48.0
1975484  1985.95    1994     1995    r                           -
(average annual growth)                                                            Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
Agriculture                                     ..       ..    -15.6      -2.0     50
Industry                                        ..               -5.8     -2.6       T
Manufacturing                                                 -10.6     -7.7      25 -
Services                                        ..       ..       87      -0.9      0
Prvate consumption                              ..       ..      168      18.3    225      90   51   82       3           5
General govemment consumption                   ..       ..      -0.9      31
Gross domestic investment                       ..       ..      54.0    -26.1     -s -
Imports of goods and non-factor services        ..               12.1     27.1                    xports       Imports
Gross national product                          ..       ..       0.6      0.0
Note: 1995 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Annex 6
Page 2 of 2
Latvia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975     1985      1994      1995      Infation
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                            1,000
Consumer prices                                   ..       ..      36.0      25.0
Implicit GDP deflator                                              38.3      24.0      S00
Government f3nance                                                          3             -           I-
(% of GDP)                                                                                      0
Current revenue                                   .        ..      36.5      35.5              go   91   92   93   94   95
Current budget balance                                      .      4.6        1.9              -     GDPdef. -O--CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                                            -4.0      -3.4
TRADE
(millions US$)                                          1985       1994     1995      Export and import levels (mill. USS)
Total exports (fob)                                                 997    1,368      2.000 T
Food
n,a,                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1,500
Manufactures                                     .                          363
Total imports (cif)                                               1,375    1,947      1_ |0
Food                                                                .      203         0
Fuel and energy                                                            413
Capital goods                                                       .      488 
Export price index (1987=100)                                                                89  90  91  92  93  94  95
Import price index (1987=100)                    ..        ..                                     E Exports   ED Imports
Terms of trade (1987=100)                        ..
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975     1985      1994      1995    r
(millions US$)                                                                        Current account balance to GDP ratio I%)
Exports of goods and non-factor services c/      ..        ..    1,513    2,017       2
Imports of goods and non-factor services d/      ..        ..    1,672    2,266                                r
Resource balance                                  ..       ..      -159     -249
Netfactorincome                                   ..       ..         9       10          69   ro   91          93   04   95
Net current transfers                                                25       41      -2
Current account balance,
before official transfers                                        -125      -198     -4
Financing items (net)                            ..        ..      275       158
Changes in net reserves                          ..        ..      -150       40      -9
Memo:
Reserves including gold (mill. US$)               ..       ..      620       623
Conversion rate (locallUS$)                      ..        ..       0.3      0.4
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975     1985      1994      1995           -
(millions US$)                                                                        Compositlon of total debt, 1995 (mill. US$)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed             ..        ..       379      437
IBRD                                           ..        ..       45        55                        G   A
IDA                                             ..       ..        0         0                 F       7   5
59
Total debt service                               ..        ..        26       33
IBRD                                            .        ..        2         3
IDAD                                                               0         0
E
Composition of net resource flows                                                           61
Official grants                                ..        ..       19        18
Official creditors                             ..        ..       60        23                                    160
Private creditors                              ..        ..        14       44
Foreign direct investment                      ..        ..      214        35                as
Portfolio equity                               ..        ..        0         0
World Bank program
Commitments                                    ..        ..       60        18      A - IBRD                      E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                  ..        ..       22         9      B - IDA    0 - Other mulbtlateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                           ..        ..        0         0      C - IMF                       G - Short-term
Net flows                                       ..       ..       22         9
Interest payments                              ..       ..         2         3
Net transfers                                   ..       ..       20         6
International Economics Department/EC4C1                                                                                11/15/96
Note: Estimates for economies of the former Soviet Union are subject to more than the usual range of uncertainty.
a. Piped water. b. Before current official transfers. c. Exports of goods and net non-factor services. d. Imports of goods only.






MAP SECTION






IBRD 24630R
f Q ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E S T   O N  I A 
To P0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T.Pk
o t/= tN 8 \e <                                                                                                      RUSSEANI
VENTSPILS            G u I f                               Val                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FED ERATI ON
I <   KILOMETERS           L I T H U A N I    A                                            \ I,                            \                   //   .                   7     
S e a           10    2To Ponevezys
To KoIioi,,grod   MI  |O                                                             F                                                              
CX                                                                                                                                                                  To O A   T   V   I   A  To Pbnet-zys  <   > A T Y IA-T
g  <<>  Bcitic C>E;e;TONIAASC,!/IN METERS:A                                                                                     y    A     G     V I S o oos
SWEDEN 51         U                                                    *c5 9       NATIONAL CAPITAL  -TRUNK ROADSToPnvz _                             J       BELARUS
, /0   (  L TVIA   <   v4          !  - 150              URBAN AREAS           -MAIN ROADS                                     8Tt  onrrs,c/r
W           2 ~~~LITHUANIA r                      -50             *-SELECTED CITIES             RAILROADS                               TVinu                        otr trmio  sham,,
$~~~~D                            <                           I    --- 0 RIVERS-  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES5h TWrI Bos y udg,dnoo,~U.
or OceptafceTo Opuch
ReiePOLAND   )  8  boundor,es
APRIL 1994









LIIAG ING
Repo^rt No: P-   7019 LV
Type: PR



