Report No. PIC4181
Project Name                   Latvia-Structural Adjustment Loan (&)
Region                         Europe and Central Asia
Sector                         Privatization/Public Sector Management
Project ID                     LVPA44123
Borrower                       Republic of Latvia
Implementing Agency            Ministry of Finance
1 Smislu Street, LV 1932 Riga
FAX 371 7 820 010
Date This PID Prepared         July 30, 1996
Projected Appraisal Date       9/1/96
Projected Board Date           12/15/96
Peer Reviewer                  Martha De Melo
Task Manager                   Mansour Farsad, Country Economist
The World Bank
1818 H Street NW
Washington, DC 20433
Telephone (202) 473-2963
Fax: (202) 477-0710
I.   Background and Recent Economic Developments
1.   Latvia successfully managed a vigorous program of stabilization
policies after regaining independence in 1991, and substantially reduced
macroeconomic imbalances within a short period of time. Tight monetary
and fiscal policies led to near balanced budget through 1993 and to a
sharp decline in the rate of inflation. Price and trade regimes
(excluding some agricultural products) were liberalized. Efforts to
restructure the banking system, to privatize the economy, and to
demonopolize large state owned enterprises, encouraged the development
of the private sector and allowed restructuring of domestic production
away from the highly subsidized and protected markets.
2.   By 1994, Latvia had made substantial progress toward macroeconomic
stabilization and toward market economy. Economic recovery was
underway, real wages started to increase, and gross international
reserves covered more than four months of imports of goods and services.
3.   The deterioration of the fiscal deficit which started in late 1994,
and the 1995 banking crises led a reversal in some of these trends. The
simultaneous emergence of a banking crisis and a sharp deterioration in
fiscal position led to a halt in the economic recovery, a marked
contraction in domestic liquidity and a significant loss in reserves.
The balance of payments swung into deficit in 1995, since the widening
current account deficit was compounded by a sharp decline in the capital
account surplus, reflecting capital outflows in the wake of the banking
crisis. While no massive bank runs were observed, the crisis undermined



confidence in the banking system.
4.   The Bank of Latvia intervened to defend the fixed exchange rate and
succeeded in restoring stability to the foreign exchange market. The
implementation of a stronger regulatory and supervisory measures led to
a major reduction in the number of banks licensed for operation and
helped to stabilize the banking system. Board money started to recover
around mid-1995.
5.   The new Government, which took office in December 1995, is
committed to reduce public sector borrowing requirement and to limit the
fiscal deficit, including improvements in tax administration in order to
reduce tax arrears and increase tax collection. The Government also
agreed on a new Standby Arrangement with the IMF. Developments to date
in 1996 have been encouraging. The tightening of fiscal policy and the
improved confidence in economic policies resulted in an increase in the
demand for treasury bills and a decline in treasury bill rates and a
recovery of reserves. Tighter banking supervision and stricter
enforcement have led to a relative stability in the banking sector.
II. Objectives:
6.   The main objective of the Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) would be
to support the restoration of sustained growth and improved living
standards through structural reforms that improve the environment for
efficient private sector growth and improved management of public sector
resources.
III. Components of the Loan
7.   The main policy areas to be supported by the SAL are:
A.   Adopting and Maintaining Macroeconomic Framework for Stable Growth
8.   Latvia made initial progress in reducing inflation and stabilizing
the economy. The emergence of macroeconomic imbalances in 1995 calls
for a medium term macroeconomic framework to reduce the imbalances and
to restore growth. The overall reform program would be designed to take
place within a framework for stability consistent with the Government's
arrangement with the IMF.
B.   Encouraging Growth and Private Sector Supply Response:
9.   The stabilization and reform policies undertaken so far are
essential for economic recovery, but cannot by themselves support
sustained growth. Achievement of sustained growth requires deepening
the reform program to create a competitive market environment for
private sector activities and a substantial fiscal adjustment to improve
efficiency of public expenditures and to free resources for essential
public and private investment.    To encourage private sector growth and
to stimulate the supply response, the loan would support the following
policy areas:
(i)expediting the privatization program and clarifying ownership
rights by: (a) privatizing a targeted number of enterprises by end
- 2-



1997; and, (b) preparing an action plan to implement an integrated
system of registration of property and mortgages on real estate and
liens on movable property.
(ii)enforcing financial discipline on banks and enterprises,
through: (a) maintaining strict supervision and regulation of
banks; (b) initiating liquidation of large loss making enterprises;
(c) reducing energy and tax arrears; and, (d) adopting appropriate
revisions in accounting and auditing legislation;
(iii)           improving productivity and efficiency of markets
through further liberalization of import tariffs on agricultural
products, and adopting cost recovery plans for energy, rent, and
municipal services.
C.   Reforming Public Sector Resource Management
10.  Further reform of the public sector is needed to reduce large
budgetary deficits, the high ratio of expenditures to GDP (39%-), and the
high burden of taxes on business and the economy at large. Structural
reforms in the public sector would center around the main following
areas:
(i)             rationalizing expenditure decisions, through
reforming of public administration, employment and wage policies
and providing sufficient funding for essential maintenance and
public investments.
(ii)            reforming local finances and improving cost
effectiveness of social services, through reallocation of social
sector expenditures, reform of intergovernmental fiscal transfers,
and consolidation of small local government units.
iii)            reforming social insurance through harmonization of
insurance across programs with lower costs and improved services,
and adopting a regulatory framework for the privately managed
pension system.
(iv)            improving tax administration through better
monitoring of taxpayers' database, improved efforts to collect
taxes and tax arrears, and rationalizing the institutional set up
of tax administration;
(v)             strengthening institutional capacity for management
of public finances, mainly through improved management of public
sector borrowing, provisioning to cover on-lending losses, and
improved monitoring of public expenditures.
IV. Financing and Implementation
11. The SAL is in the process of design and discussions with the
Government. At present a loan of about $50 million is envisaged. The
loan would be made at the standard World Bank rate over a period of 17
years, including four or five years grace. The loan would be made to
the Republic of Latvia, represented by the Ministry of Finance, as the
-3 -



Borrower. The loan would be released in two equal tranches following
board approval and on fulfilent of the specific second tranche release
conditions.
12. Upon approval of the loan, the Ministry of Finance would open and
maintain a deposit account in the Bank of Latvia. As each tranche is
released, the MOF would submit a simplified withdrawal application
against which the Bank will disburse the loan proceeds into the deposit
account. Although routine audit of the deposit account will not be
required, the Bank reserves the right to require an audit. The loan is
expected to be fully disbursed within six months of the release of the
second tranche. The loan closing date is currently estimated for
December 1997.
13. Following the identification mission of the SAL, a counterpart team
had been formed, which is chaired/coordinated by the Ministry of
Finance, and includes representatives from the Ministries of
Agriculture, Economy, Education, Environment and Regional Development,
Finance, Welfare and Health, as well as the Department of Local
Governments. This team has been active in the dialogue with the Bank
and is expected to continue to help in the implementation of agreed
policy measures to be supported by the SAL.
V.   Poverty Category
14. The Loan would target issues in expenditure assignment to local
governments on health, education and social assistance to ensure cost
effectiveness of the services. The loan would also aim to build on
progress achieved in reforming the social insurance. Although this
operation is not classified as part of a program for targeted
interventions, the SAL operation has a poverty focus due to the
objectives of improving the management of public resources, increasing
efficiency and productivity, and expediting the privatization program,
and improved services in health, education, and social benefits that is
especially important for the poor.
VI. Environmental Category
15. The Loan would have no direct impact on the environment (in line
with operational directives OD 4.02 and 8.60) and has been placed in
Category U which does not require an environmental assessment.
VII. Benefits
16. Actions under the loan would help fiscal adjustment and ensure the
sustainability of the reform process by improving the efficiency of
public sector operations and rationalizing intergovernmental fiscal
relations and social sector expenditures. It would encourage private
sector development by supporting the Government's efforts to improve the
performance of the private sector and increase foreign direct
investments. By enforcing financial discipline and prudential measures,
the program will enable continued functioning of the banking system
which is essential for growth of the real sector. The loan will help
expand the tax base by identifying a large number of unregistered
taxpayers. Modernization of the management system will enhance tax
administration's capability to control tax evasion and to increase tax
- 4 -



revenues. By reducing the public sector borrowing requirement, the loan
would release resources for private sector investment.
VIII.     Risks
17. The main risk is failure to maintain macroeconomic stability which
would result in high inflation and interest rates. Lack of a political
commitment could delay the implementation of structural and sectoral
reforms and impede the fiscal adjustment and the process of reform of
health, education, and social assistance expenditures. Poor coordination
among the ministries involved is further risk that could delay the
implementation of the program.
18. To reduce these risks, the Bank will continue its efforts to
provide and mobilize the supporting technical assistance necessary to
adopt and implement the reforms and also to continue its dialogue with
the Government. Despite several changes in the Government, Latvia has
adhered to a reform path and has successfully overcome crisis and the
demands of a transition economy. The SAL disbursements are strictly
tied to the adoption of policy conditions. The interministerial work
group, which helped in the preparation of the SAL, is expected to ensure
continuity of the dialogue and coordination among the implementing
agencies and other line ministries. Subsequent lending operations would
seek to sustain and deepen the reforms initiated under this operation.
Contact Point:
Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
(202) 458 5454 (Tel)
(202) 522 1500 (fax)
Task Manager:
Mansour Farsad, EC4C1
Telephone No.:   (202) 473-2963
Fax No.:         (202) 477-0710
Note:      This is information on an evolving project.    Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending August 16, 1996.
- 5 -



